Okay, Carl, are we ready? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the October 14th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick. Here. Fritz.
 I am here. I would like a point of personal privilege. This late last night, I was checking my emails and there was a request that was forwarded by my wonderful staff in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's Information and Referral Service, who had received a request from the BBC in England for somebody to talk from either the county or the city to talk about the proclamation of Indigenous Peoples Day that we did last week.
 So, of course, I hopped right on it. And so I got a call at 7.30 this morning, and I was on BBC Radio 5 Live talking with
 with a councilwoman from Seattle about their proclamation. So I just wanted to honor the council, and particularly Mayor Hales, for your leadership, as well as Chair Kofori at the county, for making that change, which is so significant that it's rippling across the world. And also, by the way, I was able to text my 85-year-old mother and tell her to listen in, and she was very proud of me. So let's hope that the day doesn't go downhill from now. Hi, I'm in here. Thank you.
 Mayor, since we're going down this path. Oh, no. What are we stressing about? Today is my 26th wedding anniversary. Hey, congratulations. And as you know, my family lives in a different country. But on the odd off chance that they are watching this council session online, I just want to say I love you, Patty, and thank you for 26 wonderful years. Bye. That's amazing.
 I can't top either one of those. I'm here. I'm here. Me neither. I'm going to punt. I'm here. Good morning. Welcome, everyone. We have a full agenda today, and we want to welcome your participation in it. We have some folks signed up for council communications, which we will do shortly and first. Thank you.
 We'll follow that with the regular calendar that includes at least one time certain item in a consent calendar. If you're here to speak on a regular council item, you just need to let our council clerk know, and she'll put you on the list. We typically allow three minutes for citizen testimony. We sometimes have invited testimony on items. If you're here to speak on an item, you need to give us only your name unless you're representing an organization, and then you do need to let us know that, please. Thank you.
 We follow the rules of decorum in this chamber. If you agree with someone and want to show some support, you're certainly welcome to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree with them and just feel like you have to show that too, a polite hand gesture to the contrary is fine. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens here so everybody can be heard.
 That's about as complicated as that gets. And with that, we will proceed. I have one request for an item to be removed from the consent calendar so far, which is 1041. Any other requests to take things off the consent calendar for purposes of testimony?
 Okay, and then before we start, I just want to welcome, I think they're here, a youth delegation from a combination of our sister city, Habarovsk, and Franklin High School. We're welcoming them here today. Are you here? Yes, you are. Welcome. Welcome. I'll talk about them a little bit, but let's welcome them to the city. Thank you.
 This is a people-to-people exchange like our Sister City program is all about. This is a youth delegation who are here as part of this student exchange program between Franklin High School and Gymnasium No. 5 in Hvarovsk, which is a magnet international school for the study of English education.
 This is, again, a product of our sister city association. All of our sister cities are supported by volunteer groups here in the city that work hard to maintain those friendships and build these kinds of exchanges. So I want to welcome the students and their administrator, Tatiana Salina.
 So thank you for being here today. Welcome and stay as long as you'd like in our council chambers. And we hope that this proceeding makes sense to you. Sometimes it makes sense to us, but we appreciate your huge effort in learning the English language and your help in teaching students here in Portland the Russian language to build understanding between our two cultures and our two countries. So welcome. Thank you for coming. Let's hear it for them again. Thank you.
 Mayor, just one observation about Hvarysk that I learned a couple years ago. It is essentially one of the jazz capitals of Russia. Right. And so it's wonderful that we have this sister city relationship, but we think of our city of Portland as the jazz capital of the West Coast, and this particular city is very famous and rich in its history around jazz. That's right. That's right. Welcome. Great. Thank you, sir. All right. Let's move into communications and begin, please, with Item 1031.
 Request of Joe Walsh to address council regarding the coming winter and people still on the streets. Come on up, please. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent individuals with justice. I've given you a written statement also and an article that you should be aware of. This morning I was reviewing some stuff, and two weeks ago you had a neighborhood organization come and speak to you.
 My interest in that was perked by Commissioner Fritz saying things that I would say. Also, the mayor said stuff that I would say. So my point this morning is, look, we screwed up the 10-year plan because it wasn't working. And you constantly, constantly say,
 rely on affordable housing that has nothing to do with people on the street. Let me say that again. It has nothing to do with people on the street. I live in a complex that just got raised, their rent, and people are being evicted, and people are being evicted for no cause. And I know you're handling that. Last week and the week before, people came before you and they said,
 You have to help us. We've been waiting for 10 years. I've gone through three mayors, from Potter to Adams to you, Mayor, and nothing is happening. We still have 3,000 people on the streets. Your figures. My figures are about 5,000 because we don't know who's on the couches. We don't know who's in the garages. We don't know who's hanging by fingertips. Our complex got a 10% raise. Ours was about 80 bucks.
 So we're a one-bedroom apartment, and we're paying over $800. Patty and I can do that. I'm a retired civil servant, so I can do that. People are hanging by their fingertips. And would you please understand that affordable housing is not low-income housing. It means that...
 There's a percentage of your rates, 25% the federal government talks about, about your mortgage or your rent. That's what you should be paying. That's affordable housing. The people on the street have no money. You have to address that, and it's hard. And you say the right things, but you don't do them. And I know this is a political season. The three of you are up for re-election.
 I'm asking you and begging you. This is my third mayor. I don't know if I'm going to be here for the fourth. But do it. Don't talk about it. You talk about emergency, do it. Get the government to get some money. Use some of your property. Go outside the box. Those four items that I have out there?
 You said you couldn't do an ordinance because you would run into a problem with the city attorney if you did 120 days, stop the evictions. Do a resolution. This is the sense of our city, that we don't want people on the streets. Thank you, Joe. You can do that. And please read that. That article is really good. And if you haven't read that article from Mercury, why not? You should have. Thank you.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Item 1032, please. Request of Krista Barron to address counsel regarding Right to Dream 2, houseless issues. Good morning. Hello and good morning, everyone. My name is Krista Barron. I've been homeless now for about four years and I'm originally from New York, New York, but I've also lived in Idaho, Montana, and Washington.
 I'm here to be a homeless advocate and talk about how I feel about the sweeps, which, as you all should know, is criminal. Central City Concern made sure to sweep everyone on that whole block during the Rose Parade, where the Rose Parade was going on, right before it let people in. Why? So Central City Concern and the Rose Parade
 people and the other people and others and yeah, could make money. Every day in the morning, I see Central City concerned waking up the homeless people and bothering them and just to clear the streets. I feel that if people, if anybody, if people are hungry and naked and sad,
 and, you know, poor and homeless, we should help them and not hurt them. So why then is the Kelowna Summers Park being swept to get rid of Food Not Bombs? I also, before I'm finishing talking about what this week and what I'm talking about, I wanted to say that this isn't the only state that this issue is happening in.
 And it's like all over and it's where I've lived before. And I know like in my life, the cops have always been harassing me and trying to get me to move my van and my RV. So in closing, um,
 People have the right to exist, and the public needs a place to do that without harassment. So please stop your sweeps. And thank you, and thank you for listening to me today. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, let's take 1033, please. A request of Mike Summers to address council regarding houseless issues. Good morning. Good morning.
 I was here about a month and a half ago and was wearing a different hat that I'm going to put on today. There's a couple of issues that, you know, basically the federal government has weighed in on as far as, you know, how houseless people are criminalized. One was the house or the...
 Housing Bureau, Federal Housing HUD has asked for municipalities to, if they want to continue their continuum of care money that they're getting from the federal government, that they would have to explain to the federal government how they planned to deal with the criminalization of homeless people. Mike, my question to you is, how would you answer that question? Sure.
 This is a rampant thing going around the country. The other one I would like to talk about is the Department of Justice statement of interest. In the case, I think it was Bell versus the city of Boise, Idaho, where I believe a bunch of homeless people brought suit to the city and it went to the Supreme Court or some higher court.
 They have this letter of interest is by no means binding for any municipality, but what it does do is it makes clearer the framework where this can be challenged in a higher court for the criminalization of homeless people. In closing, I would like to also cite one other thing, and I can't remember right off the top of my head what the court case was that the Department of Justice issued.
 used in framing their letter of interest. It was a court case that I believe it was in Los Angeles that the question was raised, how do you criminalize the behavior and not criminalize status? And what I mean by that is if a homeless person is breaking the law, how can you not criminalize the status of,
 of breaking that law, where another person that's not housed or that has a house could break the same law and not be criminalized on their status. And I'd like you guys to ponder that question a little bit because I do believe that criminalizing the houseless community is not only the wrong thing to do,
 It's the most expensive thing we're doing, that where if you can save that money from the criminalization and putting them in housing, we could, you know, maybe come up with another funding source for affordable housing. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's take 1034, please. Request of Julian Pineda to address council regarding sidewalk for Northeast 148 under I-84.
 Thank you very much for this time. I have provided a handout for you to look at while I look this over and read it. This is to the city of Portland and the mayor of Portland. My name is Julian Pineda. A major transportation project has been included in the transportation system plan under the project name Northeast 151.
 148th Avenue safety improvements, I am advocating that a portion of this project be started as soon as possible so that safety can be improved insofar as the line of sight for traffic just north of I-84, the project number is 5009. What is required is special grading
 of a dangerous slope on Northeast 148th Avenue where development is expected to occur in a very short time. This special grading is approximately only about 300 feet in length, so that a clear line of vision is established as cars and other traffic move on to Northeast 148th.
 The closest intersection is Northeast 148th Avenue Place. In addition, the sidewalks on either side will considerably add to safety. I've noticed individuals trying to get to Glendover Park to do walking, and there is absolutely no way that it's a safe journey for many of those living just north of this I-84.
 In other words, a portion of this project may be allowed to move forward so the traffic train in from this address and this address 3001 Northeast Avenue is an apartment project that is being looked at right now can safely navigate into Northeast 148. This will mean
 streets, such as Northeast Rose Parkway, can be left alone, and then the traffic moves straight into Northeast 148th, which is a fast-moving corridor. So, again, all I'm asking is that the grading be done so that the
 This improvement can be made, and then there's no disruption insofar as Northeast Rose Parkway. That neighborhood is very concerned over increased traffic. The traffic can now move safely into Northeast 148th, and all it takes is that line of vision kind of grading, and it can be done. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much for bringing this to our attention. Appreciate it. Thank you. Okay, we have one more, and that's 1035, please. Yes.
 Request of Lisa Marischal to address council regarding headquarters hotel. Good morning. Come on up. So my topic is the headquarters hotel, and everyone has a brochure that I assembled. I want to begin by saying that I'm not here flippantly. I did not just decide to pester you all.
 I understand that there are many important issues that you're dealing with right now. However, as those materials will show, I've played a very substantial role in bringing this project to where it is today. And as many of you know, it's been quite a long time in the making. This is the third attempt over a span of 20 years to try to get this project built.
 It has enormous economic potential for the city. It has the potential to create good-paying jobs, increase tourism, increase the hotel tax. I could go on and on, but that's not why I'm here. I've been trying to resolve my matter discreetly for a few years now. And I have been unsuccessful at that.
 So, Mr. Hales, I have benefited from a brief conversation with the city ombudsman regarding the position that my letter dated August 17th would put the city in a difficult position. Mr. Tony Green took some time to speak with me.
 And he suggested that I appear here today to ask for help. And what I'm asking for is a half an hour of your time. I believe that I have a remedy to my situation, but I cannot implement it without some help. The remaining options that are available to me...
 are not good for this project and it's not where i want to go projects are a little bit like kids and you want to see them move forward and prosper so i'm asking that the mayor's office get back to me by the first of november
 And I promise not to take up too much of your time, and I'm sorry for being so emotional, but I did keep it under three minutes. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Mayor, can I just ask Commissioner Novick a question? Sure. Steve, on 1034 about Northeast 148th.
 I was struck we don't often have Council communications about specific transportation issues. I don't know that area. I'm looking at the map. I don't know whether there's a park nearby, a school, whatever. I'm assuming that Leo will respond to him. Can we just copy the Council on that? Leo Sackler- Yes.
 Great. Thank you very much. So let's take the consent calendar, and then we'll move to our time-certain item. We had one request to remove an item, 1041, from the consent calendar. Any others? Then a roll call vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Aye. Friends. I just want to thank those who are volunteering to serve, including Jessica Engelman for the Historic Landmarks Commission, and particularly John Branham, who will be serving on the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. Aye. Thank you.
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's take item 1036, please. Declare intent to pilot the community-initiated neighborhood trails process to allow community organizations to identify and improve undeveloped right-of-ways to trail standards. Commissioner Novick?
 Colleagues, we are today considering a resolution that would pilot a process in which individuals and organizations can work with their neighbors to develop and designate a formally recognized trail. Before staff launches into history, outreach, resources, and elements of this process, I want to acknowledge the thoughtful feedback the community has offered the Bureau and Council offices. Thank you for your ongoing advocacy. Thank you.
 It's my sincerest hope the community continues to be engaged in this pilot process because we'll all be here again in a year after the process goes live. This, again, is a pilot process. PBOT is not the only bureau looking forward to what kind of information, new methods, and partnerships can come out of this process.
 I want to particularly acknowledge Sarah Schooley for her hard work, patience, and desire to craft a pilot policy that balances diverse desires and needs of the community in the various city bureaus. She's the only person at Piedmont who works solely on pedestrian ADA and trails policies. Her dedication to this project and its stakeholders is admirable. I want to thank Erica Neville of my staff, who's worked long and hard on this issue, along with many others.
 And I'd really like to thank Kurt Kruger for showing up today, even though he's sick. We don't normally approve of people showing up to work sick, but in this case we appreciate it and hope he goes home right afterwards. I'd be amiss if I didn't also thank staff and the various other bureaus that Sarah worked with to craft this pilot process. It's important to note that while this pilot originated under PBOT, the resolution strives to streamline this process for other bureaus as well. This has been a collaborative process.
 Before I turn it over to Sarah, I also want to say that it's a great thing when a community organization steps forward and says that they want to maintain a trail and we should announce to the community, put it up on our maps and announce to the community this is a trail we want you to go to and there's good people maintaining it. So some people might ask why do we need a process at all? If a community group comes forward and says we want to maintain a trail, why don't we just say go to it?
 Well, the truth is that I've learned over the past few years that people feel a real sense of ownership to the right of way near them. I'm still getting complaints from people who say, you build a sidewalk on my side of the street in Hillsdale, and I didn't walk that sidewalk, and I didn't think that there was sufficient public outreach. Although, of course, there was public outreach, but I didn't think it was sufficient. Okay.
 So we need to have some outreach to people in the neighborhood of a new proposed trail before we put it on a map and say, here's the people that are going to be running it. And we frankly don't have much capacity within PBOT to do a lot of outreach. So one of the things that we're asking for in this pilot process is to ask people who are proposing to paint a trail to contact people in the median neighborhood.
 And they'll actually have a big selling point for the people with adjoining landowners, which is if the community group takes over maintenance, agrees to take over maintenance, that relieves the adjoining property owners as a maintenance responsibility. So we think that community groups that engage in this process should find a lot of support from the people we're asking them to engage with. But we do need to have some sort of outreach process. Now, without further ado, I'll turn it over to Sarah. And I'm actually going to first turn it over to Art.
 Oh, actually, wait a minute. I'm sorry. I forgot. I was supposed to first propose a couple of amendments to Exhibit A. And if you look at Exhibit A under Step 4, which is on page 7, currently it says any proposed trail must, at a minimum, meet existing City of Portland Trail Type B standards. We'd like to replace standards with guidelines. Can you tell me what exactly where? Okay.
 It's on the top. Yeah, right at the top. First line. And then on the next page under step six, the second paragraph, which starts with the trails organization, shall contact PBOT once construction is complete. I want to replace the next language with, so staff with a representative, parentheses, S, of the applicant have completed
 opportunity so cross out the words to allow staff second okay those amendments on the table any questions about those roll call to accept those amendments and then proceed hi hi thank you all right anything else Commissioner before the staff takes it away nope
 Art Pierce, I manage policy planning and projects for the transportation bureau. Sarah works for me. I'm here to give a quick introduction in no small part because Sarah took on pretty commendable leadership and initiative to take on something that has been an ongoing and very dynamic conversation for many, many years and tried to bring to it a rational approach in the
 in no small part to try to bring this conversation to a transparent and logical place rather than one that needs to come to city council for every arbitration. So this process was called for in the Southwest Trails Plan in 2000, so it's taken us 15 years to get this before you, but we're following through on a commitment at that time when we designated the most important trails within the Southwest area.
 And it's very important in terms of us balancing the needs of the public right-of-way with the safety of the traveling public.
 It is a compromise. This is a proposal that will give a sort of logical, transparent way for both trails advocates and property owners to understand how to navigate this balancing act between their needs. It's also important, as the Commissioner stressed, this is a pilot project. This is a test of laying out this new rational process. It is one that we will be tracking its progress and coming back and reporting on it to make tweaks to make the process work more effective over time.
 And lastly, even though you'll hear today that the most interest in this process really lies in southwest Portland, it is not applicable only to southwest Portland. There's interest from inner southeast, north Portland, and outer east Portland in using this process to move their trail projects forward.
 And certainly, if we are able to demonstrate the efficacy of this process, it's one that I'm committed to trying to follow on with funding to help make it more effective over time, once we've demonstrated that this process is effective and can work to deliver trails. So, I think I'll pass it on to Sarah, who's going to go a lot deeper into the background and details. And then we're here and Kurt's here to answer more questions as we go into the conversation.
 Thank you, Art. Good morning, Mayor and Council. So once again, my name is Sarah Schooley. I'm the pedestrian coordinator and ADA coordinator for the Bureau of Transportation and had the, I guess you could call it honor, of being 15 years late to this process and 15 years after when we first said we were going to put together a neighborhood and community initiated trails process.
 So before we jump in, I just want to re-emphasize a couple points that Commissioner Novick and both Art said, that really this is a pilot process. And so we're really looking at this as a chance to learn about what works and what doesn't. We've been having theoretical conversations about what might work and what doesn't for about 15 years, and there's been a lot of conversation on all sides of the issue. And so we're really looking to get something in place.
 So we can start evaluating a real thing and start having conversations about what works and what doesn't.
 So on that note, I want to start off with really defining what we are talking about and what we aren't talking about. I think this is a very, very important kind of framing of the issue as we move forward. And as I'm sure a lot of you know, the discussion of what happens in the public right-of-way is no small discussion, that there's a lot of moving pieces. And so this is just one of those pieces that I think can help out some of those other pieces, but isn't going to be the complete answer to all those questions that come in your doors.
 So the first point, just to re-emphasize that this is a pilot process, PBOT does not have any process right now for allowing community groups to build new trails. And so as a result, no new trails have been built for years on PBOT right-of-way because there is no process. And so we're looking to put in something so that community groups can start really focusing their energy and harnessing their skills to help us build out the system.
 So once again, this is how to build new trails that we're talking about. And we're also talking about a way to transfer the liability and maintenance responsibility of existing unpermitted trails from adjacent property owners to a trail building organization, or as I'll be referring to them as the applicants for this process.
 So what we're not talking about is kind of broader encroachment policies. Once again, a big issue. Lots of folks involved, both community members and various bureaus. And so this is just a small piece of...
 encroachment policies and I think can be a tool to help the conversation move along in some other pieces but is not going to answer all the questions. What we're also not talking about is funding nonprofits to main trails. This might be a conversation further down the line but this, as I mentioned before, is a first step.
 And then the other thing that we're not talking about is a specific trail or specific right-of-way. I think a lot of folks that have contributed to the conversation, of course, bring their knowledge of what's going on near their backyards or front yards to the conversation, but we're really looking to create a process that would work for many rights-of-way throughout the city. So I just want to make sure that we know what we are talking about and what we aren't talking about as we move forward. Thank you.
 So Art mentioned a little bit of this, how did we get here? So there's two main things that brought us to this point of putting together a pilot process. The first is that Southwest Urban Trails Plan, which was approved by council in 2000. And there's this line in here that's really the nexus for why we're putting this process together.
 So the line states, residents and adjacent property owners need to be notified about the proposed improvements and should be supportive. Opposition to the improvements could require a more formal public process requiring city staff participation. So that more formal public process has never been developed. And so that's what we're looking to fill in here.
 And then the second big step that's happened since 2000 is ORS 105.668 that was adopted by the state legislature in 2011. And legally, it's called immunity from liability or injury or property damage arising from use of trailer structures in public easement or right-of-way. More casually, it's known as recreational immunity.
 And so what this means is that if you are on a trail, that the property owner isn't liable if you fall and twist your ankle or kind of for your use on that trail. And a big step in this process is making things official trails so that we can start using that law and start transferring that liability away from the property owners. And so a trail system is now kind of held on the user, as most of our recreational system is, instead of those adjacent property owners. Okay.
 So these are the two things that really helped us get to the need for the process that I'll be talking about today. So as Art mentioned and also Commissioner Novick mentioned, we had quite an extensive public outreach process for this. And just a side note, this whole pilot process actually could have been done as an admin rule.
 And so we realized that this issue was kind of bigger than an admin rule, even though it could have fallen under that category, and really went out and did public involvement like it was a bigger project. So we worked really hard to try to engage a wide range of opinions, wide range of stakeholders. Okay.
 And the process started actually about last year in November 2014 when I worked with staff from various bureaus, including BES, BDS, ONI, and especially Portland Parks and Recreation to put together the first draft of the trails process.
 Between November and February, we had our first comment period. And this period was fairly targeted outreach with folks that had expressed interest in this sort of issue before. So I met with the Pedestrian Advisory Committee, with Sweeney, and
 We had the lead article in Southwest News in December. I went to and presented at the Southwest Trails meeting. And in addition to target some of our harder-to-reach populations, we went out through our Safe Routes to School network and sent out information
 through there. I worked with the advice of Sylvia from Sweeney's. She suggested that I work with the libraries in Southwest Portland to reach more of the non-English speaking populations and those that might not necessarily be reading Southwest news. And then lastly, also contacted the property manager at Stevens Creek Crossing Housing Development.
 out there because they are potentially going to be connected by a trail in the upcoming future. So just wanted to make sure that they were aware of the process and were hopefully getting a connection between the city and city staff that maybe they were more comfortable with or trusted a little bit more than the monstrous Portland Bureau of Transportation. So really looking to make that connection.
 So from that first public outreach period, we had about 3,000 website views and 175 comments. So not too shabby, I would say, for a topic such as this. In March 2015, Steph took all those comments back, incorporated them, and then in April 2015, we re-released an updated draft.
 and sent out over 8,000 mailers to folks across the city, re-contacted the same groups that we did the first time around, and then also talked with more neighborhood coalitions and neighborhood associations.
 It's important to note that these 85, it was about 8,500 mailers that went out, went out to property owners and residents among the unimproved right-of-ways. So these included people that actually owned the homes there and folks that were renting them. It also included quite a few multifamily housing units and businesses. So just kind of whoever was living along them, whoever might really directly kind of adjacent-wise be impacted, we contacted directly.
 From this outreach period, we got almost 5,000 website views and 150 more comments. So also, I think, pretty impressive. We were going to come to you in June. That got delayed because the neighborhood associations, especially SWNI and also Southwest Trails, wanted additional time over the summer to kind of check back in with their neighborhood associations per some changes that had been made in the drafts. And so thus, we are here today.
 And with that, I'll go over just a couple of the quick comment themes that we've gotten during these outreach periods. During that first period, we heard a lot about how we decide which rights of way should be eligible for the process, liability and maintenance concerns, the cost to PBOT with resources and staff, the balance between environmental degradation and improving access issues.
 what the approval process should be, design, and just overall promotion of trails. From that second comment period, we had two main themes. One was removing one of the community outreach options, and I'll talk about that in a little bit. And then the next theme was what we should do with existing trails. So those were the two from the second one. So pretty wide range of comments, and also a lot of people that were involved in this process.
 So with that, I'm going to quickly go over the process. I think, and I hope you agree, that it's actually a pretty simple process. And to encourage you to think that way, I would like you to go to one of your handouts. That's called the checklist. So you should all have it in your packet. And it goes kind of step by step.
 through what the applicant would need to submit. And so everybody also has this kind of larger, more text-heavy document. And this goes into why we're asking for what we're asking. But as far as what the applicant would be looking at, we're really thinking that that checklist is going to be the main communication tool. Okay.
 So the first step is an internal check. So as I said before, we worked very collaboratively with a number of bureaus in putting this process together. And a lot of bureaus, even though it's PBOT right-of-way, either own property adjacent to it or are directly impacted by what happens in that right-of-way.
 And so the first step, as you can see in the checklist, is to have the applicant email us, and there's a form letter in there, just saying what right of way they're interested in improving. What we'll do from PBOT, we have contacts at all these bureaus, is send that out to these contacts and say, is there any fatal flaw?
 in making this into a trail. One of the questions we get a lot from, or that we've gotten from Portland Parks, is if there's a sensitive natural area around it. Sometimes they're hesitant to be providing access into that area, or just want a little bit more say in how that access is provided. And so this is our internal check to make sure that the applicant doesn't get too far down the road, and then we as the city actually have kind of an internal issue to work out before it goes forward.
 So this step, the work is mostly on the city's end and collaborating between bureaus. The second step is looking for a transportation nexus. As I said, this process will be managed by PBOT, but as Commissioner Novick said, does not necessarily have any additional resources to support the program, and so we want to make sure that before we use some of our prized resources that we make sure that there is a
 a connection between the work out there and transportation. And so we're asking the applicant to show us through...
 narrative, through a map, through however they want to, that one of these connections is made for this trail between a neighborhood and either transit, places of work, schools, parks and open space, or other services. These are the locations that are identified in the transportation system plan and also the pedestrian master plan as places that were really highly valuing connections.
 Another comment at the bottom of the slide was on the advice of the pedestrian advisory committee. They also wanted an option where a trail would allow a connection that is difficult to make due to limited parallel access. So that...
 think really applies to neighborhoods that don't have a full build out street grid and are really looking for some routes that are Safer and provide greater access So this is just kind of an internal check for P bot to make sure that our limited resources are being focused on transportation The third step I would say unsurprisingly is where we got the most feedback and this appropriately is the public involvement in neighborhood support section and
 So, PBOT, as you probably know, PBOT has the final say about what we do with our right of ways. But we believe having community support for a trail is an important piece of this process that we don't want to miss.
 PPAT will not be building or maintaining the trails that are proposed in this process. And so as such, we think that it's important for neighbors to trust the applicant who will be the maintainer of the trail. Because they'll also be helping to serve as the eyes of the trail, the ones that are really checking on it and probably using it the most since it's right by their home.
 That said, there are two avenues for this requirement depending on the current status of the right-of-way. And so there's two choices here. The first one is if that right-of-way is on a council-approved map. So in the pamphlet you have, you all have map 3.1, and that's a map from the Southwest Urban Trails Plan of the adopted proposed urban trails network.
 And what we're proposing there is that if the trail that the applicant wants is on that map, they don't have to do any community outreach as far as making sure people want it or they're okay with it. All they have to do is notify because it is on a council-approved plan. So that's a pretty easy route to go. That's the dashed lines on the map? Yes, some of the dashed lines and the solid lines as well.
 Yep. So the dashed lines are ones where the route hasn't been exactly defined yet, but they do provide a general idea of the connections that the trail is trying to make. So for the second part, we have rights of ways that are not on a council-approved trail map. And so for those, we're looking for a little bit more in that venue of community support. Okay.
 And as an aside, to go back a little bit to those on council-approved maps, right now really the only ones we're talking about are the ones on map 3.1. But there are a couple of upcoming plans that I think will also contribute to this broader map network that's council adopted. One being the Stevens-Tryon Creek Watershed Street Plan. There's a lot of words in that plan. I don't know if I put them all in the right order, but I think they're all in there.
 is probably going to be coming up in the next couple of years is the Southwest in Motion Plan. And so both of those will be identifying some trails and then we'll get added to this council approved network. I think Division Midway Street Plan, which I believe is even coming this afternoon, includes some additional connections that could apply for this as well. If it's a council approved trail or it's on the map, then
 the adjacent property owners do not have veto power correct correct in that trail exactly and even in the other instances they don't have veto power they have a voice in the overall conversation along with their neighbors well could i just ask a question about that because it does appear for me in in the report that they do have veto power and actually uh commissioner fritz i'll be talking about that on this next slide okay so if i can go through it and then let me know if it's not clear you have any additional questions
 So this next step would be, once again, if the right-of-way is not on a map as an approved trail. And it's important to note, as I think Commissioner Fritz brought up, that PBOT really has the final say in whether we allow a trail to go forward or not. And so...
 We're really looking for this process, given the kind of complete absence of resources for staff, for the community group to show us that the neighborhood wants it instead of PBOT pushing it through, coming from staff. And so even if this decision doesn't turn out as expected,
 somebody would like. I mean, PBOT could also reverse it if we needed to. This is considered an advisory step, as is really the rest of the process. It's all advising PBOT on how to move forward with the right-of-way. So we put forward these three options for applicants to use when proposing an unimproved right-of-way to become a trail. And really, we put together these three options in order for them to kind of choose which one is the easiest for them to achieve.
 And so the first option we give them is to be able to get 75% of adjacent neighbors to sign a petition in support of the trail. So if they can get that, they can breeze right through that step.
 For option two, we're looking for at least 50% of households within a quarter mile, thinking that most of these trails are pretty small connections, and those within a quarter mile will be the most likely users of those connections. And so we're looking for a lower percentage but kind of broader support. So even if the neighbors adjacent to the trail aren't directly supportive of it, I think this option shows us that there is a demand from the broader neighborhood. Okay.
 And then the third option is, to be honest, a compromise option from the comments that we've heard over the two comment periods. So we're asking for 50% of the adjacent neighbors and an approved letter of support from the Neighborhood Association.
 Just to give you some background, this third option was present in the first draft, or in the second draft of the document that went out. And then in that second comment period, we heard a lot of feedback that folks didn't feel that the Neighborhood Association was representative of their concerns.
 either maybe because they didn't participate in the neighborhood association because they couldn't make that evening meeting, or they just didn't feel like it was completely representative. So they wanted to have some balance between that neighborhood association and the folks that they felt maybe were more impacted by the trail because it went right by their house.
 So we took that option out. When we took the Neighborhood Association option out, unsurprisingly, we got a lot of comments saying, hey, where did the Neighborhood Association option go? We want to see that again. And so we put in option three as an attempt to balance the desires that we got from the public of lowering the percentage of adjacent neighbors that we needed, but then offering also that involvement from the Neighborhood Association. And again, this...
 slide you're showing us applies only to new trails that are not on the city-approved map? Yes. And so these are only for proposed trails that are not on council-approved maps. And I think that's a really important distinction to make because these are the trails that have not gone through any public process thus far or haven't been approved in any public process thus far. Does
 Does that answer your question, Commissioner Fritz? It begins to address the concern. It still shows that with the neighborhood association approval option, you still need 50% of the adjacent property owners. In the example Commissioner Novick brought up at the beginning about the sidewalk in Hillsdale, we don't require 50% of adjacent property owners to be in support of a sidewalk. We say it's needed. And I think it's important to understand that.
 certainly appreciate that the burden of the outreach should be on the group wanting to do it. The last paragraph of the report states, we also hope that if a trail is not approved through this process, that the applying trails organization will respect the voices that denied the trails development, whether those voices come from PBOT, the adjacent property owners, or the neighborhood.
 If a trail is not accepted for improvement, we would hope the trails organization would not advertise the unimproved right-of-way as a trail and not encourage large-scale use of the area. Instead, we would encourage the trails organization to look for another valuable connection that would improve transportation options that have broader neighborhood support. And that's the end of the report. It doesn't go on to say, however.
 Despite the paragraph, if the proposed trail has board support in the community beyond the quarter mile, because in Southwest in particular, we have regular walks that go miles and miles through neighborhoods, and there might be a new connection that wasn't in the Southwest Trails Plan, for example. It should say at the end, the commissioner in charge of PBOT may decide to allow the trail to be built.
 Otherwise, so could we add that? That could definitely be added. Yes. And just to make a little distinction between the example you brought up of the sidewalk and kind of,
 you know, that we didn't need neighborhood support for that. I think an important difference between something like a trail and something like a sidewalk is when we're building a sidewalk, we're building it up to PBOT standards, and PBOT's responsible for that construction. And so we know that if we're going in to build it, we're building it up to ADA standards, we're building it up to kind of this...
 the set of standards that have been adopted by the city as a pedestrian, accepted pedestrian infrastructure. And with trails, there's a bit more trust involved.
 in, you know, that it's a community organization that's building the trail and maintaining it. And so we want to make sure that that conversation is happening. But to your point of putting in a line saying that the PBOT commissioner has the final say, we can definitely do that and make that a broader point in the document. I think the one other point, important point about a sidewalk is that it is included in our plans, so that that sidewalk connection is something that we went through a public process and prioritized even at the Transpacient System Plan level.
 And so we have gone through a public process and have gone to city council to get endorsement that that's an important priority. And so similarly, any trail that has gone through some of the similar process like that is able to go right through. Public rights away, though, are public rights away. I don't get to decide who parks in front of my house. Everybody has the opportunity to do that. So if we could accept a friendly amendment to add something to say that notwithstanding the above, the commissioner in charge of PBOT may decide to allow the trail to be built.
 Certainly. I mean, the way I look at this is we're telling people if you're able to go through this process successfully, you can expect that your trail will be approved.
 You don't have to go through this process, but if you're not using this process and come to us to ask for approval of a trail, you need to understand that we'll be limited by our own ability to do outreach and determine community support. I think the clear intent is you have to go through this, but the Charter ascribes the Council the authority to make decisions, not one or two adjacent property owners. So would you be willing to accept that as a friendly amendment? Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Frith.
 Okay, so step four talks about design guidelines, and it looks at the trail building guidelines that we're looking at. We've proposed guidelines from the city's resident trail building expert, Portland Parks and Recreation. We didn't see any need to come up with our own, since Portland Parks knows how to do this way better than we do. And so we selected Trail Type B.
 And so Trail Type B, I don't know how familiar you are with their different trail standards. They go through A and D. A is considered a high challenge trail and C and D are considered more accessible trails. We were trying to find a medium ground where people could use it to get to the bus stop and then go to work and not look like they just went on a morning hike.
 And so we're trying to find that middle ground here. And we'll continue to work and communicate with Portland Parks and Recreation about meeting these standards. We're still in conversations with them about either learning from their inspectors or their approvers of trails to make sure that we're getting it right. And this will be something that we'll be looking at over the year. But I think this is actually one of the easier paths.
 Easier steps for us is PBOT because we already have guidelines put together and we already have expertise in the city on this category. And then the last step is permitting and review. And so, as many of you know, having the appropriate permits in line for a project is essential to ensure that liability and responsibility is covered and that any structures are safe and the environment is protected.
 These that are up on the screen, the encroachment permit, building permit, and environmental review and permitting, are the three we think most likely categories that would be touched by a trail. So the first is an encroachment permit. And so this is basically just a permit to say something's happening in the right-of-way. And this is issued by PBOT. All trails would need this permit. And the Bureau of PBOT has approved.
 has said that we would offer to waive the fees for this permit for groups that go through this process. So most trails would only need this encroachment permit, so there would be no permit fees associated. The second...
 permit that may be needed would be a building permit. And so this would depend on if and what sort of structures would be on the trail. We would be working with the Bureau of Development Services for this permit. While I know a lot of community groups wished, and sometimes we wished as well, that we could just get our BDS permits fees waived, we cannot and don't have really much control over that conversation.
 We also in the document put that it is up to the Bureau that requires the permit, how they want to deal with fees as they go through this process.
 And then the last thing that we could see some trails running into is environmental review and permitting. As you might expect, many of the desired trails run through some of the most beautiful areas of the city and also some of the most environmentally sensitive parts of the city. And so environmental review and permitting is just a requirement of city code, also issued by BDS. Thank you.
 But one important thing to note is while you can imagine many of these trails go up and down slopes and maybe would go through some pretty sensitive environmental areas, in city code we do have trail exemptions for going through environmental areas. And so they're in more detail in the larger process. You can see them.
 On page seven, there are five of them, and they just look at kind of what a trail would have to look like and what would they meet. And if they met those requirements, then they wouldn't have to go through environmental permitting. So let me ask, if I could, a question on that. And let's take the interests that the Bureau of Environmental Services may have in this process. So I can imagine that those interests could be many, but let's take three examples.
 A trail that goes to a natural area. And so there's questions about how to place the trail. Is there a preferred route, an alternative route? How do we have to put a bridge in to get over a natural area or a stream or something? So that's one example. Number two is the Bureau of Environmental Services
 may be interested in the impact of a trail on stormwater runoff. How does it impact somehow the existing systems? And number three, the Bureau of Environmental Services may have actually a dog in the fight. They may determine that that trail has other benefits to the system that they exclusively are responsible for, so they may end up being a funder in partnership with others to fund that trail. So where in this process does BES stand
 assert or protect its interest through this process? So that's actually in the first step. And so that first step where we put out, hey, this is the right-of-way that we're looking at, we will be sending that notification to BES. And so Jennifer Devlin is our contact at BES that we would be sending that to. And so from knowing where that right-of-way is, they can decide if there are any issues that come up or if there's any opportunities that come up through that.
 And so, and then at the back end, in step five, what is BES's role as you have set, established this in terms of the environmental review and permitting? So in the environmental review and permitting, even though BDS issues the permit, BES is the advisor, right?
 for the permit. And so they're in the room advising BDS on what sort of permit to issue, what other things might be added to the permit, or just how to do it in general. And so a great example that's actually happening right now is there's a trail that was funded through the Mayor's Bump last year that will be connecting to Robert Gray Middle School.
 And looking at that trail, we worked with BES to tweak the route a little bit of that trail in order to avoid some really expensive permitting. And so BES was able to use that expertise and say, hey, if you're 10 feet over 
 We're safe because you're not by the water that we don't want you to be by. It's a better opportunity, and it makes more sense for our system. There's also the conversation of if by going into an area that opens opportunities for replanting opportunities,
 or some other stormwater protection and watershed protection that you manage. And so BES is very involved in the environmental review and permitting, even though the final document comes from BDS. And I'm glad you made that last point because BES sees itself as a full partner in this process. And you gave an example of where early engagement 
 led to a less expensive alternative. And, again, there's always the potential nexus between the mission of BES and the trail where there potentially is funding. I'm looking at Don because, of course, that's not  it's a case-by-case situation. But the earlier consultation and discussion might actually reduce costs as well as open up potential funding sources. That's why it's, I think, so important. Exactly. Thank you.
 So that's our process. Five hopefully fairly easy steps. We have that internal check, checking on pedestrian connectivity, looking for neighborhood involvement and support, or simply notification if the trail is already on a council approved map, that design check, and then the last step is permitting. And just to note that permitting step is really what puts that recreational immunity into place. So that's what makes this an official trail on the books. And so that step is what
 what takes us over the edge into the next territory.
 As I mentioned before, for our community outreach that we did, I went to the pedestrian advisory committee twice to talk about this project. And the second time I went, we talked actually mostly about the pilot project evaluation and what questions we should be asking ourselves as we go through this process and to improve it in the future. The three that really came to the top from their point of view was how many times does the process get started versus how many times does it get finished?
 That leads to the third question on this slide, thinking about where are the hiccups in the process? Where are the parts that are really hard to get through? We can learn from where those hiccups are and try to make them easier while still meeting the needs of the Bureau of Transportation, or other bureaus, or the law, or whatever else we have to think about when going through this.
 That middle question was also something brought up by the pedestrian advisory committee, thinking about how much staff time and resources does the process take. And there are a couple folks within the bureau that will be working together to deliver this process both from the permitting group and then myself as the pedestrian coordinator and my fellow staff. And so thinking about how many resources from what groups so we can make sure that this is an efficient use of our time.
 Since some may argue that it's a little outside of our realm of kind of Vision Zero safety projects, we want to make sure that it does do what it needs to do while letting the limited number of staff also focus on their other work.
 And for pilot project evaluation, I know that there was some discussion within the council members about putting together an evaluation committee. There is a little hesitance from myself and my workload to think about running another committee, but luckily I already staffed one.
 And so I staffed the Pedestrian Advisory Committee, and I think that they could serve as this evaluation committee, coming back to them at six months with where it is, and then a year later, they have been involved in commenting on it, and I think are an appropriate and also existing committee that we could be tapping into to be more efficient. Okay.
 So lastly, as I mentioned at the beginning, this trails process is this little piece of a lot of bigger stories. And so these are a couple of kind of those bigger stories that I think this process may help.
 So the first is encroachment. So I'm sure many of you, if not all of you, have gotten phone calls to your office about some random encroachment in a right-of-way somewhere around the city. And while this process doesn't answer all those questions, what it does do is it will put more trails that the community wants to use on the map if they go through this process.
 And so what that means is that if there is an encroachment in the right of way, whether it's permitted or not permitted, once we have a trail that goes through this process that's there, we can ask for those encroachments to be removed. We have some teeth to do that. Why don't you have teeth to do that now? Just because there are so many.
 around the city. And I can have Kurt Kruger talk a little bit to that after I get through this, since his group is really the ones that makes the decisions on this and runs that process. Commissioner, I mean, this might be helpful. The relevant portion of the code that says, quote, all alleys, unimproved streets, and other public ROW must be clear of obstructions that may hinder the normal flow of traffic or render the ROW unsafe for its current and necessary use.
 So I think that that can raise questions about, okay, what is normal? What is the current and necessary use? And if we're designated as a formal trail, then there's a pretty strong case that it's
 necessary uses for a trail. Yeah. Makes sense. Yeah, and it's helping define, because there's also kind of a weird and potentially confusing relationship between PBOT and BDS on this, because BDSs are enforcement, really, for these sorts of things. And so they're the ones going out to judge what that current and necessary use is that Commissioner Novick talked about. And so if on a map we say, it is a trail, like it is certainly a trail, we can very easily get either things trimmed back or encroachments removed.
 The way BDS operates, though, for a number of code things is by complaints. Yes. So I'm concerned that even if there isn't a trail, if there's a huge takings of the public right-of-way, BDS doesn't feel like it has the authority to do that.
 neither does PBOT to say, no, you've got to take that fence off. Exactly. And so we're hoping that this process helps define that authority and helps give us that oomph to say this has to be removed. But what I'm concerned about is that I'm not a lawyer, nor do I play one on TV even, but I'm wondering  thank you, Commissioner Fisher. I appreciate the chat.
 My understanding is that after an encroachment has been there for a certain time, it becomes, well, nobody asked me to move it, so it's mine now.
 So aren't we potentially, by allowing encroachments that are maybe not on trails to continue to be there, are we not de facto giving that property back to the adjacent property owner? No. As long as it's still in right-of-way, I don't believe, but that's why we've got all these smart people nodding in the back there. As long as it's still in the right-of-way, our authority is unchanged. We can get rid of the encroachments at any time in the future and if it's 20 years down the line. Exactly.
 And this also helps more on the front end. So if something is designated as a trail and somebody goes through the correct channels and says, I want to build a fence on this right-of-way, can I get a permit? When we go to look, we'll see that it's a trail and be able to right up front say no, and this is the reason why. So it helps protect that public space.
 So speaking of people nodding in the back, I want to urge you to finish up soon because we've got a lot of people here to testify and we've got a crowded agenda this morning. You got it. So maintenance, just a quick point that we're currently working in discussions with Portland Parks and Recreation about their community stewardship agreements and thinking about how we can work maybe more similarly to them in encouraging and helping to target maintenance along these rights of ways for existing trails.
 And then lastly, the neighborhood voice piece. There's been some confusion about what and how neighbors can give their voice to this process, and we feel that what we're proposing does have a pretty defined way for both the applicant and the neighbors to contribute. Thank you.
 So lastly, just wanted to give a quick shout-out to our website, which has gotten over 20,000 views over the last year, which I think is pretty impressive, and a couple of the important documents that are on there that are 
 tangentially related to this project, but questions that we knew people wanted answered. So I'd say the two most important ones, the one kind of in front of the slide and the trifold that you all have in front of you, it's called a path to trail safety. And I have to give a lot of credit to Jenny Pullen and Stephanie Kourmetis from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement that helped me pull this together. Actually, they pulled it together. I shouldn't take...
 much credit for it at all. But it talks about how to build trails and also how to be a property owner next to trails and feel better about your safety. So I think it's a good read and has gotten over a thousand views on the website. The other one that I feel is really helpful is this Unimproved Rights of Ways, What to Do. It's a two-sided document. One is for folks that live
 adjacent to rights of way, unimproved rights of ways, and the other side is for folks that want to use unimproved rights of ways for walking. And so it just kind of defines what their roles and responsibilities and possibilities are for working with adjacent property owners to offer their maintenance services and what just in general responsibilities everybody has. So that's it for the presentation. I just want to reemphasize that this is a pilot presentation.
 that we're going for, and that we want to pilot something because this conversation has been going on for a really long time. So you'll be hearing, I'm sure, a lot of different testimony. You'll be hearing probably a lot of the wide variety that I've heard over the past year. And I want you to realize that this process is not going to make anybody 100% happy, but we're looking to find a starting point that makes sense and a starting point that we can work from and evaluate over the next year.
 I have a question. And I apologize if this was asked while I was out of the room, just to say so. So the trails organizations must maintain liability insurance? No, they wouldn't be maintaining liability. I think you said earlier on that they would be liable. No, so what this process does is it transfers that liability away from the adjacent property owner. So right now, if it's undeveloped, the adjacent property owner is liable. Once it becomes a person,
 a permit, or once it gets a permit to be a trail, it falls under the recreational immunity law, in which case the liability switches to the user. And so it would become like a trail in a national park where you're accepting that responsibility as a user. So the trail organizations do not have to maintain liability insurance? Correct. Okay.
 commissioner thank you anything else before we turn to testimony i think that uh jennifer devlin from bes was it was here um to offer some additional comments okay come on up jennifer good morning mayor hales and commissioners my name is jennifer devlin i'm staffed from bes watershed services division and i'm hoping my testimony will answer or address some of the questions that commissioner fish brought up and let you know how bes has been working with this process
 So, BES has been working with PBOT and the community interested in trails for well over a decade. We welcome PBOT's community-initiated neighborhood trails process as it provides guidance for these projects.
 Encouraging walking in our community has positive watershed health impacts. Pedestrian trails can reduce car miles and thereby reduce the pollutants that wash off into streets and into our local streams. Pedestrian elements can and have been integrated into BES properties as well as our capital, grants, and maintenance projects. Thank you.
 Some successful examples of this partnering are, recently BES partnered with the Dharma Rain Zen Center out at Northeast Siskiyou on a pedestrian trail along BES's stormwater facility. This trail now serves members of the Rocky Butte community with an east-west off-street walking trail.
 A 2006 BES Community Watershed Stewardship Project grant helped protect a wetland at Stevens Creek used to create the Razback Pedestrian Crossing. We're very proud of that project, too.
 BES recently secured a Metro Capital Grant Award to help create a pedestrian undercrossing for regional trail users along Tryon Creek. This will happen during a culvert replacement project at Southwest Boones Ferry Road that you heard about a couple of weeks ago.
 While protecting a sewer that was exposed in Johnson Creek at Tideman Johnson Park, BES protected the wetland there by developing a boardwalk for student water quality studies and pedestrians as a loop off the spring water trail. As you might know also, that BES has been partnering with PBOT to create walkable shoulders along southwest streets that don't have sidewalks while we're converting ditches into roadside swales.
 Along the Columbia Slough, BES has supported grant projects for youth to control erosion by doing trail work and collaborated with PBOT and EPA to build the 47th Avenue Bridge, suitable for passage for storm flows, fish, pedestrians, and paddlers. Paddling trail there. Wow.
 In summary, we've collaborated frequently in the past, and BES is interested in continuing to work with PBOT staff and the community in a formal way on trails and undeveloped right-of-ways for a variety of reasons. There are environmental impacts for both trails and trail users that should be considered in the siting of trails.
 Having a formal community-initiated trails process that would require review of the environmental impacts and work with appropriate city staff is an important part of ensuring that these trails are sustainable, functional, and environmentally responsible.
 Undeveloped rights-of-ways also have potential for siting stormwater facilities, and in these cases, BES can actually be an active partner in developing projects that meet trails and stormwater needs, such as one that we're working on on Southwest 19th.
 Any sort of development has the potential for being opportunistic, and the collaboration designed into the trails process could allow PBOT and BES to continue to improve our work together. So thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. All right, let's turn to public testimony, please. We have 24 people signed up. Oh, okay. We're going to ask you to be brief if you possibly can.
 The first three, please come on up, are Kenner Swain, Arlene Kimura, and Liz Morantz, and they will be followed by Dave Manville, Don Bach, and John Gould. Good morning. I think you're first, Arlene. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Hales. Good morning, Commissioners. I want to comment on the proposal, not so much the proposal itself, but how this was done.
 I feel very uncomfortable with the fact that none of the outreach was done to our non-English speaking members in East Portland. Most of it was focused on Southwest Portland.
 I'm also a little concerned that there is no equity from having community members continue to do all of the processing as opposed to having paid staff assist us and provide resources. I have no translation dollars. Do I pay it out of my own pocket so that I can get the Karen community, who do walk, who do community gardening as part of their culture, to help us do this? There are not many community trails in East Portland that connect transit schools or whatever.
 In fact, most of our natural areas, you have to drive to them. If we are, as a community, trying to lower our use of carbon fuels, then we need to provide more of them. And somehow I don't know that this process is going to help. What I would like to have is a review of this process within six to nine months on an ongoing
 I would like to see more staff resources put to helping us do the outreach to our non-English-speaking communities because they all walk as a culture. Most of them walk from place to place, and we don't provide any walking abilities as a health measure for our children. And I went to a trails conference earlier this year. The city of San Jose has an urban trails planner on their staff. What happened to Portland? Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. You're not going to be next.
 go ahead please yes thank you uh mayor so i just put your name in the record sorry kenner swain recent recently moved to portland welcome thank you i was told it was a place where young people come to retire but then i got here and it was too late so i see i'm the same age you are and i know that pedestrian um walking is important just to try to keep things as stable as we can and
 So I'm new enough to Portland just a few months that I don't know all the personalities in the 15-year history or the history going back to Benson and Pittock or whatever else. But I did have the strong sense after reading the opinion piece by Mr. Back online that the Portland Bureau of Transportation or Board of Transportation, as Commissioner Fritz, I think, has suggested, has
 misconstrued and misinterpreted what is the public sphere to the point where, to use a retail term, it was kind of a gratuitous shrink and shatter of the public space and public sphere. So I was offended by it. I thought, you know, what's going on here? I'm sure that there are conflicting interests, but I think that the way they've conceptualized it is a misunderstanding. Of course there are conflicting interests, but the way they've construed it, the gentleman said,
 that people feel a sense of ownership over a right-of-way. I'm sure they feel it, but I'm sure the Koch brothers feel a sense of ownership over all kinds of things, you know, but it's not the way to think about it. And I assume the city council, at least from what I've heard, the city council could take fairly simple actions. The lady said this is a
 fairly simple process. I beg to differ. It's not a simple process. Franz Kafka couldn't understand the process, frankly. I mean, it's way out of control, in my opinion. And the veto issue, to me, again, it's a gratuitous shrinking of the public sphere and, frankly, is shameful that they, you know, it's your job to not let the Bureau of Transportation people get away with thinking of things in that way.
 So you have a stewardship responsibility. They have a stewardship responsibility. And frankly, the Southwest Trails people, I'm sure you shouldn't just let them do anything they want, but the gentleman said some people think, why should there be a process? Yeah, I almost thought, why should we waste public resources when...
 it's to me it's obvious there's a bunch of people older than i am who are pillars of the community and we have corporate sponsors probably should let them do more or less what they want to do with some oversight absolutely but i think the base issue about the presentation of the bot is um it's insulting to the southwest trails people the the way they saw the public is chimed in this that i thought their their tone is is off
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. My name is Elizabeth Marams. I live in the Arnold Creek neighborhood in Southwest Port. And our neighborhood is really lacking in pedestrian connectivity and pedestrian safety. All our major connecting roads pretty much have no sidewalks, and some are very dangerous to walk on.
 there is very little possibility of getting some sidewalks in on some crucial connections in the foreseeable future, like on Southwest 35th, which connects Jackson Middle School to Stevenson School and is a major connector in our neighborhood. The smaller streets, which also often don't have sidewalks,
 are safer to walk on. But a lot of them do not connect because of our topography and natural streams that come through. So what this means is that in Arnold Creek, you pretty much have to drive to go to Tryon Creek Park, Maricarra Park, Jackson, Wilson, New Seasons even.
 So if there's any opportunity to get some better connectivity and safety in our neighborhood, I would encourage the council to pursue those avenues and trails clearly as a very important one. Wherever there's an opportunity on public property,
 to put in a trail. I would like the city to pursue that. I would just like to say, for somebody like me who has a profound hearing loss, the fact that I can look up there and see some closed captioning helps me be an active participant in these civic affairs. That's a pretty high-tech thing.
 putting in a trail is not a high-tech thing, you know, as long as environmental things are taken care of. And, you know, it's a pretty old-fashioned kind of technology, and I don't understand the opposition from the Bureau of Transportation. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Thank you all. I'm going to ask people to try to hold their testimony to two minutes because we're going to have a time problem this morning. We have another fairly significant issue on the morning calendar and another one on the afternoon's calendar, and at some point we're going to give the council a break. It's 11 o'clock. I'd like us to keep moving on this item and probably go until 1230, take a half an hour break, and come back. But we'll see. Mayor, is it 
 Are you inclined to move 1048 to the top of the agenda, since we do have a lot of people here for that? Yes. Yes, we'll take 1048 next after this item. Okay, good. Good morning, commissioners. I'm Don Bach, Hillsdale. I chair Southwest Trails. First of all, I want to start with a proposed amendment, and I want to focus on a couple, three things in that. You've got this in front of you. You've seen it. But basically...
 We really feel it's important that the adjacent property owners be informed by anything correspondence, in every correspondence from PBOT about the law relating to the responsibility they have for the right-of-way. You'll see that in Item 1 of the proposed amendments. Thank you.
 Then we propose to replace steps one, two, and three, which intensively requires a lot of citizen work to go out and outreach the community with a process where a staff person in PBOT would receive anything, review it, ask for comments, and then issue a decision. And I've got that spelled out there in more detail.
 Then finally replacing this mutual respect thing, which kind of suggests that, well, we don't have a trail, so you shouldn't walk there, with a clear statement of what the law is on that. John Gould will talk about that more.
 Glenn Bridger is not able to be here today, so I'm going to try to summarize the best I can his comments about the public involvement outreach. And Glenn has been a  was on the founding committee of the Citizen Involvement Task Force. It's a commission or whatever it is in the city that's been working on this.
 Basically, he's suggesting that, number one, the trials are important. A lot of people use them, particularly the lower income when they haven't got alternatives. And the public involvement outreach, going through the 8,000 postcards without telling the full story of the issues that were involved, was totally inappropriate because they didn't tell them about the waiver of liability and so on. So we got a lot of biased views of what was going on.
 And then finally, the program fails because it hasn't met the equity goals. The purpose of the policy we want to establish and carry forward with our volunteer efforts, this is a real challenge.
 Downer, very strong downer. It tells people, you know, you've got to jump through a huge amount of hoops before we can do anything. I think it's totally inappropriate. I would like to urge you to eliminate steps one, two, and three and go with, for the first year, the staff approach. At the end of that year, if we have got a big problem, we can go to the staff approach. That means the other approach where we've got all the busy work to do.
 I really, really urge you, let's go the simple, easy way first. I know it's going to cost something. It might cost some budget money, but it's going to get a lot more done, and it will be a lot more happier people. Thank you.
 thank you i just have to say that you're one of the more energetic and persuasive people i know and i think that you're selling yourself short i think that the course of six months you can talk to every adjacent landowner in the city on any topic it's a matter of will it takes it takes two people to negotiate and we're not interested in getting into that ball game quite frankly we're really interested in getting going on with making these things happen and for you to dictate to us that we should go out and go call on all these people and spend all this time doing that is not in our interest
 Thank you. Good morning. Morning. I'm John Gould. I've lived in Hillsdale for 45 years and practice law downtown for 40. I wanted to emphasize four things, but the last one has become preeminent because of the colloquy between commissioners Fritz and Novick. This matter of the implied veto is hugely important as you point out. And I think you acknowledge both of you. And yeah,
 The way the draft is currently framed, as you pointed out, simply gives that veto, and it should not. It should not. So that amendment's critical. The additional words that Commissioner Fritz gave to Sarah are important. Now, as important legal legs for this whole proposal are three. It's already been cited by Commissioner Novick, but
 The City Code 29.20.010.K.3 puts the duty on the adjacent landowner to, abutting landowner to keep up the unimproved public right-of-ways next to their land. That's important. The other important thing is that, is the state law, ORS 105.668, which Sarah pointed out,
 establishing a critical immunity from liability for simple negligence in the pursuit of these construction of these trails. It's important to note that that goes on, that vision goes on to say, as I show in my piece called Trails of City, not to grant immunity to gross negligence would be, which would be something like just ignoring your right of way.
 wanton or intentional misconduct, which would be actually constructing a physical impediment. It has been done in the city. So the landowners should know that those immunities do not exist, and it's in their great benefit to cooperate. Thank you. Thank you, John. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Dave Manville. I'm the vice president for Southwest Trails. I'd like to thank Sarah and Erica for getting this pilot to the
 current point. I'm a volunteer working on maintaining trails on our fabulous trail structure in southwest Portland. I currently maintain out on Ash Creek about 16 block and half block long trails. I've been involved in this process for approximately six years. I mean, just working on trails. I absolutely support the recreational immunity ORS 105668, moving the liability. It's a very good idea. We're about five years late in getting started, but
 Getting started is really good. The trail process needs to have a method of dealing with the approximately 200 trails that are currently in use in southwest Portland. Recently, Erica replied back to us that that policy is going to be looked at sort of in an adjunct tangential way to this existing policy. But if we don't get some method of getting all of those bulk trails,
 permitted quickly, this is just going to drag on forever. Don's earlier comments about talking to adjacent landowners and the entire bureaucracy of the policy as it now exists is very burdensome. I don't think our trail situation is going to be served well by the complexity and convoluted nature of the policy as it's now written. I would just request that we simplify that thing
 in a large extent, maybe involve a staff person, as Don suggested, to make it an easier process. I've done this work for a while now. The policy as it's now written is an extraordinary complex, and I think I'll just leave my comments at that point. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three are Hans Stoich, Patty Barker, and Craig Christie, and they'll be followed by Barbara Bowers, Stefan Lewis, and Mark, I think it's Marvitt?
 Harold or Hensel? Good morning. Good morning. I'm Hans Stoik. I live in southwest Portland, and I have so for 24 years. Commissioners, I was delighted when I browsed through the transportation section of the draft 2035 comprehensive plan. There I find policy statements like create more complete networks of pedestrian facilities and improve the quality of the pedestrian environment.
 Or another goal, improve pedestrian safety, accessibility and convenience for people of all ages and abilities. That's great, I thought. My active transportation goal is aligned with the cities and indeed also with the trails organization that I am a member of. But unfortunately, I feel after careful study that the trails process in its current form will prevent the city from meeting these goals. The trails process needs to be amended.
 I support the amendments proposed by Southwest Trails. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. Hi, my name is Patty Barker, and I'm here speaking on behalf of Southwest Trails. Southwest Trails is the leading trail-building nonprofit group in Portland, and over the past 20 years, we've created 40-plus miles of urban trails to help respond to pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure shortfalls, all for just $50,000 of city funds. Thank you.
 Over the past 15 years, it seems there has been a paradigm shift in the city's thinking concerning urban trails. And the process now seems weighted in favor of the desires of individual property owners at the expense of public needs. Here's how. One of them is the approval process, which essentially gives unprecedented veto rights to adjacent property owners to halt proposed transportation improvements on public land.
 Giving them the ultimate decision-making is basically giving away public land without any public benefit.
 Southwest Trails supports a public input process that notifies adjacent property owners to seek their opinions and comments, but the final decision-making should be left to PBOT and partner bureaus, not property owners. Another issue is the plan includes a complicated, restrictive, and costly process to do any trail work. The city should have streamlined, user-friendly criteria and strive to minimize out-of-pocket expenses for non-profits.
 who seek to partner with the city to create safe pedestrian connections. Also, the draft process does not enforce, or rather does not address the problem with right-of-way encroachments. The lack of enforcement entices adjacent property owners to block these public spaces, and on top of that, they might also have this veto power to prevent proposed improvements. The net result is loss of public rights-of-way and fewer transportation options.
 The draft policy does not seem to promote the goals of Vision Zero nor the comprehensive plan. There are several other compelling reasons why Southwest Trails does not support the draft policy, and they are outlined in our written testimony. We also offer some amendments to the draft policy, and I hope you will fully support them. Southwest Trails wants to help solve the problem of pedestrian infrastructure deficits.
 We have the expertise and hands-on experience to build and maintain trails, and we're ready and willing to do the work. But this draft policy is way off the mark. Please review our written testimony and proposed amendments so that we can work together to develop a reasonable trails policy that prioritizes pedestrian connectivity and safety. Thank you for your time. Good morning. Hi, I'm Craig Christie.
 We have a footpath in my neighborhood that's been blocked off. That footpath was in use for decades. It is on a public right-of-way. Several of my neighbors have been threatened. I've been threatened. I've even been asked for a fight. I think this ought to be brought to an end. That's public property. These folks are not paying taxes on that property, and it does create a safer footpath rather than the kids using Sunset Street.
 That's it. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all our Barbara Bowers Stephon Lewis and Mary Pat Hensel and they'll be followed by Dale Sherbourne Doug Rogers and Mary Ann Fitzgerald Morning. Good morning. Mayor Hales. My name is Mary Pat Hensel I live in the Arnold Creek neighborhood association and I'm here first of all to say thanks for the very long process that I know Sarah and many other people at staffers have gone through along with Jennifer Devlin and others and
 The one thing that I really want to say is I think the five-step process that they've put together has been well thought out, and I don't see that it differs very much from other processes for permitting that a development has to go through in the city of Portland. So I think that when we talk about a good, fair way of having five steps, that this process actually goes through all of those steps quite clearly, and it really is quite a simple process.
 I would like to see the pilot get started as soon as it can, and also make sure that we try not to make the cost onerous when trails are put in place, but also that we make sure that there is some vehicle for maintenance. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. My name is Stephan Lewis. I live next to April Hill Park, and I'm the transportation chair for the Maplewood neighborhood. My family has been rooted in the Maplewood neighborhood since 1957 when my grandmother moved into the community as a widow with five children. Two years ago, my wife and I bought this house as a place to raise our now four-year-old son and continue the family tradition of community involvement.
 Nestled next to April Park, we have an on-street bike route in front of our house and an urban trail that runs along utility easement on our property. A note about my grandmother, she was...
 definitely an anomaly in southwest portland she's never been a driver uh she used to take trimet downtown and back for work on get where she needed to go um and this bus service over the decades has been reduced significantly and in recent times she's actually been isolated within the community and this is something that's affected a lot of other members of our aging population in maplewood as other places in southwest
 Likewise, the youngest are affected. A parent wanting to take a walk with their children outside the neighborhood is literally taking the family's life in their hands. The dangers associated with existing pedestrian infrastructure lead a majority of residents to drive for a lack of any other safe options. Across the street from Maplewood is the Gabriel Park Community Center, and the vast majority of people in the neighborhood actually drive to get there because there is no other route.
 uh and this is a real big problem uh we in maple would applaud the efforts of the city as work moves forward toward vision zero uh we understand that majority of the resources are going to be focused in other parts of the city um just because of the statistics and the numbers
 And there's an overall mentality in Southwest that it's not even possible to use other non-motorized forms of transportation. That really needs to change. As part of the community-initiated neighborhood trails process,
 In its current draft state, it suggests that adjacent property owners and neighbors within a quarter mile from the proposed trail be notified and have a disproportionate amount of influence on the trail's feasibility. I understand the reasoning behind the quarter mile distance, but this simply doesn't make sense for the pedestrian infrastructure in southwest Portland.
 In other parts of the city, with a quarter mile, there are multiple options. In Southwest, there are frequently no other options for parallel pedestrian access. For the sake of time, I'll skip a lot of my examples and just say that we applaud the work of Southwest Trails and view them as a great community partner. Likewise, we hope the city continues to value their partnership and works toward increasing the efficacy of this partnership.
 an intelligent citizen who's not here right now uh said uh neighborhood plans city support and partnerships that's the portland way approval of this process in support of southwest trails and other volunteer organizations does not love the city off the hook for doing it your time is up thank you very much the next three are air sorry dale sherborn doug rogers and marianne fitzgerald and they'll be followed by eric sorenson peter f fry and elizabeth duncan
 Morning your honor and council members and a belated condolences to you Amanda. I am here to support the trails process and The work that the staff has put in Sarah surely has met with countless individuals and groups to help develop this plan and it balances a lot of different and
 falls in the air at the same time. The city has many obligations to their environmental concerns, especially in the southwest. And I would like to see a review of all of the right-of-ways to make before these trail processes go in to limit some of the things that a trail group has to do so that they already know beforehand what they have to go ahead and do.
 Like if you have a Southwest Portland environmental survey that has overlays that you've already put into the codes that restrict property owners that are right next to or right away, where they wouldn't be able to put in a trail from one house to another because it is an environmental sensitive area that contributes to the health and welfare of the stream or in the area. And lastly, that...
 This is a problem that has caused the degradation of the environment. The city of Portland is urbanization, and it has been noted in the Southwest Environmental Survey as required by Goal 5. So this is the major problem, and trails going through natural areas can have an impact on especially salmon-bearing streams. Thanks, Dale. Good to see you. Who's next?
 Hi, I'm Doug Rogers, and I'm a volunteer with the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association and Southwest Trails. I support the various testimonies given today on behalf of Southwest Trails. I know my neighborhood well. I exercise just about every day. I'm retired. And 80% of the streets in southwest Portland have no sidewalks, so I walk on the street. Not safe. Okay.
 That's the reason why these undeveloped right-of-ways are so important for our neighborhoods. We have a lot of them and they can enhance the quality of life for all who live here. These right-of-ways belong to all of the citizens in our city and should be utilized where appropriate for the benefit of all of us, not just those who live next to them. As neighborhood volunteers, we frequently become involved in concerns that people have about their streets, neighborhood development, nuisance problems, et cetera.
 One thing I found out was that most people have no idea where their property lines are. They think that it's that hedge or that fence over there, but they're not really sure. Many of them think, like I did way in the past, that their property goes out to the center of the street, or at least to the pavement, but that's not true. They never really looked at a tax map. They have no idea where that really is, and they have no idea either also what a right-of-way is.
 So there's a discussion of, when there is a discussion of improving the streets by adding sidewalks, they think the city, I heard this just the other day, the city is going to take over part of their private property. They think it belongs to them, never realizing that the front hedge, the parking strip, has been on city property right away for all the years they lived there. But they do not own it. Years ago, I lived in the Westmoreland neighborhood and I had a sidewalk in front of my house.
 I never questioned really the right of the people to walk across my front yard on the sidewalk. They're all over the place. It's right that we all have. Friends had an alley in their backyard.
 Kids went back and forth across the block and alleyway. Nobody ever questioned that. It was simply a given that that's the way it is. So I want to get you to try to wrap up. Right. We're almost there. And the idea being that sidewalks, alleys are visible. There's, it can be seen. They've been there for years. Public right of ways are not visible. People don't know they're there. They think it belongs to them. Our city needs to protect the public's right of access. And,
 to use these public right-of-ways for the constructive benefit of all citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mary Ann. Good morning. My name is Mary Ann Fitzgerald, and I live in southwest Portland. These are my personal comments. Just for the record, Southwest Neighborhoods as a coalition has not taken a position on this policy. I want to note that it's a citywide process, and it applies to any community-initiated trails proposal. Southwest Trails is just one group.
 There's also Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, community organizations, church groups, and a lot of groups that could initiate a trails process.
 In the matter of the MAP 3.1, I'd like to point out, I agree with Amanda, that there is a public right-of-way, but some of these dotted lines on MAP 3.1 are private property. So I talked with Sarah at length about the distinction between public right-of-way and private right-of-way, and she assured me that this process is really specific to the public right-of-way and that there would be a different process for private property owners. Thank you.
 So I just want to say that I really believe that staff have balanced a lot of input as they put this proposal together. They did an excellent job. There's a lot of competing interests that you're hearing about today.
 The best way to assure that the trails are built safely and manage water runoff appropriately is to have some oversight through the permit systems. I don't believe that the process is overly bureaucratic. I'm asking you to please adopt it as is. Don't change a thing. It's a pilot program. Give it a chance to succeed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Eric Sorensen, Peter F. Fry, and Elizabeth Duncan.
 and they'll be followed by David Barberis, Ivy Stovall, and Rick Nitti. Sorry, we're just doing a little agenda planning. Go ahead, please. Good morning. I'm always a little anxious after following Mary Ann Fitzgerald. I have done it once before. Just give us your name for the record. Eric Sorensen, and I live on an unimproved dead-end street in southwest Portland.
 There are two unimproved right-of-ways that meet at my property. I have lived there for 57 years in a house built by my parents and grandfather. Two adjoining neighbors have 50-plus years each. This is a street where truly everybody knows your name. I would like to express my support. That's a Cheers reference. I would like to express my support for the current draft. Over these many months, many letters have been submitted, and there has been much debate. This draft allows for both approval and disapproval.
 Some neighborhoods will support a trail. Others, for safety, environmental, or other concerns, might oppose. Many people do not desire becoming a destination for people drawn by maps and signs. In my case, I support the short, open right-of-way that serves local people. The other right-of-way is secluded and has had trespassing parties and a campfire in the last several years. Two police officers have stated that trails can and do have problems.
 Abutting property owners and neighbors who will be most affected must have a strong voice in this process. Neighborhood associations are full of hardworking people. I include those that I might strongly disagree with. However, neighborhood associations in Sweeney average about one-half of 1% attendance of the total neighborhood population. These numbers in no way can be representative of the entire area. Bylaws in neighborhood associations are being rewritten.
 Voting will be by boards, and they do not have to follow the wishes of those in attendance. In addition, many neighborhood associations have voting requirements, such as attendance, like twice in a year. This further limits accessibility of people. And also, if you're a new neighbor, just moved in, you have no voice at all.
 Going back to Trails 2000, property owners and neighbors, the people most affected should be the strength of the decision process. Thank you. One slide note, in addition, in Arnold Creek, over the last nine months, I've cleared over 3,000 lineal feet of street shoulders where invasives had prohibited people from walking. They were forced out into the street, actually into the street. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for doing that as well. Appreciate that. It keeps you in shape.
 It takes care of your neighbors, too. Thank you. Peter? Oh, are you next? I'm sorry. Go ahead. Go ahead. Okay, thank you. It's Peter Finley-Fry, a planning consultant. I'm here on behalf of McGavick, Bolliger, and Sorenson's families. And these families do support urban trails. The question is not if. The question is how.
 PBOT has done a very good job in creating a process that protects public interest, and I have to say after hearing their presentation, I was even more impressed by what I had read. The proposed policy protects environmental values and avoids adverse impacts like Tyrone Creek and other watersheds in the southwest. The trails need to be accessible to those who are disabled. The connectivity is strategically enhanced.
 and the trails do need to be maintained. I'm just briefly going over our comments. Right-of-ways need to be surveyed to ensure that trails are not built through private property and also to deal with the encroachment problem that's been raised. The last point is we did hire an attorney at Duncarnie, and their letter is in the packet.
 And their opinion was that state law does not shift the liability for property ownership users as cleanly as people have been arguing. It's a much more complicated situation. And I might add that, since I have a few more minutes, I do a lot of private projects in Portland. We do a lot of sidewalks. We do a lot of street. We go through PBOT, TX.
 And all these things are there to enhance the safety and connectivity of people that are utilizing our streets. And we are rebuilding sidewalks. We add landscaping. All that is important to the safety and the public welfare of our citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Elizabeth Duncan, and I am a resident in southwest Portland. My property is next to an unimproved right-of-way.
 I've worked as an appellate lawyer in Oregon for over 25 years, so I know how to analyze the statute and the legislative history supporting that statute. I can tell you in no uncertain terms that ORS 105.668 is no magic cure to avoid liability. First, it only offers immunity for negligence actions, not other theories of liability that can be brought against adjoining property owners. Second, and more importantly, it's not retroactive.
 So it does not apply to existing trails, many of which were built illegally, were hazardous when they were built, and have only deteriorated with time. I have pictures of just a handful of examples of these trails for you, if the clerk would pass those out. Oh, they are. You already have them? Yes, thank you. There are many, many more examples. I refer to these trails as illegal because they were built by Southwest Trails in violation of the 2000 Southwest Urban Trails Plan.
 That original plan required Southwest Trails to do two things. One was to get the permission of the adjoining property owners, and to this day Don Bach refuses to acknowledge that this was ever a requirement. And second, consult with PBOT where stairs were required, because oversight was necessary to make certain that the right type of stairs were built for each location. That's on pages 21 and 22 of the 2000 plan.
 Southwest Trails ignored these requirements simply because it doesn't like to be bothered with rules. And the city, unfortunately, failed to enforce these rules. As a result, there are existing hazardous trails all over Southwest Portland that need to go through the new trails process before the adjoining property owners are immunized from negligence liability. PBOT's trail process acknowledges this problem at the bottom of page two.
 Many of these trails were built illegally and many of the adjoining property owners still don't understand their liability. It is criminal for Southwest Trails to put good citizens in that sort of jeopardy. Southwest Trails should be required to go through the trails process detailed in PPOT's draft plan on all existing illegal trails before it is allowed to build a single new trail in Portland.
 force Southwest Trails to clean up the mess that it has created by refusing to follow the rules and never loosen the reins on that organization again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three are David Barberis, Ivy Stovall, and Rick Nitti. And then the last three who signed up will be Tovi Barron, Trudy Raz-Fringle, and John Gibbon. Good morning. Good morning.
 i'm going to keep this short and sweet my name is david barbarous and with my wife elizabeth duncan i live on the end of seymour drive we moved there in 1959 and since then we have raised a family in that location and next to us we do have a weist called paper street historically people in that neighborhood have always called them paper streets because these lands were platted completely remote from the actual geographical awareness of the city of portland
 First and foremost, we appreciate what the city has done, and particularly Sarah Schooley in her outreach to concerned residents in this whole process. We need the council to understand that this is, and I believe that they do understand that, not a one-size-fits-all type of situation. Adjacent property owners need to be consulted, and there needs to be a physical assessment of some of these rights of way, some are on inclines like this.
 Some of them go within feet of kitchen windows, bedroom windows. Some of them are in the middle of deep forest areas. And while we understand that these are rights of ways that are owned by the city, we have always maintained them for the use as play areas for our children, in some cases they're driveways because it's the only way to get to the person's home. There are gardens, whatever. We have always maintained the safety and kept them free from any hazardous conditions, knowing full well that we were liable.
 being adjacent property owners. So when Southwest Trails came in in 2008 and put up a hazardous stairway, we immediately did the research to find out we're on the hook for some serious matters here. So just in closing, please take time, if you would, to read the testimonial and the media that I have included. It really is important. We do appreciate the effort that's been made, and it is critical that adjacent property owners be a major part of the decision-making process involved in any trails building in the future.
 Thank you very much.
 And we've been very successful thanks to an extremely dedicated volunteer staff and support from partnerships with Solve, Parks, BES, Columbia Land Trust, Audubon, and many others, including the city and metro. Thank you.
 As a result of our efforts, we've seen increased flow of dog walkers, hikers, and bicyclists along this watershed that's under restoration. It's becoming a community asset according to the vision that we set out 10 years ago when we started working on this plot of land, seeing its potential change.
 But the corridor does continue to attract dumping and camping, a lot of activities that make nearby residents, adjacent property owners to the right of way quite nervous about the way things are going. And we support getting the pilot program started, plan to utilize it as soon as possible.
 We think it's well thought out and fair, and we see a lot of possible benefits, actually, to educating adjacent landowners about liability and maintenance issues and gray areas. As it's been mentioned, many of the adjacent landowners really have no idea about
 We plan to get started on this trails process as soon as we can, and we see it as a way to really increase the safety of the corridor so that we can realize an important part of our community vision in making this not just a wildlife connective corridor between natural areas, but a human connection corridor as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mayor, commissioners?
 I live and work in southwest Portland. Where I live, there are no sidewalks. The streets are curved and hilly. My wife and I walk the trails every day. I don't feel safe competing with cars while walking neighborhood streets. As executive director of Neighborhood House and the Sun System provider for southwest Portland, I have a particular concern for the safety of children, low-income people.
 and particularly our neighbors of color walking to school and to community services. The trails provide a safe alternative for children and other pedestrians. As a lead partner with Home Forward for Stevens Creek Crossing, I know how valuable for the Stevens Creek Crossing children the trails are for them in their access and walking safely to Robert Gray Middle School. While I feel the public process is important, I would urge...
 that the pilot protect public rights of way and not provide an individual or small group of property owners with fetal power that will restrict the development of new trails my property is adjacent to an unfinished public right-of-way i enjoy the benefits that that provides me but as a property owner i know the public has the right to use it that right predates my property ownership i believe i should have input into plans
 that change it, but I also believe I should not have the right to veto that planned use. Others like me should also not have that right. I support the Southwest Trails Amendment and urge you to consider them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The last three are Tove Barron, Trudy Raz-Fringal, and John Gibbon. Good morning. Why don't you go ahead while they're getting settled. Okay. Well, we've been around Southwest Portland for...
 Don't know 130 years Dealing with trails and whatnot, but I just want to make the point just put your name in the record first though What is that? Just just good put your name in the record first though Oh Trudy Brad's fringal Trudy, huh? I'm just gonna make this point As my dad as we all have felt through the years Oregon beaches are for public use available for all and
 As Oregonians, we are proud of that fact. This same principle must continue to apply to Portland right-of-ways. Right-of-ways in Portland belong to the public. Adjacent homeowners should not have the right of veto power. Homeowners should not be able to land grab. It is for the public. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 john i think you get the last word yes my name is john gibbon i live at 9822 southwest quail post road in southwest portland i'm i'm giving you a map that shows you uh a google map of the quail creek quail park creek trail
 dotted line across it. That's a private homeowners association trail, but it relies on right-of-way, unimproved right-of-way on 30th for access on the west end. My concern is we need to, we are in the process of doing repair and upgrade to this trail. We're getting ready to go through early advice with all these agencies. What I'm concerned about is that the
 West Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District has committed to help us do additional work in the creek, which adjoins the trail, and one of their concerns is the way that some parts of the trail cross the creek, and they've suggested that it might be better that part of the trail or all portion of the trail be put on the unimproved portion of Southwest 30th. I don't think that...
 This kind of a project should get sucked up into this important But different kind of situation and I would like to suggest that if you're dealing with a private trail Being repaired and staff in that first bubble Says maybe you ought to use Southwest 30th that we get it cut down to no more than just a
 simple notification through the neighborhood associations that we're going to use the right-of-way and beyond that I'd say if you want to go farther that then you ought to put the burden of proof on the adjacent owners to show that they really have an interest in the right-of-way the properties that would be along Southwest 30th adjoining mine are not a
 The only right-of-way that exists is right-of-way dedicated from our subdivision. The other properties were developed on a 
 flag lot on the other side and they were not required to dedicate. So I don't see how owners that don't have any dog in the fight, so to speak, didn't contribute anything to the right-of-way ought to have a veto power. That's my concern, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you. All right. Thank you very much. Okay. Commissioner Nover, do you want to bring staff back up for any questions? Sure. Sarah? And...
 Questions from council? I have a suggestion. I think it's another friendly amendment, Commissioner. I was intrigued by especially Arlene Kimura's discussion of how difficult it can be to notify adjacent neighbors. And then I'm looking at the Southwest Trails policy requests, their number one requests. And I'm thinking it might be  the city has 
 it's relatively easy for us to find out the addresses of homeowners because we do it all the time in land use and such. And when Commissioner Fish did his policy changing the surplus property sales process, we added a clause that said that the notice would be mailed in languages common to the area as identified by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. So I'm wondering if a friendly amendment might be that 
 When the trail proposal has been approved by city bureaus, a letter will be sent to each property owner adjacent to the built-up right-of-way, explaining in languages common to the area, as identified by ONI, the owner's responsibility, blah, blah, blah, the rest of this paragraph. So they're giving a little bit of the burden on the city to send that notice, as well as then give the trails group or the adjacent neighbors, and it would also include giving information about when neighborhood meetings are.
 And I think that that would maybe strike a little bit more balance with us, the city, having a little bit of responsibility and assistance without changing the balance of what you've proposed too greatly. Commissioner Theron-Ark, do you think we can do that? I think that's definitely possible. We worked with Paul Leisner a lot in developing the community involvement section so I can continue to work with him to make sure I have the right language down for the right areas and follow probably the model that Oney's 
 been fabulous at doing throughout the neighborhoods. Let me just say, I like the spirit of that friendly amendment, but I'm not entirely clear after looking at the exhibits what the liability is of the adjacent property owner, and if anything, I think the legal memo we've been given muddies the water greatly, so I'd want to be sure that if the city is putting someone on notice that they may have liability, that that is a very carefully constructed document, because the memo that
 Mr. Fry put in the record raises a host of questions. I mean, I understand generally plaintiffs and torts, plaintiff's lawyers sue everybody and they fill the kitchen sink in, but
 I think we're going to have to be very careful about what we describe as potential liability, because I don't think this is a very settled area, and I think we're going to see lawyers testing the limits. So we better be careful we're not giving what appears to be either legal advice or misleading advice as to potential liability. I would certainly defer to one of the lawyers on the council's side
 about that. The advantage of us sending the message, the letter though, is that we can be very carefully having the city attorney review it before it's sent so that it's, in our opinion, what is legally defensible versus somebody like me going to somebody's door and paraphrasing without having that legal background. Mr. Novy? Yes.
 I hope that we can come up with language which is informative and cautious. So, I mean, I think that we do need to address the liability issue, and we'll just have to work closely with the city attorney to figure out whether there's something we can say that's fairly definitive about it.
 And if not, we've got a problem. Yeah, and I would say that I'm not proposing the rest. When I said blah, blah, blah, I wasn't necessarily saying we would use the rest of this language. The principle is, though, us doing a mailing to adjacent property owners to let them know, hey, this is the proposal. Go to your neighbor's association. Yeah. And then possibly having something in there about the liability issue. I may be about to go where you're going to suggest, Commissioner Fish, and that is we've got some 
 agreement about additional amendments here perhaps we have a legal issue that I think needs a little more work I would rather not act on this today unless you're
 very eager to do so commissioner, um, but instead give them a chance to capture what commissioner Fritz has written, um, in, into her copy of the testimony, um, and come back with this revised. Um, but what's the sense of the council? Do you want to act on this with the friendly amendments and other amendments on the table, or do you want to continue it and give staff a chance to digest that a bit? First, the commissioner in charge. Um,
 Well, we've waited 15 years, so I guess maybe we could wait a little longer. I'm going to ask staff what they think. Do you think that we could reasonably take some time to ponder some of these issues a bit more? Yeah, I think most of the amendments that were proposed would be pretty easy to either complete or
 fairly quickly, or we would just be able to identify these are the people that we'll be working with. I think the one that Commissioner Fritz just proposed about the language and working with the attorney, I think that's one that will take a little more work than some of the others. That said, the resolution does have a starting January 1st. And so we have a couple of months between now and then to address these amendments. Mayor, if we follow that path, then we'll be coming back with just a single exhibit of amendments
 that have a sense of the council and the only testimony you'd be taking at that point was any, any specific evidence about the drafting of those amendments. That's correct. It would not be relitigated. We would not simply continue the hearing. We would, we would close the hearing on the, on the resolution as it's been proposed, come back and take action on those amendments. And if someone wants to testify, testify on the amendments, they'd be able to do so. Is that, does that suit? Yeah, I just had two questions. I just want to get clarified before we, before we move on. Uh,
 So when Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Novick had the dialogue about adding a paragraph at the end of the report saying that the Bureau of Transportation has the ultimate authority to decide whether a trail is granted. So that means if there's not 50% petition support or 75% petition support.
 Bureau of Transportation can still issue the permits. Correct. So in essence, really this process, like most city processes, are kind of purely advisory to help you all as council and us as staff make decisions. And so I think that last paragraph would really be explaining that, that we are using this process to help direct staff as to what direction to take on these unimproved rights of ways. But ultimately, PBOT has, and the director and commissioner, have the final say on what goes forward. Good.
 And then the questions or the testimony of Ms. Duncan about the paragraph in this report that says that all existing trails must get permits in order to come under the liability exclusion. So that's our position? Well, that's true. It's true. Yes, it's true. Nobody disputes that? Correct. Okay. Okay. So maybe two weeks hence. What do you think? Okay.
 that you do it yeah i think two weeks we should be able to either address them or be able to tell you what steps we're taking um to address maybe some of the bigger tasks okay so um we'll ask that those amendments be prepared uh we'll schedule this for uh for two weeks hence for council action on the amendments i want to thank everybody for testifying on this today obviously a lot of great interest in the community about how to do this right i hope that the council's effort on this
 persuade at least more of you that we're trying to do it right but we appreciate the the good dialogue and and huge amount of effort that people have been putting into trails in our city so thank you all very much we'll continue this for two weeks for that purpose thank you
 Now, we have a couple of items in which we have people here to speak, and I want to try to take those in turn quickly so that they can get back to their lives and so the council can deal with those. One is 1043, and the other is 1048. So without objection, I'm going to take 1043 first and then jump further into the regular agenda from there.
 So let's take 1043, please. 1043, authorize a grant agreement with Legacy Health to support the construction of the Unity Center for Behavioral Health in an amount not to exceed $500,000. Hey, folks. I know there's a lot of discussion, but if you could have it outside, we can keep moving.
 Okay, so we have Ellen Osnak from the City Attorney's Office and Dr. Mike Newcomb from Legacy here. Thank you for waiting. And folks, can we hear the folks that are here to speak, please? It's a gregarious bunch, these trails people. All right, Ellen, take it away, please. Thank you.
 Hi, Ellen Osinek from your city attorney's office. I'm the senior deputy city attorney and the lead attorney on the DOJ settlement agreement. I've just been asked to briefly introduce this topic, how it relates to the DOJ settlement agreement, but I want to stress from the outset that this project is over and above what is required by the DOJ settlement agreement and represents the...
 the city's effort to be a good partner, but it does relate to the settlement agreement in that the city agreed to participate with its partners in the health care community to explore the possibility of creating more community-based mental health services. As you all are aware, and members of the public probably are aware,
 the responsibility for providing community-based mental health services rests with the county. But nevertheless, as part of our settlement with the Department of Justice, the city, of course, has an interest not only in providing for its citizens, but also in being an effective partner in the provision of our police services with regard to people who are experiencing mental health crisis.
 A component that we do not control is the resources in the community for community-based mental health services. And so we memorialized in our own agreement our commitment to continue working with partners to provide those services so that our police reform efforts would be more successful and the citizens in our community would have access to the important community-based mental health services that would both treat, prevent, and hook them up with
 services to address their mental health crises. And so I'm very pleased to have this come before you today and so pleased that Legacy has been such an amazing partner. And that's all I have to say, but I'm happy to answer any questions that you all might have. Great. Thank you. Good morning and welcome. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, thank you very much for having the opportunity to talk on this topic of Unity Center for Behavioral Health today. I'm Dr. Mike Newcomb, the Chief Operating Officer for Legacy Health.
 And just to give you a quick update, since I think we've met with all of you and you're familiar with the project, but the Unity Center for Behavioral Health is a collaboration between Legacy, OHSU, Kaiser, and Adventist to build a 101-bed inpatient mental health facility.
 associated with a dedicated psychiatric emergency room where patients can be seen 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by mental health care professionals to include psychiatrists to be assessed, evaluated, and treated in a facility that's dedicated to treating nothing but patients with mental health conditions.
 In addition, this facility will provide space for many of the community mental health resources that exist right now so that they can interact with patients before they're discharged, either from the psychiatric emergency service or from the inpatient facilities.
 So both the patients will know who they'll be following up with, and the organizations will get a chance to meet those patients before they see them for the first time. And then also, this facility will be staffed with peers, people who have actually gone through a mental health crisis themselves, have received additional training in how to interact with these patients, and will then act as the liaison with the patients once they're discharged to make sure that they're,
 able to get medications that they need, that they're not having problems with those, that they're getting the services that they need on an outpatient, and then very importantly to act as that liaison to make sure that the patient gets to that first follow-up appointment with the community resource that it's going to be following up with.
 I'm pleased to announce that the definitive legally binding joint operating agreement between Legacy, OHSU, Kaiser, and Adventist has been signed by all parties. We're moving forward right now as we speak with the architectural design of the Holiday Park facility for both the psychiatric emergency room and the 101 inpatient facility.
 beds that we'll be equipping and building out there. About a $40 million project that Legacy is dedicated to raising through community resources. And I think it's very important to point out that this is not a project of Legacy, OHSU, Kaiser, and Adventist. This is a community-based project. We have many, many, many partners in this.
 to include all three counties, and obviously very, very pleased by the participation that the city has shown in this. The ancillary benefits of this entire project are many. But I think it's worth really mentioning that one of the things that we're really trying to do is to help decriminalize the people who have mental health problems.
 And consequently, it gives us an opportunity to work not only with the city police and the county sheriff's departments, but also with the EMS services so that when our police and county sheriffs do interact with a patient who is exhibiting mental health problems, that rather than taking them and putting them in a police vehicle and transporting them either to an emergency room or a hospital,
 or jail, that in the majority of cases they'll be able to call EMS. EMS will then come and do a quick triage of the patients in the field to determine if they have a medical condition that might mean they really do need to go to a regular emergency room, but barring that, based on the protocols that have been developed with EMS, that they would then be taken directly to the psychiatric emergency room by EMS rather than by police or sheriff's vehicles.
 I think this is a huge step forward for the community, and it's a huge step forward, I think, for all of us. And we will see patients in the psychiatric ED or, indeed, in the inpatient side, regardless of their ability to pay and regardless of how they get there. They walk in or are brought in by family members or friends, brought in by ambulance, or, for that matter, brought in by police or sheriff's vehicles will take them no matter how they get there.
 And I just wanted to give you that quick update. Things are moving forward. We're pretty much on schedule, and we're looking forward to opening this grand facility and hope to see you all at that opening in November or early December of 2016. With that, sir, I'd open to any questions you might have. Questions for Dr. Newcomb or Feldman? Yeah. Go ahead.
 Dr. Newcomb, you mentioned the other counties, Washington and Clackamas counties. Are they financially participating? Yes, all three, Multnomah, Washington, and Clackamas are all financially participating in this as well. And I just wanted to make sure on the beds. So...
 People will spend more than 24 hours or not? Actually, the intent of the psychiatric emergency room is to do that assessment and intensive treatment. And the intent is within 24 hours to be able to make a determination about whether the patient can be safely discharged back to the community or whether the patient will need inpatient mental health services. And obviously if the determination is made that they need inpatient mental health services, then they'd be admitted into the facility directly. Okay.
 Into the same building. They're all in the same physical building. 101 beds. By the way, there's a Scrivener's error, which I'll deal with when we act on the ordinance itself. It's 101 beds total. Yes, sir. And so for a family member to bring another family member or to bring a friend, it doesn't require a police hold if they...
 or objecting to coming in there? Actually, we would continue to use safety holds or determinations of mental illness holds as is appropriate. One of the things that we're planning on building within this facility is a courtroom, if you will. It's actually a space where attorneys and judges can come in if a legal commitment needs to be made, an involuntary commitment, so we don't have to take the patient to the court. The court will literally come to the patient in this case. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you. Dr. Newcomb, thanks for being here and taking the lead on this. I think this is a significant step forward, but there's still a gap, and the gap occurs when someone is discharged. We're discharging people onto the street in some instances with no place to go. What do you see as the opportunity for the coordinated care organizations to collectively
 work with the state to identify some additional resources so that we could also focus on some legacy housing that is, that is the bridge from someone being discharged to, to having a safe and stable place to live. It's a great question because you know, the unity center for behavioral health doesn't solve all of the problems that, that we have with, with, uh,
 people with mental health conditions. And housing, one of the social determinants of health, if you will, housing is a huge, huge issue. And I think many people, the city obviously recognizes that, the county, Multnomah County in particular, recognizes that, as does the state. Thank you.
 We will continue to advocate for additional funds for transitional housing. Indeed, right before I came here this morning, Congressman Earl Blumenauer was touring the facility, and we had representatives from Central City Concern, and we were talking about transitional housing as something that we really do need for the state to address, and indeed the federal government, as much as they can help us with that. It's a big, big need.
 We don't have a pure answer for you, and I don't have an answer for you today about what we're going to do with people who are homeless, who are ready to be discharged and have nowhere else to go. But one of the  we have over 20 work groups who are really working at various and sundry aspects of the Unity Center is how we're developing it and how we're going to be setting it up. One of those 20 work groups is a transitions work group.
 And as I was informed this morning, there are over 40 different organizations that are a part of the Transitions Work Group, many of them community resources like Central City Concern and Cascadia and LifeWork Northwest. I mean, they all have representatives on this work group. So we're trying to work together to figure out the answer to that question as best we can. And that's very encouraging, sir, because I think this, you know, once upon a time we were hoping the Affordable Care Act had a housing dividend
 We're still trying to work that out. Now we have some money in Salem that is redundant accounting that the CCOs have identified, maybe as much as $38 million. And I think you and Kaiser and all your peers understand that to the extent someone can be safely discharged and doesn't get back into your emergency care system or the high-cost system but is stabilized and then gets care,
 It's good for your business model. It's good for the community. And most important, it's over the long term better for the patient. So I hope that on this one we can hook up with the city's legislative agenda this year because I think we may have an interesting convergence where the CCOs, the state, and the city all share the same goal in identifying those resources to provide the continuum. I couldn't agree with you more, Commissioner Fish, and I think that's a great idea. We will work with you on that.
 good well and actually under our home for everyone consortium the city of the county the housing authority home forward and other partners are working together and we have of course declared a state of emergency to highlight the issue and to move more quickly and i know chair kafoury shares my belief that we should
 be working with you and working with all those partners to get the housing piece in place. We have a couple of distinguished state legislators in the room, and I noticed that Senator Burdick was following this discussion with interest, because I know she has the interest. So the legislature appropriated some funding last session for supportive housing for people of
 dealing with mental illness, can't think of a better project myself, and I hope they can't either, to make sure that those funds are applied to filling that gap and so that instead of now getting people out of a revolving door of being brought to a general-purpose ER in a police car, we're going to do better than that with this commission.
 But as they leave, we don't want them to repeat that cycle of once again getting in the back of a police car and going to a general purpose ER or even back to the Unity Center. So this is an opportunity to break the cycle. We have to put all the pieces in place to actually do so. But this is really huge. And Commissioner Saltzman really highlighted this, that we have three counties, the city of Portland, four hospital groups online.
 all doing more than we promised to do in our Department of Justice settlement. You know, Provisions 89 and 90 say the United States expects that the city of Portland and its partners will do this. And we're doing it and more. And I really, really appreciate that. This is a nationally unique project. Never before have...
 four competitor organizations counties cities uh community based facilities the state all contributed and all come together to put together a project like this with these four elements in the project inpatient services emergency medical behavioral services peer support services community resource center nobody's ever done it like this before and i think you're going to find that
 putting this together with, again, the continued work that we're going to have to do with some of the gaps that this isn't going to fill. People will come from across the country to look at this. Mayor, let's be clear just though. I don't want Senator Verdict to break out in hives. We're not talking about general fund resources. We're talking about the equivalent in this discussion of the residual reserves that we tapped in our preservation agenda where there was an abundance of funds in a reserve that HUD controlled.
 that we liberated to do affordable housing. This is an example of an abundance of reserves that the health care organizations have had to set aside that could be tapped either legislatively or administratively to fund this housing. So that's the beauty of it, and it will also have a positive impact on driving down health care costs.
 believe there's actually also some additional state appropriation involved but but well we'll get into that later this before us now is the process of authorizing this this piece of the facility of the picture in which we which
 which, thanks to your good work and our partnership, we actually do have funding. So thank you. So other questions, concerns, issues? I want to thank you for your work on this. My husband and I started our careers in mental health care in 1986 in Portland. This is the first time that I have felt sincerely optimistic or cautiously optimistic that we might be starting to put together a system. As you have mentioned, it is only part of a truly gap-free system.
 One of the challenges is the lack of health care providers in mental health care that currently, even if you have good insurance, if you call to get an appointment because you're feeling suicidal, it can take three months to speak with a licensed medical provider.
 I know you're having difficulty recruiting qualified psychiatrists to cover not only the Unity Center but also the state hospital, all the other components of the system. And for all of its good intentions, this facility does decrease the number of adult beds available to serve the people of Portland.
 So I certainly commend the work that you're doing, particularly Dr. Chris Farentinos, who is leading it. I appreciate being on the steering committee or the cabinet that's looking at all of the issues because it is coordinating. It is going to take general fund revenue from the state and elsewhere to truly provide all of the pieces that need to be provided. You cannot possibly, as private providers, do.
 be expected to do that. It is groundbreaking, however, that the four of the private providers are partnering with input from Providence and others, and also that the public agencies are at the table valued, including communities of color. So I think Dr. Farentinas is doing a fantastic job. I appreciate the mayor dedicating some of our resources to it. I think there's a tendency to
 perhaps think that this is going to be it, that we're done after this. And it's not it. It's just part of it. And I really appreciate your partnership. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And thank you for those kind words about Dr. Farentinos. And I'll definitely pass those along to her. She has done a phenomenal job getting us to where we are today and getting us to opening. So thank you. Thank you.
 thank you both very much thank you so anyone else wants to speak on this item before we take action mr johnson uh charles you signed up last time uh it's it was continued from last week so yeah charles go ahead good afternoon commissioners four minutes afternoon um i think we'll start with highlighting uh mark miss fritz made um i had the opportunity to receive services on the fourth floor of legacies good samaritan hospital a few years ago
 And so I do hope there will be further public discussion about if we have 101 beds at a new facility, what does that mean? Does that mean that the beds at Legacy are closed and folded in and advanced? And what is the net loss for adult beds? I know that these systems, and I greatly appreciate Dr. Newcomb's involvement as a COO in making this happen when he's part of a large health system, but we 
 Also, we're benefited from Commissioner Fish's remark about the problem of discharge. When I was discharged from Good Sam's fourth floor, I was given some tickets to waive the $5 fee to sleep on the floor on a mat adjacent to another mat at City Team Ministries on Grand. Fortunately, I survived until the 17th when I actually connected with OHSU
 and got some honored citizen transportation. But the discharging is going to require everybody in this community to open their hearts and minds to make sure that when a person goes in for a psychiatric episode and has a psychiatric history, they don't have to spare change on the corners of Portland to get bus fare to go back and forth to their care. And that when they're discharged, it's recognized that they have
 at least a short-term disability, they need honored citizen fare, and they need at least seven to 30 days of bus fare to get to and from their psychiatric support services. So I hope that when we look at the huge picture of the cost of this 101-bed facility as it relates to the DOJ, we also look at the fine details of what are the likelihood of success for our neighbors based on the nitty-gritty of support and things like those. As you know, I often participate with groups that are involved
 set extremely high standards for city government, and mostly we have negative things to say about you all, but I'm appreciative of this work done towards the Department of Justice settlement, particularly as it concerns mental health people, and I hope that this energy will manifest and continue to flow to having a less racist, less problematic policing system for all of our citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay, let's take a roll call vote please on the second reading Is it second reading now or I thought it was it was a previous agenda You pulled it back to your office. It technically had its title read last week. So I think we can vote this week Ernie So we okay, but before we do there's a scrivener's error on Section 1 it says 102 it should say 101 without objection. I
 I'll consider that a scrivener's error, and there's 101 acute inpatient beds in this facility. Always were, just we had the number wrong in the ordinance. So then let's, since we're clear to take a vote, let's proceed and do that, please. Novick? Aye. Prince? Aye. Saltzman? Well, I really want to...
 commend thank the city council for our contribution to the unity center but i really want to thank legacy and ohsu and kaiser and at venice hospitals for really stepping up and and doing something that is so critically needed for this community and to have the partnership with
 the other counties. This is going to be a great, great facility. We need to figure out the post-discharge housing, and certainly the Portland Housing Bureau stands ready to participate in those conversations and allocate resources as we may have available. But this is really an outstanding step forward, and I appreciate your leadership, Mayor. Aye.
 Niels. I get to see the progress every day. I get buzzed about it on this thing in the middle of the night when our police officers, under our approach to mental health, which is so different now than it was before the Department of Justice settlement, day after day, night after night, were de-escalating a mental health crisis. We've had 609 enhanced crisis intervention training incidents. Only one of them involved a use of force.
 That's amazing. And it's amazing progress in the Portland Police Bureau, and I want to salute the leadership of the Bureau for the progress that has been made. And I also want to salute Captain Mike Marshman and Mary Claire Buckley and my Police Bureau liaison Deanna Wesson Mitchell for working to help bring this idea forward. This is, as we heard here today, this is pathbreaking work. This is not just going to be a national model.
 That's nice. It's nice to be a national model, but it's going to be much more humane and much more effective treatment for people that are in a mental health crisis in our city. The last place somebody in a mental health crisis should be is in the back of a police car. And we're putting them there more gently now. That's still not good enough.
 where they should be is in a facility like this, and they should be coming out the back door of this facility into supportive housing. So that's the vision that we're working towards, and thanks to this amazing partnership of hospitals and local governments, we're doing something really good here, and I'm really proud of our community, and I'm proud of this council here,
 for stepping up and funding our contribution in dollars to this effort. There's a lot more than dollars that we'll need to do next, but I really appreciate this, and I can't wait until this is how we're treating people in our community who need help. Aye. Thank you very much. I'd like to vote. Oh, sorry, Commissioner. You were out of the room. So I'm very proud to support this community center for behavioral health.
 Also worth acknowledging that three of the four partners have provided outstanding care to my family during tough times, so these are the right partners. And I look forward to the day that we can also support the unity housing that will provide the permanent supportive housing for people served in this center. Thank you, Mayor, and thanks to everyone who brought this day forward. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's now move. We have some distinguished guests waiting. Let's move on to item 1048, please. Amend Regulations for Marijuana License Procedures and Requirements.
 Okay. Let's see. I think we're going to call on some state legislators first. Mayor, before we do that. I'm sorry. I was getting some instructions from staff. So you've read the item? Not the full title. I'm sorry. 1048, amend regulations for marijuana license procedures and requirements to provide a process for converting existing medical dispensaries to recreational retailers and amend hours of operation. Okay. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 So this is the fourth hearing we've had on this issue in recent months. I would just want to summarize and remind everybody how we came to today and what we're doing today. First of all, I appreciate our state legislators, particularly Senator Ginny Burdick and Representative Ann Leninger.
 who afforded the city with the opportunity and authority to tailor our rules to fit our locality in addition to abiding by the state laws on recreational marijuana sales. So that's what we've been working together to do with CUNY.
 great community input from both neighborhoods and industry representatives over the past several months. We held three town halls and as I said, this is the fourth public hearing. So to reiterate what our values are as we have been looking to authorize and regulate the sales of recreational marijuana. First of all,
 We didn't want to be overly burdensome. We recognize that the voters of Multnomah County passed the Measure 91 by 72%, almost as good as the parks fund, but not quite. And that this is now something that's a legal substance in our community.
 We wanted to protect the medical patients' access, that this council has been strongly in favor of medical marijuana since it was first authorized. And we want to make sure that medical patients continue to get access to the medications that they need.
 To the extent that we wanted to give preferential treatment to dispensaries that have been serving patients for some time. We appreciate the service that they have given to our community, and by and large, we've had very few complaints about their operations. The council decided that we wanted to avoid saturation by setting not only the 1,000-foot buffer between like dispensaries,
 the dispensaries versus dispensaries and the retailers versus retailers, but that we wanted to extend that courtesy to have a 1,000-foot buffer, both to avoid saturation in the neighbourhoods and, again, to give an additional benefit for existing medical dispensaries. We had heard from the industry that that was something that they wanted.
 And we wanted to maintain opportunities for new businesses to compete for science on a level playing field, and we have structured the application process to do that. And then we have some further discussions since the last hearing on how much of a leg up, if any, do we want to give businesses who have begun participating in the process but are not yet actively providing care to medical patients. So the...
 Amendments that were published in the Council agenda are a product of the discussions over the past week. We did do what Commissioner Fish asked us to do and locked everybody in a room for four hours and then had a second meeting. Also had some significant discussions with the task force and others.
 And the amendments that we have on the table, first of all, amend the hours of operations from 7 AM to 9 PM to 8 AM to 10 PM in line with recently adopted Oregon Liquor Control Commission, OLCC rules. So that's our first amendment. We haven't heard too much controversy over that one.
 The second one that we published on Friday is an amendment to City Code subsection 14B-130-040D, adding a new subsection 4, which provides for additional dispensaries that are available.
 currently operating and allows for them to convert, to have a five-day business day window, to convert from a medical dispensary to a recreational dispensary is essentially jumping the queue.
 And so those were the amendments that we have on the table. We have an additional proposed change, a couple of additional proposed changes as a result of continued negotiations. In fact, I thank Commissioner Novick for the extra long trails hearing because that worked out really well for refining this.
 So those of you who were not part of each of those conversations, this is new, so I hope it addresses some of the concerns that we've heard. First of all, this would be an additional amendment to subsection 14B-130-040-D2A, which would allow the grandfathering of the distance requirement, not only for the previous dispensaries that we already identified,
 mentioned, but change the date of being in good standing with the Oregon Health Authority instead of January 1st, we're going to change it to July 1st of 2015, so that's any registered operating and in good standing with the Oregon Health Authority dispensary since on July 1st, 2015 is also grandfathered in.
 Plus, we're adding a  I'm proposing to add a hardship clause following that, saying that registered and in good standing dispensaries with the Oregon Health Authority before September 30th, 2015 
 may be included if the director finds that the applicant demonstrates that they have incurred significant financial obligations prior to that date, including entering a lease, hiring employees, and obtaining fixtures and equipment. This recognizes that there are some businesses that have, in good faith, been working with the system and gone through significant expense that may not yet actually have opened their doors to patients as of September 30th.
 In order to make those two amendments work, we're also proposing to amend C in that section to change the date that the medical dispensary has to have a valid City of Portland business license to July 1st of 2015.
 okay so commissioner fitch moves those amendments is there a second for purpose of discussion okay and discussion please well now we have another other amendments put on okay yeah so actually can we vote on one or two we should we should take action on these unless there's something in conflict with them it's what you want to bring up i think you're going to want to have all four amendments on the table okay we can decide all right so this was moving second let's discuss this and we can take other amendments so mayor you have i'm just trying to keep track of everything and hopefully provide some guidance for the public we have
 We have the published amendments, which I think we should just call the ONI package, or whatever you want to call it. The ones that Commissioner Fritz just described. We have the two, one hours of operation and one the other change to 040. That's the package that was published. Commissioner Fritz has just put her amendment on the table. I'll call that the Fritz Amendment. I'd like to offer the Fish Amendment. Carla, if you could please circulate that. Okay. At this point, may I have staff come up, please? Yes.
 And Ben Walters, can you come up too so you can ask any questions? Could I ask Commissioner Fritz a question about her amendment? Do you want to hand up my amendment too?
 The subsection 2 little i says significant financial obligations prior to that date, including entering a lease, hiring employees, and obtaining fixtures and equipment. So the way I would read that is you have to have done all three. And I was wondering if that's the intent or what you really meant was such as entering a lease, hiring employees, or obtaining fixtures and equipment. Ben? Ben?
 ben walter city attorney benwell ben walter city attorney's office uh commissioner novick i believe it was the former that they would be cumulative but it's up to the councils to make a determination as to whether it should be one or the other but as drafted it was intended to be cumulative
 okay commissioner fish you want to proceed so mayor um i'd like to put before you and my colleagues what we'll just call the fish amendment and provide you some context before we open it up first of all i deeply appreciate the way commissioner fritz and theresa and staff have been navigating this process it's a complicated issue
 And I'm reminded that John Muir once said that everything is connected. And I think nothing better  that has great application in the natural world, but I think also in the legislative process. When you make a little change here, it has ripple effects there. And so we're trying to be comprehensive in our view. And, Teresa, I think you've navigated this process through some very choppy waters, very successfully get to this point. And actually, I view this 
 and the debate as a very healthy byproduct of the process that you've sponsored because we're now going to make some decisions, and they're decisions that have some value propositions, and that uniquely is within the council's prerogative to decide which approach. So the amendment that I put on the table and that I discussed with Commissioner Fritz yesterday is designed to get at a concern that I have,
 So to step back for a second, there's two major events that are looming on the horizon. One is getting through the licensing process of the city, and we have very stringent requirements. I'm not proposing to interfere with that process currently. But the second is deciding who goes to the head of the line.
 to the front of the line when we open things up based on some recognition that people who have made investments and have operated it responsibly shouldn't be put into the same pot with everybody else and at risk if they are randomly not first, second, or third in line of being subject to the 1,000-foot rule and then essentially put out of business.
 So we're trying to come up with a reasonable set of rules that recognizes that good actors who've made some kind of investment ought not to be put at a disadvantage in the process to follow, which is a competitive process. We can argue about whether we're talking about creating an advantage or mitigating a disadvantage. I view it more as the latter.
 My concern is with folks that have made an investment, changed their circumstance, gone down the road, who might be put out of business under the current framework. I deeply appreciate that Commissioner Fritz, in her amendment, has narrowed the gap between the two approaches pretty significantly. Thank you.
 And so she's now suggesting July 1, 2015, with a hardship process which would make exceptions for people up through September 30, 2015. In essence, what I'm proposing is we move it all the way to the end of the year.
 and create a slightly more flexible process, but one that doesn't disadvantage folks who've made an investment without distinguishing between the classes of people who've made those investments. I'm categorizing investors and small businesses and even speculators as roughly the equivalent for purposes of my amendment.
 Commissioner Fritz has a principled objection to my approach, and I deeply appreciate that. And so what we've agreed is to put the amendment on the table, take some testimony, and then decide which is the preferred approach. And so my amendment is designed to eliminate the barrier 
 to even with the Fritz Amendment, which would prevent someone who has made a significant investment from going to the head of the line during the window where we say certain classes of people get first dibs. And that's the intent. It's been reviewed by counsel. Hopefully I haven't mangled the explanation too much, and I would offer the amendment. Okay. Is there a second? Second.
 And I have an amendment. Okay. Questions, discussion? Yes, there was a second. So I'd like to discuss that amendment. First of all, you just said something different, Commissioner Fish, that you said that something about the grandfathering going through the end of the year. The issue is that we're going to be issuing recreational licenses in December. So is your intent that anybody who gets  and also this amendment, we already require 
 The code that the council has already adopted says that they have to have a valid license from the state before they were going to actually issue their license. So this is, we think, confusing. I need to clarify that my amendment says that those who are in good standing by September 30th and prove that they have had the investment do get to jump the line. Correct. So yours doesn't do that.
 Well, the intent of our approach is to actually close the gap between September 30th and whatever date, December end of the year, so that those category of businesses would not be left to the vagaries of seeing who's first in line.
 Certainly, we're open to clarifying that. I acknowledge the point that you make, though, about the existing language in the code. My reading of that language, though, is that that is in the section that goes to the administrative process of determining whether to issue a license. We're talking about here who gets the preferential opportunity to compete for a license. And I think there are two different sections of the code.
 I don't understand how your amendment does that. All right, well, maybe we can get some staff and legal counsel analysis as we proceed about how these amendments affect each other now that we're getting them all on the table. We'll have a chance to do that both now and after we take some testimony, but we have other amendments to put on the table. So let's keep going in this process and get everything out here. And then, again, I want to hear from our state legislators who are here and others from the public that might want to comment on all these amendments. Presumably you've got copies out here at the council clerk's office. Oh.
 Yeah, the copies were filed with the Tuesday memo, so they should be in your packet. I don't mean just for us. Oh, yeah, but I brought extra copies because I know how I misplace things. Okay. I'll pass one down to Steve there. So, again, if you've got extra copies of these for people in the community that are trying to follow this, that would probably be helpful for them. Okay. Okay.
 So my amendment's really quite simple, and I'd just like to place this in context. First of all, as I said, it's pretty simple. It simply says that in the central city area, which is a clearly defined geographic area in our zoning code, it's more or less the I-405 loop and the Lloyd District, but it would remove the 1,000-foot separation requirement for retail establishments in that central city area.
 i do think that uh well while the term green light district has been applied to this by the media uh this really isn't quite what this is about it really is a recognition though that uh a central city uh you know we invest billions of dollars in making sure people can get downtown to work to recreate uh to live or you know we're great city that we have all those attributes
 And I don't think the saturation issue really applies to the central city like it may apply in some neighborhoods. So that's why I'm proposing to lift it. I think we should be encouraging competition, encouraging these businesses to open in the central city. And the other aspect of it, quite frankly, is that 
 I think our actions, the state actions, the voters and the state legislature and our actions have really the potential to establish a green tourism of entirely different sort. I think we will have people coming here from other cities who want to appreciate what we've done here in Oregon. And I think making retail marijuana accessible in our central city where our hotels, where our restaurants are.
 Makes a lot of sense. It's not an attempt to  I don't think there's any downside to it. I think it's strictly an upside, and so that is what my amendment proposes, a simple elimination of the 1,000-foot boundary in the central city core. And I move that amendment. Moves that amendment. Is there a second? I'll second it for purposes of discussion and public testimony. Thank you. Other amendments? Yes.
 Okay, so now we have those members on the table. Do we have any particular requests for staff at this juncture? If not, we'll have them stand by and then let me call up our state legislators who have been waiting patiently for the opportunity to give us some guidance from state's perspective about this. Senator Burdick, Senator Nimbrow, Representative Leininger, I believe you're all here or at least a couple of you are still here. Come on up, please. Good afternoon.
 Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales, members of the council. For the record, I'm Ginny Burdick. I represent the people of Senate District 18, which happens to include City Hall. I am also co-chair with my colleague here, Representative Leininger, of the Joint Committee, no pun intended, on legalization of marijuana.
 We worked very hard during the legislative session to develop a legislative framework where cities and counties and local governments can adapt them to their own needs, their own people, and their own priorities, including opting out if they choose.
 I'm personally very pleased that Portland has taken the difficult path of really trying to make this work for everyone. It's a brand-new world out there, and I really appreciate the efforts that you have put in. I particularly appreciate Commissioner Fritz's comments.
 statement of values. We did that at the very beginning when we were doing the legislative framework, and to really keep in mind the priorities that you have, what you're really trying to accomplish, provides the best possible guidance. We have, I've always seen programs like this as a partnership between the state and the local government. As most of you know, I'm a fervent supporter of local control,
 I have a high degree of trust in you all to get to good decisions. This is a very complicated issue. I will have to say, Commissioner Fritz, when you mentioned four hearings, I thought, oh, we could have just done it in four hearings. This is very complicated stuff.
 The reason I'm here today is because there was one aspect of your rulemaking that drew my attention and drew the attention of a lot of people who have been working in this area for a long time, and that is the issue that was discussed in a couple of these amendments, which is the treatment of facilities that have already been permitted by the state and have made some kind of an investment.
 I'm very, I think this falls in the category, as far as I'm concerned, of those dreaded unintended consequences. But it's very serious. I think for those people.
 And I include all of us in this who want a successful business and a business that responds well to the community, doesn't disrupt the community, but also respects the fact that these are small businesses. And while government is not in the business of protecting small businesses from the natural forces of the market, and yes, there will be a shakedown,
 On the other hand, we have to navigate very, very carefully so that we don't disadvantage people who, in good faith, have played by the rules, doing it right, have made the investment. Thank you.
 I have no sympathy or care much about people who might be trying to game the system, might be trying to speculate. What I'm concerned is about the people who have made investments, gotten their permits, which are not cheap. The permits are $4,000, and that's an investment in itself.
 So I really appreciate what I'm hearing here today, that our concerns are being heard and that people are putting their heads together to try to navigate a solution here that meets the needs of your overall program, but still meets the needs of these small entrepreneurs who are out there trying to create a successful business, both in the medical and recreational market.
 So I'm going to turn it over to my co-chair here, and then I'll answer questions anytime. While you're doing that, thank you, Senator. I apologize for not having been able to get to both of you our amendments. I'm going to bring them down so you have them in front of you. Oh, thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Representative Leininger, welcome. Thank you very much. I'm Ann Leininger, State Representative for House District 38, which includes southwest Portland and the city of Lake Oswego, and I've had the pleasure of serving together with Senator Burdick as co-chair of the state's Joint Marijuana Legalization Committee, and it's been important work that we were happy to sort of
 forward on to you good people for the next step in a, in a complicated process. And I want to say, I thank you so much for the work that you've undertaken and all of the refinements that clearly have been underway to meet reasonable concerns expressed in the community. Um, as we, we work through a rollout of how this is going to look in our communities. I used to be a Clackamas County commissioner. So I know firsthand that, uh,
 local communities setting their own path and elected officials honoring that choice is really crucial. So I want to thank you for and say I honor and respect the fact that you're making time, place, and manner decisions that are appropriate.
 for your community. And I wanted to raise also some concerns that I have heard, because we have heard from a lot of folks who are small business owners trying to play by the rules and launch good businesses in the legal cannabis sector.
 One of the concerns we've heard is, gosh, what if the rules that are being implemented by the City of Portland create a situation where someone who's acted in good faith to follow the rules and make an investment in starting a new business walked down that path
 inadvertently is boxed out by the sequence of events for getting a approvals from the city and approvals from the state also I like what I'm hearing you say in terms of proposals to address that I have not had a chance to review specific language from some of the proposals described just now but I think the key point is I'm hearing you want to both you know
 honor the need for reasonable regulation to address time, place, and manner of these good businesses, but also address and honor the investment and time commitment made by small business owners who are trying to make a living, provide for their families, and help us move into an important new sector of our economy. So thank you. Can we impose on you for a moment to stick around as experts? Commissioner Fritz, I have a couple of ideas for how to bridge the divide. Can we have this conversation? Sure.
 So the proposal that we drafted yesterday was designed to be in lieu of the approach that was in the amendment. You have now proposed an amendment that is targeted to the existing framework. So I think in fairness we should focus on your amendment first because it's consistent with the regulatory framework that's already been proposed.
 but then just see if there's a basis to narrow the difference. And so as I read the previous proposal, it said that with respect to the 1,000-foot rule, we were going to grandfather people in under certain circumstances. And one of the key triggers was the...
 whether the medical dispensary has been registered operating in good standing with the Oregon Health Authority since on or before January 1, 2015. So AHA approval since on or before January 1, 2015. The concern that was raised was about small businesses operating between January 1, 2015 and November 1, 2015 when things get opened up. And whether someone who's made an investment and is operating is essentially 
 potentially put out of business because they're not first in line. So your amendment moves that January 1, 2015 date forward to July 15, 2015. So it captures a bunch of folks who have successfully obtained their AHA, who are registered, operating, and in good standing through July 1. The gas 
 through July 1st, and furthermore, you've proposed a hardship waiver, which would capture people potentially up through September 30th, 2015, and I'm going to suggest that we not make it cumulative, because I think the bar might be too high if it's cumulative. I think it should be including but not limited. I think it should be suggestive in the sub-two language, because if it's cumulative, we're setting the bar extremely high, but we can have that discussion.
 So what we're really talking about now is potentially a gap between September 30, 2015, and November 1, 2015. Am I right? That's now potentially where the gap is about someone who is otherwise registered, operating, and in good standing with the AHA who would not be covered by your proposal.
 We're trying to distinguish between medical dispensaries that have been serving patients versus somebody who is trying to jump the line of other recreational businesses who are patiently waiting for December 1st and haven't gone to the Oregon Health Authority because they intend to go or have gone to the Oregon Liquid Control Commission. So I completely understand. I'm just asking a clarifying question. What we're really talking about now with 
 both the date that you've suggested moving forward and the hardship exemption, we are now talking about potentially a gap of someone between September 30, 2015, and November 1 who becomes registered operating in good standing who would not go to the front of the line on the single issue of the 1,000-foot rule in its application. That's the only person not covered by your amendment. I'd need staff to weigh in on that.
 I think that's right. I tried to, I mean, I'm not good at paraphrasing, but Teresa, I tried to state it simply. Am I right? Thank you. So I think, and for the record, Teresa Marchetti, I think the distinction is that anyone who is registered and operating in good standing after,
 September 30th, would be standing in line next to a recreational hopeful that made potentially investments as well. Go to REI, get your tent, and get there early because that's going to be first come, first serve. But I'm just talking about the gap that's left because Commissioner Fritz's amendment
 closes the gap of the concern that I had substantially because she's moved the triggering date from January 1st, 2015, forward to July 1st. That's a big jump, and that captures a lot of people who might otherwise be eligible for going to the head of the line over that six-month period. And she's built in a hardship process which potentially
 covers people all the way through September 30th. The gap that now exists for people who care about this issue, which is simply about who's impacted by the 1,000-foot rule, the unified 1,000-foot rule, is between September 30th, 2015, and November 1st. Am I right on that?
 Yes. However, Commissioner, I just want to respectfully disagree that that is the only population that's impacted. The business equity part of this is...
 We are trying to establish a level playing field to the extent that we can while also recognizing the existence and value of the medical community. But what we're talking about from this point on, from October 1st on essentially, is the emerging business, the emerging recreational business, and who has the first bite of the apple in that arena. Right.
 That Commissioner Fritz has made clear to me, and to me that comes closer to gaming the system as opposed to people that have established relationships with patients and have been operating in the community. So the reason I had this colloquy is I just want to make clear that we've now narrowed the gap dramatically, and my understanding, Commissioner Fritz, is that your amendment would have otherwise no impact on the licensing process that is established. So thank you.
 that you would still, all the existing conditions of getting a license, including whatever state approval you need, is not changed in any way by your amendment. Correct, Commissioner. In fact, I don't know if you have your copy of the entire code that we've already passed with you. Yes, I do. If you look at 14B13030, where it says license required, I believe that states what's in your amendment, that no person shall have,
 operate without a medical business, medical dispensary, or am I on a business without a valid license from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement? And then C says nobody shall lawfully exist in the city without a state license and regulatory oversight. So I think that's your concern. Yeah.
 Was we've been at this so long that we've catched it long ago. So Mayor Hales, can I make a suggestion? Sure. Because we're going to hear from a lot of thoughtful people and we're going to get some testimony and we're going to have one final chance to get it right and then we may even slap an emergency clause on it. So. No, we don't need to slap an emergency clause. We'll have to. We got told the first year. But we're going to, today's it. We're going to, I think it might make more sense to have the Fritz Amendment be the mark.
 What would you say as a committee, Chair? The mark? The markup? The markup? That's Congress talk. I'm just thinking, because we're going to get confused about Fish and Fritz and blah, blah, blah. I would propose that Commissioner Fritz's amendment be the amendment on the table and that people who have concerns about its scope address the amendment, because I think the amendment actually addresses my concerns
 My proposal essentially changed the structure in order to get at the same issue. Commissioner Fritz is now proposing to modify the existing language. I actually think that's cleaner and I think it's a thoughtful proposal.
 whether the public in testifying agrees this is the right approach is another matter. But I think we should  I will withdraw my amendment now for purposes of having Commissioner Fritz's amendment be the lead amendment on this subject and then reserve the right to offer any tweaks after the testimony. Okay. Thank you.
 Done? All right. Any other comments from the two of you in particular about this? Do you see any conflict with what you intended in terms of the state regulatory structure and what we're trying to accomplish here? This is moving in the right direction. This is moving toward addressing our concerns. And I'm not an expert enough to know how this on the ground will actually play out.
 but I do know it's moving in the right direction. I would really defer to the people who are going to be affected by this, especially the people who are really doing it right, have a track record of doing it right. We saw them a lot when we were building the legislation. We could not have built the legislation without them, and I would listen very tenderly to them. And, Mayor, just...
 Just to observe one thing about the process, there was a flurry of amendments yesterday that were discussed and then some meetings with all hands on deck talking about them. And I really appreciate that what Commissioner Fritz has done is modified the proposal that she was going to come to council with today to address those concerns. Whether this is the perfect solution or a good solution or whether there's a gap,
 We're going to hear from the public on, but I appreciate that this is a substantial change in response to some concerns that have been raised, and therefore I think it deserves to be the amendment on the table for consideration.
 Thank you. And thank you, Senator Burdick and Representative Lineja. I am so proud that I voted for both of you and I'm happy to still be your constituent, Representative Lineja. Actually, on a completely irrelevant note, Senator Burdick, I want you to know that now you are the all-powerful majority leader and I am a constituent too. I expect lots of pork for Southwest Portland.
 I expect bridges to nowhere, military bases, the works. You've always expected that, Representative Councilman Novick. Any further comments? Please, Anne. Mayor Hales and Commissioners, I think that the teamwork that is being demonstrated right now among this group is really impressive and an inspiration for all of us who want to see good government and positive decisions move forward. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you both very much. We appreciate you coming today. Thank you.
 Okay, so I think we should take public testimony on the Fritz Amendment and the Saltzman Amendment. And the package that's in the ONI package. That's right, the package of amendments before us as modified by the Fritz Amendment and by the Saltzman Amendment. So I hope that's at least clear enough that you know whether you think we're on the right track or not and can therefore give us feedback about that.
 So let's take testimony again just on the amendments. We'd like to try to keep this very focused. Can we keep a copy of the Fritz Amendment at the table so that anyone who testifies has access to it? Yeah, I have some extra ones I will. We have a total of 15 people signed up. The first three, please, coming up are Adrian McElderry, Lene Berg, and Eli Bilton.
 And we'll ask you to keep your testimony to two minutes just so we can try to keep the council here and get the work done today. So I know this is complicated stuff, so it may not be possible to do it in two minutes, but please try. Good afternoon. Hello. Adrian McGildry. Thank you, council and mayor, for allowing us to participate in this conversation and this significant decision you guys are making. Okay.
 To begin with, I would just like to start with I'm more interested in fairness and equality for everybody. I understand the background and those who have displayed success and everything else have given to the community and have already demonstrated the effectiveness and the impact that they will have.
 This is going to have great economic impact for everybody, regardless if they're grandfathered in or if they get a license tomorrow.
 to begin as a retailer because that's not even being mentioned right now. In a sense, the dispensary and the medical professionals are basically in complete control of everybody. In a sense of the market, in a sense of pure capitalism, it doesn't exist, in my opinion, as an individual who smokes weed, not necessarily with a medical license,
 But it's legal now, so I can say that. And in a sense, like I'm saying, I know it will have a great impact in Portland, as well as throughout the entire state. We've seen people come from all over the community to come in on this matter. And like I'm saying, the money totally, I heard last week on one of these newscasts, that $11 million was made.
 You know what I mean? And the distribution of that is not necessarily that broad. When, like I'm saying, this is the pure market forces, you know what I mean, should control this more than selected people and protected classes. It is primarily my mission, you know what I mean?
 And so I'm saying I would just like to say in order to provide full benefits for people that use, I request council members allow everybody access to edibles and oils. Thank you very much. Coming soon.
 Ms. Berg, you're next. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Lene Berg, and I'm the executive director of Downtown Clean and Safe and vice president of downtown services at the Business Alliance. I'm here to testify regarding the proposed amendment to lift the 1,000-foot ban on marijuana dispensaries in Portland's central city.
 As you know, the downtown Clean and Safe District is a 213-block area of downtown and is one of the most successful enhanced service districts in the nation. As you also know, businesses within this area pay a fee to raise money that supplements publicly financed services for neighborhood improvement, including cleaning, security, community justice services, and retail recruitment. Music
 Unfortunately, there has been little, if any, outreach with any of the participating businesses and residents within the district. We urge that you pull this amendment for further consideration to ensure that it is properly vetted by the many residents and businesses, including retailers and hoteliers in the clean and safe district and in our broader central city. We believe because of the new nature of this industry...
 This proposal should be fully vetted by neighborhood associations, retailers, and other businesses in the central city before enacting a special rule that may adversely impact them. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Eli Bilton, CEO of Addis Trading Company. I'm very worried about the negative impact this will have on my businesses and other businesses.
 It will impact my employees unfairly and their families, personally, myself and my family. I'm also worried about, you know, the contracts that I'm in, you know, if I'll be in breach of contract if I do, you know, on these dispensaries that are being built out right now that we have preliminary approvals on. I'm also worried about the leases that I have on my preliminary approvals.
 You know, there's another question I have for the commissioners also is we purchased a dispensary this year, and the proposed ruling is ambiguous and unclear. We purchased a dispensary. It was a licensed dispensary before January 2015. Will I be grandfathered in or will I not be grandfathered in? Well, do you think under this amendment that you will be? That's important, I think. Okay.
 I believe that I should be, yes. Are you operating as a dispensary now? Yes. I have three dispensaries operating right now and two preliminaries in place. Have you been in good standing with the AHA since July 1, 2015? Not with all of my dispensaries, no. Any of them? I mean, you mean in good standing, yes. I have been in good standing. Registered? Yes. You've registered with the AHA since July 1? One of my dispensaries, yes. Only one's registered?
 So that one would be okay. My other ones would be at risk. Well, have you taken steps with the other ones to do things like enter into a lease, interview employees? Yes, yes. And I'm worried about my lease agreements and my contracts. You might, therefore, sir, at least under Commissioner Fritz's proposal, be eligible for the hardship exemption.
 Right. We have to decide whether it's cumulative or illustrative. Right. I'm asking for the ruling that any submitted license app to the OHA, that it should have priority. And if that gap goes away. So I want to ask a question of  I still call you Chief. Chief Berg. Yeah.
 I'm just curious. I mean, you're taking a position against my amendment to lift the 1,000-foot boundary in the central city. I mean, you know that these establishments do not allow people to consume marijuana on the premises unless you have a medical license and you lock yourself behind closed doors. So I'm just curious. I mean, I described what I felt were some of the upsides of, you know, we have a downtown core. This is where the action's at. This is where the people are. This is where the tourists are.
 I mean, what harm do you see of establishments being located closer than 1,000 feet in the downtown core? Just what's the downside in your view? Well, I want to be clear that we're not necessarily opposing it. We just think that it needs to be vetted more fully. It was a surprise, I think, to many people who live and work downtown that this may be lifted.
 So in the grand old Portland tradition of plenty of process, I think this is a piece that should have some more process behind it. And there are concerns if one of the ideas is that this will promote tourism. It's...
 A tricky position then for the hotels to be put in because people can't consume that product in the hotel rooms. And if people are coming to buy it, how will they consume the product here in Portland in a way that fits within all the current restrictions and guidelines?
 That's a good point, although I do think that point's going to be solved very quickly. You know, hotels will set up smoking rooms and things like that. But I guess, so what you're saying is really it's the lack of process. You don't necessarily see a downside to retail establishments being located closer than 1,000 feet in the downtown core or central city area. Sure.
 I don't really feel like I have enough information yet from our constituents to say whether I think it's a good thing or a bad thing. I just know that people are feeling like it should be discussed more fully. We had a downtown retail council meeting this morning, and a lot of the retailers had many questions about what would this look like in my building, on my block, in my area downtown.
 And there were some residents there who had questions that we couldn't answer. So I think having a more full and robust process around this question would be very helpful. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay, let's take the next. Are Samuel Gross, Robert Burke, and Aaron Kennedy? I think we're going to stop at 1.30 for a break. Yeah. Okay, welcome.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, City Commissioners. I thank you for this opportunity to speak. I've spoken to you before about this issue, and I'm encouraged that you've listened and the proposals are moving in the right direction. A little bit of this has been a little... Put your name back on the record, please. Oh, my name is Samuel Gross. I'm an attorney here in the City of Portland. And so I appreciate you guys listening and moving forward in the right direction. Thank you.
 First of all, with the proposal for the date of grandfathering in or preferential treatment, whichever term we want to use, I would urge that the date be set at the date of which licenses can first be submitted for in the city and that the hardship clause would extend all the way through that date to capture everybody that might be in that situation.
 Also, I would urge you to take a look at and just see merely if an OHA application was submitted and they had a date stamp on a submitted and received OHA application, that that would be sufficient, as opposed to creating a circumstances and factors test that needs to be parsed through. That is a bright line rule. It's easy for the city to ascertain and make a determination. Thank you.
 The second, I would like to also address the proposal of eliminating the 1,000-foot rule within the central city. I think that this is a good idea moving forward. It addresses the needs of the downtown central core. There's a limited number of available retail spaces available.
 due to the concentrations of schools in the area. And second of all, because real estate is extremely challenging in this area because as you are aware of, you cannot open up a dispensary where there is a mortgage on the property. So therefore, even allowing it, there are not going to be a plethora of them because most downtown real estate is backed by a commercial mortgage system.
 and I think it does promote the values of tourism and creating a flourishing cannabis industry here in the city of Portland. Thank you. Can I just ask, where did that rule come from about having to have a mortgage or you can't have a mortgage on a property? Is that a state?
 Most mortgages have a clause in them that says that you must be in compliance with all local, state, and federal law. And if you allow cannabis businesses to operate on your property, you will be in technical default. And so, therefore, a lot of times those lenders will call those loans. And so, therefore, large institutional investors will not allow those types of businesses to operate where they have loans or investments. Okay. Thanks. Thank you.
 thanks very much welcome afternoon my name is robert burke and i just have some i would like some clarification from ms fritz uh on a couple of items for starters what's what's the definition of a dispensary that's operating and in good standing you can have staff come back and address that we do have a definition of dispensary in the code i will get that we'll get that okay so i'm we've had a licensed facility since early in the year but we're not operating at this moment
 Is that going to  where am I going to fall then in that? When did you get your license? February 20th. And you're good? Okay. My other question is you also mentioned needing to have a valid City of Portland business license by your cutoff date. So we have not  through miscommunication between me and my CPA, we did not ever register for a business license. So where is that going to put us? Yes.
 So the intent of the policy is that those who have been serving medical patients do get grandfathered in. So if you haven't actually been serving medical patients and you don't have a business license, then potentially you might not be grandfathered in. You would So I think, I mean, I'd like to make a point of contention with that in that I have been serving medical patients. I've been a grower for a very long time. I've been providing dispensaries with the products that they sell to patients. So I have
 I mean, I have met your requirements, and yet now that we're trying to transition into this other facet of the business, I'm basically going to be told that I'm out of luck because I haven't been operating. But I've put a lot of money into this, and it's taken us six months to get permits between the architect and the city of Portland. Why do you say you're out of luck? This applies to the section about the 1,000-foot rule.
 So do you know that you are at risk of being bumped by someone else within that 1,000 feet? Well, potentially anybody could apply if I'm not grandfathered in because I didn't register for a business license in time. Right, but it's a competitive process. It's first come, first serve. Right.
 Nothing is stopping you from applying for one now. You could be first in line. There could be no one who's grandfathered. I'm in favor of grandfathering. I just would like the date to be extended so that I have time to apply for a business license and be grandfathered in. It would probably be good to apply for a business license. I agree. I agree. I don't think that something like that happens.
 A minor detail like that should prevent us from being grandfathered in based on what we've done, based on the service that we've offered for patients so far. Thank you for your testimony. Maybe you could just strike that from the proposal. Thank you for your testimony. I appreciate it. Thank you. We'll try to get that cleared up one way or the other. All right. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you. My name is Erin Kennedy. I am a consultant with Aperture Consulting Group. Formerly though, I had the privilege of being one of the original inspector investigators with the Oregon Health Authority Medical Marijuana Dispensary Program. So I have a unique perspective of coming from the program that had the inarguably massive challenge of regulating a brand new industry. So I understand the challenges that come with that and I also understand as an inspector
 being the messenger and being full of metaphorical bullet holes all the time. But now on the other side, and also with OHA, understand the level of effort
 that the entrepreneurs in this room and out in the entire state of Oregon have put into these businesses to run them legitimately, and not just the financial investment, but the emotional investment as well. So I'm here just to offer a bit of a different perspective, not as a dispensary owner, but as someone who's been on the regulatory side and is now on the private compliance regulatory side.
 The folks that have licenses through the OHA and soon the OLCC have already competed at the state level. They're required by legislation to get those licenses. They shouldn't have to compete again at the city level for a supplemental license. No one argues that the license is not necessary. Salem has done a very good job of implementing a licensing process in that city.
 They go through all of the process through the state. They pay the thousands of dollars to get the state license. They pay the thousands and thousands of dollars to get their facility.
 licensed and approved and that physical license in their hands before they can even go to Salem and apply for their City license and it has worked very well and they had a lot of public involvement in that process and I think that's why it's worked and I think that that is why that we will come to a Common ground here as well because of the level of public involvement that you've welcomed I will also say that there are people who have applied through OHA back in July and are still in the queue and
 So that puts them in a very difficult position. Their applications have not even been looked at. Once they do get looked at, there's quite a long process to even get through their initial 60-day requirements and then they have to go through city building permits and all sorts of other licensing that delay things.
 I'll just wrap up and say that competition and market forces are often a lot more powerful than efforts made by the government in regulatory rule. So I encourage the council to look at those factors in mitigating some of the things that you're trying to prevent and also maybe look at the way that Salem implemented their licensing procedure. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Next three are Amy Margolis, Stephanie, I believe the last name is Malat, and we'll go Donald Morse. We're meeting two or a couple of us, so we're putting a lot of the regular agenda over there. We're going to have to. Yeah, okay. By the way, folks, we are going to take a 1.30 break. Sorry, there's some folks waiting here for other council calendar items. We will return to the unaddressed balance of the council calendar from the morning session at 2 p.m.
 So if you're waiting for another item other than this one, you could come back at 2. You're safe until then. When do you take up the demolition? What's the afternoon demolition? Demolition. Likely at 3 to 4? Yeah, more likely we'll get to demolition about 3 o'clock.
 Okay, welcome. Thank you. My name is Amy Margolis, and I came here originally. I have been here every time, I think, as well as participated in all of the task force meetings and industry meetings. I'm an attorney, and I work with the Oregon Cannabis Association. I came here originally to support the FISH amendments, although those are off the table at this moment. So I'm going to instead address 
 the amendment that is on the table, which is the Fritz Amendment. And I'm going to ask for some changes in this, and I appreciate the movement that has happened in this process. The meetings were, I think, after seeing the two versions of the amendment, the Fish and the Fritz Amendment, that there has been a lot of progress made, and I think that's great.
 That was hard-won progress for everyone involved, so thank you. I want to make some technical comments about this amendment and ask for some changes. I think that the language in 2A.1.1
 and two should not be registered because it's not really a registration process it's a licensing process i agree with miss kennedy and mr gross that the cutoff point should not be when you receive your license due to the enormous backlog at the oregon health authority but instead should be when your license is time stamped and received by the oregon health authority they are they
 in a significantly challenging position in terms of how many inspectors they have and how many people reviewing those licenses. I would ask that in Section 2A2, that that language not be cumulative, that the applicant demonstrates they incurred significant financial obligations, so on, that should be an or and not an and, please. The application process itself is expensive, and simply having one of these following statements
 pieces should be enough to demonstrate that they are working towards, with good intentions, towards being an operating medical dispensary. I would also ask that the city consider closing that gap, as Commissioner Fish has suggested, closing the gap between the dates so the final two months is captured. I believe if that happens, then this is an amendment that we could support moving forward. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 My name is Donald Morris. I'm the director of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for hearing me. Throughout this process, we've been asking that the existing players be allowed a smooth transition to the retail market without fear of losing their investment or being forced to remain a medical dispensary.
 I believe that you've achieved this in what you've put together. The dates, we believe that everyone who's made an honest attempt to become a player in this should be allowed to do so and be grandfathered in. I agree with Ms. Margolis about the changes in 2A2.
 that it should be cumulative, and that's really it. I want to thank you for all the work that you folks have done on this, and I know all of our members are appreciative of the fact that you've taken into consideration the effort that they've made in this industry here in the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Commissioner's Mayor, my apologies. I'm actually going to be testifying on behalf of my wife, Stephanie Malott, who is in the audience today. She's experiencing some blood sugar issues. She's actually the impetus for us getting into the cannabis industry. After 26 years of rheumatoid arthritis and successful treatment with cannabis, we felt compelled to be part of this industry.
 My name is Christopher Malott. I'm speaking to you today on behalf of the Oregon Cannabis Association. We've circulated a petition to all of you that you should have in your hands right now that very well summarizes our sense on these issues at hand. We've
 we very much support the direction that commissioner fitz's amendment is headed we felt that commissioner fish that your amendment was a little more comprehensive perhaps uh than ms fritz uh however um you know understanding where we are today we are very much looking forward to evolving uh your amendment ms fritz
 And so I'll say that in the last 24 hours we have had, since we circulated this petition amongst our members in the association, we've had approximately 45 businesses sign this petition that represents about 560 employees cumulatively here in the Portland metropolitan area that are employed by these businesses or derivative services markets. We're very much looking forward to understanding this process better and hearing some final information on the amendments at hand.
 Thank you very much. Thank you all. I wanted to ask, Amy, where is the  you're looking for the word cumulative. Oh, it's just the effect of those things on the last line. Yeah, I've captured it, and I 
 I think Commissioner Fish now has an amendment. Entering a lease, hiring employees, or obtaining fixtures is not cumulative. Entering a lease, hiring employees, and obtaining fixtures is cumulative. So she's saying that these will be examples of major investments that you would have made rather than you would have to have made all three of them. I think we'll change included to such as. I think we can cure that. The one thing, Amy, if you could talk to staff during the lunch break, I don't 
 I just might get done before the lunch break but depends okay well then I just the the distinction between license and registered under a to we're checking on that Commissioner yes that's a that's a I got that that's a high-level issue so just to address the issue of applied versus approved out of four hundred and thirty three applications applied to to the state 305 or jack were rejected
 So we can't go with just applying because so many get rejected. It has to be approved. May I respond? I think that that makes sense if you are looking at Section A1, where you are registered, which I think it should be licensed, operating and in good standing. That clearly captures that population of people who have actually been 
 licensed by the Oregon Health Authority, and I think Section 2, if you were to change that to has applied and has demonstrated the following, if you add in the language that Commissioner Fritz was suggesting about having your OHA license, that might be, and or you could add that language, and I'm happy to talk with staff about how to structure that to capture both of those scenarios. That would allow anybody who's purely made gaming assistant to apply under that clause.
 That would apply for people who didn't have any intention of getting an OHA. They put in their application, perhaps knowing that it might be rejected, because they're just going for recreational.
 Commissioner Fritz, I think that if you include the piece of this where they've incurred significant financial obligations, such as a lease, hiring employees, or obtaining fixtures and equipment, I mean, you could come up with a number of other pieces that would fit that. I think if you do include it, but not limit it to, you capture that. If you were to pair the investment and the application, I think you capture people who are truly well-intended in this process. And I
 can tell you stories of clients who have purchased buildings, doing some of the build out, getting their permits, and then they're planning on turning in their license application. And they intend to operate in the medical market for, if it
 if it were up to them, they would operate indefinitely in the medical market, but they will at least operate in the medical market through fourth quarter of next year, and then they will make a business decision whether they want to transition or not. But at this point, I think everyone who is entering this market is operating as a medical dispensary. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Next three are Jason McGrew, Margo Lucas, and Beth Cook.
 And the last three who signed up will be Sandra Storm, Jesse Horton, and Chris Mariette. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Jason McGrew. I had a marijuana dispensary on 46th and Hawthorne for over a year. When the regulations came out, there was two of us. The Canada connection is across the street.
 They were around the corner on 46th and Hawthorne, and I was right on the street. Anyway, when the 1,000-foot rule came out, we had to race to register, and they beat me by three minutes. So they were grandfathered in, or they got their license, and I didn't. I've been paying on that lease, waiting for recreational to open up and make it fair. I really hope Commissioner Saltzman's.
 agenda comes through and you guys make it fair to everybody, all the grandfathering in I'm hearing would be eliminated if you just made it a fair market. The people that already exist could stay existing and new business could apply as well to share the market. Otherwise, you're just giving them a neighborhood and a lockdown and it just seems really unfair to me. So you had a medical license when? No, I was in business...
 Before there was medical licenses. On March 3rd of 2014, you had to apply for a medical marijuana license. That's when they became officially accepted in Portland. There were several that were existing before that, and for years they're existing. Okay, we'll have staff come back and address your particular situation. Thank you for being here. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Margo Lucas, and I represent the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, and I'm also a dispensary owner in Salem, Oregon. And I wanted to speak to Commissioner Fritz's idea of helping those existing medical dispensaries and those that have been working with the medical community. I just have a concern that there's an assumption that people, after a certain date, which 
 Right now we're considering July. That there's a presumption that those people that weren't licensed prior to them are not serving medical community. I think that's a mistaken assumption. There are many people who are now seeking second locations or people who were bumped out of an earlier location that are now seeking another location.
 And I just wanted to speak a little bit to the process and how long it takes to pursue one of these locations. In my instance in Salem, we put together a medical marijuana ordinance, and then it took me seven months of active nose-to-the-grindstone looking to find a location that would fit into that ordinance.
 And then beyond that, it took us another five months to go through our licensing process with just the state and then again with the city before we could open. So there's a long and arduous process for these people, and you would be cutting off a lot of these people in the middle of that. Again, I want to speak to the historic nature of people serving patients. I myself have been a grower for some time and have served patients already.
 on a grower-to-patient level. And then, again, as we advanced with some of the dispensaries, I also run two medical marijuana clinics in the state. So some of us, and I just got my license on July 1st. So you can see how there are people who are maybe not quite familiar
 through that full process that would be eliminated, that have actively and for long term served the community. So we would like to consider that and maybe make a compromise of ordinance date for the language. Thank you.
 And thank you, and thanks to the input from United Food and Commercial Workers, one of my favorite unions. Thank you. That was why we had the hardship amendment. So we hope and we've heard from your folks that that does meet the needs of the particular dispensary here in Portland. Thank you very much for your partnership. Good afternoon. My name is Beth.
 and I also represent United Food and Commercial Workers Local 555. As you all know, USCW is Oregon's largest private sector union, representing over 20,000 workers in Oregon and southwest Washington from sectors including retail, pharmacy, and the newly emerging marijuana industry. And I just want to say we recognize the dedication that's gone into crafting language to help develop a strong marijuana industry in Portland while providing community benefits. We are actually actively organizing...
 workers within the cannabis industry. One of those dispensaries, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, that we're working with, they didn't open until mid-July. So while we're very grateful for the potential hardship amendment, we still feel that this presents an undue burden on dispensaries. That organization is in fact getting ready to open a second location.
 As Margo says, these processes can take months, and there's a lot of work and a lot of expense that goes into this. And just as they're getting ready to open another dispensary, to have that rug pulled out from underneath them potentially for a market that they have been serving, that they've been tremendous partners. This is an organization that has negotiated $15 an hour minimum wage, ranging up to $32 an hour for their employees. We would like to see the city support those types of efforts, and as we're 
 organizing not only the Stony Brothers but others as well. We'd like to continue to see support for all the hard work that many of the dispensary owners, those licensees, have been putting in over the last few months. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We certainly value your contributions also. As a practical matter, those who have been going through the process are going to be very well positioned to being forced in line for the new locations, having done all of that.
 So we'll certainly make sure that the process, once it opens up to everybody, is indeed fair for all. Thanks, Beth. Okay. Do you have a few more people signed up? The last three I have are Sondra Storm, Jesse Horton, and Chris, I believe the last name is Mariette, M-A-R-T-I-E-T. Okay. Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Sondra Storm. I am a prevention specialist with Multnomah County's Mental Health and Addiction Services Division.
 In my role, I coordinate Big Village, a coalition of diverse stakeholders working to reduce youth substance abuse in Portland. So Big Village represents over 100 people.
 members including schools, healthcare professionals, law enforcement, parents, business owners, and neighbors. Just last year, we received the Federal Drug-Free Communities Grant to focus specifically on reducing underage drinking and underage marijuana use. So our coalition met last week, and I wanted to pass along a couple of messages related to marijuana in Portland, and specifically this ordinance and maintaining the 1,000-foot buffer and the importance of density issues.
 So the first thing that the coalition wanted to pass along is that while many parents, educators, and community members care deeply about the impact of the growing availability and visibility of marijuana on youths,
 It's difficult for folks whose work is not tied to the marijuana industry to take time off to participate in these and other meetings. But at our coalition meetings and among our partners, there is great concern, even among people who supported Measure 91, that as a community we're making decisions in the interest of business at the cost of protecting youth and other vulnerable people. The second thing was that, you know, our members wanted you to know that marijuana is not harmless, particularly to young people whose brains are still developing.
 Last spring, Big Village held a training for educators. Within a week of opening the training for registration, we had over 100 administrators, school counselors, and educators sign up. They were eager to gain tools to address marijuana issues at their schools and said that they felt completely overwhelmed by the increase of marijuana incidents at their schools. Marijuana is involved in the majority of suspensions within Portland.
 There's 68% of Multnomah County 11th graders say that it's easy to get marijuana, and about 58% say that there's little or no risk in using it on a weekly basis. And a lot of the kind of anecdotal things that folks hear is that, you know, it's healthy, it's natural. So what we can do, we don't need to reinvent the wheel. There's decades of research on effective alcohol and tobacco prevention interventions.
 Outlet density is one of the strongest prevention measures that can be taken to prevent youth access. It's not only about youth accessing via the dispensary itself, but through shoulder tapping and getting from family and friends. It's also youth exposure to promotions and advertisements within a concentrated area that has been shown to have an impact on young people. Sandra, thank you for reminding us why the 1,000 foot is important, and we did look into whether we could
 but potentially have 1,000 feet from drug treatment centers and such, and just to show them that we couldn't do that. But I really appreciate you being here and staying, because we've heard a lot from the industry folks. We haven't been hearing as much from public health and community folks. So thank you for making that point. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 I do have one more thing. One is we just want to keep that 1,000 foot buffer in mind and not see it get whittled away at the interest of business. And the last piece is that the ordinance as put forth, there's a lot of great things in it, but enforcement is really important. And we know from working with ONI's liquor license program that,
 on safe nightlife issues, Teresa Marchetti and Mike Boyer, who's now in that position, are absolutely great but stretched very thin. And so if this enforcement does happen, making sure that you guys keep in mind what it takes to actually enforce that and putting forth that, we'd love to be a partner in terms of that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Chris Martin. I am a small business owner, a dad, and I'm also on the Big Village Steering Committee that Sondra just spoke of. And I just wanted to come to echo some of what she said. We've worked with hundreds of educators and parents and community members over the last year, and their voices are that it's very hard to come to a lot of these meetings when we come to these meetings. There's a lot of industry representation, but there's also a lot of parents 
 and educators and community members that do care about this issue and are worried about the youth in our community. I don't want to patronize you, but I want to just read a couple things that I hope we keep in mind when we talk about density. Marijuana is harmful to development of adolescent brain, and early use can lead to addiction. Research indicates that early and regular marijuana use can impact the developing adolescent brain, including increased risk for addiction, attention deficit, and reduced 
 Execute a function. Adolescents who start using marijuana before the age of 14 are four times more likely to become addicted by the time they are adults.
 Marijuana can lead to negative health and social consequences for youth. Youth who smoke marijuana are at increased risk of poor school performance, driving under the influence, and higher levels of delinquency. As a lifelong resident of Portland, I've watched our city grow and how vibrant our city has become with wine and alcohol and now the marijuana industry, and I love how vibrant our city is, and that's not what we're saying. We're just saying that proper...
 Protections need to be included in as we talk about all these for youth and density is one of the biggest things that can contribute to youth use. So, thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hello, Commissioners, Mayor, thank you very much for having me. I come to you today, first my name is Jesse Horton. I come to you today wearing two hats.
 One is a business owner of a dispensary, Panacea, who recognizes that the original ONI proposal did not grandfather usher us in to getting a recreational license. And now the new amendment from Commissioner Fritz does. So I appreciate that without a doubt. However, I was in agreement with some type of grandfathering process, even when I was on the other side of the picture.
 potential negative side of that picture. Also, I come to you as a chairman of the Minority Cannabis Business Association, and I recognize that the more we continue to add and heighten barriers to entry into this industry, the less people of color, women, and disadvantaged have a chance to enter. So I want us to really consider that
 my position may not be popular amongst some of my peers and dispensary owners here. However, my position was extremely popular in a number of the town hall meetings that Oney had to reach out to the city and ask, or to the citizens and ask what they cared about. And one of the
 main things that they mentioned, as a matter of fact, on the first line in that directive to ONI was to not grant preferential treatment to medical dispensaries from the people there who wanted to get into the industry and were finding it extremely difficult to find real estate, which I can definitely attest to. Understandably, we are allowing some preferential treatment, and I agree with that. I agree that none of the people who have been servicing the medicinal community should have a chance or have an opportunity for people to come in based on a time stamp.
 and take that from them and essentially close their business.
 I think that we're in a dangerous situation where we're looking at risk versus right. Whenever we started to get our dispensary, we knew or we didn't have any idea whether there would be a recreational program in Oregon, and we still decided to do that. We definitely didn't have an opportunity or didn't believe that the city would grant us a protection to give us that first dibs at that recreational license. We hoped that would be the case, but that wasn't the reason we did it, and we didn't bank our whole business on that protection.
 We got provisional leases that said that if we did not get that license or if at any point that license was taken away from us, that we would get out of that lease. And that's something that most of the dispensary owners that I know had as well. So we're looking at a point where all of us, when we got into the industry, said this was a risk. We knew that there might not be a chance that we would get protections anymore.
 that really I don't think government should be giving and really centering the amount of competition in a really robust industry. We knew that that might not be the case, but now people are speaking from a dispensary standpoint as if it's a right.
 Not only have we been serving the community, but you know what? Anyone who's been given a license or who has applied should also get that right. And that is a very different discussion than what we had when we first entered this industry. And I want you, the Commission, to definitely know that.
 I think that putting us in a position where we have to get back in line and be first in line for some dispensaries who haven't opened, who haven't served the community at all, I think that's fair. I don't think that shutting it off for people who want to get into the industry and may be a little bit behind is in the best interest of the industry, is in the best interest of the local market, or of the citizens who loudly spoke against most of the things that we're doing right now.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for making my closing argument for me. That was really great. Thank you. All of you, thank you for being here. Thank you very much. Okay. So, Commissioner Fritz, you've got some potential additional changes to your  In the interest of time, the staff has looked at the request to change registered to license. The state uses registered, so that was why we proposed it. That's what we're proposing to keep.
 And then in 2A2, we would like to change prior to that date, including entering a lease, et cetera, to such as entering a lease, hiring employees, and obtaining pictures. Okay. You don't have to change and or in order for that to work? Commissioner Fritz. What was that? So on the Fritz Amendment 
 You're proposing to cure the so-called cumulative problem in two by saying such as? Yes. And at least now, based on what we know, you're not proposing a change to register? Correct. The only other thing, other than whether there's an appetite to close the gap, and I'm prepared to support your amendment, is under 2A.C.,
 valid business license requirement of July 1 is not consistent with the hardship requirement. And so my suggestion would be to simply strike that. I don't think it was intended to disqualify the hardship exemption, but that date was pegged to the original July 1 moving forward. So staff, do you have an opinion on that?
 We could amend one to say with a valid business license and then add that to two as well. We could just add the...
 The business license is one way that we know whether it's actually operating or not. Right. I think that it's still within the spirit of, one, the basic grandfather, if they've been before July 1st or not, because that is an indication of whether they're operating. Number two, I understand, I get where you're coming from, because if they haven't actually opened their doors, but they've given a substantial or have significant financial obligations that they maybe have not received.
 obtain that then so actually then we would wrap in c into two and change the date to september 30th as well yeah i just i i don't i don't want that to be an automatic disqualifier for someone who's seeking that's a good spot commissioner fish yes and i i think it was originally drafted along i mean it was it was pegged off of the moving the date forward not off the hardship let's just move the medical dispensary has a valid city of portland business license since on or before september 30 2015
 Back into two? Into two, right. Yeah. Okay. Are we clear with those changes? Ben, do you have any heartburn? C is a subsection to two, so it's already in that. So we don't need to move any more. But it's also a subsection of one. Small two, right. It's part of the heart. So A, B, C, those are all cumulative as well. But the point is that C says July 1st, and 2 refers to September 30th. So we need to put C into two.
 and make it September 30th. So you're going to put a valid business license in both A sub 1 and A sub 2? Trace is telling me we don't necessarily need it in sub 1 because that's part and parcel of operating it in good standing. If we're removing sub C, then I would definitely advocate that we put it into A little i and A little i2. Okay.
 Okay, so then just the language in two is in one with July 1st and in two with September 30th. So just for clarity, it would read registered operating in good standing with the Oregon Health Authority since on or before July 1st, 2015, and has a valid City of Portland license since that date. Yes. And that language would be parroted again in the subsequent section. Correct, that's much better language than my thank you to the staff. But bumped to September 30th. Yes. Okay.
 And what's the difference between registered and licensed? I mean, we heard testimony that licensed was the right word. No, the statute uses registration, so it should identify it as registration. It's in ORS 475-315. It refers to registering dispensaries with the Oregon Health Authority, so it should be registration. There's no substantive argument then? It's just what's the right word? Registration is the right word. Yeah, I mean, that's what I'm saying. Yes.
 So, Mayor, with the changes Commissioner Fritz has proposed to her Fritz Amendment, I second those changes. Okay. And any further discussion about adopting? So now we'll vote on the amendments before us. So the Fritz Amendments as further revised are what are before us now. So let's take a vote on that, and then we'll take up the question of whether you want to put yours back on the table or not, Commissioner Fish. Right. And then Dan's. Okay. So on the Fritz Amendments as revised. Yes.
 Novick? I very much appreciate the change to such as. Aye. This has been a great process, and I particularly appreciate Tori Asimarketti and Victor Salinas and Ben Walters, Claire Adamsick in my office, and everybody who has participated in it, particularly Senator Burdick and Rep. Leninger who came today. The last speaker absolutely encapsulated it. We're talking about risk versus right.
 And we're trying to strike the right balance in offering new businesses the opportunity to enter while respecting the medical marijuana providers who've been taking care of patients and should be able to continue to do so. Hi. This amended Fritz Amendment meets most but not all of my preferred changes, but this has been a...
 and collaborative process, and one where along the way also I think we're all learning as we go along about this process. And Commissioner Fritz, I very much appreciate the willingness in the last 24 hours to engage this in a collaborative way, and I think we've landed on a much better outcome in this area of the law. So I thank you for that partnership, and I'm pleased to support your amended proposal.
 i'm pleased to vote aye we're voting on the amendment right there will be a subsequent it's going to be a second reading next week on the whole package oh is that oh it's not an emergency order that's right hi uh thank you commissioner fritz and actually all to all my colleagues who are working well on difficult stuff here and just i was reflecting on this hearing the hearing uh one we have had a a good dialogue with the community neighborhoods folks that are in the business and
 state legislators even, about how to try to navigate this change. And a lot of what we do here is just that, navigating change. Some people embrace it and say this is great, can't wait. Other people are worried about the side effects of change, whether it's growth or the addition of marijuana to what's legal in our state. And so a lot of what we do in this room is trying to figure out how to mitigate against the
 the fears about what the change will represent and avoid some of the mistakes of the past, which we've seen with liquor licensing. And I think we're there, or at least we're close to there. And I appreciate the fact that we've really got a good working dialogue underway about how these regulations will work in practice. And that didn't happen until the community came forward, and this council has done what we've done today. So thank you all. Aye. Aye.
 okay so commissioner fish do you have any need i would draw my i withdraw my amendment without objection yours is withdrawn commissioner salzman anything else about your amendment before we vote on it um i would just say that um i i when i offered the amendment
 I had no idea about the testimony we heard from an attorney about how buildings that have a mortgage can't provide any space legally to retail or medical operations. And I think that, you know, with all due respect to the people who are in the big village, I do think that raises some real concerns about whether we're going to have 
 any retail establishments in the downtown central city because I don't know of any buildings in the downtown core that probably don't have a mortgage on them. So I think that buttresses even more the need to relax the thousand foot boundary in the central city area. But I think I've spoken my piece on that. Okay. Roll call.
 I'm actually not sure that on its merits I think this is a bad idea, but I think that sensitive to PBA's and others' comments about you want to think about it for a longer period of time before endorsing it. And also I have to say on this whole issue I have told the Commissioner in charge that I haven't devoted much time to it, so I'm going to defer to her. So with both of those things in mind, I vote nay.
 I appreciate the suggestion. It's always good to discuss various options even at the last hearing. No. Fish? No. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? I want to keep the door open to this idea later, but I don't think it's ripe yet. No. No.
 Mayor, do we need to move the two amendments that were in our packet? I don't believe we do. I believe they were already in the revised ordinance. Were they part of the ordinance? Yeah, they were in the ordinance. They were in the ordinance. They were part of it, yeah. So this ordinance will come back for second reading, not a public hearing, second reading and final council vote next week. I want to thank everyone for their work. The Fair Labor Standards Act does not apply to the city council, but I'll grant a 30-minute lunch break. We're going to come back at 2.10? 2.10. Okay.
 Thank you. Come back to order. Welcome, everyone, to the afternoon session of the City Council. You're going to need to bear with us a bit because the morning session was long and actually was not yet completed. So we have some items remaining from this morning that we're going to try to power through quickly and then get to the afternoon's business. So with that, let's take up, as soon as one of our colleagues gets here, we'll take up.
 1044, but I think we can just get the very brief presentation from the Police Bureau while we're waiting for a quorum to develop. So could you read item 1044, please, Carla? 1044, accept a grant in the amount of $1,189,790 and appropriate $300,000 for fiscal year 2015-16 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs.
 Bureau of Justice Assistance National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative Fiscal Year 2015 Competitive Grant to address the issue of unsubmitted sexual assault kits at the Portland Police Bureau. Senator Burke, welcome. Thank you. Thank you, members of council. Mayor Hales, I'm George Burke. I'm the commander of the Detective Division, Portland Police Bureau. As you know, back in April or May, we came before you asking for support in applying for a competitive grant.
 And now we have received word back from the Department of Justice, BJA, that we were awarded that grant in the amount of $1.18 million. We're coming before you today asking for us to accept the grant so that we can get moving forward on getting these out of our inventory and getting them tested and tested.
 and moving forward with plans and not being back in this place again. So with that, I certainly wanted to be brief and allow you guys to get back on a schedule so you can move forward. Okay. Questions for Commander Burke? That was remarkably succinct. Thank you very much for good work and for a short presentation under these circumstances. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak on this item? No.
 I had three people signed up. Lightning, Charles Johnson, and Jane Doe. Okay, come on up. I'll give you two minutes each, please. We're going to stick to a two-minute time schedule this afternoon, by the way, on every item. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns and the focuses I want to have on this issue would be on the forensic scientists.
 I want to make sure that we also look at funding some of the labs. And I know this is to test the kits. We need additional funding for the labs, improvement, betterment, grants. We need to start focusing on that.
 On this particular grant, we came up $800,000 short. I would also like at this time for the public to step in, offer donations to make up that $800,000. It's very necessary at this time in other states. Groups have joined together and come up with funding, and I would suggest that we do that and come up with that additional $800,000. Again, from my position, I want to focus on the labs first
 I want to make sure that the new police chief and the police commissioner are reviewing the progress and keeps a close eye on this. Again, I would like to see every kit tested, and we need to start looking at this very closely. There should not be a backlog of kits.
 We should be able to get out there and get additional funds if necessary, if the federal grants do not cover what we need to do. I also want to have a consultant come in and do a study. Is it better to use private labs or is it better to use the state labs? And I want to have a study done to have an understanding on what direction we want to go in the future.
 Again, we need to show more efficiency on the labs itself and have a clear understanding from the forensic scientists. Do you need more equipment? Do you need more money as far as on your salary? What do you need to become a very efficient lab so this will not happen in the future again? Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead.
 Good afternoon, commissioners. And in the light of a... Obviously, we need this $1 million in federal assistance, although it leaves us with a sad situation of telling victims of sexual assault, we aren't going to test your evidence unless the feds pay us to. That's gross. Sick. It's very interesting that we have a woman on city council whose experience is in public health, and she's not calling us to stronger accountability for this. It's obscene that as...
 a mostly male body and a male-dominated law enforcement industry, we have had thousands of Portland women told when they were sexually assaulted that they had to have an evidence kit taken, and then we stuck it on a shelf and we didn't do anything with it. So we have changes in police administration. Things rotate around. The responsible parties are hopefully not doing law enforcement anywhere. But...
 We need to seriously think about, a week ago we had a presentation here about Native American Indigenous Day for Columbus Day. One woman didn't come because she lives in Northwest Towers, and the trauma she experienced was a woman jumping off the top floor, or a floor of Northwest Towers committing suicide. Why does that happen? Because idiots have been running the city, letting sexual assault kits and rape victims be neglected and crapped on. I hope that this $1 million will be the start of a better city. Thank you.
 thank you anyone else this is an emergency ordinance let's take a roll call vote please
 So my understanding is that the remainder of the grant money is coming from a different grant. Of course, the council has looked into this. Previously, the police bureau protocol across the country was not to test kits unless, for instance, if the survivor did not want them to move forward with the prosecution or for various other reasons. So our police were following the established protocol. That protocol has now changed, and so they had carefully saved all of the ones that previously were not 
 intended to be tested, and that's what this grant is doing. We are confined by the state in terms of we don't have our own lab, nor does the state want us to. So that's an issue that needs to be taken up with the state for those who are concerned about it. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hayles? Aye.
 Some thank yous. I want to thank our congressional delegation for providing a letter of support because once we discovered that this backlog existed and then applied for this grant, we got great support from our congressional delegation. In fact, I believe it's the case that Portland and Multnomah County are the only pair of jurisdictions like that in the country that have both received grants. So I want to thank in particular Senator Wyden and his staff members
 Grace Neal, who may or may not be here. She may have planned to be here this morning. So I'm very proud of the fact that we have looked this problem right in the face. As soon as I heard that this national problem existed in August of last year, that is 2014, I asked the Police Bureau, do we have this problem? And it turned out that yes, we indeed did. Thank you.
 And I'm very proud of the work that Commander Burke and others in the police bureau have done to get us to now where we clear this backlog, follow good policy, and make sure that women in this community who are victims of this crime are properly supported at every case, in every turn going forward. Aye. Okay. Thank you very much. Let's move on to...
 1041, which we pulled from the morning consent calendar. Authorize a five-year lease extension with UPI Commonwealth LLC for the Housing Bureau lease premises at the Commonwealth Building through October 31, 2021. Who pulled this? Mr. Lightning. Lightning, are you here? Do you still want to speak on this item? Come on up. I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I was hoping that we would have this put on record by a speaker, but I am glad to do my communication at this time. Okay, go ahead. One of the issues I have, again, is that based upon we want to start having all the city properties and the leases controlled within city properties. As I've stated in the past, we basically...
 are not funding a lot of the maintenance throughout this city deferred maintenance on various things from transportation to parks to housing i have stated before i would like the city to take a close look at doing sale lease backs on some of the city properties and basically having a clause in there to buy back in in in a set amount of years possibly within 20 years
 We need to stop being a land bank in this city. We're the largest land bank, but you don't have enough funding to fund the maintenance on a lot of these bureaus. I would like to see that change. I would like to see on the surplus properties that we do that calculation, which is in the billions of dollars.
 that we put together some of those properties as a package deal and have certain foundations come in and purchase that package of properties to benefit the city instead of being a land bank. We need more resources to this city so we can begin to fund the deferred maintenance on various departments.
 And we have plenty of real estate to do that. And that is why I stepped up on this issue, is to make a clear understanding that we need to look at that very close and understand we don't need to be a land bank. Take some of that land bank and convert it into cash and start paying down some of this deferred maintenance and start directing it towards some of these bureaus. We have over $30-plus billion in real estate.
 Okay, we don't need to just control real estate. We need to have some of the cash implemented back into these departments Thank you. Thank you Okay, this passes the second meeting next week Let's move on to item 1045 Authorize the city attorney to intervene on behalf of the city of Portland in Oregon public utility Commission docket you e300 and
 Mr. Walters? Ben Walters. I'm just here to answer any questions. I think we've been briefed on this, and we had discussion in council about it before. Everyone comfortable with proceeding? Okay. Thank you, Ben. Roll call, please. Aye. Pritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. 10-46. 10-46.
 accept a grant from the Oregon Military Department Office of Emergency Management for their Emergency Management Performance Grant Program in the amount of $387,782 to administer an integrated all-hazard emergency management program for the city. Commissioner Novick? Donna Popov from the room.
 Good afternoon. This is a bread and butter grant. It covers expenses at PBEM such as salaries and pays our rent. We've received it every year since 2007. Most jurisdictions in Oregon receive similar grants based on population. Okay, thank you. Questions for John? Do we have any deliverables from it or is it some...
 just to keep the doors open? There's not very many strings attached. It's a matching grant, so it pays for half the salaries of three staff people, for instance, and we pay the other half. Similarly, it pays half our rent, half our BTS charges. And in exchange, we have to provide them with a copy of our annual work plan and commit to do the work in the plan, which is aligned with our strategic plan. And what's the federal bucket that it's coming from? It comes, it's a pass-through grant from the Department of Homeland Security
 so is that likely to continue at infinitum we hope that that's the case but of of course it's dependent on the federal budget sequestration it's homeless if it's homeland security then it probably will thank you okay any other questions for jana thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item if not it's an emergency ordinance take a vote please thank you jana hi right hi
 fish saltzman tales hi thank you thank you 10 47. authorize the bureau of transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the east portland active transportation to transit project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority commissioner novick body baloney
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with Piedmont Right-of-Way. This ordinance is to authorize them a domain authority as well to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary easement rights associated with the East Portland Active Transportation Project. The project or the property rights are needed mainly for support of sidewalk infill and driveway reconnections along Southeast Division between 101st and 157.
 At this time, I'm happy to answer any questions Council might have. So the only concern I have is the two properties where we're actually permanently exercising eminent domain. Could you tell us just a little bit about those? Yeah, we're acquiring two permanent slope easements. It's basically to hold up the sidewalk infrastructure, and I believe it's at about 115th. They're smaller acquisitions, but...
 the property owner would still actually own the overall underlying fee of the property. We would just have the ability to maintain slopes to hold up the infrastructure.
 another property owner is okay with this i haven't actually talked to the property owners as of yet we're still waiting for notice proceed from odot for the right-of-way phase so we can't actually speak to the property owners until we get that notice proceed which we should hopefully have within the next couple weeks you can't even talk to them uh it's really uh they authorized the right-of-way phase for this so we actually wouldn't be able to get uh funding uh match funding from them until we get notice proceed
 right when we get that I'll be able to send out general information to all the property owners affected by the temporary easements so if you could before the vote next week just check in with the two property owners specifically whether it's a permanent easement to make sure that they don't have any concerns when we're using the city's power of eminent domain I think we have to be really careful I understand thank you okay okay no other questions thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item
 not passes the second reading next week 1049 do you want to read these together Commissioner fish these three that'd be fine and if the distinguished director and his team will please come forward okay the whole whole whole group and 49 through 51 please Carla follow your instructions
 extend contract with GSI Water Solutions Inc. for CERCLA and risk assessment technical assistance at the Portland Harbor Superfund site and add $500,000. 1050, extend contract with GSI Water Solutions Inc. for source control technical assistance at the Portland Harbor Superfund site and add $300,000. 1050.
 1051, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Influent Pump Station Transformer Edition Project number E10669 for $562,000. Okay. Director Jordan.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the Council, thanks for having us today. I think you're well aware of ongoing work for the Portland Harbor. The first two items before you are extensions of the contract that we have with GSI to do technical work on those. You probably also are aware that the pace of the work regarding Portland Harbor has changed pretty dramatically in the last six months or so and will continue for some time. So we'd like to extend that contract since the
 A contractor has unique knowledge and history with us on the site and with the work we're doing. So I'll stop there and be ready to answer questions for you on those issues. Scott's here to talk about the other issues. Okay.
 Go ahead, please. We're here to ask for authorization for a construction contract to add a redundant power transformer at the influent pump station, which exists on the site for Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. It's in an effort to increase resiliency of that facility to make sure it's operational when needed. If there's any questions, we're here to answer them.
 Doesn't look like there are. That was succinct and to the point. We know you're behind schedule, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Well done. Okay, thank you. Stand by if there are any questions, if we have anybody who wants to speak on these items. But we'll take that next. So, does anyone here want to speak on any of these three items? They're not all on the same subject, but they're all in the same bureau. Okay, seeing none, then let's take a roll call vote, please, on 1049. Novick? Aye.
 Mayor, I just want to acknowledge we really appreciate the leadership that Mike Jordan has given the city in de facto being the lead staff person on Superfund. And when he said that the pace of work is changing, that was the understatement of all time. Absolutely. And the next year lots of things will be happening. And I'm very appreciative of the leadership that Mike's providing in helping to get
 lead our response to this important issue. Aye. Holtzman. Aye. Niels. Commissioner Fish, thanks for your good work on this. And yeah, we have gone from something in the neighborhood of paralysis to really moving forward and actually reaching some pretty significant agreements. There's some still pretty big disagreements about the Superfund issue. But I really appreciate the progress. The EPA is working a lot better with us than they have in the past. And
 And Director Jordan's added a lot of value as well. Thank you for good work. Aye. And next one, please. 1050. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Schultzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And the third. 1051. That's a non-emergency. Oh, that passes to second reading. Sorry, that's not an emergency ordinance. That goes to next week. Okay. 1052. 1052.
 Amend Affordable Housing Preservation Code to add Portland renter protections. Further discussion before we vote? Roll call, please. Novick? Very much appreciate the Commissioner in Charge's efforts. Aye.
 Very good input from everybody last week. I realize these changes don't go far enough as far as the advocates are concerned. We are limited by state law, and I hope that we will all work together to try to get some more changes at the state legislature next session, and they're ongoing. In the meantime, this is a responsible way to try to limit the impact of huge rent increases, at least giving renters notice of large rent increases. Thank you.
 Yeah, I want to acknowledge the very effective advocacy of a lot of our key partners, including the Community Alliance of Tenants and other folks in our community concerned about the crisis in the rental housing market. This is one part of a solution to a very complicated problem. I wish we could push these protections even further, but much of that is out of our control. I view this as our new floor, not as the ceiling.
 And Dan, I want to thank you for your leadership in not only stepping up and answering the call, but putting forth a reasonable proposal for increasing much-needed protections for vulnerable tenants. Aye. Saltzman? Well, as we heard loud and clear last week, Portland renters do need help. These provisions we're about to pass, I think, provide a safety valve for tenants who are facing unprecedented rent increases and unprecedented low vacancy levels in apartments.
 And by extending the time for no-cause evictions from 30 days to 90 days and requiring a 90-day notice of rent increases that exceed 5% in a year, I don't think it goes far enough. But as Commissioner Fritz observed, we are limited by state law about what we can do. But I think this is some solid safety provisions, safety valve protections we can provide to tenants.
 And I also want to commit, you know, I think we also know that not all landlords should be lumped into one big category as evil people. There's a lot of great landlords out there, but we also know that we're in a time where there are speculative investments being taken and no-cause evictions, I think, are being abused in terms of getting tenants out of buildings to flip them.
 So this is going to provide some protection, and I have committed, and I make this commitment to everybody, that we will one year from now, or about one year from now, we will convene and review how this policy has been working. And, you know, in the meantime, the legislative session will have occurred, and there may be new authorities for us, or the legislature itself may provide some new protections for tenants. But I do commit to everybody that we will review this policy in one year's time. Thank you all for your support. Bye.
 Well, Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for stepping up on this. You know, over the last few weeks, the council has focused a lot of effort and attention on housing, but, of course, it goes back quite a bit farther than that to when we first started working together, the five of us, and we held harmless our housing agenda during the biggest budget deficit in the city's history. That was a good piece of work, and so was this. And I know we've all heard, we heard in this chamber from people that are,
 so passionately fearful about their situation in our city, whether they're trying to buy a house and they're seeing the houses on the block transformed or demolished and replaced, a subject that we'll get to here shortly, whether they're trying to stay in their rental unit and are fearful of a letter in the mailbox that says their rent's going up 40%, as we heard in at least some cases has happened.
 So we have to try some new things, and this is a new thing for the City of Portland to do. It's appropriate that in a state of emergency we try some things, and then we evaluate, as you just said, some months or a year from now, because the one-year term of this state of emergency seems about right if we're going to focus a lot of attention on,
 If you've been in this chamber during these discussions, you'll have heard earlier this week how your housing bureau is issuing the largest ever notice of funds availability for the construction of affordable housing. I'm very pleased about that as well. So there's a lot of good work being done on a set of difficult subjects, all of which grow out of how fast our city is changing and how much growth we're facing. 200,000 more people are going to live here 20 years from now if the planners are correct. So are we going to be San Francisco at that point or Portland?
 That's what these issues come down to, and I just appreciate your renovation under fire to do the right thing. Aye. Okay, let's move on to the next one. 1053, authorized subrecipient contract with Urban League of Portland for $391,000 for housing placement services. Mr. Saltzman, do you have some comments on this? Yes. Earlier this year during the homeless street count,
 We found that the representation of African Americans in the unsheltered adult population had grown by 48 percent in only two years. In order to address the racial disparities in the system, we needed to focus on reaching community members in crisis in places they already frequented.
 And for me, that meant doing a better job at aligning resources at our disposal with longstanding community organizations that have been doing the hard work for a long time. And this contract that we are authorizing with the Urban League of Portland fits the bill exactly. They do a lot of great work serving Portlanders in crisis.
 with a myriad of services. And what many people may not know is the Urban League at one time used to provide private market units themselves for people who were facing extremely high barriers in rent. So under the leadership of their new president and CEO, they are again refocusing their efforts to address the need for housing within the African-American community, and we look forward to partnering with them in that work, and I would urge adoption. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, we'll take a vote, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, now we're to our afternoon agenda. Again, thank you all for waiting for that. For those who came for this, item 1054, please. Establish a tax on the demolition of certain residential structures in the city of Portland. Okay.
 Well, this is an issue that we've all heard a lot about, and let me set the stage for this discussion this afternoon. There's not a lot of precedent for what we're talking about here. As far as I know from my staff's research, there's one other city in the United States that's
 that has used tax policy as a way to try to control the rate of demolition. We, of course, use the zoning code, and earlier this year we made some changes to our demolition code to improve how much notice is given and the opportunity for a neighborhood to negotiate in a situation where a house is proposed to be demolished. I'm glad we made those changes, but I think all of us knew even then that that wasn't going to be sufficient to,
 to really addressing the problem in a meaningful way. It is damage control, and maybe to an extent so is this. The proposal here is to apply a tax to the demolition of single-family homes and then to use those funds for the support of affordable homeownership programs in the city. I want to tell you as the person who put this idea on the table for discussion here today that I'm not sure that we have calibrated this right to get the effect that we want.
 That is, some people will probably testify today that this is way too high. Others will testify that it's way too low. And we still have fine points to consider about exactly what situations it does and doesn't apply to, what constitutes demolition, and what constitutes a derelict house, all
 all of which relate to how this will work in practice. My hope is that the effect of this tax will be, if it's adopted by the council in some form after today's hearing and more discussion and further refinement,
 My hope is that this will cut the rate of demolition of serviceable houses in half and produce a couple million dollars a year for affordable housing for our fellow citizens who'd like to be able to buy one. That's the goal, at least my goal, and it's open to discussion because this is an innovation about whether this particular tool is a good idea at all, whether we've got it right in its current draft, or whether some different approach would get to that result.
 I hope most of us share the goal that we want to see good old houses kept if they're serviceable and remodelable, and we want to see houses that are a blight on the neighborhood, boarded up, occupied by squatters, otherwise toxic, torn down as quickly as possible and replaced by a habitable home.
 So that's the goal. I want to call up Jillian Detweiler and some other staff to walk us through the proposal, and then we'll take testimony. So, Jillian. At what point do you want to entertain amendments? Probably right after Jillian and Thomas walk through the proposal. Thomas is here anyway. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'll let you get us started then. Thomas Lanham, I'm the Director of the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Yes.
 Andy Peterson, Bureau of Development Services, Plan Review and Permitting Manager. So with the duo of the trio here, we'll start off a little bit. Oh, your microphone's not working, so let's get Carla to fix that, please. How's that? There we go. Okay, now you're on. All right. So the establishment of attacks on demolition, we'll click through the process here. Okay.
 Just as an overview, the information regarding this proposal, we'll talk about the tax structure, proposed tax structure, including exemptions and rebates that are being proposed.
 as well as some of the definitions that have been adopted by Council, both on demolition, major remodels, alterations and additions, as well as some Title 29 residential structures that have an order to be vacated or demolished from the City Code Hearings Officer.
 What I'm showing here are a couple examples of houses that have been demolished on the left-hand side and the replacement structures on the right, which would include two units, two houses, new houses on a site that previously contained one. These are in R5. This is in an R5 zone, residential 5,000-square-foot lot minimum location.
 This, again, is a single house on the left-hand side that was demolished with a replacement house on the right. The lot size here is 4,000 square feet, and the structure built there is conforming to the R5 zoning code requirements. Okay.
 Again, house on the left-hand side demolished with a house and accessory structure on the drive and the replacement house shown on the right-hand side. There's a variety of structures and development occurring based on the demolition and replacement that's happening here. Gillian, if there's items you want to add to these as we go through, feel free.
 Thanks. I'll just, sorry I was not here when you started. Jillian Detweiler, Mayor's Office, Mayor, Commissioners. The first photos that you saw were sent to me by Beaumont Wilshire, and they just wanted it included as their poster child for why they believe that something ought to be done to discourage demolitions. And then we're seeing some other images, you know, kind of showing the range of,
 houses that are torn down and those that replace them. Right. I'll continue to go through the slides if you want to. Okay. And, again, a variety of zones, all single-dwelling zones within the city. Again, the house on the left-hand side that was demolished, a replacement house on the right-hand side. Again, a smaller lot within the R7 zone, but structure being built to the zoning code standards. Matt? Sure. Sure.
 So this shows the distribution of demolitions between 2010 and 2014. You'll see the concentration is really in the inner northeast and inner southeast, especially south-southeast neighborhoods. Fewer demolitions in southwest and in outer southeast. And this is demolitions regardless of the condition of the house, right? Correct. A demolition permit was pulled. All right.
 Can you go to the next slide? So here's the data on demolitions. The blue column is showing demolitions of single-family homes in single-family zones. The green column is showing the demolition of single-family homes in other zones, so the multifamily zones, the mixed-use zones, you know, CSEXs.
 And then finally, there are a few demolitions of single-family homes in industrial and even in an open space zone. So that's the pattern we've seen the last couple years. Next. This captures the change in average prices. So in 2013, the average recorded sales price of the house that was torn down was $221,000.
 and it was replaced by a house whose average sale price was $513,000. In 2014, that average sale price of the house torn down has risen to $267,000, but the sales price of the house that replaced it, the average is hovering around $500,000. Next slide. Next slide.
 There's been question about demolitions and increasing density, and the proposal in front of you today proposes a rebate to address that. Here's a little of the history in 2013, as best as we can tell, based on subsequent identifications of new lots and land divisions.
 A demolition in 47% of the cases in 2013 only resulted in one house being built, that one-for-one replacement that people talk about. In 2014, that was down a bit, so a house was torn down, and more frequently, more than one house was built. In 13% in 2013 and 11% in 2014, nothing has yet replaced it, so we don't know whether it will be more than one unit.
 And then we're showing the number of lot confirmations where an additional lot was identified or a subsequent land division. So those created the opportunity for more density. And then just as a measure, as context, at the bottom it shows the total number of housing units permitted in those two years. So showing that these demolitions are really a very small subset of
 total housing production in the city. Thanks. Thomas is going to present the proposal and how the tax is structured. I just wanted to say we started by trying to keep it simple to maintain current definitions, both in the building code, in the property maintenance code.
 Trying not to complicate the development process by encumbering the requirements for a demolition permit. For the most part, we've tried to keep that simple structure. We've added a few changes in response to particular concerns that we heard either from stakeholders or from the council.
 Thank you. Thank you. So, again, I'm Thomas Lanham with the Revenue Division. The proposed demolition tax is an excise tax in the amount of $25,000. It's a flat assessment. It's not without precedent. There are two jurisdictions just north of Chicago that have a similar tax. It's a $10,000 tax in those cases. They've been in place since about 2002, and they've withstood some legal challenges in those jurisdictions. Okay.
 The triggering event is the issuance of the demolition permit, not the application. So once the permit is issued, I'm assured by BDS that that typically is followed through on at that point. The tax would be due 30 days after the assessment.
 There are two exemptions captured within the code right now. One is for catastrophic loss. We would look to definitions in IRS publications for that, but typically they're landslides, floods, fires, and one that we didn't call out specifically but probably should have in the ordinance is earthquakes. And then, of course, residential structures that are ordered, vacated, or demolished by the director of BDS working in conjunction with a code hearings officer under Title 29. Okay.
 There are also two rebates. Rebates are triggered by actions that occur subsequent to the assessment of the tax. One of them is for affordable housing. There are, there's a directive within the code that would require the Bureau of Housing to set up some guidelines following the pattern that's already established in Chapter 30 regarding exemptions for system development charges.
 And also, the other rebate is for increased density, and BDS would develop some guidelines about what that looks like, but typically it's an increase in the number of dwelling units on a particular parcel. And then in terms of administration, this should be a very straightforward administration. We believe half an FTE would cover the work involved and some offsetting budget for that. It's captured in the findings. And I will stop there. Thank you.
 any right uh some definitions regarding demolitions um and then looking at the motions versus what was a new category of work called major remodels and then a little bit on the residential structures ordered vacated or demolished and just to get started we've been working on these definitions for about two years we came back to council in december and then again in january and had those adopted
 This is just an example of the code definition for demolition, which is removal of the superstructure down to the subflooring. Some of these examples identify how this is actually being put into practice, where what we see are 
 If an applicant is working to remodel a home and a full wall line is retained and foundation continues to carry floor loads, those are considered alterations or remodels or additions, whereas if it's just a smaller chunk or a fragment of an existing wall that remains or an exterior wall becomes an interior wall, those all fall into the definition of demolition.
 It's key to be able to make sure that people can still do the remodels, age in place, continue to invest in their homes, and improve their structures without it going into a demolition, a demolition delay.
 et cetera, we continue to streamline or work more closely with the neighborhood associations to get notification out, which was really kind of the genesis of some of this definition, was to be able to provide early notification to neighbors, neighborhood associations, recognized organizations about demolitions occurring in their neighborhoods.
 Just to highlight the differences between the major alterations and additions versus the demolitions, major work includes adding any new story to an existing structure, increasing or replacing 50% or more of an exterior wall on any floor. Oftentimes you'll see that dormer addition or attic space be converted, and those can trigger demolition.
 The major alteration, which again is the impetus is to get the notification out to the neighbors so that they have an opportunity to have input if necessary or to be aware of when that construction activity is going to occur on an adjacent property. Again, adding a total new floor area to the existing structure that exceeds 800 square feet in size or adding an area that exceeds 100% of the existing foundation footprint of the existing structure.
 These are all codified in Title 24 at this point. We've been utilizing these since April 20th of this year, so roughly six months. There have been about 100 major alteration addition permits thus far. We anticipate that will continue through the year, somewhere in the neighborhood of 225 for the year as a whole since this code has been enacted.
 So I'll back up a couple pages here. With the residential structures ordered, vacated, or demolished, this is really a process that BDS initiates with the code hearings officer. It establishes a process that allows us to deal with structures that are 
 that have structural or other life safety concerns, or they may be health hazards to the neighborhood or the occupant. And what we want to do is have a pathway to be able to address those quickly through the co-hearings officer as a Bureau-initiated response to those complaints that come in.
 With that, I'll turn it back to Julie. On the definition page, so just to be clear, the affordable housing rebate that you're proposing just tracks the SDC exemption program, same criteria? Guidelines based on that program, yes. We would look to housing as having that expertise. But it's the same formula that we use for SDC exemption for affordable housing? Yes. Why did you structure it as a rebate rather than a waiver? Sure.
 Well, we can't know for certain up front whether or not that's the actual final use for the property. So we can't exempt them from the tax, but we can rebate them. So the affordable housing provider would have to put up the $25,000 and get it back later? That's correct. However, there is a possibility to request that they have a financial  need financial assistance or have a financial hardship. And in that case, it could be waived. And does this apply to accessory dwelling units? The demolition of them? The demolition tax. Yes.
 If you're demolishing an accessory dwelling unit, so if you have a house with an accessory dwelling unit on the lot and you demolish the ADU, is that going to be subject to this? Good question. The ADU is an accessory structure. These typically are dealing with the primary structure on the site. So even a garage or a shed would be an accessory structure. We have not included that in our conversation as far as a demo of an ADU and a tax on it.
 I want to be clear about that. Good point. Another question, Mayor. Please. Thomas, in the ordinance and the exhibit, it makes clear that the tax is strictly for revenue purposes? That's correct. Does that mean that the council has the usual discretion to determine what to do with the revenue? No.
 That's correct. In this case, the ordinance directs it. I understand, but do we have the discretion to direct where the money goes? Yes, absolutely. Thank you. Well, it directs it to go into the Housing Investment Fund. Well, you're anticipating my amendment, so I wanted to make sure that we had, it was at our discretion where the money is allocated. Yes. It is. And there's a separate discussion that I know that has occurred at the council level regarding redirecting other sources of revenue, for example, short-term rental revenue, to
 Those are existing revenue streams that go to the general fund, and I think that's where the financial policy can get a little problematic. But in this case, this is a brand-new tax, a brand-new revenue stream, and it's a much cleaner proposition to direct it to a specific purpose. So that's actually in the code, Commissioner, in 808? That's the code section I'm going to offer an amendment to. Okay, cool.
 So I'm interested to hear that it's primarily to raise money. Why then are we adding the exempting 64% of the properties on the latest numbers because they're building more than one unit? Well, as in many cases, there are competing objectives that the city is trying to achieve.
 You know, with this PITS affordability and resources for affordable housing programs against accommodating increased growth that we know is coming, this tries to strike a balance. That's a policy choice for the council to take, whether we want this to apply to only 36 percent of demolitions or if the primary purpose is to raise money for affordable housing, whether we want it to apply elsewhere. Correct. That's a choice, and it's open to us to make either one.
 Other questions for the staff team at this point? Anything else that you wanted to cover that we haven't heard from you yet? We'll take testimony. I have actually one more question, and it might be for the city attorney. We received a letter from the Home Builders Association, and Mr. Lanham, you referred to this as an excise tax. Mr. Chandler, who couldn't be here today, says that the state forbids us from having construction excise taxes. So what's our response to that? It's a demolition excise tax.
 He says that it's linked, though, to what's going to go on the property, particularly with linking whether it's one house or more than one house. Right. So we've conferred with the city attorney's office, and they don't share that opinion. And I guess I would defer to them at this point to answer that question. Okay.
 We don't want to have that discussion. Okay. He says he'll answer that question, but not here. I have a hunch Mr. Chandler was going to give us a tort claim notice regardless of the  Okay. Mayor, can I put  may I offer an amendment at this point? Certainly. Our staff is present. Yep. So I appreciate some of the changes that were made in this  in the version of the ordinance that's now before us. I want to focus on 6.08.080.
 which is the provision Commissioner Fritz identified earlier about the revenue being placed in the Housing Investment Fund. Currently, it is proposed that it go to the Housing Investment Fund for a specific purpose, and the proposal says for home repair and home ownership programs. I'm going to move to strike that specific purpose for the following reason.
 The Housing Investment Fund was, by definition, established to create a flexible spending, a source of revenue, to be used in a nimble and creative way by the Housing Bureau to address housing opportunities as they came along.
 It is antithetical to the idea of a flexible housing investment fund to start segregating funds and putting limitations on the use of those funds in the account since it may very well be that the
 best use of those proceeds in the Housing Investment Fund at any moment in time, maybe multifamily versus homeownership versus something else, because the purpose of the fund was to give the Bureau and the Commissioner in Charge maximum flexibility with dollars that were not restricted as are TIF and federal funds.
 I think that the restriction, while I think I understand why that was proposed, I don't think fits the purpose of the HIF. So my amendment would be to strike at 6.08.080A the following, for home repair and home ownership programs. Second. Okay. Further discussion on accepting that amendment for purposes of public testimony? Okay. Roll call, please. Novick. Good idea. Aye.
 yes i support this amendment i also support this this dedication because we do in the development services bureau collect fees for other agencies for specific purposes this is really different from taking a general fund piece of money and allocating it to a specific purpose so i'm happy to support this amendment i yes i appreciate the support and mayor i think under this amendment
 One could argue that these funds may actually be eligible to be counted against the $20 million of new money since they're no longer restricted to a specific activity. Aye. Geltzman. Appreciate the amendment. Aye. Hales. Although I certainly think a good use of these funds is home repair and home ownership programs, I take your point about putting them into the HIP and then making that judgment call. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, that amendment's on the table. I want public testimony on that as well as on the rest of the matter. Mayor, I have a correction to a statement I made earlier. Commissioner Fritz, you asked about affordable housing and how the tax would apply to that. Actually, the financial hardship would only apply if they were appealing a penalty assessment. So at this point, the ordinance would require anyone putting up affordable housing to pay the tax up front and then request the rebate after the fact. I just want to get clear on that.
 Of course, at this point, the tax applies to single-family construction on a single-family lot, not multi-family construction on a multi-family lot. Right. Okay. Thank you. Stand by. I'm sure we'll have more questions after we take testimony. And let's move the sign-up sheet, please. I have a question. Sure.
 I have been trying to work out some amendment concepts and don't have anything ready for prime time. And I'm just curious. I mean, I can talk about what the concepts are today, but I'm just curious. Do you anticipate that we'll have a second first reading next week so we can offer additional amendments? I'm anticipating we're going to get a lot of testimony about this. There's going to be more staff work that's going to be necessary to refine the proposal. So if you have other amendment ideas, there's nothing wrong at all with putting them out here immediately.
 putting them out conceptually today, or you can wait until later, either one. Okay, with that, then let's take people that are signed up to speak. We have a total of 28 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Robert McCullough, Janet Baker, and Barbara Strunk, and they'll be followed by Margaret Davis, John Sandy, and Terry Parker. Thank you.
 So again, I know this is an important subject to a lot of you, but I'm going to ask you to confine your remarks to two minutes just so we can hear everybody. Mayor, I slipped them in front of ENR, and they said they'd love to have their panel in one place. Oh, do we need to call a fourth person? Is that the problem? Either four or just boot me out in a moment and let them have their panel. All right, why don't we boot you out and let them have their panel since you're so .. Without objection, you'll be moved to the 7 PM hearing.
 Think I just gave up my first room, but I'm happy to do so because they're good folks. Okay. Thank you Yes, is there a third person that you wanted to have come up? Yeah, come on up and then we'll call you next Robert Thank you. That's good. And you can bring another chair if there four of you. So just grab a loose one All right Thank you, good afternoon hi I
 My name is Janet Baker and I'm part of United Neighborhoods for Reform and I live in northeast Portland. So finally, the city proposes an alternative approach to curbing demolitions, a demolition tax. The tax is intended to play two roles. First, it's intended to disincentivize demolitions in tandem with the work of the Residential Infill Task Force, which will be completed in 2017. Second, it's intended to disincentivize demolitions in tandem with the work of the Residential Infill Task Force, which will be completed in 2017.
 Secondly, it would provide some funding for low-income housing initiatives, a greatly underserved part of the Portland community. While we really appreciate the formation of the Residential Infill Task Force, which was part of our original UNR resolution, as you may recall,
 It'll be at least 18 months before the recommendations come before this group. We can't wait that long. Between now and then, hundreds more houses will be demolished in Portland and replaced with oversized suburban-style track homes that only a very small fraction of Portland homebuyers can afford. What's more, clearly the changes in the process for demolition delays are not working.
 Neighbors and city staff are grappling with the process to save well-built, quality homes that have served generations of Portland families. Of the six successful appeals, ones that have made it through the hearing officer, not a single home has been saved.
 The only beneficiaries of the demolition boom have been the developers. They've made many millions of dollars on the backs of Portland homeowners and renters. Externality, a term used in economics, is the cost or benefit that affects a party who did not choose to incur that cost or benefit. The negative externalities of the demolition boom in Portland are way too many for me to number.
 In addition, the damage done to neighborhood fabric and the impacts on people living adjacent to these demolitions and construction projects, demolitions have destroyed many viable, affordable homes and apartments in Portland at a time when affordable housing is becoming increasingly hard to find.
 The money collected from this proposed demolition tax would go into a fund to address affordable housing issue. We believe it's only fair that the beneficiaries of the boom, the developers, should help pay for some of the negative externalities of their actions.
 Although UNR agrees that a demolition tax could help curb demolitions and raise money for affordable housing, we do not believe the proposed tax structure we're talking about today will achieve that goal. The next speakers will tell you why we don't believe the proposed tax will work and what we submit as a revised tax for you to consider. Thank you for listening to us. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Hello. My name is Barbara Strunk. I'm a member of United Neighborhoods for Reform, and I live in Northeast Portland. UNR does support the idea of a demolition tax to try to curb the number of demolitions of single-family homes. We do not support the current proposed tax as it stands right now, mainly with the rebates offered if two houses are built in place of one. The original form of the tax,
 with no rebates, has credibility, but we think it can be better. What we think will happen if this current tax is enacted is that the number of demolitions of viable single-family residences will increase. Rebates will encourage demolitions and lot divisions. We will see greatly increased lot divisions and demolitions, especially in neighborhoods like Kenton,
 where nearly all the houses have underlying historical lot lines and are still somewhat affordable. We don't want to see any of these possibilities happen. What we want to see happen is an economic disincentive to most demolitions. We want to see an increase in the resources put toward housing affordability. We want to encourage the building of smaller, more affordable houses,
 and we want to avoid any policy that encourages more lot divisions. Our proposal is that the demolition fee should be $35,000. We think that the $25,000 is really just a drop in the bucket compared to the $800,000 to $1.3 million prices we're seeing on some of these new houses.
 People may claim that this tax will lower the price received by the seller of the old house, the one to be demolished. We argue that the seller needs to wait just a few more days, and they will get a bid from someone who wants to live in the house. And I'm running out of time. We see the rest of your testimony here, Barb. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. All right. Thanks. I'm Margaret Davis with the United Neighborhoods for Reform. I live in northeast Portland.
 We are grateful that you brought this demolition tax forward. Demolitions hurt neighborhoods, and they hurt people. We respectfully submit a revised version that Carla handed out. It's already in code language. The simple structure of UNR's revised tax, $35,000 flat tax on both demolitions and major remodels, will achieve the aim of protecting affordable housing and amassing funding for more. Minus exemptions, rebates, and loopholes, the revised tax is also far easier to administer.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales, for coming to our Neighborhood Association meeting on Monday and asking for feedback on this tax. At that time, you cited marginal success for the previous efforts by this council to combat demolitions. I would argue that sub-marginal or zero success better describes those efforts.
 To illustrate, under the demo delay rules, as Janet said, no house has been saved. Same with deconstruction. That voluntary program, which involves giving money to developers to do the right thing by foregoing wasteful and hazardous mechanical demolition, has had no takers since it was instituted. And in fact, staff encouraged an application just this week from somebody, but that house is already gone. Such non-results highlight the need for real ones.
 One constant in these underwhelming measures so far was heavy influence by members of the Development Review Advisory Committee, or DRAC. DRAC, which includes many developers, does an excellent job of finessing permitting processes. This demo tax is not one. We have been assured by the mayor on Monday that any changes, revisions made to this tax will go through the Revenue Department, and we hope through transparent process. We're counting on it.
 Demolitions take it all away. The affordable housing, mature urban trees, character and history, and uncontaminated dirt and air, among other irreplaceable assets of our community. This is your third try at curbing demolitions. Please make it matter.
 Commissioner Fritz, you led the charge against smoking in the parks. You should be against demolitions. They spread lead and asbestos, which cause health effects similar to smoking, maybe even worse. Commissioner Saltzman, you care about children through your children's levy. The Centers for Disease Control says there's no amount of lead that's safe in children, and bulldozed homes exude lead. Thank you.
 Commissioner Novick, you care about waste and resource waste and climate change. There's no way you can recoup the carbon cost of throwing an old growth home in the dumpster. And Commissioner Fish, if you care about affordable housing and aging in place, these are homes that served generations of Portlanders and could have served many more.
 So thank you again for bringing this demolition tax forward, and we hope, council, that you will consider a revised tax that will actually work. Thank you. Margaret, just two quick questions. You mentioned the DRAC earlier. Yes. And my understanding is that the DRAC has not officially weighed in on this. Is that correct? I don't know. I'll see you at the meeting tomorrow. I know they've talked about it. My understanding is that they have not taken a position. Okay.
 To my knowledge, no. I read the minutes of the last meeting. They did send us a letter saying they were disappointed that they were excluded from
 From the review and vetting process. And we do have somebody here to testify on that. So that would be consistent with my point that they have not taken a position. I understand they would like to have a role. But since you mentioned DRAC, I just want to make sure I hadn't missed something because I was not aware they had taken an official position. Well, again, we're just looking at future any revisions made to this tax or the changing that might go on. We hope we'll go through the revenue division or some other body. But we feel like DRAC is not the place to do it.
 Although I will say, just speaking as one commissioner, I would welcome DRAC's comments as I would any citizen body, because they have a point of view, and I would hope there's a formal way to get their perspective. This is not directly related to your testimony, but since you mentioned hazardous materials, since we last had a hearing on this subject, there was a series in the Oregonian about the Oregonian-American War and the Oregonian War.
 let's put it politely, lacks oversight of some state rules on asbestos and asbestos abatement. Are you addressing that separate and apart from demolitions in terms of where you think the city should land? Well, I feel like the city could do a lot to control hazmat. All we have to do is drive across the river to Vancouver and see how they do it. But if you curb demolitions, you've already taken care of your hazmat problem.
 that's one way to do it i guess the other way would be to figure out where and how we get we could regulate that area in light of the fact that the state is now regulating so all i'm saying is i would welcome any thoughts you would have on that subject independent of demolitions well and we're anxious to see how the city will comply with the recent state law passed about uh asbestos surveys thank you thank you all very much okay i think mr mccullough and a couple other people are next robert mccullough john sandy and terry parker
 and they will be followed by Mary Helen Kincaid, Brandon Spencer Hartle, and Paul Grove. Mr. Mayor, may I apply for two more minutes on your long-time policy? Nice try. You mean because you're a Southeast Uplift chair? I guess for that reason. I thought because you've taken a bump. But, yes, because you're a Southeast Uplift chair. Actually, you and I are allies of ours, so that would be a little pushing. Since you're a district coalition chair, yes. Thank you very much.
 I would like to thank the council and the mayor for the help in the Martins problem. Thank you very much for the mediation by your staff. I would like to note that it was kind of you to send me an email on the morning of the confrontation asking whether I was arrested. But I do need to counsel you to please take away your smartphone when they put you in jail. So next time, send me a telegram, okay? That would constitute cruel and unusual punishment, I think.
 I'm representing Southeast Uplift. We receive news of these changes through Brad Schmidt. We like Brad Schmidt a lot, but it underscores the process of public involvement. Brad, I hope you say something nice about me today. Robert, please don't encourage him.
 So to a degree, I'm without portfolio. The executive committee meeting is this afternoon at 5. Our next land use committee meeting is on Monday. We do have a Thursday neighborhood association meeting we'd love to have you attend. It's in your own elementary school, and we'd love to have you. The bottom line is we've been working on this proposal, reviewing it, following it. I've talked to you about it before. The sudden shift surprised us.
 We did some polling on it. The polling had two very different answers. The answers from the well-established neighborhoods closer to the river was that 25,000 was too low to be effective. From the neighborhoods closer to I-5, Brentwood-Darlington, the answer was actually rather strong, and that was, this will defeat our attempt to renew houses that need renewal. And so in both directions...
 There were some doubts about the proposal, and I noticed UNR had some proposals here, and they sounded good, and we may well endorse them when we get a chance. But the bottom line is the change loses both. We go from something that might, in fact, slow the pace of demolitions to something that will enhance it. On the margins confrontation, the problem was...
 that we had a subdivision that was pretending to be a single-family demolition, hence to get, I think, the last of the K-1 exemptions. Simultaneously, of course, they proposed clear-cutting 20 trees, including, as we know, three majestic redwood-style sequoias. However, the point of the matter is, cutting 20 trees was based on building two houses.
 So at BDS, they were simultaneously accepting a contradiction simply to get the answer the developer wanted. They were building two houses for cutting trees and one house for getting the exemption. Under your new rule, we suspect we'll see the exact opposite. People will pretend to build two houses and only mean to build one. The fact of the matter is we're applying duct tape to duct tape. We have to apply...
 Truth in zoning, we have to get the zoning rules back in shape. I noticed your own staff were unable to follow through the R5. The one staffer said 5,000 square feet. As we all know, it's been years since R5 meant 5,000 square feet. Another staffer confused demolitions with remodels. Until Amanda Fritz changed that rule, thank you, we had demolitions.
 that were in fact pretending to be remodels. I can remember standing next to one, next to a school here in Portland, with asbestos, no controls, and a bulldozer remodeled the house. Now generally we believe bulldozers are not a tool of remodeling. And so as we end up with these very complex and exaggerated solutions, what we need is a lot more discussion. We have been headed on this. We will be coming back with more detailed statements.
 But at the moment, we're a little upset for being left out. We checked with RAC, Mary Helen Kincaid, who, as you know, is a friend of mine. She had not been consulted. Citywide Land Use Committee had not been consulted. Our land use representatives on the infill committee had not been consulted. In fact, we got some pretty angry letters from our land use guys who are fierce. So please don't lose the resources. We're not just an interest group. We're working our tails off on this stuff.
 And let me close, by the way, with something that's tongue-in-cheek. As you know, as an economist, I have no sense of humor. It was surgically removed when I was an executive at the power company. Very painful. If we're really talking about affordable housing, one of my staff proposed yesterday to me that it was very simple. Two-thirds of all of the Airbnbs are now not licensed, and therefore we have an enormous housing stock pretty much taken out of the normal use.
 And that would be an excellent place for a voucher system for the homeless this winter. May I ask a question? You mentioned polling. Is that a scientific poll that you have conducted? No, no, no. We are masters of non-scientific polling, and I apologize for it. The only defense I can make of our polling is that it's honest, though innocent.
 So it was a survey of the Southeast Uplift Coalition? It is a survey going through Nextdoor, and it's simply the sort of issue where you can use that software to ask the question. In this case, it was pretty much a question of whether the original proposal would work.
 would work well or not. And then there was an enormous dialogue through Nextdoor on this. Well, I applaud you for doing that and for having the conversation with neighborhoods like Brentwood-Darlington. I've heard from neighborhoods further east and indeed some in southwest that there was a similar concern that the proposal would result in housing that needs to go not being demolished. Absolutely. And southeast uplift, as you know, goes from one level to the other level of extreme on income, et cetera.
 Robert, two questions. First, a comment. If only two-thirds of the short-term rentals were not permitted, that would be progress, because I think we're closer to 90%. Well, that's an interesting question. I'll be impressed if that's true, because that's not the statistics we've seen. But please have the staffer who has that tell us, because it's very different than what we've seen.
 The second thing, I think the situation is worse. But it's okay to put a homeless in a permit at Airbnb. I think the level of compliance is worse, and I think the easy way to resolve that is for simply the platform owner to refuse to advertise any unit that can't verify that they've obtained a necessary permit, which I think is not only a responsible thing, it ensures that the guest has got a safe night's sleep.
 Absolutely. I agree with that. Let me come back to the  let me tap you wearing your hat as an economist. Some say that a demolition fee is going to drive up the cost of housing. Others say that what's really affecting the current market is that people want to live in Portland, and they're paying a premium. Where do you land on that? Well 
 Any good Econ 102 class will tell you it's a bit of both. And the elasticity of demand, if it's high, would mean that the buyer would pay more of the tax. In this case, most of the concerns we had from Eastmoreland residents was 25,000 would not have postponed Everett Custom Homes from the demolition levels they're undertaking.
 When we're talking about million-dollar homes resulting, this almost certainly is not going to deter them. You've heard our outrage on the $1,200 per 150-foot giant sequoias. Often I notice in public policy staff have very limited ideas of the real financial impact.
 The dollars in these developments are enormous, and the dollars needed to actually have an impact on developers are going to be enormous. What about our friends in the outer southeast, as you noted, might have a different view on this and who are looking at a demolition fee as an obstacle to replacing a house that may have reached its useful life with another home which also might end up being affordable?
 I agree entirely, and that's one of the reasons why we were a little surprised at things that shifted so suddenly. For myself, if we were going to have a tax, it would have to be graded, graduated, I think graduate's the right word, in some degree to apply to both areas. One size does not fit all on a tax. If it's graduated, is the simplest way, if we were to take that approach, just to have a floor, exempt the $150,000 homes altogether? Yes.
 for example? I think that would be one, but I've got to tell you, if we just look at the Martin situation, the home was bought for a bargain and the two homes were almost certainly going to be in the million dollar range. $25,000 was not going to affect that at all. And so we would almost have to have some sort of percentage that would get the dollar amount up to where it would have an impact.
 So, Robert, I appreciate you and R and others being willing to now try to take this to a point where we believe it, again, does what I think we all agree it should do. And you know some of the thinking that's gone into this and developing it so far. We originally were looking at the tax assessment bifurcation in which each house is assigned a land value and an improvements value. As it turns out...
 through whatever quirks of the Multnomah County assessment and taxation system, those numbers have very little to do with the actual land value and improvements value of a typical house. So we are looking for ideas for how to graduate the tax.
 The $25,000 flat amount is the simplest and easiest to administer version of this idea. But we're looking for you and others who are economists or not to 
 to try to devise a way to graduate it. We're interested and we're getting testimony. I've heard a lot from neighborhoods already about whether the two-for-one replacement situations should be included or not included, and most recently whether if we proceed with the version that's now in front of the council where it only applies to one-for-one, that it will create a perverse incentive to do more two-for-one, as you already heard here this afternoon.
 dollar amount. We're interested in that. And then we're also interested in what constitutes a derelict house. It's a little bit like Potter Stewart's definition of pornography. We all know one when we see one. I've been out in the field with some of the builders who are here to speak and seen some of the houses they proposed to demolish, and I told them at the time, I think most neighborhoods would send them a bouquet instead of a tax bill if they would demolish that house. The question is how do we encode
 define that house. We've made an attempt at that with this language about the code hearings officer's findings. It may not be the right way to do it. So those areas, what should the dollar amount be, how do we graduate it, and how do we define a derelict house other than it's obvious are areas where we need help in the development of this ordinance. Thank you, Mayor, and the Land Use Committee of Southeast Uplift is happy to work on it. They are much smarter than I am.
 I was sent here to express outrage, despair, unhappiness. I've done a poor job since you've heard all that before. I've tried reason instead. But we'd like to come back next week with those detailed issues. And frankly, those guys, Michael Molinar and Rod Merrick and all of their colleagues, are working their tails off. So don't leave them out of the mix. They're doing their best to help. We appreciate their service on the task force.
 So you mentioned next week. It sounds to me. This isn't going to happen next week. Right. I'm glad to hear that. It feels more like a planning commission hearing to me than a final. This is an initial public hearing. We don't have a schedule for when this is going to happen. Well, you know, I only hear about this from Brad Schmidt, so what do I know? He does a fine job. I don't believe everything you read in the papers. Sir, welcome. Mayor and commissioners, my name is John Sandy, and I'm a frustrated neighbor from northeast Portland.
 And I think I am representing, most probably, thousands of others sharing a similar state of mind. I'm going to vary from the text a bit. That could be a problem, but we'll do it to try to address some issues that have come up. One is timeliness. I've heard a lot of people say we weren't involved in the decision. But for almost two years, despite countless meetings and thousands of hours of city resources and civic-minded volunteers, we have achieved no results.
 impact, appreciable result of slowing the demolition of housing down. So timeliness has to be factored into this. I appreciate the mayor and the council looking at an issue to try to address this issue. But I have to impress timeliness. Right now we have to do something. That's my plea. Do something.
 to slow down the demolitions to allow the residential infill project time to do its job and what it was chartered to do, let alone, as Nick Fish brought up with the recent Oregonian, allow DEQ and the contractors to get their act together when you're talking about hazardous materials. We can't just sit by and accept the status quo on that forever.
 longer than the two years that we've been sitting on the sidelines right now. We need to do something to address that right now. So that's my plea to you. Get something done now.
 If you've got to get input from all the resources, as Robert has indicated, fine. Do it in a timely, effective manner. And please, for my benefit, prove that an acting municipal body can actually get through the details and actually do some concrete work. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Parker. Thank you for the opportunity. My name is Terry Parker from northeast Portland. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander. Voters are upset.
 even angry over the large number of home demolitions that are taking place in their neighborhoods. For a tax to be effective as it applies to the primary purpose of managing home demolitions, it must be simple, straightforward, and all-inclusive, not a watered-down sprinkler system full of loopholes that are large enough to run a state locomotive through. Rebates that encourage lot splitting will diminish neighborhood green space and neighborhood fabric.
 Affordable homes are the ones that are being torn down. I fully support the testimony that has been presented by the UNR speakers. I'll keep it short. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Next three are Mary Helen Kincaid, Brandon Spencer Hartle, and Paul Grove, and they will be followed by Jerry Johnson, Dan Franks, and Eric Thompson. Thank you.
 I want to thank whoever signed me up first because I want to be home for the Royals game at 5 o'clock. I might not be here for the end of this. I'm not a Houston fan, no. Approached by a lot of people in the marijuana industry to find out how you got to the front head of the line. I'm not telling you. If you're here this morning, that actually is relevant. I'm not going to disclose that. Thank you. Okay.
 For the record, Mary Helen Kincaid. I'm the chair of the Development Review Advisory Committee, otherwise known as DRAC. You all received a letter from DRAC and I think are aware of that, so I don't need to publicly read that or take up my two minutes. My point is, and as usual, I started out with something, and then as I started hearing things, I changed a little bit. But I think the nexus of all of this is we need to figure out what the future desired outcome is, and everybody speaks to demolitions.
 The DRAC Demo Ordinance Subcommittee was not formed to stop demolitions, but it was to create conditions under which neighbors could be notified.
 exception went out the window and the 35-day delay offered opportunity for notification and for neighborhoods to provide evidence of why they should save that property. You've heard testimony and I have to agree with them. It hasn't saved a single house. There were six appeals. Three were approved, three were denied, one before it even started. I've come to the conclusion that
 We need to start at the very beginning. There needs to be some opportunity. And this is why I think there should have been more discussion, that DRAC should have been brought into this, because this was part of our discussion, but it was not the purveyance of what we were supposed to do. But we need to start at the beginning. Robert McCullough mentioned Mike Molinaro, who's on the Southeast Uplift and the RIP
 Oh, I'm really running. He's developed a program. Commissioner Saltzman's staff has seen it. Paul Scarlett's seen it. It identifies houses that are significant. The neighborhoods could identify those. That way we could deal with them. It has its...
 We've had preliminary discussions with PCRI, Habitat for Humanity, Proud Ground, that they could take the ownership part of it, transfer that, but it's not finished yet. I'd like to see that pursued. I'd like to see  and I proposed this to Commissioner Saltzman the other day  I'd like to see a committee that can get some good, substantial things and do something to affect the demolition process. Okay.
 I don't think we need to go with economic disincentives. I think we need to go with economic incentives, those people that are going to do something good. I don't know exactly how it all works because this all caught me by surprise as a DRAC member and as a citizen and as a land use person in my neighborhood that this proposal was out there. It was discussed at one DRAC subcommittee meeting for about all of five minutes, and there was really no resolution or recommendation from that meeting. Okay.
 Mayor Hales, you said about we want to preserve good old houses that are good for the neighborhood. I don't think anybody disputes that. But what's a good way to do that? It's not after the permit's been issued and a developer has spent $40,000 on plans, and then the neighborhoods get set up for an argument and an appeals process. I just don't think that's a fruitful way to go at it. It doesn't address ADUs. It doesn't. It's.
 You heard and I thought we should take a poll here because we could probably end this hearing now. How many people think this is a good idea as it stands? You've got developers, you've got UNR, you've got your DRAC subcommittee all say we need to hit the reset button and do something really productive here. So I think it's going to require interbureau work. I think we proved DRAC.
 DRAC can work with a variety of stakeholders to come out with a good resolution. So I'd like to see incentives for smaller houses. There's all kinds of things that could be built into this. I don't see it as a  I think the revenue production will be the revenue savings that people will have because there's  and I like to use a term Maxine Fitzpatrick taught me this term, affordability as opposed to affordable housing. So we need to make affordability part of our language. Okay.
 My only other question, and this can be for staff later if I'm still here,
 who the stakeholders were that you met with i just heard that you met with beaumont wilshire on monday night why not drac the last previous two months and it says that in the um i wanted to bring council's attention to the impact statement where it says that um mayor's office shared a concept with stakeholders in august 2015 and shared a draft proposal with stakeholders in september 25th 2015. um i'd argue that drac is a huge stakeholders group and we never got any of that information so
 I'm concerned about the content in these from my public involvement advisory committee experience. Public involvement didn't really happen there. Mary Helen, first, maybe I needed to do a more complete version of setting the table for this at the beginning, so let me try again. I mentioned this topic and said that we would be working on this in January of this year when I gave my State of the City speech.
 I realize not everyone listens to my State of the City speech, but I brought it up. In April of this year, I was at a UNR forum on Sandy Boulevard, and I brought it up there, and then my staff has been working on it for six months. It's a revenue proposal, not a development review proposal. Your DRAC committee is welcome to look at this revenue proposal and comment on it. And then finally 
 I've been trying to say this all along. I'll say it again. I brought this to this hearing today as a proposal. It's an idea. Maybe it's a good deed that should be punished, or maybe it isn't. But it's a proposal. Now you can help shape it into a policy. Okay.
 That's how the legislative process is supposed to work. But I think we're so accustomed maybe to the lack of debate in places like Congress that it seems unusual. And actually, we've done it a number of times on a number of topics in this council over the last couple of years where we put something on the table and start a public discussion. That's what we're doing today. That's why when someone said next week when we act on this.
 i started waving my arms and i think we're not gonna we're not gonna adopt the current proposal it's just a starting point so again apologies if drac hasn't felt included but this isn't about development review it's about taxing demolition before development occurs so i i appreciate that the drac worked on the the previous changes to our demolition delay
 And I appreciate that effort. Obviously, it hasn't been sufficient, and you recognize that as well. So again, I hope everyone can just take a deep breath and say, oh, this is an idea. What do we do with it? Rather than worrying about how much or how little public process has occurred before today. It begins here. Right. And I totally agree with you. And if it came across as something else, I apologize.
 I believe that this needs to be looked at, but it needs to be looked at in a more in-depth kind of fashion and cross bureaus. And when you speak to it being a revenue proposal and not development review, it's a little bit of a,
 DRAC's going to, and Commissioner Saltzman left, so I can't speak on his behalf, but has agreed to have DRAC subcommittee look at cumulative fees, whether it's from PBOT, BES, BDS, because they could argue this is a BES fee or this is a Water Bureau fee.
 that all affects development. And this tax or fee or charge or whatever it ends up being is going to affect development, and it's going to affect housing. So the Portland Housing Bureau needs to be involved in this. And so that's my point is I don't think it's just one bureau that needs to look at this. It needs to be a stakeholder group like we had, and my experience was that Demo... Chair Kincaid, my understanding is your next DRAC meeting is tomorrow. Correct. Okay.
 So is it your hope that there's some further presentation tomorrow on this concept, or is this something you intend to schedule for next month's meeting? I wouldn't expect anybody. I mean, if someone wants to, we could probably shift the agenda around, but we have a full agenda, so November is fine. Even a special meeting, because there's many DRAC members that are extremely interested in this topic. Good. Thank you.
 Mr. Spencer-Hardell. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Brandon Spencer-Hardell. I'm here today representing Restore Oregon, 1130 Southwest Morrison Street. I'm here to support the concept and the leadership provided by the mayor in hopes that the rest of the commission can build the right proposal. There are many reasons to advance a disincentive for the demolition of single-family houses and the replacement of housing options that don't meet our community's needs. I wanted to list off a couple of reasons why we might consider this disincentive.
 One, rehabilitation of existing buildings per dollar spent generates more jobs than new construction. Two, every house demolished sends 58,000 pounds of waste to the landfill, and only 9% of replacement projects on the sites of single-family houses provide multifamily housing. Three, new houses are obviously and inherently more expensive than existing houses. And four, neighborhoods often oppose the scale and massing of new houses.
 In my estimation, the demolition tax should be structured to reward good behavior. This can be accomplished by inclusion of a small menu of options that would provide for partial rebates, the combination of which may get the $25,000 tax to zero.
 The four partial rebates that I'd like the council to consider today would be rebates for full deconstruction. And in doing full deconstruction, we would solve for the hazardous materials concerns that neighbors have. Two, a rebate for affordable housing. Three, a rebate for multifamily housing. And by multifamily housing, I don't mean two new houses, but I mean housing that is multifamily in its nature. And four, and I think one of the things that has come up by UNR's comments is,
 is a partial or full rebate for a neighborhood association waiver for those situations where you may have a neighborhood association board who would like to see a house replaced or who have had positive interactions with a developer who's proposing something better for their neighborhood.
 Additionally, I believe the proposed tax should apply to all residential structures in all residential zones, which is what your Title 24 demolition ordinance covers. So this would be a broader application of the proposal than what is in the language that the Mayor's Office has proposed. And this can be found in Title 24-55-200.
 And I will stop there. Can I just ask you, since you're suggesting a broader application and a bigger menu of exemptions, where do you come down on the dollar amount? I don't. Do you have a position on that?
 No, and I don't know if 25 is the right number or 35 is the right number, but my thinking is that in offering partial rebates, you could incentivize multiple tiers of good behavior. Deconstruction would be one of those. Affordable housing could be one. And for those projects that are on transit corridors or in multifamily zones, you could accommodate some of the concerns about density through having that type of rebate. Can I just ask you why?
 Why do you have more confidence in terms of the asbestos and hazardous material concern with a deconstruction rather than a demolition? Couldn't there be a deconstruction that is just as irresponsible as a demolition in terms of how to handle hazardous materials?
 That's a really good question. I serve on the Deconstruction Advisory Group, and Sean Wood from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is here who could talk further about that. But one of the core pieces of our conversation is by the delicate nature of deconstruction as opposed to mechanical demolition, you would be proactively able to identify where a host of hazardous materials are located in a house and abate those as you came across them rather than sort of accidentally or inadvertently not noticing lead or mercury or asbestos through the backhoe.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, for the record, my name is Paul Grove. I'm with the HBA of Metro Portland. I submitted written testimony on behalf of the organization. I will do my best to not read it. And
 As noted in the testimony, the HBA of Metro Portland is not supportive of the proposal, and I've outlined a series of policy issues that are problematic. Sorry, I don't think I have a copy. Have you got copies of that, Carla? It was emailed to us last night. It was emailed. Okay, sorry. Go ahead. I'll get it later. My apologies. We can follow up with that accordingly. So, again, there are a host of policy considerations that we've identified and outlined in
 in the testimony. Um, the first is around affordability. It's been discussed a little bit today. We've talked about folks building at the SDC waiver line and having to carry that cost and what that looks like. And does that become a burden for those folks like habitat and others? Um,
 who are doing this type of work. There are increasingly few in this space, and you will likely hear more about that, but that is something that we outlined. We also outlined the affordability piece around those building in and around the median home value to the point that Commissioner Fish made earlier if we're looking at some homes in outer southeast, a new home that might not be technically derelict but is defunct,
 deficient might be replaced with a reasonable, affordable home. And a $350,000 home is something that the neighbor, I think, would want and approve. And frankly, looking at a $25,000 tax, the prospect or the calculation looks different for a family in terms of what it can and can't afford. The second item that we noted was around energy efficiency and sustainability.
 number of homes that are torn down are frankly energy inefficient and are replaced with newer homes that reduce the residential carbon footprint. I think this is a desirable objective at the end of the day. And so rather than penalize that, I think we should be trying to reward and incent that.
 The third piece that we outlined in the testimony was around equity. I think an unfortunate consequence of the proposal is around those existing property owners, if they choose to potentially tear down and rebuild and be in an owner-occupied home, are they subject to that tax?
 Also, those residents, long time Portland residents that have been in the city and have weathered the tough times and now are looking at their nest egg. What does that look like for them? Are they going to potentially take a hit on what that property value may be?
 The fifth item that we outlined was around accountability, and it's been discussed a bit today in terms of some of the outstanding issues with respect to the administration, what this looks like, technical pieces, et cetera. I don't want to belabor the point. It's been discussed a little bit today, but those are the highlights of the testimony that we presented on behalf of the HBA.
 And I will stop there. Thank you. Sir, and I apologize that I don't have your letter in front of me, but if you email that, I'll look for it. Does your submission outline the potential, what HBA believes to be the legal potential,
 defects of a demolition tax approach? Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish, I appreciate that question. Actually, you don't have to do that here. You do that in Salem. You don't have to go through that extra. Old habits. You know, that letter was submitted by John Chandler, CEO of the State Association. It's on their behalf, and that was submitted. So I don't have any additional detail to provide to you other than what Mr. Chandler submitted to us. So all I would say is that if HBA 
 regional, state, believes that this approach is illegal because somehow it's either preempted or conflicts with state law or whatever, I would urge you to submit that argument in writing so that we can evaluate it. I think that would be helpful. And the second just comment is, in light of the concern that you've raised about affordability,
 Do you support exempting demolitions below a certain house value? Commissioner Fish, I appreciate the question. At this point in time, I think as we evaluate the options, we have to put all things on the table, what that looks like. If it looks like an upfront exemption, if it looks like a rebate, or if the policy, as it's ultimately structured,
 and we take and heed the counsel of others who have wanted to pump the brakes, slow down and look at this in greater detail, maybe a tax is not necessary. So I would suggest that at this point in time I'm not in a position to support anything. Frankly, the association is not supportive of a tax on demolitions. So I get that. And since the mayor has said we're going to be reviewing this and this is just the beginning,
 of the process, I would benefit from additional feedback from your organization about how to address affordability because I think everyone acknowledges that someone in Outer East that wants to demolish a $150,000 home and replace it with a home that a middle-class family can afford.
 is in a different category of someone who, in my neighborhood, is taking a perfectly nice bungalow that is in the $300,000 to $400,000 range and replacing it with an $800,000 house that very few people can afford. And so if in your analysis, reserving your right to object to the whole exercise, you think that an exemption at the front end helps address the affordability, I would like to hear more about that.
 another subject that i mentioned earlier to mr mccullough that we could use your advice on i suspect um your advice about the dollar amount will probably not be all that helpful because i think i already know what it is but i'm teasing but here's here's one where we really could use your help and that is this um this issue of what constitutes a derelict house
 I threw out that challenge to Mr. McAuliffe as well. We've got to figure out, if we're going to do this, we've got to figure out how do we draw that line and how do we define that situation in code where the house is too far gone to keep and where no one in particular would, where no reasonable person, in my opinion, would want to stand in the way of its demolition. How do we draw that line in code?
 other than a judgment call or an inspection, or how do we do that? So that is an open question in my mind about this ordinance as it now stands. We've pegged it to the hearings officer and the Bureau's determination and the code provisions that underlie that. I'm not sure if that's the right way to do it or not. So your members' help in being able to codify 
 a reasonable call on what is a house that is too far gone to keep would be very helpful.
 I appreciate all three of you and indeed the previous six speakers. I also, Mary Helen, was not aware that this was more like a work session than a final hearing. Neither was my Chief of Staff. So I'm really grateful to know that each of you is engaged, and I hope that there will be a task force or some forum set up so that these issues can be thought through in a more 
 I don't think we're going to get to complete consensus on this, as we don't on most issues, but it would be good to have a proposal that's had each of your input in it, and I appreciate your willingness to do that.
 Can I interject something about what you were saying, derelict houses? And I mentioned Mike Molinaro and this project he's done. He spent 16 months. He's an architect. He's got it completely mapped out for Sunnyside and half a King neighborhood, pictures of every house, those kinds of things. And there are standards for derelict. There are standards for different levels. And so in this sort of proposal, it's in its infancy, but sort of,
 16 months down the road, he's got proposals for how to make those judgments. Peer review, architect, city staff, structural engineer, utilizing some of the students in Portland State or architectural firms. So there are some great ideas out there, we just need time to get them together.
 He has his 50-minute slideshow, so anytime you or any of your staff want to see it, he's more than willing to show somebody. But he has made great progress, and so it would answer some of that. And then just quickly, because it wouldn't be me if I didn't have a quote for you, and I'm probably going to murder this because I don't have it written down, but Stephen Hawking from Smith & Hawkins wrote,
 who's now out doing ecological, environmental things. He said good management is when you identify a problem that is so interesting everyone wants to get on board to help. And so I think this describes his whole process. So I thank all of you for that.
 The challenge might be that in Sunnyside it may be possible to take pictures of every home. Centennial, I think, has over 10,000 homes. And similarly, some other neighborhoods in our community don't have the capacity to do that. So what we're looking at is can we tailor something that may not be one size fits all. Yeah, some answers to that, too. Thank you. Mary Helen, just before you leave, George Brett lives. Go Royals. Oh, thank you.
 Okay, thank you very much. Okay, let's take the next folks, please. Jerry Johnson, Dan Franks, and Eric Thompson, and they will be followed by Steve Messonetti, Justin Wood, and Fred Leeson. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor Hales, members of the commission. My name is Jerry Johnson with Johnson Economics, 621 Southwest Alder, Suite 605, Portland, Oregon.
 This is an odd thing for me to be doing because I'm basically speaking on housing policy, which I care a great deal about. I'm going to be speaking to the text I was given, which I now understand is probably in flux. But I think some of the issues are broad enough that they'll be useful. When you get into issues of affordability, and affordability is an issue I think I care about as well as much. Most people do.
 It's really hard to come up with solutions where you don't get unintended consequences. And I think the way this is currently structured, there's a lot of potential for that. First of all, the timing and burden of the rebate thing, I'm really sort of troubled by this, looking at this, how it happens. There's a lot of small builders, even builders who can get rebates. It doesn't say how long they're holding their money. And if you're a small nonprofit doing a duplex, you're theoretically under this pressure.
 language, you're going to get a rebate for your whole less maybe an administrative fee. But they're basically someone's parking on your money for an unspecified number of months or years or whatever it is, and I think that's a potential hardship. I think it's going to be really important how that's structured, what the impact is going to be. I do think one of the things you always need to understand when you do housing policy, particularly when you're doing a tax or a charge policy,
 is you know who you charge it to. In economics, there's an issue called incidence, which is sort of a subspecialty, which is who pays it. We know who we charge. But if you're a developer and you're charged a $25,000 fee for a demolition, you're either trying to push it to the market or you're trying to take it off the property value, one or the other. Robert, who I'm proud to say represents my neighborhood, he's a developer.
 You got it right. It's this whole income elasticity of demand, which is who has the power to push that pricing, which way it goes. But in most cases, it sort of goes both directions. It has a bit of an inflationary price on housing, and it has a deflationary price on property values of the existing housing. That can slow down redevelopment, which maybe is some of the things. I do actually also want to advocate for move away from a flat fee. I think it's really got a regressive impact. I think it's going to disproportionately 
 cause some hardships in some of the lower-income neighborhoods that have lower supportable pricing. At the same time, it's a $25,000 fee on a million-dollar home in Eastmoreland. That's 2.5%. That's really not of any consequence. I guess my time's up. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Daniel Franks, a member of the Northeast Neighborhood.
 I just want to put a little input in. I'm a member of King neighborhood for about the last 40 years, and I lived in Boise. And I see a lot of things growing in the neighborhood that's been good from the development. Because I can remember when we go to Mississippi and it was one person on Mississippi Avenue. So I don't want to see the brakes put on the development.
 It's good to think of the small people, and I'm one of them. So I don't mean to say that, but $25,000 on the one hand is going to hurt some of the people that's fairly small when they try to turn in their investment. And I'm speaking of my neighbor. I won't mention his name, but he's 80 years old. He was thinking of retiring, and then he got just a little house. And I think in those scenarios, yeah.
 It's a pretty good idea that he's been in the neighborhood that long and can cash in on it after all of the things that he'd been through for 80 years. And he's got a fairly decent offer, and he's entertaining it. And I think if he'd come into $25,000 less, he probably would miss a year's income because he's on a fixed income. Myself, I'm disabled.
 So I don't have a modest income myself, and $25,000 means a lot to me as well. But I do appreciate the fact that the thought is going to the process of helping underprivileged people find a place, and the thought also keeping the price down. Everybody wants the price down, sure enough, so we're trying to accomplish the same objective. It's just more like, how do we do it? And I agree with most people. If we do $25,000, who pick up the $25,000? Right.
 Because what has happened over the years where we were, it was nobody over there to actually invest. We've only got people to invest, so I would hate to run them off. That's my feeling about the investment in my area. So I hope we come up with a plan that is pleasing to everybody as opposed to just stab you and I get mines and I run. That's my two minutes. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, City Commissioners. My name is Eric Thompson. I'm a Portland resident. I also own a small business that specializes in infill single-family construction here in Portland. We use local contractors and suppliers.
 We support the local economy, and I believe that we truly improve the city's neighborhoods one house at a time. While I think we can all agree that Portland, like most West Coast cities and really a lot of different areas throughout the country, has an affordable housing issue, I believe the proposed demolition tax is a solution that is looking for a problem.
 and it doesn't necessarily address affordability here in Portland at all. Let me kind of share with you some numbers as to why I believe this. If we use $350,000 as a top-end price for an affordable house, one that maybe a family can purchase, maybe rehab and fix up, there were 6,330 such houses bought and sold in Portland over the last 12 months.
 Of those 6,000-plus houses, 174 were accompanied with a demo permit. And out of those 174 demo permits, only 75 were for a one-to-one replacement, which is what we've been talking about with the edited version of the proposal today. The rest were to be replaced by two or more houses, which is 100% aligned with the city's stated density goals as part of the broader metro population growth.
 And so, finally, if you take a look at these 75 one-to-one demo permits out of 6,000-plus houses that we can call affordable that were purchased last year, only 30 were for houses that had an appraised value of more than $125,000. This is important because while some houses have been demoed over the past few years that could be deemed habitable, the vast majority, as evidenced by their low appraised values, were often vacant, derelict, rundown eyesores that were the blight of otherwise thriving neighborhoods. Okay.
 In reality, these houses were at the end of their useful life cycle. At the current rate of demos, it will take 500 years to replace the city's entire housing stock. And I'd like to point out that the real estate market is incredibly efficient. It's very safe to say that if there's any inherent value in a house, that a rehabber or a family will pay more for that house than me as somebody who's going to redevelop it and demo it.
 can afford to pay. As an interesting aside, I demoed one of these houses a few years ago in Westmoreland. I replaced it with a new home, and this is an example of the one-to-one demo that we're talking about. In speaking about the proposed demo tax with my clients, they owned the house at the time. They had me tear it down, build them a new home. They told me not a week goes by when they don't receive a compliment about how great the house is and how it has improved the neighborhood.
 And then they recounted a story of a few years back when they said, Mayor Hills, you were campaigning door-to-door, you were on their front porch, and you indicated to them that this was a great example of the type of infill housing that the city needs. That's the exact type of housing right now that we're proposing a $25,000 demo tax on. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you all Okay, next next three are Steve Messonetti Justin wood and Fred Leeson and they'll be followed by cliff Goldman Alyssa Eisenstein Kruger and lightning Good afternoon mayor commissioners. Thank you. I to I'm Steve Messonetti executive director of habitat for humanity and
 And I, too, applaud really all of your efforts this year toward creating more opportunities for affordable housing and the production of affordable housing. And I was going to say that I was also very pleased with the focus of these funds on affordable homeownership, the most unfunded aspect of the housing spectrum. I was less pleased with the amendment to take that allocation and have this be reimbursed.
 a more broad funding source. So I do ask for continued reflection on the specific use of these funds.
 But my main concern with this proposal was, I mentioned some already, the unintended consequences related to the structure of the rebate. Right now, this is structures such that a developer such as Habitat for Humanity or another small developer, Fish Construction, that is working hard to create an end product that is affordable to a family here would have to actually upfront that $25,000
 And our typical project, we would have a house that we take down. It might be three or four years before we have subdivided
 through the development process and built the replacement home or homes on that site and then sold it to the next family. So that burden of coming up with those additional funds up front, carrying those costs, and then getting even if it's all of those funds back at the end would be a significant burden. And I don't think it's necessary. So I really recommend looking at that.
 rebate turning back into an exemption, which is really how the SDC program is set up. There's already an administrative process for that. It's a simple process that we make the commitment to build affordable units and sell those homes to low-income families. If we don't meet that commitment, there's a lien on that property, and we have to pay interest on that at the end of the day. So there's not really an additional process needed if we just follow those SDC rules that are in place. Thank you.
 So, again, I appreciate further consideration, especially of that rebate issue. I appreciate your help in the next phase as well. Great. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is Justin Wood. I'm an owner of Fish Construction Northwest. We are an infill builder in Portland and have been doing it for 40 plus years. I'm here to express my concerns with the proposed demolition tax and my opposition to it. First, I do just want to reference two earlier documents that were called to the council's attention. One is a letter from the OHBA calling into legality of the tax. I would be in the camp that does believe that to be an illegal excise tax. I was
 Actually glad to hear it referred to as an excise tax because while it is technically being referred to as a tax on the demolition, it's been pretty clear from everybody who's talked about it that the goal is to prevent the construction of newer, larger houses in its place. So I think the argument can be made that it is to prevent development, and it's not necessarily on the demolition of the house. Also, as a DRAC member...
 While, again, it is referenced as a revenue issue, I think there's a lot of broad support across DRAC, both from neighborhoods, deconstruction people, developers alike. And I would like to see DRAC get a chance to participate in this process because we were pretty disappointed on that. If the tax does move forward, I am supportive of it only being on the one-for-one basis.
 For a lot of people in the room who may not know and haven't been through the metro growth processes, the City of Portland is planning to add over 120,000 housing units in the next 20 years. And while only 10% of that is predicted to be single-family, that is still 12,000 new single-family homes are being projected for the city. And that can't happen without some levels of demolition. Okay.
 Lastly, as Steve mentioned earlier, I do think the affordability carve-out if the tax move forward is a good idea. However, rather than just having us pay it up front and getting it reimbursed, that has a direct impact on our ability to bring a product to market. I think, as Commissioner Fish suggested, the council should consider a floor where they just exempt, potentially use an improved value or the assessed value on the improvements of the
 property and consider that for the basis of an exemption rather than just across the board
 Just lastly, I would like to mention that I think it's important that the City Council and the neighborhood associations and UNR and everybody have a bigger picture discussion rather than the demolitions and how it fits into the whole process. We have a comp plan, we have the tree code, we have the design standards, and we have demolitions. All of these are impacted by the homes that are going to be built here in the next 20,000 years. And I think when we look at these things as just one part of the bigger puzzle, we're not doing a good job of trying to figure out the whole policy. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Fred Lease in the Architectural Heritage Center speaking on behalf of our advocacy committee that generally supported the idea that demolition tax is the first step. We would love to see that paired with incentives. Some of the ones that Restore Oregon mentioned I think make a whole lot of sense, and we would love to work on that with you. We were deeply concerned about the modifications. We think the two-for-one is going in the wrong direction. If the issue is demolitions, that's just going to promote it.
 We would welcome the idea if you were going to exempt the two-for-one that that only occur if it's for affordable housing. We really liked the idea in the original plan of the instead of the flat fee was it the older the house, the more you paid because that's an incentive for preservation. We were sorry to see that taken out because we think that speaks to preservation.
 Mayor Hales, I think why you got some pushback about this today is usually all of these things come from the bottom up. And this is one of the first time and it's a wonderful experience to come down and talk to the city council first time out of the box. But I think that's the piece that people had difficulty understanding. We really like to see this process move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all.
 Next three are Cliff Goldman, Alyssa Eisenstein Kruger, and Lightning, and they'll be followed by Steve Elder, Jess Larson, and Shelly Euler. Good afternoon. Welcome. I'm Cliff Goldman and Mayor Hales and members of the commission. Thank you for letting me speak here today. And thank you, Mayor Hales, for showing up at the Bowman-Warshard Neighborhood Association meeting and explaining this.
 i wrote a letter to the editor about this as a response to you're going in saying that this is a lousy idea tear down taxes punitive and counterproductive but they did say that there is going to be a residential infill stakeholder advisory committee and i think that's great to change some zoning so we can stop this now i live on northeast skidmore street where two mcmansions were recently completed one of them occupied by one individual and the other by a family of four they went for six hundred and seventy thousand dollars each
 the two mcmansions farther down the block and closer to northeast 42nd are nearing completion and will be going for nine hundred thousand dollars each houses on skidmore between northeast 42nd and and northeast 47th are valued at 350 to 400 000 not only are the newly constructed houses architecturally incompatible with all other houses on the street but they're contributing to the increase of the unaffordability
 Portland housing. Zoning changes are needed to stop this epidemic. This is the mission of the committee, of the stakeholders committee. That's great. Taxing developers on a teardown is just one tool being used to disincentivize developers from thoughtless construction. Now, since that letter to the editor appeared in the Oregonian, there's this idea of rebates came up.
 and property owners could collect rebates for building multiple units or affordable housing and various other categories. Unfortunately, the rebate would be granted to a developer who is going to replace a one structure and replace with two larger, more expensive McMansions. Thus, no disincentive for the current destruction there be. Perhaps an idea would be to grant the rebate to the developer who will replace the demolished home adhering to the height, width, and setbacks.
 that are compatible with the neighborhood and what the Residential Infill Stakeholder Advisory Committee will be advising to do is to preserve the architectural integrity and affordability of the neighborhood. So that would be something positive and an incentive to not replace it with what is largely being replaced, and that's large. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 hi um my name is alyssa eisenstein krueger and i have been a real estate broker in portland since 2007. i work almost exclusively with clients looking to buy or sell in close in portland um which at this point in time means anything west of 205.
 I support UNR's proposal of a flat $35,000 fee. As a real estate broker, I see firsthand the market determining the price of housing, not the developers. Developers price their homes at the top end and then reduce prices until they snag a buyer. Most new construction goes through at least one price erection while it is on the market, and as a whole, they linger on the market for a longer time than the existing stock of homes. Single-family homes are
 particularly those under 400,000, are much less likely to see price reductions, and if they are in a desirable micro-location, they don't stay on the market for long. To the developers who respond that adding a demolition fee onto the price of homes will only increase the cost to a buyer, that is only true if a buyer is willing to pay what a developer is asking. No buyer is ever forced into paying more for a home than they feel it is worth or that they can afford.
 We are seeing a crisis in affordability along the continuum of housing here in Portland. Rents are increasing at an astronomical pace, and the only way a family or individual can guarantee that their housing costs do not increase and price them out is through homeownership. For a family of four earning 100% of the median family income of $73,900, they are most likely going to be looking for a home in the under $350,000 price range.
 Finding a home under 350 in central neighborhoods of Portland is difficult, and it is almost next to impossible for a family wanting a three-bedroom home within three miles of the downtown core. For homes under 350K that have the misfortune of sitting on more than one historic lot, families looking to stave off displacement and buy a home are already competing with developers who come in with cash and offer quick closings.
 The new proposal you have for the demolition tax will only incentivize the demolition of affordable single-family homes in the name of density for wealthier individuals and families. Increasing density at the expense of losing our homes that are affordable to families earning up to 120% of the median family income is backwards. No developer is going to demolish an affordable single-family home and then build two more affordable homes that doesn't pencil out for them. And the only way it does pencil out is to replace that one affordable home with two or more
 homes, unaffordable to families often making over 200% of MFI. What we should be looking more at is ways of incentivizing the preservation of single-family homes, particularly the smaller and more affordable ones, not debating how to appease developers looking to line their pockets on the backs of long-time residents of Portland who merely want to buy a home, plant roots, and stay in their communities. Thank you. Thanks very much. Lightning, welcome. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 I absolutely oppose this demolition tax and the numbers that are being thrown out of $25,000 to $35,000. To me, that's outrageous. Another issue I have is that if this is approved in any way, this number needs to be dropped down drastically. I would also recommend that that amount be paid upon the sale of the house after it's been developed, not upfront fees.
 It'll still be directed to the Housing Investment Fund. And another issue I have is that when we're talking real estate brokers here is that if you attach a $35,000 demolition tax up front to the developer, as a buyer stepping up to the table, the first thing I would do is look at the real estate broker and say, I'm going to drop your fee down for supporting this tax.
 and take it off the realtors fee because we want to have more houses developed okay we have a housing shortage so we need to be focusing on possibly more the urban growth boundary number one to get more land so these developers aren't scrambling and trying to do more projects on very limited property or again talking affordable housing which i mentioned to commissioner salzman
 Let's start talking about an affordable housing bond again, such as they did in San Francisco with Mayor Ed Lee. And let's start doing things that are a little bit more productive instead of trying to stall the developers from building more housing when we know we have a housing shortage. And if you want to buy the house before they get to it, we'll buy it. It's a free market system. You have a right to work with the realtors and get to that house first before the developer does. But if not...
 Let's not limit what they can do. And this tax is outrageous, in my opinion. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you all. Next. The next three are Steve Elder, Jess Larson, and Shelley Oylier. And they'll be followed by Jane Leo, Tom Karwacki, and Mary McMurray. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, members of the City Council. My name is Steve Elder. I live in northeast Portland. I wish to just maybe amplify and say amen and hurrah to some of the things that I've heard and boo to some of the things that I've heard, other things that I might have heard. I do support the recommendations of the United Neighborhoods for Reform Act,
 I also point out, I think, that the mayor was very wise in saying that the tax, if any, needs to be calibrated. That is to have some rational basis. It was my understanding that originally that was $250,000 and it was considered that a fair tax would be a tithe of that. $250,000 being the difference between or being a number for the base price of the house that was demolished and replaced and the other one of the revenue realized from the replacement house.
 Okay, I think that $350,000 is a better index. I would yield to economists on that subject, but I do agree with the mayor that it should be calibrated, and it can be calibrated. I would also point out to the...
 Ms. Kincaid, who was talking about, she said that, well, development, DRAC wasn't consulted. And I would submit on that issue that it's all about, you know, everything, you know, she says everything involves development. If the city council waits until every aspect of development is satisfied and chewed on and debated and deliberated, there won't be any houses left. Right.
 because every bureau of the city has something to do with development. I'm urging the council to do something. I think that what's before the council is acceptable right now. That's what I'm asking the council to do. Also, to the gentleman who spoke about energy efficiency of old houses versus new houses, I would ask, you know, how many tens of years is it going to take to recoup energy?
 in terms of energy efficiency? Yes, it's relatively more efficient, but how many years more is it going to take to actually recoup the best, you know, the best, most affordable house is the house that's on the ground now. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Jess Larson. I'm the Director with Welcome Home. And we are pleased to see this policy coming before you for your consideration. And we've supported this concept from the beginning. We appreciate your work, Mayor, and your staff's work to look for new tools to help fund affordable housing and to mitigate the affordability crisis in our community. And we see this as potentially one of those tools.
 So we agree it needs work. We have three remaining concerns with the existing policy, what we've called the one-wall loophole and wanting to make sure that what is a demolition is taxed for being a demolition. We're concerned also about the rebate strategy for affordable developers who have to hold, who have to...
 carry that cost while they wait to develop the property. And then most especially the change for the one-for-two exemption. We agree that density is part of our affordability solution in our community. We absolutely need to be promoting density, though in many of these cases, unfortunately,
 the demolition of one home replaced by two much larger, much more expensive homes is still an impact on the lost affordability of that original home. So we'd like for your further consideration on that and the other items. And finally, just to say that this is yet just one additional tool for our toolbox program.
 and it is only one step in addressing the problem of demolitions also. So let this not be the end of your work on demolitions, and let this just be the beginning of your work on new affordable housing funding tools, because we have much further to go. Thank you. Thank you, Jess. You're welcome.
 Hi, my name is Shelly O'Lear and we have been the owner of an old home built in 1892 with a 1910 addition that added a bathroom. We have spent the last 10 years working on our house and our yard, loving our neighborhood and our neighbors in North Portland. Although our house doesn't appear derelict from the exterior or the interior because we've done a lot of work.
 There's a lot of needs for the backbone systems of the house. Upgrading our heating system and replacing that 1962 furnace that's sitting in the basement. Increasing the size of the water line so that we can actually add a dishwasher to a kitchen, like something like that. And
 insulation and upgraded wiring and then the big ticket item is actually lifting the house and repairing and replacing portions of the foundations. We'd also like to add a bathroom upstairs where the bedrooms are and then move the washer and dryer from an enclosed porch actually inside the house. All of these are important because we're welcoming a new baby into the house and having all
 these things done would be really great what we've learned through our planning and our financing is all these improvements are of a high cost and they don't add a lot of value to the property so therefore our down payment has to be higher because the loan to value ratio is lower and with our existing down payment we've from our financing people they say hey you can go and tear down your house and buy and build a modest new house
 at actually cheaper prices.
 So now we're really considering replacing this house we spent a lot of time working on, to have an energy-efficient house that has lower energy bills, utility bills, none of those surprise maintenance costs when you open something up and it cascades in an old house, something that we could live in long-term and know that it's going to be sustainable for our family, and something that we can afford now with the payment that we've had saved, that we've saved over many years.
 The proposed additional demolition charge, if applied to a homeowner such as us, would price us out of $1,000.
 our house replacement and would not make those other improvements any cheaper or affordable for us to do. A new foundation costs $10,000. The replacement foundation costs $40,000. That's just the name of the game. So one of the things that I would really like you can consider is an exemption for individual homeowners that have been living in a house for five years or more that are facing these kind of tradeoffs.
 We really want to stay in our neighborhood, and this is by adding the demolition tax, that would remove one of the really important options for us to be able to stay in our neighborhood long term. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Okay, we have some more. Seven more. The next three are Jane Leo, Tom Karwacki, and Mary McMurray, and they'll be followed by Jack Bookwalter, Jim Howell, and Randy Sebastian.
 jane i think you're on first for the record i'm jane leo i'm the government affairs director for the portland metropolitan association of realtors 150 southwest harrison portland 97221 in looking over this um ordinance at its first run and understanding that this is more of a work session mode i'd like to just offer comments
 for the consideration as this moves forward because if this was indeed something you were going to vote on i would be asking that you remand it back for further work so we are concerned about the impact of this ordinance on housing affordability we are very concerned with the median prices for individuals to afford in the city of portland
 and also recognizing that you are a landlocked community. You cannot add more land. You have to accommodate the people who are coming here, born here, who want to stay here. And so we do ask that you consider the housing affordability and not create hindrances to demolitions when they are warranted. To the previous testimony that was provided, one of the concerns I do have is on the owner rebuild issue.
 or the owner doing what is determined to be defined as a major remodel such that they can continue to age in place. And that major remodel may occur when that person is 40 years old, but they do it with the eyesight to stay in that place, in that home, until they're 80. That's going to take a different footprint than perhaps what already exists. Okay.
 I do look at situations, most of you know Mike Burton from various lives. Mike owned a house in northeast Portland. It was one of those big Portland homes, but it sat on two tax lots. When you look at the tax lots in southeast and northeast and north Portland, they are platted very small lots and often you have one house in the middle.
 If that house is determined that it is a teardown, then it should be allowed to have two houses replace it and not have the $25,000 as proposed apply to both housing units. The rebate, we are concerned of its impact on your low-income builders. Also, the fact that they would have to finance that money up front and carry those costs, while the city bears administrative costs of cutting the check back.
 There is a staff cost to that, a budgetary cost. I do ask in setting a number on if there is to be a value number set on the demolition, that consideration be given to bifurcating the unit, the price of the housing unit from the price of the land. Okay.
 in determining that i also have concerned under the current language of the amount of authority given to the director of the bureau and that there's nothing in here that asks that it be reviewed by the uh your housing committee your planning commission your sustainability committee in closing i do want to say that i think it's disingenuous to show pictures of homes that were taken down and rebuilt
 On a personal note, I do a lot of work as a team leader with Rebuilding Together. I have been in houses in southeast Portland, northeast Portland, north Portland, and most recently on southwest Martha. Those homes, when those individuals move out, should be taken down.
 Those homes, when we leave them, are beautiful. They look great in pictures. But when you get inside, there's no insulation. There's barely a window. It's knob and tube. There's asbestos. There's radon. There's lack of insulation. And I put this akin to it's a little bit like when you're all dating. Guy can look great from the outside, but once you sit with him for a while, you don't want to be there. So thank you for considering my comments. Thank you, Jackie.
 Hey, Tom, top that. Not going to ask you off our date. Tom Karwacki, Vice Chair of the University Park Neighborhood Association, Chair of the Land Use Committee. UPNA has had 14 demolitions this year, and on the heat maps that the BPS has provided, we're one of the hottest spots in the city over time. In addition to that, we've had 10 major addition and lot line adjustments. Now, let me just tell you on the major additions 
 That permit isn't issued until at least 35 days or so of notice. I've had five notices this month that there will be additions. So the permit numbers they were given might be a little after the fact. Our big concern is at the board meeting on Monday, we took a position against this amended regulation.
 We like the idea of a demolition. We love the goals. The issue is, and all the concepts that Restore Oregon has identified, but our concept was the two-for-one. That was a real problem with the line splitting because it will encourage line splitting, and we didn't want to create an incentive for line splitting, and that's the purpose of why I'm here today. We didn't want you to incentivize the demolition of houses. We're having houses right now being...
 marketed by realtors to split into three. So there's issues of real line splitting, and that's a real concern within the community. We've just started our voluntary design guidelines, which will go before the general meeting on the 26th of October. So since you're opening up the chapter, I would only 
 come back to the same issue we had with surplus property, and that is that the notices of demolitions be provided in additional languages subject to using the same process that was submitted for surplus property, dealing with ONI determining the right languages in that community so that the neighbors of demolitions actually are notified in the language they can understand and that any posting be done in a similar fashion.
 Can I follow up with one question? Because your neighborhood association abuts or includes within its boundaries a campus, a college campus under a condition. Seven of those demolitions were for multi-housing, multi-unit housing afterwards. And are some of those, and they are along the main stretch? Along Willamette. Okay.
 They were demolished to make way for dorms or something? That's correct. And do you have a specific set of concerns about those different from other demolitions in your neighborhood? No. Actually, our concerns are totally different. That was part of the master plan, and the neighborhood completely agreed with those demolitions and, in fact, wrote a letter in agreement in supporting those demolitions for that dorm because that was consistent with the master plan adopted by the city. Thank you.
 But we'd love to see a new language for making sure everyone knows that the notice of demolition is actually in languages they can understand, just like the closed captioning is up here. I just referenced that this morning. We discussed the citywide trails plan, and I mentioned your suggestion on that. So that's going to be done in the citywide trails plan, and I'm hoping it's going to become a norm. So thank you very much. So once you open up the code, you can do whatever you want with it. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi, I'm Mary McMurray. Hi, Commissioners. I live in North Portland in the Humboldt neighborhood, and I'm really happy to be bringing up this subject because I do support the position of the United Neighborhoods for a forum on the fact that there should be
 a fee on demolition and i also think that there should be rebates and it's a very complex issue as you all understand at this point and i brought a little visual aid i'm not sure if any of you whoops saw this in the news lately but um um but as of a month ago this home this home was in eastmoreland
 They've been there for a long time, 92 years. Developer came and bought it. That's what's happening now. Probably all gone now. And they're going to be putting up several of these, at least two of these buildings, which have nothing to do with good architecture or resemblance to existing Portland architecture. So I just wanted to bring this as an example.
 of things that we should consider in putting forward these kind of regulations. There are a lot of good architects in Portland, and I think that in a situation like this, one or two other smaller homes could have been added to this lot without taking away too much of the landscaping and in a similar kind of style.
 and in that way increase the infill goals but without such a terrible loss to the neighborhood and a loss that's going to include fairly hideous new buildings that probably won't last 50 years so that's what I have to say thank you thank you thanks very much thank you all the next three are Jack book Walter Jim Howell and Randy Sebastian
 And the last person who signed up will be Kathy Austin. Which of these folks? I'm Jack Bookwalter, a resident of northeast Portland, and I want to commend the council for considering this tax. I want to praise Mayor Hales for bringing it up. I think it's one step and one tool of many to curb the demolition epidemic.
 I'm glad that it's being discussed. It's a necessary thing. It's a progressive thing. It's the Portland thing. I'm glad it's being discussed, among other things, to curb demolition. As good as it is, I agree with other people like you and I who have said that it needs some revision. Thank you.
 particularly items like the amount, the fee amount is probably pretty low. I would agree more with you on our 35 is a more realistic number to 35,000 to curb demolition. It may not be the ultimate number, but it's a good start. I also feel that getting rebates for a two-to-one demolitions and rebuilding will probably only
 add fuel to the fire of demolitions in Portland, and we'll be losing even more of our affordable housing. However you want to define affordable housing, I think we'd have to admit that the house that goes down is more affordable than the one that's one or two that get rebuilt. I also want to say just quickly that I've heard comment here about we should be tearing houses down and replacing them with more energy-efficient housing because it's better for the environment.
 But actually, that is really a very pennywise and pound-for-bush thing to do with the environment. The greenest house is the one that's already there. No matter how much more energy efficient the new one is, we can never get back the embodied energy that's in the house that goes down, nor the materials and workmanship that's gone into it. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Jim, welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Jim Howell. I live in northeast Portland, in Jack's neighborhood. I would like to address the two issues that you're trying to deal with. One is the preservation of the neighborhood character, and the other is the increase in affordable housing. I oppose this tax because I don't think it does either.
 If you have enough money to tear a house down, the extra $25,000 is not going to be a main issue. And if it's increased, you're not going to get any money for affordable housing because you won't collect any. There's other unintended consequences. For example 
 what constitutes a derelict house. A developer can buy a house that's perfectly good and just let it vacant for six months to eight years.
 leave it unlocked, don't cut the grass, and pretty soon it's a derelict house. And that could happen as an unintended consequence of this proposal. I would rather you, rather than use a stick to try to achieve your ends, to use a carrot. And there's a lot of things you could do to preserve the neighborhood viability.
 For example, old houses could be subdivided for two dwelling units instead of one, although it's not allowed in some of these zones. So it requires some zone changes to do that. And that would be an incentive, especially if you waive some of the fees to do it. So there's a positive way of getting more affordable housing without affecting the architectural character of the neighborhood.
 So thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Welcome. Oh, thank you. Mayor, excuse me. Mayor, city council, I'm Randy Sebastian, owner of Renaissance Homes. Thank you for giving everyone the opportunity to speak here today. That previous person who was sitting in this seat that had the artwork showing the home in Eastmoreland, I am tearing that house down. I did. That house was on the market for $750,000.
 it didn't sell we paid seven hundred fifty thousand dollars for it so it was on the market could have been bought by anybody as a house it had a obsolete floor plan it smelled horrible um it really wasn't even that habitable it does have two nice lots and the photos that were shown of homes to be built are not my homes i didn't build those homes i saw them out in the um lobby so i don't know where she got those photos but they're not homes that i build so
 I wanted to clear that up. Senate Bill 100 has brought us here and has done amazing things with the city of Portland and the metro area. This is a byproduct of good planning. It worked. Portland now is an amazingly desirable place to live. Bloomberg reported this summer Portland is the 13th out of 13 major cities where millennials cannot afford to buy a home.
 A building permit in the city of Portland in 1984, when I started building in the city of Portland, cost a few thousand dollars. Now a building permit and the SDC costs that go with it in Portland costs in excess of $35,000 per home. How is that affordable? Okay.
 Now we are talking about raising the cost another $25,000. The total upfront government-generated fees for one home now will be over $60,000. Again, how is that affordable? This is a tax that will be passed on to homebuyers. The tax will increase home prices and increase home prices also moves rent up. When home prices raise, again, rent has to, rents and affordability drops.
 What's the goal here? To hoard all the homes and keep making housing unaffordable? Taxing and construction does both. My daughter is a teacher at Portland Public Schools. The city's schools are getting better. Why? Because families with children moving into the city are now
 Now there are family sized homes for them. A family of five will not move into a 900 foot worn out home and they will choose a family sized home in the burbs and the burbs will get the state money and Portland schools will suffer. Has anybody contacted the school district? We also build homes for long time Portland property owners who want to stay on their property in their neighborhood and have a new home. This ordinance freezes the taxpayer and won't allow them to replace their old home with the new one.
 Without paying the tax. The market needs to decide what homes have been neglected and need to be replaced. And you want to wrap up soon. Okay. This isn't a government issue. This taxable discouragement.
 It will not discourage builders and new homebuyers. It will drive prices and rents up for everybody. Mr. Sebastian, I know it's a long day, but I appreciate you being here. I have just two quick questions. Yes, sir. In the homes that, in the context of demolitions that you've been involved with, where you've been rebuilt, what's the median price of the replacement home that you build in Portland right now? Around $700,000.
 Okay. And so would we agree that that's not an affordable home by any definition? It is not. And if there was an extra $25,000 on that transaction, would you eat it or pass it through to your customers? It would be passed on. And again, it's not what we call an affordable home. No.
 So how does this impact the families that are getting priced out of the market? And how, in the demolition context, because I live in Grant Park, for example. Right. There's on my street a demolition and a rebuild. Someone took a bungalow that had been purchased for $30,000 in the 70s.
 the woman who owned it sold it for like 390 cash, I think, to a developer. And the house that is now there was sold for 850 on spec. And it's a monster house for the lot. Okay. Yeah.
 But that's not an affordable home. And what that is effectively doing in the Grand Park area is pricing families out from that neighborhood who might want to send their kids to the school there. So if the median price for your homes is $700,000, then I think we can agree that the additional $25,000 or whatever figure, if the council so chooses, is not really affecting affordability in terms of your slice of the market. Okay.
 It's true. How is it affecting affordability in the area that we all care about, which is affordable to, let's say, the family that has a cop and a teacher at home? We also go down to Southeast, 60th, 70th, and Morrison, outside of Mount Tabor or around Duke. Those homes are in the 450 range. So, yeah, it will affect those homes, you know.
 And finally, sir, we've had some people say that the mayor's proposed approach is too heavy on the stick, and others have said too light on the carrot and have proposed different approaches. As a developer who is very active in our community, would you rather see a carrot or a stick? Boy, I really feel like I'm a product of the system. Thank you.
 I build within codes and I do what the law allows. I'm not disputing that. And so it's a lot of times it's a big carrot and it's a big stick. So I can't choose. I'll deal with both. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. The last person who signed up is Kathy Austin. Come on up. Yeah, I know. Anyone else that would like to speak, come on up and join Kathy, please. Okay.
 welcome to get the last word so hi my name is kathy austin i live in outer southeast portland in the powellhurst gilbert neighborhood i am here for two reasons today one because for 18 years my spouse and i have been discussing building our dream home and suddenly it sounds like a 25 000 obstacle is being thrown in our way and also because i have recently seen another family kicked out of their dream home for the benefit of a developer
 Last night, one of our local TV news reports stated that after all of the loopholes have been applied for developers, the proposed $25,000 demolition tax would actually only impact one-for-one replacements, i.e., people like us trying to build an owner-occupied dream home.
 Assuming a $25,000 demolition fee is enacted, you could reduce the impact to homeowners like us by charging the demolition fee at the time, only at the time when the new construction is sold, something owner-occupiers like us don't intend to do until we're pretty much close to death. Thank you for mentioning this lightning earlier. I didn't realize someone else would come up with my idea. Great. Or refunding the demolition fee to owner-occupied rebuilds when those owners move in to their newly built home.
 Either of those procedures will at least reduce the impact of this proposed tax on private citizens who are just trying to build their dream homes on their own property. We do plan to remove an existing house to build our dream home. We will already be paying higher property taxes once we have built. We should not be additionally subject to a demolition fee.
 Now, the family kicked out of their dream home lived in a beautiful craftsman bungalow on Southeast Division Street around Southeast 30th Avenue. I don't know whether an owner who had been renting to them and wished to sell that property kicked them out or whether a bank did it, but their house was sold to a developer who will now build condos between two other craftsman homes.
 That sort of destruction should not be happening. We should be finding ways to help people who love their historic homes stay in them and finding ways to build truly affordable family housing in appropriate places. I don't think this tax, as proposed, will be effective at achieving any of our real goals. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay, anyone else?
 So I want to propose some issues for further work based on what we've heard in the hearing here. One is the question that's been raised pretty frequently about whether this should apply only to one-for-one replacements as it's currently drafted or whether it should apply in other situations, what the dollar amount is and whether or not it should be graduated, how it could be graduated.
 what constitutes a derelict house.
 And then this question of the live-in exemption or the owner-occupied exemption. And from my notes, there's some other issues that are maybe not quite as direct, like the one-wall loophole issue, but I'm not sure if that's directly relevant to this. Eric, can we take a look at the owner-occupied exemption slash referral? Right, right. So...
 Those are some of the issues that I captured. Others that members of the council want to flag, and we'll figure out a process for doing that work. Mayor, given the hour and the day we've had, can we 
 Can we keep the record open for a couple of days? I'm simply going to continue this ordinance because obviously there's going to be more staff work, and there's a number of community groups that have already indicated that they're going to be coming back with more. We've got this specific proposal from UNR today. Thank you for doing that. It's particularly helpful when somebody shows up with code language, but you're going above and beyond citizen requirements to do that. So thank you very much for doing that. Someone quoted 
 Actually, I think it was Mary Allen. Mary Allen quoted Stephen Hawking that identifying a problem that everybody thinks is interesting is the soul of good management. So I'll take that as a compliment. Thank you. My quote on this subject is actually from Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
 who said, actually everybody knows the end of this quote, but the beginning of it is, it's common sense to take a method and try it. If it fails, admit it frankly and try another. But above all, try something. That's the spirit of what we're attempting here, is that this is...
 if we do it, an innovation. Yes, a couple of small cities in Illinois have done something like this. But I think some of the testimony that we heard here today really illustrates why this is an idea that I think is worth pursuing. We're going to have to try a lot of things to address the housing crisis that we have in our city, both the affordability crisis, the preservation crisis, and the homelessness crisis. And some of those things will be things that other cities have tried.
 and we can borrow good ideas from them, and I'm looking forward to the discussion of housing and homelessness with my colleagues, the large city West Coast mayors, when they meet here in three weeks. And that's great. And some of these things are going to be Portland innovations. So I really appreciate the fact that people are coming to the table with ideas. I appreciate the sense of urgency, and that's why the above-all-try-something conclusion to that quote particularly appeals to me.
 We've seen actually recently in transportation with the Better NATO and the Better Block effort on 3rd that it is actually a good idea to experiment sometimes in public policy. It's a little more perilous to do that on a tax issue, and I understand that.
 So there is, as always, a need to measure twice and cut once before we adopt something. But I appreciate the opportunity to put this on the table, to have the council hear the issue, get a good discussion started, take further guidance from each of you and from the community as we keep this ordinance in the workshop.
 So I just want to give colleagues and all of you who stayed patiently to the bitter end just a concept that I've been trying to work on. I mean, I agree with what the English Commissioner said, that not all demolitions are created equal. And I think that the concern that we've heard from people in the community about demolitions has largely been around somebody knocks down a house that's similar in size to all the other houses in the neighborhood and replaces it with a Hawking McMansion.
 And I think that having a tax on that incident, to me, would be closer to what I'd really like to see, which is I'd like to see a real estate transfer tax on really expensive houses. So then rich people who are buying up houses here would be contributed to affordable housing. Unfortunately, we can't do that because the voters of the state passed a prohibition on real estate transfer taxes. But that's really what I would like.
 What I'm concerned about is, and a couple of speakers raised this, where they're talking about people's nest eggs. I mean, if you've got, I mean, there's two people generally that are part of any transaction that results in a demolition. There's Dastardly Developer and Helen Homeowner.
 owner. And if Helen, the homeowner, owns the smallest house within three blocks, and she's been piecing together a living through basket weaving and piano instruction for 30 years, and then she wants to retire and spend more time visiting her grandchildren in Iowa, and wants to take advantage of the rising home values in her neighborhood by selling her house that might be knocked down and replaced with a house the same size as the others in the neighborhood, I don't know that we want to impose a tax that will have an effect on Helen, homeowner.
 So what Katie Shriver, my staff, has been talking with BDS and others about over the past couple of days is could we have something that says that you get a rebate if you build a house that is no more than X percent larger or the same size as other houses in the same neighborhood? BDS has some heartburn about the administration of that.
 So we haven't been able to come up with something that we're sure would practically work. But I'm hoping that we can come up with something that goes in that direction. And also I think that those are the same sort of issues that the residential infill committee is looking at. So I'd like to see if we can get their input on whether we can have a tax that is more tailored to the situation that I think people are most concerned about.
 I want to raise an issue that hasn't yet been put on the table, and that is when the city is buying property, particularly when environmental services and parks partners together to purchase green spaces, which often has a home on it which is not in good repair, and which if it's being purchased mostly with ratepayer money, there isn't a ratepayer interest in maintaining that home. Okay.
 That would then be an additional cost either on the rates or on the general fund to the city for doing a public purpose on a property. So that's yet another issue to be concerned about. All of us are very  You're referring to a case where we demolished the fiscal replacement? Correct. Right. So that's  and that was  A public purpose where there's a demolition but no intention to replace it would be a clear exemption in my mind. Well, and that's  so that's  again, I think there's a number of different 
 ways to go about this. Of course, we all want something that's legal and defensible. So I am going to look for a briefing from the city attorney regarding the challenge of any kind of something. I think that's actually a baseline issue. Why would we put a lot of work into this if we're going to get to the end and say, well, actually, we're not allowed to do it. So I appreciate hearing Commissioner Novick.
 Having heard the testimony today, it's clear that on the higher-end housing, adding 25 or even 35 is not going to prevent the demolition. It is, however, going to give $25,000 or $35,000 into the Housing Investment Fund. So to that extent, we may be able to provide some assistance for affordable housing without raising house prices significantly.
 as a whole, if you're putting those $25,000 or $35,000 on a home that's $200,000, $300,000, $400,000, then you probably are going to be raising the price of that home. I appreciated the developer who said that they are going to pass on the cost either to the seller or to the buyer. So the Helen homeowner who needs to go to Iowa is going to be losing out by $25,000 or $35,000 potentially, and I think that's not what we're trying to do.
 There may be a challenge between are we doing it for preservation or are we doing it for a funding stream for the housing investment fund? And I think that there's probably two different approaches, depending on whether it's for preservation or for the housing investment fund. I also am very concerned about neighborhoods where it may not reach the status of derelict or dangerous, which is what the current proposal is really talking about, dangerous homes. But it's a problem.
 that is past its prime and most, a lot of the time, the neighbors would pay to get rid of it, even if it wasn't qualifying for city-sponsored demolition. So let's, by all means, let's not prevent some improvements in neighborhoods which have long been hoping for improvements or even on streets that have long been hoping to get rid of the one house that's been sitting empty for four or five years. And maybe there could be some kind of an exemption for,
 that have been vacant for a certain amount of time. I do appreciate the Habitat for Humanity request for an exemption rather than a rebate for things that would qualify for an SDC exemption rather than a rebate. Good, thank you. This has been a good discussion. There is one voice missing here, and I wonder whether there's been an effort to bring the Planning and Sustainability Commission in to help.
 because one way of looking at this in a broader context is through the lens of the comp plan. And since we have had some work sessions about all the people coming here and all the new housing we're going to need, it does seem to me it would be useful to have the Planning and Sustainability Commission give us a view of our options, again, through the lens of the comp plan and the kinds of planning we're doing for the future. Good. Great. Thank you. Other suggestions?
 Thank you all. It's been a long day for the council. We appreciate your attention to this, and we're recessed until tomorrow at 3 p.m., not 2, right? 3 p.m.? 3 p.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Did we cancel something at 2? For some reason we're starting at 3, right? Yes, sir. We're starting at 3 tomorrow, right? Was there something previously that was canceled? It must have been. It must have been a time certain it got canceled or something. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.