Yes. Very good. Good morning everybody. This is the Wednesday, October 10th morning session of the Portland City Council. Carlo, please call the roll. Udailey Fritz Here. Fish Here. Saltzman Wheeler Here. Colleagues, before we do the legal statement, I just want to make a couple of acknowledgments. First of all, we have a large group of students here today from Catlin Gable, is that correct?
 Yes, good. Welcome to Portland City Hall. We're glad to have you here. There's a couple of housekeeping items as well. Due to some quorum issues, we're going to be moving around...
 some items that are on the City Council agenda, not for today's meeting, but for subsequent meetings, and I want to make a couple of announcements in that regard. First of all, item 1062, which is on this afternoon's agenda, it's the Southwest Corridor Light Rail Project Preferred Alternative. This is being rescheduled to November 1st at 2 p.m. time certain.
 Item number 1065, which is to accept the Portland Design Commission 2017 State of the City Design Report. That is on the Thursday afternoon agenda. That will be moved to October 17th, 2 p.m. time certain.
 And item number 1066, also on the Thursday afternoon agenda, that's the Latinx Heritage Month. That will be rescheduled as well. We'll notice all of these through the appropriate channels, but I just wanted to give you that heads up today. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. And please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. And when your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders to feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. And there was one other housekeeping item I neglected to mention. Because of the agenda item changes that I announced previously, this afternoon's council session, this is Wednesday, October 10th, the afternoon council session will not begin until 3.30 p.m.
 All right. So without further ado, Carla, communications. First individual, please. Item 1041, request of Crystal Elinsky to address council regarding RIP. I do not see Crystal. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 1042, request of Dion Stromer to address council regarding positive things going on in our city. Good morning and welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Dion Strummer, and I'm a small business owner here in the Portland area. A small business name first called Mortuary Services. I know it's different to have us come. But I employ 35 people here in the city, and I and my employees have daily interactions with the Portland Police Bureau because we have the Multnomah County Medical Examiner's Contract for transporting decedents to the medical examiner's office from the scene of an unattended death.
 These types of deaths require that an officer come to secure the scene. We have met hundreds of Portland police officers, if not thousands through the years, from your department, and I want to take this opportunity to thank them by letting their leaders know of the great men and women that served these families in a difficult time. During the most difficult times these families are having with an unexpected death, these men and women in uniform have shown such compassion.
 empathy and professionalism to the families they assist. So my thank you to the Portland Police Bureau. My second point is my business has recently put in the first high-temperature aqua cremation unit this side of the Mississippi. This type of flameless cremation uses one-tenth the energy of traditional flame cremation and leaves a 90% less carbon footprint even in our death. Thank you.
 Which is, of course, more sustainable. My experience with working with the Bureau of Developmental Services and the Bureau of Environmental Service was way above my expectations. They helped me through that permitting. They wholeheartedly believed in the project and worked with me to bring this important kind of service to the Northwest.
 This, again, is my way of taking time out of my day to come to your council meeting to thank your bureaus, your departments, and also personally Glenn Luby, Rachel Wall, and Dan Purnell by informing their leaders of the fine men and women that work in those departments. Thank you BDS and BES, and thank you council members for your service.
 Mr. Stromer, thank you so much for coming in. I have to say, in the two years I've been here, you're probably the third person who has come in to thank our hardworking city employees. Mayor, since he didn't get a chance to finish his testimony, we should invite him back next week? Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Stromer, for coming in. We sure appreciate that. And we will pass that on to the police bureau, BDS and BES leadership. Next individual, please.
 Item 1043, a request of Nancy Metella to address council regarding possible decision by the Department of Energy on the Hanford nuclear waste. She let me know she will not be speaking today. Okay, very good. Next individual, please, 1044. Request of Thomas Land to address council regarding an idea for a wall of heroes. Good morning, sir. Thanks for being here.
 I'm not giving the public speaking, so I'm going to read it. Go on. I'm here to propose a wall of heroes, a place to honor those people who have sacrificed their lives for others. My suggestion is that this wall incorporate police, fire, and civilian heroes. It need only be a wall in a public building, inside or out, the corner of Pioneer Courthouse Square.
 or a patio on a park with names on a plaque and a statement that those named are honored heroes. Two men were honored at the Hollywood Max Stop, and that's a good thing. But what about so many others who haven't been so honored? At an expense to the city, this would be minimal, and it would mean so much to the friends and relatives of those so honored. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. We appreciate that. And the last individual, please.
 Item 1045, request of Lightning Super Creativity Data Attack Dog to address counsel regarding the Mozart of Trade Agreements. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity. President Donald J. Trump, the Mozart of Trade Agreements. What we're going to see between China and USA is going to be something put together
 that will change the United States in the world itself. He is already going to receive the Nobel Peace Prize for North Korea. He'll also receive the Nobel Economic Prize for what he does on this trade agreement. Again, from my position, though, I want to see a 7% GDP built between both superpowers.
 As you know, China has a population of 1.5 billion. We have a population base of 325 million. We are the small players here. China is the bigger player.
 But they are going to work with us, and we're going to create a 7% GDP, which is my plan, between both countries. Again, when you're looking at the per capita income, we're at $57,000. China is around $8,000. They have a lot to improve. Could you play my video now, Carla? Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. That's always been one of my favorites. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please. Item 1046. Accept the Digital Equity Action Plan Year 2 Progress Report.
 Colleagues, the Digital Equity Action Plan, or DEEP as it's referred to, is a collaboration of the City of Portland, Multnomah County Library, and many community partners from the nonprofit, public, and private sectors. The plan was adopted by the Council in April of 2016, and today we're going to hear about progress during the two-year period of plan implementation. Thank you.
 To date, the Digital Equity Action Plan activities have been purposeful and far-reaching across the entire county. In May of this year, we heard about some of the local activities and partnerships during the Digital Inclusion Network's presentation to Council for Digital Inclusion Week and also at the 2018 Digital Inclusion Summit.
 Here to present the report on DEEP's second year are Community Technology Program Manager Julie Omelchuk and Program Coordinator Rebecca Gibbons with the Portland Office for Community Technology. Good morning and welcome. Thanks for being here. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, and good morning, Commissioners. I'm Julie Omelchuk, and I'm with the Office for Community Technology. I'm here today with Rebecca and County Library staff, John,
 who are responsible for leading deep implementation and coordinating and supporting our community partners. We also have a few guests who will assist staff in presenting the Year 2 report, along with some of our DIN partners who asked to provide testimony in support of our efforts. I believe you have a copy of the Deep 2 progress report in front of you.
 Digital equity and inclusion have become familiar terms and a topic of discussion for many of us. It has become a priority for the city and the county, and for many social service agencies, educators, and businesses, because it intersects so much of what we do. The services we design and deliver, the way we communicate and engage, and how we grow and prosper.
 This intersectionality touches every facet of the City's work and makes our leadership and the partnership with the County all the more relevant and important. Just yesterday I was at the Smart City Steering Committee meeting where we heard about Metro's new grant program focused on transportation technologies such as ride hailing, car and bike sharing, ride matching, microtransit, etc. And guess what?
 Most, if not all, of these transportation technologies require connectivity to access these services. I also recently attended the Grantmakers of Oregon and Southwest Washington Conference, a regional gathering for the philanthropic community. Funders, along with city partners, such as the Office for Community and Civic Life, are gearing up for the 2020 Census.
 This data-gathering effort will have significant and long-term implications for the city and its residents. And guess what? The census will be conducted online, requiring connectivity to participate.
 The DEEP, backed by staff dedicated to facilitating and coordinating efforts, both internal and external to the city, has continued to guide the collective community approach for strategies and opportunities to address the digital divide. Rebecca and our other partners will share more specifically what year two has looked like for the DEEP.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Rebecca Gibbons, the Digital Equity Program Coordinator with the Office of Community Technology. Specifically, in our second year of deep implementation, we continue to grow our network, leverage existing programs and infrastructure, and implement initiatives that align with the 17 strategic actions identified under the plan.
 Throughout the year, we reached out to organizations, both new and old, and across sectors, to build awareness of the city and county's focus on the digital divide. As a result, the Digital Inclusion Network, or as we call it, the DIN, continues to meet monthly and bring new members into the fold. For example, Portland Youth Builders, Chick Tech, Catholic Charities, State of Oregon WIC Program, Verizon, and Outside the Frame are just a few.
 Because we create space to have discussions and build awareness, the DIN members are able to place greater priority on this work. We know this because we've seen our partner organizations hiring new staff to support this work. The library, Free Geek, and Metro East Community Media all hired new digital inclusion program staff this year. Garnering new funds. The Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission has been a significant funder of digital inclusion programs.
 The Library, Open Signal, and Pacific Northwest College of Art Make Think Code program were all community technology grant recipients for the projects that focused on digital literacy or workforce development. And Portland Public Schools is preparing to serve 700 students with home internet service because of a Sprint One Million Project Award. And we're also seeing our partners designing and implementing new programs.
 PNCA ThinkCode, for example, is implementing STEM workshops specifically designed to involve more women and people of color as teachers and learners. The workshops will be video recorded to highlight the diversity of participants engaging in STEM skill explorations so that young viewers watching from home can see themselves represented in the learning and working community. Thank you.
 As a result of this and other project work, we are on track in all of our 17 strategic action areas, meaning we have an action underway with engaged partners and planned activities. There is a summary chart of this progress in the report before you today, and a more detailed description of activities is available on OCT's website. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is John Worona. I'm the Director of Content Strategy at the Multnomah County Library. One of our goals under the Digital Equity Action Plan is to hold an annual Digital Inclusion Summit that brings together a broad coalition of people who work to foster digital equity goals across our community.
 Our 2018 Digital Inclusion Summit was held in May, and we had over 120 participants representing 69 organizations, from government, education, healthcare, from community-based organizations to tech industry. The diversity of our organizations and participants is a reflection of the fact that digital equity is now recognized as a fundamental requirement to serve people, provide education, grow our economy, and have a healthy, thriving, and just society.
 DIN members from the Office of Community Technology, Multnomah County, and the library led a dedicated group of DIN members, volunteers, from Open Signal and the Citizens Utility Board, N10, the State of Oregon WIC, Metro East Community Media, and PNCA. These people devoted countless hours of their time to help us organize and convene the first summit under the DEEP.
 Mayor Wheeler introduced our summit. Thank you. Thank you. And we featured keynote speeches from the Director of Libraries, Bailey Elke, and Multnomah County Chair, Deborah Kafouri, as well as a welcoming video message from Senator Ron Wyden. The theme of our Digital Inclusion Summit was economic development. We hosted three panel discussions on how digital equity impacts workforce pipeline development...
 on the impact of digital exclusion on health outcomes, and on how public policy can drive digital inclusion efforts. We had spirited discussions on all of our panels, and our summit participants, when surveyed after the event, expressed a lot of excitement and interest in the program, in connecting with other participants across disciplines and industries, and finding ways to move the goal of digital equity forward.
 We'd like to thank OpenSignal for streaming our event live and Metro East Community Media for capturing stories and putting together this short video overview.
 Digital equity and inclusion is really important in the City of Portland. We've recognized that we have a lot of underserved and vulnerable populations who don't have access to the internet, don't have affordable devices, and don't have the skills and the training to use those devices effectively. The internet, access to the internet, is fundamentally at this point
 no different than access to electricity in your home or water. And that's the biggest takeaway. Digital inclusion is extremely important because the cost of digital exclusion is great. And as Mayor Wheeler said this morning, it even undermines our democracy. You are fighting for democracy.
 Because frankly, without addressing this digital divide, without addressing income disparity, democracy really isn't worth that much. 97% of people who search for jobs do it on the internet. They're trying to close that digital divide in different communities and to continue to live up to a progressive community. It's not just a good thing to have a diverse workforce, it's an essential thing for making their business successful.
 There are people who maybe want to sort of join this world and we need to make sure that they have access and opportunities so that they can succeed. So it's important to get a lot of diverse opinions and ideas from folks who come from those backgrounds, who know that audience.
 so we can better serve them. You can't see yourself as something if you don't see it, if you've never seen it. And so, you know, giving those people the opportunity and access, you know, access is an important part of this. Show them that,
 the work that we're doing today so they're inspired to do it tomorrow. The challenge of digital equity for us is an opportunity to meet people where they are and try to in a very limited period of time show them how these tools can help them to thrive in a modern economy. Any decision you're making start with who's benefiting and who's being burdened by this.
 And if we have groups that are marginalized, that are experiencing marginalization, that are burdened by this decision, go back to the drawing board. Go back to those communities and ask, what is it that we're missing? What is it that you need? And the only way that we're gonna really solve the digital divide is if the whole community engages. If we each take one small step each day, we'll make a difference.
 Thank you. In a little over two years since coalescing around the deep, we've come to realize that digital equity and inclusion is not a discrete area of practice. We have recognized the intersection of needs in various areas that affect residents excluded from digital participation. It's pretty amazing how far we've come from initial discussions and needs assessment to a highly functioning coalition that has positive impacts in areas from public health to housing.
 As you can tell from our report, all of our strategic actions are on track, but there's more work to be done. Municipal broadband is being explored in the region, and members of the Digital Inclusion Network are engaged in this process. For many of our residents who cannot afford Internet access at the rates it's currently offered, free access is still a necessary entry point.
 The DIN is building capacity for digital literacy training, connecting people with internet access and computers. Through this work, we continue to assess and ask who is excluded from digital society and why don't they use the internet. We know that cost, lack of accessible training opportunities in their language at good times and locations, lack of childcare and privacy concerns can be factors.
 We are working with our low-income housing partners and organizations that serve youth, people of color, immigrants, people with disabilities, people experiencing homelessness, and people in poverty. So we are constantly evolving the services to be responsive to community needs.
 Working within these realities, this year the library, Free Geek, and Metro East Community Media taught 59 sessions of the Earn a Computer program at eight locations, totaling over 1,000 training hours. Eighty-eight laptops were given away to participants. Participants like the Central City Concern participant from Alaska who needed to get online to get his Texas birth certificate to get an Oregon ID. He hopes to start a construction business.
 Through the program, he connected with his kids in Alaska and became a Central Library patron. He has since come in for help with his Android device and email.
 Classes like his were available in five languages through translation and native speaking instructors, including Somali, Spanish, Russian, Karen, and English. And some participants who spoke English also spoke Arabic, Aramaic, French, Kirundi, Oromo, and more. We plan to distribute 150 computers this year through 13 cohorts and a new self-paced pilot with Home Forward where participants will choose training at their level, location, language, and best time.
 In the coming year, we are also planning to engage the community about their needs to inform future digital equity planning. And now we'd like to invite some Digital Inclusion Network members up to share their perspectives. Very good. And I show we have Ifany Bell from Open Signal, Julie Reeder from the State of Oregon WIC program,
 Nandini Ranganthan from PNCA Make Think Code, and Sashi Wirawa-Rodina from Human Solutions Community Works Projects. Did I get that right, give or take? If not, come up and introduce yourself, and we're glad to have you here. Thank you so much. Good morning. Good morning. I guess I'll start off. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you for allowing us to come here today. My name is Yifanyi Bell, and I'm the executive producer at OpenSignal Labs.
 We've begun a pretty ambitious project over at OpenSignal. We've started an incubator, an experimental incubator program that is designed to support African-American filmmakers in developing networks, creative networks that support inclusion in our creative film, television, and broadcast industries here in Portland. Okay.
 One of the big challenges for filmmakers here locally is not only a technological one, but a social one.
 the film and television industry is largely dominated by relationships and sometimes cracking those relationships and getting access to individuals and ideas and the structures necessary to succeed economically in that particular field. Those are very critical barriers, not only are they technological and educational component to being successful in that field, but those two elements of being in the right place at the right time, knowing the right people,
 All those things contribute to how well you're able to progress in this particular industry. So this Open Signal Labs program is designed to support six filmmakers who are local from Portland here in advancing their careers in this particular space.
 The program will last for a year. It is a pilot program that we wish to build on in subsequent years to continue to build a cohort model around this idea to create a pipeline of access and opportunity. The program received initial funding from the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, which was very critical in the launch of this program.
 We've also gotten support from the Collins Foundation, the Oregon Community Foundation, the Oregon Cultural Trust, Advanced Broadcast Solutions, and the Portland Film Office. These partners, as well as many others who we're looking to target and to help support the program in subsequent years, I look forward very much to actually working with other partners like the Multnomah County Library
 and many other organizations like the Oregon Film Office and individuals as well to help support this particular initiative. I think that it's very clear how...
 Film and television intersects with digital equity in the sense that a lot of these, I mean, obviously, there are digital applications involved in the process of making films and working in broadcast and dealing with translating creative ideas into this very digital space, this increasingly digital space as we recognize that most of our access to a lot of these stories and ideas are increasingly becoming a part of the Internet community.
 And not only do we want to get access to the end use of these particular stories in this concept, but we want to get people involved in creating these stories and developing content and creativity that is authentic to the experiences of people of color here in the Pacific Northwest. And I think that one of the things we're really excited about is that we have the opportunity to work with these filmmakers to help promote a perspective of Portland that I think many people here locally and also nationally and internationally don't often understand.
 we don't often get to see. That's one of the, personally, one of my very important aspects of this program is to begin to share with people outside of this community and within this community some of these stories and some of these ideas.
 And let's see, lastly, I think that this program is, like I said before, I think I mentioned that this program is a cohort model, and we want to make sure that this program is sustainable for years to come. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bell. We appreciate your being here.
 Hello, everybody. I'm Nandini Ranganathan. I'm the executive director of Make Think Code at PNCA, the Pacific Northwest College of Art. We run an interdisciplinary art technology lab that's open to the community. I'm here to speak about the incredibly important work being done by the Digital Inclusion Network.
 We've been members of the DIN for the last couple of years and attended the DIN Summit this spring. And as a result of this work, we've been able to build really valuable partnerships and collaborations with community groups, with educational institutions, with technology groups as well. And I want to highlight a couple of examples of the work we've done and are doing and how these partnerships help.
 This summer, we were really excited to partner with Metro East Community Media to create a
 a week-long series of workshops called Make Think Media for youth in East Portland. And these workshops included sort of games, electronics, and microcontrollers, playing with laser cutter fabrication technologies, virtual reality. And the students were really incredibly excited to experiment with and play with these technologies. And I...
 I think it's really essential that our students and our youth can see themselves as creators in this industry rather than just users and products of these industries. Access to spaces, to the resources and education, to the technology is really, really important throughout their sort of education. And we're hoping to continue with this partnership over the year and
 I think I want to really talk about how fluency in these technologies, in future emerging technologies, is really essential to prepare our community for the careers in the future. Access to not just digital networks, but access to creative tools that allow them to design networks, design technology that is relevant to their communities rather than technology designed by and for others that then they're allowed to use.
 Another partnership I wanted to highlight was we met with Mozilla at the DIN Summit. They were one of the sponsors of the summit, and they were really excited about the work that the DIN was doing and wanted to be more involved. And we've been working with them to offer workshops in various kinds of web and network coding technologies, and also creating open source augmented reality web experiences.
 an important mission for us as MakeThinkCode, but also as a community. I think that the tech community in Portland is really excited about sort of open source technology and democratizing technology. And I think that DIN allows us to sort of bring various groups, including sort of tech...
 industry in to start working on these things. So one of the things we're gonna do is we're gonna be hosting with Mozilla and with some of our partners a series of technology civil rights and community events from January 7th to 20th next year, and likely an annual event. We're gonna have workshops on digital privacy for community groups, workshops on data science, creative coding, and also conversations and how we
 use technology to increase voter participation and engagement, so starting to use data analytics, machine learning to start really getting community engagement. And then the last thing we want to do is start doing a Wikipedia edit-a-thon to make Wikipedia more inclusive and representative resource for various communities. So,
 These are just a couple of examples, and I know many of the groups are doing amazing work, but I think I wanted to point out that what the DIN is doing is creating this really impressive collaborative ecosystem of organizations that provide access to this technology, information, and expertise needed to thrive in this very digital and network world. We're excited, we're really grateful, and really honored to be part of this group, and we're looking forward to seeing what we can do together as this collaborative community. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Saachi Veerawardana. I'm a Workforce Specialist and Data Supervisor with the Community Works Project and Human Solutions. Thank you for this opportunity today. So the Community Works Project is a coalition of six nonprofit agencies in Portland, and it's contracted with the Department of Human Services to provide job services to participants in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program.
 So we have a career center, and I was invited to the summit in May because a Human Solutions employee was not able to go. So when I got the invite, I didn't really know what I was going to. Digital Inclusion Network sounded interesting, and I was excited. This was at a time when I would come up with impromptu classes for the refugee immigrant participants in our program and try to show people how to log into a Windows computer. So...
 Being at the summit and being exposed to the panel on education, employment, and just health disparities, I was fascinated. It was the first time I had seen Mayor Ted Wheeler in person. The speech was very inspiring to me, so thank you. It's nice to know that we are connected because our day-to-day nonprofit work sometimes –
 It's hard to see how me trying to show a woman from Kenya to use a computer or touch a mouse can connect to the bigger holistic picture of what we are trying to do as a network and community. So I was invited to the DIN meetings monthly after I was gushing to Rebecca about how amazing the summit was for me. I walked away with six pages of notes, which I didn't bring today for this, but I did learn a lot.
 And I think the important piece for me to share with you today is that the impact on me as an individual direct service provider to people trying to search for jobs is that we forget the things that we take for granted and the impact that cannot be measured by the tech experts here in the room. Because last week I was sitting down with someone and trying to show them
 how a mouse works, not to use Rosetta Stone on the computer, but just when you move it around, the pointer moves. It's something that I don't think about. So the digital equity, it's hard to explain in words, but I am at the forefront of seeing what we expect of a person to go to work and then be able to access their
 pay stub online, which employers say, oh go ahead, you can print your W-2,
 So I just want to say thank you for this opportunity. Thank you to the DIN network. I am excited to see what partnerships can come out of this. There are limitless opportunities and potential in being able to know the people that exist in the community. So I hope this continues, and thank you so much. Thank you for being here and sharing your experience. We appreciate it.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Julie Reeder with the State of Oregon WIC program. The WIC program serves about 40% of all pregnant women in the State of Oregon each year and about 45% to 50% of all pregnant women nationally. We also serve about one in three children under the age of five each year. So we have tremendous reach. I think what's really benefited from being part of the DIN, one is,
 my being able to bring some health angle into that. I think we sometimes think about digital inclusion and digital equity as fun things for kids, but certainly coming from my perspective from the health side of things, you know, digital equity and digital inclusion can really be a life or death matter.
 If all of you think about how you access health care now, it's largely going through your health care provider's portal. It's doctor Googling sometimes to find information. It's also things like a car seat warranty and differences between if you mail it in, you only get a six month warranty. And if you get online, you get a two year warranty. And that really shouldn't be, should it?
 And so I think what really has benefited me is to have all the resources and the information, because I would say coming from the healthcare world, there's tons of talk about technology, but there's very little to no talk about digital inclusion and digital equity.
 I think that's just not even on the radar for most groups. And so it's allowed me to say both statewide and nationally sometimes, hold on. You know, this is a wonderful new gadget, but who are we potentially unintentionally pushing behind?
 In WIC, there's an assumption that all WIC families are young, and therefore they're digital natives, and they already know how to do everything. But we don't realize that being smartphone dependent, which is often true for lower-income families, not having broadband Internet access at home really can impact your ability to access systems that increasingly are moving to these online portals.
 to do everything, much less if you're not a native English speaker, if you don't have any type of...
 if you have limits on your data plan and so forth. So I think it's just really been an important piece for us. I always have the latest information to bring forward to National WIC Association and other groups to really talk about that we need technology is wonderful, but let's do it with thought and intention to make sure that we're not actually pushing our most vulnerable populations further behind. Thank you.
 Appreciate it. Thank you, all of you, for being here and sharing your experiences. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you. Our colleagues, I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Udaly to accept the report. Carla, please call the roll. Was there some more invited speakers? Oh, did we skip somebody? I apologize. Yes, we had a few more.
 I apologize. It was not on my program. Please come on up. Sorry for that. It's Sam Pastrick, Tim Goodman, Seth Ring, Neely Yoshi, and Hector Dominguez. Welcome. Thank you. Sorry for jumping again on that. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Sam Pastrick, Outreach Manager at Oregon Citizens Utility Board. I'll make my comments very brief here.
 All of them relate in some way to fostering and or the promotion of city policy to address digital inequity. Am I ringing here? If you just push the mic a little farther away, maybe it's very sensitive. Thank you. There you go. The first point is that CUB is a consistent outside advocate for both digital equity, the Digital Equity Action Plan, or DEEP, and also the Office for Community Technology.
 Representing CUB, I've attended the inaugural Digital Inclusion Summit in 2014 and was an early Digital Inclusion Network member. And certainly while not a primary author, I did actively participate in two of the three community-led strategic planning workshops to create the deep during the fall of 2015.
 Since that time, I've testified before Council, you all, on several occasions to highlight the work in the City either around digital equity and inclusion or information and communications technology policy more generally. Frequently, I've leveraged my time before Council to encourage timely and strategic action, City action, to not only address digital inequity, but also think and plan more holistically about technology policy by emboldening OCT, and this message certainly bears repeating today.
 Last Tuesday, Council wisely rejected wholly inappropriate meddling on the part of the Federal Communications Commission into local government affairs as they relate to negotiations with wireless carriers in their accessing the public rights of way. The resolution was savvy and it was timely action, certainly. And CUB is genuinely pleased to see Portland join with other cities as they confront really bad FCC policy.
 Yet certain other cities, San Jose in particular, had proactively already negotiated robust public benefits packages that included needed funds for digital equity work. To be blunt, while the city's action is certainly laudable, it also does, I think, highlight an absence of proactive and coordinated leadership around information and communications technology planning and oversight.
 And this, I'm afraid, is a symptom, a direct symptom of OCTs until very recent low level within the city's governance structure. Point being, Portland, City of Portland, not San Jose, should really lead the nation in funding digital equity work because, frankly, it's much easier to defend settled contract than bring suit against a federal agency like the FCC.
 So if I can leave you all with one key takeaway, it's that advancing digital equity work requires proactive, fast action against both the onslaught of disruptive technology that's already on our doorstep today, but also that which is surely headed our way in the coming years.
 To sort through and usher these really complex public policy implications, Portland needs an emboldened and proactive OCT. CUB was and still very much is encouraged by OCT's move last month to a more elevated location within the city's governance structure, and we're cautiously optimistic that the move does reflect a new strategic direction on the part of the city, and that OCT, with Council's support,
 continues to bolster Portland's reputation as a digital equity leader. Thank you. Hi there. I'm Seth Ring with Metro East Community Media. I'm our Director of Education and Volunteers. I work at Metro East proper in Gresham, but I also work at Rockwood DIY, which stands for Digital Inclusion and Youth, which is out in Gresham as well, but on the very fringe. Thank you.
 A lot of the video that you saw, the B-roll on there was actually from classes that we give. I think you might have seen me dual wielding some smartphones. And speaking of smartphones, let me see if I can pull it up. I actually have...
 I have a picture of me and Ted Wheeler. I don't know if you remember this. You look good. Yeah, this is Dia de los Muertos, and I like to tell people about me and my homeboy, Ted Wheeler. So thanks for that. And this does have a point that I will get to later. So I've learned a lot of things teaching the Welcome to Computers class at Rockwood DIY. That Mukulal means cat in Somali.
 Spicebo means thank you in Russian. I learned that from our Smartphones for Seniors class, which we taught in Russian. And I learned that I should understand a Somalian mother who doesn't want her kid in our music video camp because music was banned for a period of time in Somalia. All this, and I thought I was the teacher. Yesterday, I attended a forum on transgender inclusion in the workplace.
 I learned this type of change starts at the top. And this is getting back to that photo. I think it's really important, the work that you guys are doing, and I appreciate it. I want you guys to thank you guys for understanding that digital inclusion is a real issue that requires financial and political resources and to sort of reaffirm what was said earlier. Thank you.
 and that your support goes a long way towards empowering underrepresented groups in Multnomah County. So thank you. Thank you. Hi. Good morning. I'm Neely. I'm the founder and executive director of Outside the Frame. We train homeless and marginalized youth in how to make movies. I haven't had coffee yet. We'll see what comes out. But what I –
 woke up with today is plastics, my boy, plastics, right? Digital inclusion is the future, as it was in the graduate, as plastics was in the graduate all those years ago. You give a homeless kid a camera and let them tell their story on their own terms and get that story out there and
 The young person is changed forever, but more importantly, the people that see it are also changed forever. Statistics can't change anybody's mind, but seeing somebody talk to you from the heart will. And these are the best tools that we can give these young people to bring them into the fold and make them the great citizens that they have the potential and definitely the desire to be.
 It works not just with homeless youth. I came this morning from an alternative school alliance at Benson where we're teaching a workshop. Day one, I was dismayed. Twenty kids, like, staring at me, staring at their phones. But we're on the last day. They were there early to, like, edit their pieces and finish them. Incredible. This year we've shown that this isn't just a...
 a personal passion or, like, I'm not the only one that thinks this. You know, we've worked with Oregon State University and Trauma-Informed Oregon and Portland Art Museum and some other places I'm forgetting who have put these young people to work. We got them hooked, and now they're continuing to work with our fine, fine institutions. So through the
 Digital Equity Portland can be a leader in this as well, as in all the other things that we're so progressive and a model to the rest of the nation for. And being able to be part of this digital inclusion network and sit at the table with the people doing this work obviously makes us all more than the sum of our parts. So thanks a lot. Thank you. Appreciate your being here.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, City Commissioners. My name is Tim Goodman. I'm Director of Government Affairs for Comcast for the company's Oregon-Southwest Washington region. First of all, I would like to commend the city's staff from the Office of Cable Technology,
 for not just doing a job, but for the passion they have for closing the digital divide. They go above and beyond. It's something they truly care about, and it shows in all of our interactions, whether it's meetings or one-on-one meetings. So I just want to express that gratitude for what they put in in helping close the divide.
 Just a few quick comments from Comcast. We're excited to continue our partnership with the city and the other jurisdictions of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Committee in closing the digital divide. One of those means is through our Internet Essentials Program, which is a program for low income individuals where we provide low cost internet, $9.95 a month.
 We have now connected over 100,000 Oregonians in the past seven and a half years through that program. We're excited to continue the involvement of that. Just in the past 60 days we've included low-income veterans as eligible participants in that program. We're piloting a program for low-income seniors in Seattle.
 We're also piloting a program for homeless students in a school district in Vancouver, where we're working with the district to provide Internet for those who don't have a consistent and static place to live and go home to, but they're always connected through our Wi-Fi network.
 So that said, I have one little plug. Comcast this year is, again, the presenting sponsor of the Portland Film Festival, which begins on October 22nd. So if you're available for one of the events, please come out and join all the other great folks for a great event. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you being here. Good morning. Good morning. All right. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Good morning, Commissioners.
 My name is Hector Dominguez. I'm the Open Data Coordinator for the Smart Cities Program in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I am a proud member of the Digital Inclusion Network, where definitely it's...
 Well, I'm really proud to be part of the network and share and learn from all these different organizations. Our open data program is definitely having the benefit of being part of this organized entity, just for the learning, but also for any... for building any future initiatives that our work in open data is constantly having. For instance...
 Right now we are in a journey around privacy and data protection, and we are moving towards having a better and more community engagement. When we relied on this network and those communities to get that connection with our different communities in the city.
 In addition to that, the Digital Equity Action Plan has played a really critical role on guiding our smart cities priorities framework, which is the first cornerstone for our work, and the second is privacy. Challenges ahead for our communities are not trivial. Considering the needs for developing internal capacity and training for what the future of work looks like.
 The digital inclusion network will become an even important entity to promote technology literacy in emerging fields of technology like big data, artificial intelligence, smart devices, clean energy, cloud-based manufacturing, and other industrial opportunities that rely on information.
 The digital inclusion network can actually play a central part in bringing all those that have been left behind to the front row and take advantage of all those opportunities. Just to finish, an empowered and informed society is less vulnerable to all this digital abuse that we have been hearing recently. And we can definitely capitalize altogether in what technology has to offer.
 Thank you very much. And does that complete? That completes it. Very good. So we have the motion on the table. It's seconded. Carla, please call the roll. Thank you for your testimony. You daily. Well, I want to thank everyone for coming today and thank you for the vital work that you're doing. I want to congratulate you on being on track with 100% of your strategic actions. We don't necessarily hear that all the time at City Council.
 Your work is very closely aligned with and essential to the work that we're doing in the Office of Community and Civic Life. So we certainly look forward to working with you. I want to agree with Mr. Pasternak that the Office of Community Technology really needs to continue to be elevated.
 They have a standing invitation to join my bureau. Wink, wink, nudge, nudge. And I also want to rise to the challenge of meeting or exceeding San Jose because I really don't like hearing about other cities that are doing a better job than we are in this arena. I'm committed to helping move the digital equity agenda forward through PBOT, which is my other bureau and which is obviously involved in negotiations
 around our new wireless network, specifically 5G, and just want to reiterate that digital inclusion is a moral and economic imperative for Portland. It's a fundamental equity issue. When I look at these numbers of who participated in the Free Geek Free Computer program,
 You know, not surprisingly, we see communities of color overrepresented in this group. But what was especially striking to me is that 43% of the people who participated have no high school education. And how vital it is for that population of people to have free, easy access.
 constant access to the internet where they can access free college programs. And also the household income, 80, nearly 90% of these individuals were earning less than $30,000 a year, which we know is about half of what you need to earn to live here comfortably. So we're reaching a really vulnerable
 underserved group of people and I'm really happy to see that. So finally, I'll go to Fritz. Thank you. Thank you Mayor. What a great presentation. Thank you to everybody who participated. I'm really excited about this work. I started the Digital Equity Inclusion Plan under Mayor Sam Adams, Commissioner
 Saltzman was the one who brought it to council under Mayor Hales. Commissioner Saltzman's longtime chief of staff, Brendan Finn, and mine, Tim Crail, were both very involved in creating it. Thanks to Comcast for funding that plan and in particular for funding the outreach to underrepresented and underserved communities so that the plan itself is based on what do the people most affected want.
 want and need rather than what do we think they need. And so I'm really excited for how it's working out. Thank you to previous director, David Olsen, and deputy director, Mary Beth Henry. Mary Beth was in the video, and I think she...
 encapsulated it very well that we cannot afford to not do this. It's too expensive to leave people out. So I'm very grateful that we're working on this. Thanks to Metro East for a really brilliant video. Thank you, that was really inspiring. Thanks to Open Signal for carrying Channel 30 every week and for our
 Collectively, those two being the community media non-profits that really help make this happen. Thank you to the Office for Community Technology, specifically Julio Melchuk and Rebecca Gibbons. Great presentation.
 I concur that it needs to be a standalone bureau, not within any other bureau, because it is so important. And it's managed well under the previous system but it's going to return to its former glories as a standalone and I'm very excited about that. Appreciate Multnomah County and the Library District for your partnership. And also the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission.
 I was struck during the video that there was probably a lot of people watching on Channel 30, like my parents-in-law who live at Cherrywood Village. Hi, Mom and Dad. Some of whom are remarkably good at technology, as are my parents-in-law, and others like me who need a son or daughter or somebody to tell them, have you tried unplugging it, Mom?
 I've got that one now, but I do need help. And so, unfortunately, our Kathleen Gable students had to leave. But I hope the Office for Community Technology staff will reach out to that class and invite them to be volunteers because I think...
 It's the kind of thing that it's not necessary. I noticed in the video folks diligently writing down step by step. Then something goes wrong and if you're like me, it's like, ah, now what do I do? So it would be nice to have more volunteers. There's obviously a lot of time and talents that are available in the community. Such great community partnerships. I'm sure others thought I could help teach that. I could help fund that.
 So please call 823-4000 and they will connect you with the Office for Community Technology and volunteer because this is something that is vital for our whole community and it's a really exciting thing that everybody can benefit from. Hi. Fish? Well, it's a great report and I and my colleagues learned a lot this morning. So thanks to everyone who joined us. I have one pet peeve and I start with a compliment.
 When we talk about removing barriers, one way we remove barriers is we make sure that reports that we issue are legible to people over the age of 50. And, in fact, the font used in this, I think, is the correct font. But I would just say that on page 1 and on page 5,
 it defaults to really very small font. And I would add a page in lieu of trying to cram everything on a page because the truth is that people over 50 can't read the most important page of your report, which is progress. So with that PSA, I just want to say I thought it was an outstanding report. And today is a day of firsts. For some of you who were here earlier, we had someone who showed up for council communications that said,
 testified that the city was doing something right, so that was a first. And then we had someone during this presentation that took out their smartphone and showed a picture of Ted Wheeler, and that's a first.
 So I think we've got something to build on today. He admitted that in public, no less. Getting the Mozart concerto. The Mozart concerto is interesting, and when we get the demand in the mail from the attorneys for the producers of that video asking for royalties, then we'll take that up with our friend.
 But this is really good work. And I have two kids. One who lives at home is age 14. And my son is really smart about technology, unlike his dad. And whenever I have a problem, he helps me through it. And when I have a problem with my phone or my computer, you know, it's extremely frustrating because not only are you disconnected physically,
 from the Internet and from the sources of information. But, you know, for those of us who live busy lives, it's hard to find the time to fix the problem. So thinking about a future where we democratize access to technology and we also make it easier for people to get the training and support they need to be effective with technology is really important. So thank you for your good work, Mayor. Thank you for this presentation. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Julie and Rebecca for their leadership on this effort. It's been very impressive that you've developed a plan and then come back, I don't know if a year later, but it seems like about a year later, and actually tell us you actually have completed a lot of the items, action items. That's really good. And I think one of those action items that has really benefited our city and the work of the Office for Community Technology in general is helping our fire bureau to develop
 be digitally included. They now, thanks to grants through the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, have all the stations fully online, which often surprises people to know that they didn't before. So thank you for your help in that regard, and thank you for the good work. Wheeler. I first want to thank the staff and guests who made their presentations today. They were great presentations, and I think we...
 I heard a very, very good composite of all the benefits of this kind of program, and I want to thank you for all your work in year two of DEEP. Digital equity, of course, means having access to affordable, high-speed Internet, a device to connect, and the know-how to navigate in a digital world, which is, of course, what we all live in today.
 As Commissioner Udaly and I recently expressed to the Bureau of Transportation, the Office for Community Technology and other bureaus, digital inclusion, I believe, is a moral and economic imperative for the City of Portland. We recognize this across city bureaus and commissioners' offices in the work that we all collectively do as a city.
 evolving and growing our city and adapting how we serve our residents is in an ever-increasing digital society. While many of us understand the value of technology and have the means to access it, there are still way too many of our residents and neighbors who do not.
 And for these residents who often represent some of our most vulnerable populations, I believe it is really important that we come together to identify and how we can best reach and serve them. And that's what this program continues to do and what it will continue to do in the future. So thanks to all of you, I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Let's go to Times Certain 1040. If you could read items 1047 and 1048 together, please.
 1047, consider the proposal of Tim Sertuta, Southwest Hills LLC, and the recommendation from the hearings officer for removal of conditions of approval imposed by prior comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendment ordinances for property at 2855 Southwest Patton Road, LU18-112,
 666-CPZC and 1048 amend the comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendment to remove conditions of approval imposed by prior ordinances for property at 2855 Southwest Patton Road at the request of Tim Satuta, Southwest Hills LLC, LU 18-112 666-CPZC
 Colleagues, at the last hearing, we tentatively voted to approve the hearing officer's recommendation and the applicant's final proposal with modifications and additional conditions. We asked staff to come back with revised findings to reflect those modifications and conditions. So today we need to do two things before we pass both items on for a final vote next week.
 First of all, we need a motion to tentatively approve the revised findings for item 1047, and then we'll take a tentative vote on that motion. Secondly, because this is a comprehensive plan map amendment, our final decision is made by ordinance. We need to amend the ordinance for item 1048 to include the new conditions and the revised findings.
 This is a non-emergency ordinance, so we'll come back for a final vote on both items next week. Do I have a motion and a second to tentatively approve the revised finals? So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? No.
 Wheeler. Aye. The motion passes. Now do I have a motion and a second to amend the ordinance, including the addition of findings as Exhibit A is shown in the amendment documents distributed by the council clerk? So moved. Second. Motion from Commissioner Fish. A second from Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll.
 Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? No. Wheeler? Aye. The motion passes. Both items are continued to a final vote on October 17th at 10.35 a.m. As a reminder to those of you here for this item, the record will remain closed. So we will go to the regular agenda. Item 1055, please, Carla.
 amend the seismic design requirements for existing buildings to require placards and tenant notification for unreinforced masonry buildings. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to make one brief statement. Since our hearing last week, we've heard from Portland Public Schools that they strongly support the placarding and tenant notification ordinance
 but have concerns over the timing of getting the placards up by January 1st. With the holiday season in full swing at that time and staff members on vacation, this concern is understandable. I believe that if the school district notifies all parents of children in an unreinforced masonry school by January 1st, they have complied with the spirit of this regulation correctly.
 and understand if it takes some more time to physically get the placards up on the school buildings. Commissioner, do we have a new deadline for them to get the placards up?
 You know, the Bureau of Development Services is in charge of making sure that all entities comply with this. I think they will employ some discretion with Portland Public Schools in particular, but the school district has assured us that they do intend to get the placards up. They just can't do it by January 1. So hopefully by spring break.
 Very good. So this is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We've already taken testimony. We've heard presentations. So we get to the vote. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. And then there were three. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your insistence on this. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your support.
 Thanks to my colleagues on the Council for supporting the amendments I proposed regarding placarding and educational materials that are accessible to all community members, including those with disabilities and those who speak languages other than English. I think this is an essential component of the placarding requirement, which is education. What are your choices and what are your responsibilities if you choose to enter these buildings?
 Thank you, John Apapa F. Thiemu and the staff at the Bureau of Emergency Management for your willingness to partner with the city bureaus and the Office of Equity Human Rights to make sure this information is accessible.
 I recognize there are many community members who have concerns about this. I asked the fire chief to get me information on the U marked buildings, which we heard about at the hearings last week, which those buildings are so unsafe that the U means that it's unsafe for firefighters to enter in the event of an emergency unless there's emergency.
 weighing on balance the risk to the firefighters and the risk to the building occupants. And many of those buildings are still occupied and in use, and others have been turned over to new uses. This afternoon we're going to hear about the historic resources...
 Portland Historic Landmarks Commission and their recommendation to do a historic resources inventory. And I will be supporting that budget request because we need to look at which of these unreinforced masonry buildings are indeed significant and we should all be involved in finding ways to save them and which ones actually would probably be better in a higher and better use to be redeveloped.
 And so that's something I think that we, another question. I appreciate the church leaders who came in and pointed out the challenges of nonprofits. Many of those challenges are shared by the city and other public entities like Portland Public Schools. We will not benefit from property tax cuts.
 or other mechanisms. I was cheered yesterday to meet with Elizabeth Edwards, the Office of Government Relations Director, who is working with the legislators to put together a proposal for funding in the 2019 legislature. I think it's clear this was on...
 a top priority of the League of Oregon Cities, whose board I sit on. Everywhere in the state, people are recognizing that time is ticking and the big one is coming, and we're living on borrowed time. So if we want to save these buildings, we need to get going on it right now. I believe this placarding will not affect profits. I know that
 that's not a view shared by the property owners and that they're very disappointed by this vote. I just don't think we can continue to kick the can down the road and not do anything. And that's why, one of the reasons I'm supporting this. Thanks to Claire Adamsick on my staff and to everybody who's been involved. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank my colleagues for their support and listening last week to a long hearing and making a decision today. I do think that
 One of the requirements of our office is to really take seriously issues of life safety for Portlanders, all Portlanders. And certainly that's been driven home to me as fire commissioner for the last six years. And this is life safety in its most elemental form. Earthquakes is our most likely disaster. It's the event we train the most for.
 All of our training scenarios center around earthquake response and preparation. Over the years, the city has gathered information on unreinforced masonry buildings, which are the most at risk of collapse during a major earthquake. We have this information, and for transparency's sake, it is our obligation to provide Portlanders this information through tenant notifications and the placards, and to respect their ability to...
 to make informed decisions and also to help make them inform, be aware of their surroundings. And as I said last week, it's really, to me, and I really believe this, this is really an obligation to today's 10-year-olds, people who aren't at the table during any of these discussions, but these are the people that will be living in unreinforced masonry buildings for the next 20 years before our tougher seismic standards kick in. So giving Portlanders the placards and the tenant notification language
 helps build awareness of seismic risk. I can't help but think that a tenant that walks in and out of their building every day and sees that placard is going to be better prepared if an earthquake hits. They're going to have thought about it. What do I need to do in the event of an earthquake? And also be aware of their surroundings. So I do think this works to help improve, as I said, the life safety of Portlanders. And it also, quite frankly, is
 And I think this is why many of the building owners are opposed to it. It's going to build the market demand for seismic improvements to our buildings. And I understand this is no easy task to building owners, but earthquakes are not produced by the city. They are produced as an act of God or a natural disaster. We are trying to do what we can do, and that is to protect Portlanders. But we certainly can't do anything about the seismic risk we face.
 And I certainly don't think it is the city's obligation. While we can go to the legislature and seek funding and other things, it's certainly not our obligation to fund the seismic improvements that building owners face. I sympathize, but it's not our responsibility. It's their responsibility. So in closing, I want to thank the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, Bureau of Development Services for all their long, hard work on this issue, toiling in the trenches every day.
 I want to also thank Matt Grum on my office for his help in getting this to the finish line, and I believe this is an action that we will be proud of and we will be glad we did. Aye. Wheeler? I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1056. Authorize a request for proposal for a new tax administration software program
 In the Revenue Division. I'm stalling for a minute because I realize this is an emergency item and I need a fourth. Legal counsel, can I begin with three? It's the vote that requires four. Is that correct? That's correct. Very good. Colleagues, the revenue system replacement is needed. Our current systems are aging. They don't meet modern-day expectations, and they're rapidly approaching the end of their useful life.
 We anticipate being out of support within three years. The integrated tax system project is a top priority for the Office of Management and Finance, OMF, and aligns with OMF's three-year strategic plan, specifically with the goal to, quote, adopt 21st century business solutions, unquote. This project also aligns with the goals in both the citywide IT strategic plan as well as the Portland plan.
 The largest benefits of this project are improved customer service on multiple fronts, more modern and less risky support structures, and increased revenue collection for the general fund. The revenue system replacement is needed. Systems are aging, don't meet modern-day expectations, and are rapidly approaching the end of their useful life. We anticipate how...
 I already read that paragraph. That's clever. Authorizing this ordinance allows us to issue the RFP. This will allow revenue to gather more information and continue planning this critical project. And I'm sorry for my sloppy editing skills. Thank you and welcome for being here.
 Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Thomas Lanham. I'm the Director of the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. And joining me is Rochelle Gorsegner, our Integrated Tax System Project Manager. So I'm just going to talk a little bit about the history, about how we got here. And then Rochelle will walk you through a very brief PowerPoint slide presentation to kind of let you know where we're going in terms of this RFP.
 So for the past 33 years, Revenue has had a pretty good run in terms of homegrown and home-maintained custom in-house solutions for our tax administration. In 1985, we had a mainframe application called Vax that was used to track very limited and basic taxpayer information. In 1998, we replaced Vax with the current business license information system that
 And this platform, which is now 20 years old, is reaching the end of its life and going out of support in as little as three years. In 2012, the Revenue Division received approval from the IRS to receive federal taxpayer information. Following several years of planning and follow-on work with the IRS to gain additional approvals, we received our first federal taxpayer information in 2015.
 So for the first time in the history of the program, this gave us a real insight into local taxpayers, individuals and businesses in terms of what they were reporting to the IRS. And we used this data to administer our local taxes and in particular to locate taxpayers who have either not paid their taxes to Portland or Multnomah County or have underpaid them.
 And while we have federal taxpayer information and we are using it to identify taxpayers, we're using it very inefficiently because of the very intensive physical and IT security requirements that the IRS has regarding safeguarding FTI. So to put a number on it, only six of our current 70 employees have access to federal taxpayer information, and really all of them could benefit from using that information.
 So we're using FTI, but we're using it very inefficiently. Access to FTI has exposed weaknesses in our homegrown solutions around scalability and effectiveness, and these issues are leading to the loss of revenue because we cannot fully utilize FTI with our current systems. To address these shortcomings and others, we requested and received city council approval in fiscal year 2017-2018 to launch the Integrated Tax System project.
 are again ITS to explore the replacement of our databases and this would not just be the business license information system that I spoke of but all of our platforms the transient lodging tax the hotel motel tax the arts tax and other applications all would be replaced with one sweeping commercial off-the-shelf
 I would remind the council that those programs in sum, arts, transient lodging, business license tax, total about $435 million of revenue to the city of Portland and Multnomah County every year. Just this side of 50% of our general fund is accounted for these systems that we are contemplating replacing.
 So we've reached a critical milestone in the project, and we are here before you today to gain your approval to issue an RFP to seek proposals from qualified vendors. And Rochelle is here to walk you through the PowerPoint and give you a little more information about that. Hi. Good morning. Is the PowerPoint available for them right now? Okay, great. Thank you.
 So a brief overview, just recapping some of the items that Thomas said about the integrated tax system. This is a new single tax system that is replacing a portfolio of legacy systems. They are soon expected to go out of support. Thus far we have two roles which were created by Council's approval of the 17-18 budget.
 the ITS project manager role, which is mine, as well as the business analyst. And we are working together to research the market, confirm our requirements, and pull this all together into a request for proposals from marketplace vendors. The ITS project, in terms of the magnitude of this project, we refer to this as a large-scale, multi-year modernization effort.
 So as Thomas said, we are handling over $400 million in annual revenue, as well as we have over 600,000 active taxpayer accounts that will be impacted by this core system replacement. Will the Office of Community Technology, I know this is the asterisk, so that includes the Office of Community Technology, will they also be part of this system regardless of where they end up in the city? Yes.
 We are exploring that right now. I think part of the answer lies in organizationally where OCT sits. OCT is currently using the city's EBS or SAP system for collections. And so right now we've had conversations about having this OCT programs in the RFP, but it remains to be seen whether or not ultimately they'll be implemented there.
 Yeah, I guess for them and others it makes sense. If this is a new and improved version that's costing quite a lot of money, it would be good to have as many bureaus as possible have access to it. I'm sorry to interrupt your presentation. Oh, no, please. Thank you. Absolutely. So in terms of the scope of this project, again, as we've referenced, there is the desire to replace a portfolio of multiple systems with one new single system.
 So the systems that we are talking about retiring as a part of this project, Bliss, Arts, Castle, which is our application for enhanced service districts, Regis, which is our application for business permitting and transient lodging, as well as what we call the Fatima application. That application does not do core tax administration work. However, it is the application that we use to manage federal taxpayer information.
 Now, in addition to these six core applications, we also have this myriad of smaller applications, which, although they don't do the core tax processing work, they handle data that supports that work, such as our mailroom application. This full universe of tax applications is currently supported by two individuals, and both of them are nearing retirement.
 When we started this project, just common sense told us that this timeline would be coming up soon. Now that we've gotten into this project a little bit, one of these people is going to be retiring in the next year. The other one has signaled not too long after that he will also be looking at retirement.
 In the scope of this new system, not only are we replacing the existing functionality that we're able to do with our current applications, but we also hope to add on new functionality that will bring us to a more modernized customer service level.
 Two of those items, the first two on this list, e-filing. So right now, a City of Portland taxpayer can go to portlandoregon.gov and file a single return. And they can visit multiple times and each time file a single return. But we do not have the ability to submit your City of Portland tax return with common tax preparation software packages.
 So right now, if you're using one of those packages and you hit submit and you're filing your federal and your state return, you then have to either use paper or visit the Portland website to do the city of Portland return. Modernized e-filing is a specific term that means that we will be able to accept returns through that common tax preparation software package. We also hope to have a more modern taxpayer portal.
 Right now, the City of Portland taxpayer does not have the ability to go to their portal and see a list of payments that they have made to the city or other common customer self-service functions. So we are hoping to bring that capability to the City of Portland taxpayer.
 We also hope to realize improved data analytic functions, as well as, as Thomas explained a lot about the FTI integration and how it is limited today, the six people that have access, we store the FTI in a locked room separate from the main operations of our floor. If we can bring that FTI data out onto our floor and into our daily operations.
 There are so many missed opportunities right now for collection of revenue that we would be able to realize. So with all of those items that I have just discussed, all those come together to bring us increased revenues to the City of Portland. Moving on to cost and schedule, I've explained to you a bit about the scope of the project in terms of timing and price tag. We are currently expecting this project to be roughly $20 to $30 million.
 This figure is our all-in figure. It is the payment to the primary vendor. It is payment to supplemental vendors, such as quality assurance, change management, those kinds of vendors, which we have not yet scoped, but we know that some of that will be on the horizon. It's our infrastructure hardware network costs. It is our staff ramp-up costs. This number was determined by talking to other jurisdictions. We've been...
 interacting with them a lot at conferences or just reaching out by word of mouth in terms of, oh, they've just implemented the system, why don't you go talk to them? So taking those data points of price tags from other jurisdictions and looking at their budgets, we extrapolated to this for our forecast for our budget. For schedule, we hope to receive your approval to issue the RFP this month, which would then result in a notice of intent to award approximately February of next calendar year.
 And if those fall into place, then depending on how long our contracting phase takes, we hope to actually begin the project in the summer of 2019 and move on to rolling out our business tax on the new platform in 2020, arts in 2021. And then the smaller taxes we have, they will either fit into one of those two releases or be in a third release as well as any other enhancements.
 You might notice a lot of question marks around these dates, and that is because at this point, we're making our best guess, but when the vendor would actually come on site, one of their first deliverables we've requested in the RFP is that they produce that project plan. And so that is when we would have a lot more clarity on our committed timeline. Moving on to stakeholders, now that I've described to you...
 A little bit about what the parameters are for the project. I want to talk a bit about who stands to have a stake in this project. So the first three bullet points, I think, are fairly self-explanatory. They're the core members of the tax world, if you will. Taxpayers, as well as the exempt filers. Okay.
 So, for instance, every single person who pays an arts tax will have their account migrated from the old system to the new system. If they pay online or if they file their exemption, they will be interacting with this new system. Tax preparers and CPAs, the professional community that supports the taxpayers, software vendors of common tax preparation packages –
 Other stakeholders, I'm just going to read down them, but I'm happy to answer questions about them. City Council, any bureaus that benefit from the general fund. Revenue employees, we're talking about profoundly changing the way that we do business in the revenue division. So this will be changing the nature of the work for several of our revenue employees, and that's why also we have the Labor Management Committee listed as one of our stakeholders.
 Technology Oversight Committee, I actually presented to the Technology Oversight Committee in September to introduce this project to them. They have our RFP right now. It is currently under their review. So they have already been introduced to this project and we expect to be referred to them for oversight by the CTO. Additional parties such as Multnomah County or Travel Portland, other groups that we collect revenue for,
 obviously will be stakeholders of this. Arts Oversight Committee, short-term rental platforms such as Airbnb also will be interacting with this system. Any questions about the stakeholders? Okay, so moving on. And I apologize to be rude. I'm going to have to leave council early, and I've got two emergency ones. So can you just hit the main bullet points? Yes. Because I have to be here to vote for some of these. Sure. Thank you.
 So today's ask of council is that we are asking you to approve an authorizing ordinance allowing us to issue the RFP. We've talked about the risks that we have in terms of continuing as is with our limited resource pool.
 I'd also like to discuss briefly the reputation and integrity risk in terms of if our systems break at some point in the future, which we expect would happen with our current status quo, there will be a significant loss of public confidence, quality risk, making decisions in a bad space, also a risk, and then, of course, lost revenue. So you've made a very compelling case for this. Thomas, really quickly, how do we pay for it?
 Well, we need to get the responses back from the RFP so we fully understand the timing of the ask. We don't anticipate the entire $20 million to $30 million hitting in the first year. It would be spread over multiple years. So in terms of the structure and the timing, we don't have that yet. It would be a general fund ask, but then after that, how it's financed, we don't have that information yet. That would be a subsequent ask. So we're not asking the council to weigh in on the budget or the timing of that today. Okay.
 Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? We have one person signed up, Charles Bridgegrain-Johnson. I'm going to shorten testimony to two minutes, please. Thank you. I won't do that to you ordinarily. I apologize. No, no, it's understandable. Thanks. Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridgegrain-Johnson, for the record. And I went too far. He didn't get to tell you about wonderful benefits-based funding options that might be available as we move to this.
 I was glad it was not in the two little pages of PDF, but it was good to see that the Technology Oversight Committee has been briefed and met. Even though I only have two minutes, I'm going to talk about how important this is. This fills our little matrix. We've now used every possible combination of CTO, TOC, and OCT on this project.
 So, um... Touche. So, uh, this is important. I think one thing that is, you know, sometimes large vendors, SAP, who we already deal with are in there. So, um, as you personally interface with members of the Technology Oversight Committee and other tech workers, uh, look for ways that this can be docked to certified professionals, uh, who may come from a less white, less male background, but have gotten the proper certifications to do this type of work, um,
 on Oracle subcontractors to SAP. Definitely we need to move this forward, although the end of support usually just means something else could be paid for for a few more years, but that would not be a wise investment. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Carla, please call the roll. Udaily? This is great. I encourage you not to let your software go out of support because that would be terrible, and I'm also...
 Happy to hear that it will include the arts tax. I personally have had some frustration trying to pay the arts tax online, and it doesn't seem to work across all kind of platforms. It's led to me having to pay fees, and I think it's probably fueling some of the frustration in the community around that tax. So I vote aye.
 I don't often quote former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, but in this case there is no alternative. So thank you for your work. Hi. Fish? Thanks for the presentation. You know, we had a work session yesterday when we looked at some of the future costs that we haven't budgeted for, and I don't remember this being on the PowerPoint. Okay.
 But I think it's important that you talk to Tom, our CAO, and make sure that this $20 million to $30 million ask is in the grid, because we've asked for a specific roadmap for how we can budget for all of the known costs that are going to be hitting the general fund over the next five years. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Yeah, this is super critical, and I appreciate the hard work you're putting into this to get all the pieces in order. It's daunting. It's large. It's complex. And as Commissioner Fritz just noted, it's absolutely necessary. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please, 1057. Authorize limited tax revenue refunding bonds related to the Portland streetcar system. Good morning. Morning. Good morning.
 Matt Kurok from Debt Management. So this ordinance authorizes the city to refinance the limited tax revenue refunding bonds 2009 Series A. The 2009 Series A bonds were originally issued to refinance the limited tax revenue bonds 1999 Series A, which funded the Central City Streetcar Project. The 2009 Series A bonds have an option to refinance without penalty on April 1st, 2019.
 Current borrowing rates are below the interest rate requirements of the 2009 Series A bonds, providing an opportunity to realize debt service savings through the final maturity of April 1, 2024. Upon authorization, the City's Debt Management Division would execute a refinancing in January of 2019. Very succinct. Thank you. Any questions? Any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have two people, Charles Bridgecrain Johnson and Shedrick Wilkins. One minute each, please.
 Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner. Thanks again. Charles Bridge, Grant Johnson. Just one thing. I know, you know, Portland Streetcar, Inc. is independent, but since we are involved in their financing here, and it looks like from the paperwork this could create as much as maybe a $300,000 savings, I just want to make sure that you're all engaged and so people can get their voice heard by Portland Streetcar about what is the best way
 for this change in their revenue funding picture. Does it enable them to fund another driver, maybe improve services on Sunday or something like that? So it's not really the scope of the bond committee or you're here to get the best financing deal, but it does dock into the general budget for Portland Streetcar, and I hope we'll all be looking for ways to do, that there can be quality felt service improvements for the riders from this financing improvement.
 Thank you, sir. Good morning. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I love the east side streetcars. It did prove that the intersection of the streetcars going north and south would not slam into traffic. The Trillium Bridge is amazing. It's like the Golden Gate Bridge from OMSI. I like taking the streetcar from downtown Portland across the Trillium Bridge to OMSI.
 going back to city team ministries, I remember when they were building the track. Streetcars are smaller than light rail. And then it passes by in the Multnomah County. OMSI kind of represents Oregon, not Portland science. And then it goes all the way to Lloyd Center. And it's just great. Whether it crosses the Broadway Bridge, maybe they should make more
 Golden Gate Bridges. But anyway, it's a great experiment on the east side and demonstrates science in Oregon, regardless of what we do here in Portland. Thank you, sir. Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 1058, second reading.
 amend ordinances to authorize use of bond proceeds for the payment of interest on bonds during reconstruction and space build-out.
 of the Portland Building. Colleagues, this is the second reading of a non-emergency ordinance, so we've already heard a presentation and we've taken testimony on this item. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? For both this and the previous one, I really want to thank our bond staffing. They've really outstanding work in making sure the taxpayers get as much money
 or save as much money as we possibly can. Thank you very much. Hi. Fish. Hi. Salsman. Hi. Wheeler. Bonding is one of those rare issues that nobody pays attention to because it sounds boring when you hear that you're going to be talking about bonds. But as we heard on the previous item, if you're really smart and tactical –
 In how you use those bonds, you can actually save a lot of money and make the public's taxpayers go a lot farther, as we saw with the streetcar. And the bonding capacity is tremendously important when it comes to capital improvement issues that are weighty in this city. And I want to just second what Commissioner Fritz just said. I think we get top-notch advice, and I say that not just as the mayor but as a former mayor.
 State Treasurer, where I always said bonds are sexy. And nothing I've heard today changes my view on that. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, gentlemen. And at this point, I'm going to turn the gavel over to Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you. So our next item is 1059. If you could read that, Carl.
 authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the North Rivergate Freight project through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. I'm sure you did. Thank you. This is a project that will reduce freight congestion caused by train traffic in North Portland, and I'd like to introduce who I hope, I have the name right, Marty Maloney.
 Yay. Right-of-way specialist to explain the project and answer any questions. Welcome. So first, I needed to actually amend the exhibits that were attached to the ordinance. I gave those to Carla as well. Can you move the mic a little closer to you? Sorry.
 What are the amendments? So there was a couple amendments. One on one property, we needed to actually acquire 5.5 extra square footage of property for sidewalk connection. And then on the port property, we needed to acquire just a small amount more of temporary construction easement as well. And have the property owners been notified of this change? Correct. So I move the amendment. Second. Okay.
 So, good morning, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with Peabodyt Right-of-Way. The agenda item in front of you is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation to the property owners. The project will design and construct a roadway over crossing to elevate North River Gate Boulevard over the existing Union Boulevard
 Union Pacific Railroad tracks between North Time Oil and North Burgard. As part of the project, a frontage road will be created on the north end to connect the two property owners on the north side of the project. All effective property owners have been notified of the need for the property and have been invited to listen to the agenda being read.
 If you have any other questions, I'd be happy to answer. Have there been any objections? Not that I know of, no. Okay, no further questions. Thank you very much. Is there anybody signed up to testify, Carla, or anybody wished to testify? No one signed up. Okay, anybody wished to testify? Okay, this is an emergency ordinance, so please call the roll. Is this on the amendments first? Oh, okay, on the amendments first.
 Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, amendments pass, and now on the main ordinance. Udailey. Thank you for being here, Mr. Maloney. I vote aye. Aye.
 Fritz. This is an important project. I always ask, do the property owners, are they okay with this? Obviously, the city has to be very careful in exercising eminent domain and making sure that people have been notified and had the opportunity to object. I think it will benefit these properties, and I'm assuming that's why they're not objecting. And sometimes there are tax benefits to going through the condemnation route rather than the sale. So I understand that. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 okay the ordinance is adopted and carla if you could read 1060 please
 Authorize intergovernmental agreements and grant agreements in support of the lead hazard reduction program for five years beginning fiscal year 2019-20 in an amount up to $425,000 per year and increase the annual not to exceed authorized amount for fiscal year 2018-19 to $395,000. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, President Saltzman. As the new commissioner in charge of the Water Bureau, this is a really fascinating topic. Thank you, Ogburton. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your excellent stewardship of the Water Bureau over the last five-plus years. Lead in the water is obviously something that we're all concerned about, that we want to make sure that we have safe drinking water. And as we know, the source drinking water in the Bull Run and in groundwater is lead-free. Correct?
 What's interesting, or there's many interesting things about this and I'll get to the presentation shortly. I hope everybody else will be interested also. In 1960, the acceptable level of lead exposure was 60 and I forget what the units are in that, but in 2010 it dropped to eight and it's now zero. So as we've become more aware of the issues
 it's become even more crucial that all of us are aware of lead hazards and what we can do to reduce them. And something that I've learned, which I'll say now and at the end, is all users in Portland may be at risk for this, and so all of us need to take universal precautions. And so with that, I will turn it over to Scott Bradley, the Program Manager of the Water Bureau's Water Quality Division, and Gabe Solmer, the Deputy Director. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Commissioner Fritz. I'm Gabe Salmer. I'm the Deputy Director of the Water Bureau, and with me is Scott Bradway, who's our Water Quality Information Program Manager. And although this is just a reauthorization of a contract, we thought we would take the time to give you a little bit more information about the program and how it's been built over the years and how it's changing in the future. And I'll turn it over to Scott. Thank you, Gabe. Thank you, Commissioners. Again, Scott Bradway with the Portland Water Bureau.
 So, first to put this ordinance in context, I thought I'd start with some background on lead, particularly in Portland. So here in Portland, we're fortunate that we never use lead service lines. This is generally a source of lead in drinking water that we hear about throughout the country in the news and the media. We did, however, use for a period of time short lead pipes called pigtails or goosenecks. We removed all those known pigtails back in the 90s.
 So that leaves us as the main source of lead in water, drinking water in Portland, to be copper pipes that were joined with lead solder in our homes. And this is most commonly found in homes in our area that were built between 1970 and 1985.
 In addition to the lead solder, you also occasionally find that home plumbing fixtures that were installed prior to 1985 can also be a source of lead in drinking water. However, the important part is that the greatest source of exposure to lead in our community is from lead paint. Lead paint was commonly used on homes all the way up until 1978 when it was banned.
 Throughout the years, the Portland Water Bureau has been working to remove lead from our system. We worked with the state of Oregon in 1985 to pass the Oregon Lead Ban, which was about a year ahead of the federal regulations.
 As I mentioned, in the 90s, we worked to identify and remove all of the pigtails from our system. And then in the 2000s, we realized that some of these large meters in our system, these older large meters, had some lead components to them. And so we made it a priority to identify, remove, and replace these meters that serve our populations that are at highest risk. So that would be schools, communities, community centers, daycares, large apartment buildings, and hospitals.
 So when it comes to lead in drinking water, there was a federal regulation. The lead and copper rule passed in 1992. This required drinking water systems to provide corrosion control treatment to reduce the levels of lead and copper in drinking water. In 1994, the Portland Water Bureau completed an optimized treatment study. The recommendations of that study were to increase the pH of our drinking water to 9.0 and to begin treating for the addition of alkalinity.
 to, as our optimized corrosion control treatment. However, this would have required the construction of an expensive new treatment facility. And considering what was believed at the time that, you know, lead and paint was the greatest source of exposure and contributing to childhood lead poisoning, City Council directed the Water Bureau to investigate alternatives for a comprehensive approach to addressing exposure to lead. Thank you.
 In 1997, Water Bureau proposed a comprehensive lead hazard reduction program that was approved by the state as optimized corrosion control treatment and has served as our compliance approach to this regulation since that time.
 The Lead Hazard Reduction Program is a four-part program. It includes water treatment and monitoring, education and testing for lead in water, public education and community outreach for all sources of lead in the community, and the funds for that public education and outreach are then used as matching dollars for a housing bureau grant from Housing and Urban Development to mitigate lead paint hazards in low-income residents.
 This graph here demonstrates the results of our regulatory monitoring that we complete twice each year. As you can see in the yellow bars on the left of the graph, that is before we began treating our drinking water. Since treating the blue bars, you can see we had significant reduction of lead in drinking water, more than 60% levels of lead. So we've had some success with our lead in drinking water.
 But the red line that you can see across there represents the action level that was established by the federal regulations for lead in drinking water, and that we are occasionally over that action level. But note that these results are not results from the average home in our community. These are from homes where we know they have lead solder in them,
 that the lead solder was put in the last two years before lead solder was banned, and that these samples are collected after a minimum of six-hour stagnation time. So they are indeed the worst of the worst of the worst conditions for collecting samples and are meant as a way to track the effectiveness of treatment and not represent the lead and water levels in the community as a whole.
 The other part of our program is our education and testing about lead in water. We provide any customer requested a free lead in water test kit to test their home to see if they might be being exposed to lead in water. As you can see from this graph, in 2015 and 16 when lead in water was in the news because of Flint and what was going on with Portland Public Schools,
 The number of requests from our customers skyrocketed. Since then, we've continued to do extra outreach and education to our customers. While those levels of requests have come down, we are still seeing a much higher level of requests than normal.
 In addition to providing free testing to our customers, we also do free testing for schools. We've tested all of our city-owned facilities, and we're providing free testing to child carers to meet the new state-mandated regulations for child care testing.
 We also perform outreach to our customers. We educate our customers on simple steps they can take to reduce their exposure to lead. We reach out to who is most at risk. Those are children and pregnant people and people who live in homes between 1970 and 1985. Again, these are homes that are most likely to have lead solder in their plumbing.
 And we've been doing outreach to multifamily units as they don't normally receive a bill from the Water Bureau. Each year we include a message on our bills and insert a brochure into each of the bills to educate people about lead in water. And we include information in our annual water quality report that is sent to every home in the city.
 Other outreach we do to try to reach out to traditionally underserved communities is we attend community events, such as at Fix-It Fairs, Sunday Parkways, Home Buyer Fairs, Jade Market, and Good in the Hood. And this just kind of shows a summary of results of the home testing that we've performed. As you can see, when you're looking at all homes across the city, the average lead content,
 lead and drinking water level, and again, these are worst case tests first thing in the morning after the water's been sitting in the pipes all night. The average level is about two parts per billion, and only about 2% of homes exceed that federal action level. But when we look at what we've identified as our high risk homes, those built between 1970 and 85, you can see indeed that they are at increased risk, but that's still about an 8% of those homes that exceed the lead and action level. And just pause right there. Go back right there.
 Because I wanted to point out to my colleagues and people watching at home that even if your home was built before 1970 or after 1985, your risk is not zero. Exactly. So for those of you like me who thought, well, my home was built after that, I'm good, that we do need to pay attention to things like...
 cleaning the aerators in the faucets and looking to see whether we've got brass fittings because there's lead in brass those kinds of things exactly until 2014 you could still have up to eight percent lead in brass components so while that was considered lead free it was still present
 So the third component of our lead hazard reduction program is our community education and outreach. This is a multifaceted approach to educate our citizens and customers about all the sources of lead exposure,
 This includes, since 2004, there's a list of accomplishments of things we've done, outreach to tenants, attending workshops, landlord outreach, soil testing, information to new and expecting mothers, blood level testing. It's a wide-ranging, broad program.
 For this coming year, or this current year, fiscal year 2018-19, we've awarded grants to the Communities Alliance of Tenants to perform outreach to tenants about the hazards of lead and how they can work with their landlords to remediate those hazards.
 Community Energy Project to provide workshops to the community on reducing exposure to lead. Fair Housing Council to provide outreach to landlords about their responsibilities for lead exposure. Growing Gardens to perform testing in soils for gardeners. Multnomah County Health Department, they manage the lead line, which is an information referral service for all sources of lead, as well as intaking many of our lead and water test requests.
 They also perform education, they perform community blood lead level testing, and they perform home investigations when there is an elevated blood lead level case in a child. And then we provide funding to Portland Public Schools for paint stabilization projects in those schools that serve children under six in early education facilities. Thank you.
 As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, the kind of level of concern for blood lead levels has been coming down over the years. In the 90s when this program, the LHRP, was developed and put into place, that level of concern was around 10 milligrams per deciliter.
 And since then, we've learned that there is no safe level of exposure to lead in water or to any sources of lead. As a result, we realized there's an increased health benefit to further reduce the levels of lead in drinking water. So in 2014, we began a water quality corrosion study. The outcomes of that study had several recommendations.
 Those included doing some interim lead reduction actions to further increase the pH of our drinking water to 8.2, which is the highest we can currently go with our existing treatment facilities. Okay.
 that we should perform a corrosion control pilot study to look at further increasing our treatment and construction of treatment facilities to further reduce lead in water. And we entered into a compliance schedule for that improved corrosion control treatment that should be in place no later than April of 2022. Thank you.
 Earlier this year, we completed that corrosion pilot study. The recommendations from that study were to further adjust the pH of the drinking water and begin adding alkalinity adjustment to stabilize that pH throughout our system.
 That pH adjustment recommendation was to increase it to 8.5 and to add an alkalinity level of 25 milligrams per liter. This will be done by the addition of soda ash as well as carbon dioxide. These treatment facilities will be constructed at our current Lusted Hill facility that's outside of Sandy.
 And then finally, until those facilities are in place, we'll be doing an interim lead reduction plan. So these are extra actions to try to further protect the public from exposure to lead in drinking water. As mentioned, we've increased our pH to 8.2. We're performing targeted flushing in areas of poor water quality to maintain higher levels of quality and reduce corrosion.
 We're increasing our unidirectional flushing program significantly to flush built up sediments in our system that will also help with reduction of lead in water. Do you explain what unidirectional flushing is? So as an unfiltered system,
 you know, while our water looks perfectly clear, they're very fine sediments that, that kind of come into our system. And over the years have settled out into our pipes. Um, these sediments as they build in can affect the water quality, um, in areas where, where the water sits for extended periods of time, it can decrease the pH, making it slightly more corrosive. So by going in and doing what we call unidirectional flushing, and that's where you, um,
 adjust the valves in the system to increase the flow velocity of the pipes, the flow water out through hydrants, you can actually clear those built-up sediments out. It's kind of like a pressure washing of the inside of our pipes. So it really clears out those built-up sediments that have been in our system for a long period of time.
 We're also doing some enhanced education and outreach. As I mentioned, we're reaching out to multifamily units. We've begun sending an insert to any customer that moves to Portland and opens up a new account, or if you just move to a new home within Portland, informing you about the hazards of lead in drinking water and what you can do to reduce your exposure and request a test. And, of course, we're going to be continuing our lead hazard reduction program as our compliance until our treatment is in place. And with that, if you have any questions.
 No questions? Anybody signed up to testify? One person, Jay Wilkins. Okay, come on up. I believe that lead is very toxic, and we should get to the point where we don't even mine it. I think lead comes from an ore. One thing to know about lead, it's very good to protect from radiation like X-rays, lead vests, MRIs emit radiation. And so I think if we do get this lead...
 pipe and stuff like that, we should encourage maybe a Portland entrepreneur to make lead vests. When you get this lead, make sure you know where it's at. I think that's one thing about lead pipe. Nobody knows where it's really at. You have to get in the wall, find it, and stuff like that. It's a toxic material that can be used for good things. Thanks.
 I'm not the one that runs out of the room when I get a dental x-ray and I put on the little dealy bop. But it's important to know where it's at. And I also know this, that it's very bad for children to drink lead or toxic materials. The federal government's got some good solutions. If you're on food stamps and you're a child, you can get bottled water. Because I can buy bottled water on food stamps sometimes.
 It's a little thing. I mean, I go around when I get food stamps, see what I can buy, what I can't buy. I can't buy alcohol. Children should be encouraged who are on low income, which means they're probably in a house which is rented or some house with lead pipes, to please drink water from food stamps. And then when they go to school, target the schools because schools also are where kids drink the water. And so I'm just giving you a federal solution for that.
 you can also buy candy on food stamps which means you go to the dentist with a lead vest so on that one though children also have a smaller body mass their system is not well developed to get rid of lead out of their body that's why it causes mental retardation our bodies are much larger so help the children first and please drink bottled water whether it's free or not
 Actually, if I could ask a question of Scott, that prompts a question. What we learned a few years ago is that the water fountains in our school districts were the greatest at risk because of the plumbing features. Am I correct that I read somewhere that at least at Portland Public Schools they've completed replacing all the at-risk water fountains?
 They are definitely working through all of them, and most of them are back online, or at least I believe every school that's accessible to children is back in service and available. So they're back drinking tap water, no longer drinking the bottled water provided by the schools. And the second question I wanted to ask you is one of the charts that you gave us showed the spike when Flint happened and there was a lot of press about water safety. Yes.
 But the bar showed that we tested much fewer than the requested. So how do you explain the delta? We mail out a test to anyone who requests it, and it's then up –
 up to the customer to actually complete and return that test. Oh, I see. So we had 14,000 or whatever requested, but of those who then submitted, we did all the tests for people that submitted. Correct. Yeah, we test any sample that gets returned back to us, assuming it's collected in the proper manner. And then we usually see about 50% to 60% return rate of our test kits that are sent out. Well, also, colleagues, we had a presentation over the summer about project search
 and our efforts to create opportunities for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. And there was a young woman who, from that program, was responsible for packaging all the materials that we send to people, including the testing kit. And she really did a great job. And I think on some days got more than 100 of the packages fully stuffed and ready to go. So, yeah.
 It's an example of where taking something that we do in a bureau, carving it out, creating a work opportunity for someone with a disability results in a win-win. So thank you for an excellent report. You're welcome. Okay. Thank you very much. And this moves to a second reading next week. Before you move on, could I just make some comments? Thank you very much.
 I want to stress that there are things all of us can do to reduce lead hazards and that once you do those things, the water is entirely safe to drink and I would not waste your food stamps on buying bottled water, besides which bottled water tastes nasty and our run water doesn't. So learn the things that you can do. There are various grants that are available through as was listed, the Community Alliance of Tenants and others. I
 I personally am going to be doing more diligent flushing of my pipes in the morning and cleaning up my faucet aerator which has not been done in at least 30 years.
 So, you know, back in the olden days when I did my nurse's training, we didn't always wear gloves when working with patients. And then what we termed universal precautions came in that you don't know what you don't know. And so you wear gloves when you're doing patient care. And similarly, we need universal precautions in our drinking water despite the
 the fact that it is safe to drink in most instances, as long as you do what you're supposed to do. I do also want to thank the Water Bureau for those grants, including 50,000 a year for five years to Portland Parks and Recreation to help with their remediation efforts. And I noted in an email just last week that all of the paint, even the paint that's covered up,
 in playground equipment in the Portland Parks and Recreation System has now been removed if it ever had lead in it. And that's a great accomplishment. So we do learn by the mistakes of the past, at least we should. And I very much appreciate this approach and all that you've taught me in just the last month. I'd like to make a comment.
 As we move forward with considering mandatory inspections for rental properties, I just want to put on the record that we should certainly include lead testing, especially for the multifamily developments, which, as we've heard, typically won't receive a water bill and get a lot less information and notice about this issue.
 Thank you. I'm glad you mentioned that. That was on my list of things to say because we're looking into that. And unfortunately what happens now with this point of sale is that because there might be lead in any structure, there
 sellers just check the box that there might be, which isn't really all that helpful. And so we're looking into how could we get to those homes that are most at risk and make sure that not only new home owners, also renters, are notified at the point of lease and not just with a checkbox there may be lead in this thing. So obviously we're thinking along the same lines. Thank you.
 Okay, great. We'll move on to our last item this morning, 1061. Authorize a contract with Century West Engineering Corporation for professional services for the design of the Stark and Buckman East reconstruction and Green Streets Project number E10216 for $1,610,883. Okay.
 Commissioner Fish. Well, thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, this project is the latest part of the Neighborhood to River program that, as you know, combines great infrastructure such as sewer pipes with green solutions such as green streets. The project will address about 18,000 feet of sewer pipes in the areas that are in serious need of upgrade, and it will install 94 green street planters.
 With us today are Kerry Rubin, Principal Engineer, and Brandon Wilson, Principal Engineer, both from the Bureau of Environmental Services, with a brief presentation. Welcome. Thank you very much, Commissioner Fish. Sorry, could you turn that microphone on? Thank you. There we go. Better?
 My name is Carrie Rubin. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm joined by Brandon Wilson. We're here today seeking authorization for professional design services for a project that will address undersized and aging sewer pipes.
 What I'll do is give you some background on the project. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, this is part of our Neighborhood to the River program. The authorization today focuses on the pipes and the green street portions of this program.
 But it's important to note that those elements work in concert with our work with private residences on stormwater management, many times in the form of residential rain gardens. It also works with our tree planting efforts, our outreach and education efforts for residents and community partners, many times through our neighborhood projects that are focused on improving native vegetation.
 So while we'll be talking about pipes and green streets, it's important to know that all of these things package together in this area, ultimately, for clean rivers. And with that, I will hand it over to Brandon. Thank you, Carrie. Brandon Wilson, engineer at BES. The project location that we'll be discussing today is comprised of two areas in inner east side Portland,
 roughly bound by 14th to the west, 32nd to the east, Everett to the north, and Hawthorne to the south. The anticipated MWESB participation rate exceeds the published goal of 20% for the subcontractors. This is primarily, as we've discussed, a capacity-driven project aimed to resolve risk of street flooding, like the street flooding shown in the pictures coming out of the manholes, as well as basement sewer backups.
 We anticipate upsizing pipes for capacity and replacing those in poor condition. We also plan to install several new sewer extension mains as well as green streets, as has been mentioned. Our public involvement representative for PES is Debbie Castleton. We anticipate several meetings and mailings with neighbors and businesses.
 We anticipate a smooth public involvement process as we've been working in this basin for some time, for several years, including basin-wide stormwater education as part of the Neighborhood to the River program Carrie was discussing. Again, with your approval today, we'll authorize a contract to begin the design with our selected consultant. Other key information is on the screen. And are there any questions? No questions, apparently. Very good. Great. Thank you.
 Anybody signed up to testify or wish to testify on this? No one signed up. Okay. Well, this is also a non-emergency, so it will move to a second reading next week. And we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Until 3.30. 3.30? Yeah. Oh, good enough. 2 p.m. was moved to another date. Is that the LTA? Yes. Yeah. The mayor made an announcement that I was supposed to make while we were in my office.
 There's just some confusion with other jurisdictions, and we want to make sure that everyone... All right. Good afternoon. We're in session. This is the Wednesday afternoon, October 10th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Hi. Hi.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. Thank you.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you, and I just want to remind people, if there's anybody waiting for item 1062, the Southwest Corridor Light Rail Project Preferred Alternative, that's been rescheduled to November 1st at 2 p.m. time certain. Carla, could you please read our one item for this afternoon, item number 1063? Thank you.
 except the 2018 Portland Historic Landmarks Commission State of the City Preservation Report. And I would just like to remind people this is a report. There will be invited testimony, but there is not open public testimony given that it is a report. It's a pleasure to introduce the 2018 Portland Historic Landmark Commission State of the City Preservation Report.
 of the City Preservation Report. The first item of business today, of course, is to thank our dedicated volunteers who serve on the commission. This commission is a significant time commitment. It meets twice a month, and they review land use cases and provide design and policy advice. They're a dedicated, hard-working group of people that include Kirk Renzetta, Kristen Miner,
 Maya Foti, Matthew Roman, Wendy Chung, Annie Mahoney, and Ernestina Fuenmayer. I probably did not pronounce that right. Is that even close? It's close enough. All right. Thank you. And so could you possibly just stand up so that we can recognize you? And I'd like to suspend the rules for just a moment. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all for your service. I also understand that former Commission Chair Renzada, who will be presenting today, recently retired after eight years of service on this commission, and I want to acknowledge his dedication to the city.
 This commission will be presenting their seventh report before the city council, but they've been operating in the city of Portland since about 1969, providing leadership and expertise on maintaining and enhancing Portland's historic and architectural heritage.
 This report comes to the Council at a very important time when the city is under pressure for increasing building density and the desire to maintain Portland's unique character, and they're often seen as being in conflict with one another.
 These neighborhoods deserve the appropriate protection and predictability of quality infill that meets our density goals and inevitable growth, while also meeting our goals for historic preservation. I look forward to hearing more today from the Commission members and invited testifiers, and I'm committed to supporting the Commission in all of its efforts. Former Commission Chair Kirk Rappaport,
 Renzetta, and newly appointed Chair Kristen Miner. If you want to come forward, I believe you are going to kick off our presentation. Thank you for being here. Thank you, Commissioners, for the opportunity to present the 2018 State of the City report for the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission.
 I am the outgoing chair and Kristen Minor, who I hope will be here in a few minutes, is going to be the presiding chair for hopefully the very long future of the commission. And here she is right now. Perfect timing. That's right. Welcome. Magnificent entry. Just as we rehearsed. Yes. Sorry. So it's...
 As the State of the City is really meant to provide a summary of the previous year in terms of the accomplishments and some of the challenges that the Landmarks Commission has undertaken. And I'd like to also thank my fellow commissioners for...
 the service that they've been providing and the support they've provided the chair over the years as they've really, it's been a team effort in terms of pulling the report together and to working on various issues that have faced the city's historic resources. But just to kind of back up for a second and explain a little bit of what we do, the Landmarks Commission reviews Type 3 alterations, demolitions, and new construction in historic districts.
 We make recommendations to city council, particularly in the adoption of new guidelines and districts. Type 4 demolition reviews. There we go. We also provide advice on historic preservation matters, where we serve essentially as advocates for the city's historical resources. And we work very closely with the Design Commission, the Hearings Officer, Planning Sustainability Commission,
 the Portland Development Commission, Portland City Council, city bureaus, and other committees. We also assist in establishing or removing or recommend local landmark designations. We also review National Register nominations to forward on to the State Advisory Commission.
 We initiate and coordinate preservation outreach programs within and outside the city and we definitely could not do that without some very dedicated staff members. And I'd like to just also thank Hilary Adam and Spencer, Brandon Spencer-Hardell, sorry I always want to say his last name first.
 for all their help over the past several years that they've been supporting the commission. In terms of what we're seeking from the city council for the upcoming year is to really let the Landmarks Commission be a part of the solution to some of the city's most pressing problems.
 And we can affirmatively state that we're not an enemy of increased density or affordable housing. What we're really after, I think, is development that is sustainable but also is compatible with the existing city fabric.
 We also really, when looking at the URM ordinance, we do think that the mandatory requirement is important, but we definitely are looking for the need for incentives in terms of helping property owners comply with this new regulation.
 We're also really, this will be, I think, the eighth year that I can remember anyway that we've asked city council to fund the HRI. As you can see on the map on the right, it's, I think, the Lentz neighborhood. Lentz is one of the, has had some of the highest level of demolitions that have occurred over the past 10 to 15 years. And it's one of the least represented communities in our HRI area.
 Could you just tell people at home what HRI stands for? Sure. It's the Historic Resources Inventory. The inventory was first done in 1984 and hasn't been touched since then. So it's approaching over 30 years old that the city is essentially making planning decisions on data that is ancient in some ways. It's historical in and of itself.
 We're also asking to really have city councils backing when we really try to serve as advocates for Portland's unique places. We see that the residential infill project and what's BHP? Better housing...
 Thank you. I forget all the acronyms. Canon should allow for new development to reflect, but it should reflect the existing character in which it's built. Our main priority is to encourage rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of the existing built fabric. We find that there's significant value and affordability in resources that we already have.
 I'm going to just briefly talk a little bit about what we've accomplished in this past year as a commission and as staff. I'm including them as well. So advocacy recommendations, and those go to all sorts of legislative projects.
 We have held 21 public hearings, and that includes type 3s, some appeals, nominations, etc. And staff also performed 54 type 1s, 40 type 1Xs, and 93 type 3s.
 We all participate in various subcommittees. So those are doing sort of work to forward various legislative projects typically or to serve on other bodies that might be making decisions for the city. We collaborate with the design commission in reviews, sometimes sitting together up at the dais and sometimes just providing recommendations to each other in writing.
 We also provide advice and input on various bureau or agency projects, and that includes the upcoming Southwest Corridor Transit Project, which is going to be really exciting, and we'll take some careful look from all sorts of bodies, including ours. And the Burnside Bridge Project, which we actually saw just a couple hearings ago.
 And then we also do work with various bodies outside of the city, such as collaborating with U of O to create a studio for graduate students in architecture looking at work in a historic district.
 So there's a couple of projects I really wanted to highlight for you. One of those is the project at the top here by Allied Works. This is a replacement for a historic building on Northwest 23rd that you might recall was impacted severely by that gas explosion. And this building had a very easy path to approval.
 And the reason is that it fits into its context very well. And I'd like you to kind of note its...
 relatively contemporary design. But the reason it fits into its context so well is that it has a very ordered expression on its facade. It uses extremely high-quality materials and detailing, and it celebrates the street level much as the historic buildings in this district do. And then the project below it...
 Is the project not in our purview at all? And I'm highlighting this just because we also serve as advocates and try to connect people to make projects like this happen when we can. This is an internal conversion to a multi-unit project.
 I have to say not a lot of neighborhoods can scrape together the funding to save this from the wrecking ball, which is what happened in this case. But we would love to see more incentives overall to allow projects like this to happen. In the coming year, the commission has talked about having several overarching priorities and goals. These are listed as A, B, C, D, and F.
 Just to go through them briefly, the first one is to ensure that historic preservation benefits all citizens.
 And we really need to recognize and protect important places for various communities that live in Portland. And by important places, that doesn't mean the most richly detailed or the most beautiful, even, of buildings. It means the places that are important to communities. So we need to look at what is most vulnerable because those are being lost. Thank you.
 And by citizens, you mean people who live in the city, right? I do. Those who are eligible to vote. Exactly. Thank you. The second one is to really engage with our community, to reach out to listen, and also, conversely, to educate. There seem to be some myths about preservation, but conversely, we can always learn about what developers are up against. We'd like to be part of those conversations.
 Next is to advocate, again, for local and state incentives. We need to support rehabilitation and adaptive reuse in order to save buildings. And we keep saying preservation is important for sustainability, for quality of life, but sometimes buildings really have to adapt in order to be saved, and we are behind that 100%.
 And then finally, really supporting Portland's unique places. In many cases, developer-driven and development-driven solutions by themselves are not working. The photograph at the bottom here is a fairly typical scene of a new single family residence, which replaced a much smaller one in its original location.
 And developers do want to maximize profits. One way they do that is by kind of maximizing efficiency. So they have a certain design that they know they can sell and they will put it in various neighborhoods regardless of the original design context of that neighborhood.
 I also want to note that the average house size has increased by over 1,000 square feet since 1972 and probably more since before that, but that's when they first started keeping track of that number in the census. Thank you.
 In our report, we looked at four facets of livability and affordability. So I'm just going to go through these four very quickly for you. The first one is by preserving historic multifamily housing, we support sustainability. We support affordability and economic diversity. And I just want to say on the affordability note that new construction almost always costs more than existing. Okay.
 and then also support character and livability. Second, looking at gentrification, those places that are more affordable are going to be more vulnerable.
 The photograph at the bottom of this slide is showing northeast Portland, the Albina area. And this is a photo taken in 1963. It was the clearing for I-5. And as you know, this neighborhood has been impacted not only by I-5, but by...
 Legacy Emanuel, by Memorial Coliseum, and a lot of projects that have already caused that community to lose not only a lot of housing, but a lot of cohesion and important places. So this is still happening. We do see a profound decrease in affordability, and the city's own study of displacement has illustrated that.
 And then third, we looked at equity and inclusion, and that kind of builds on gentrification, that the city needs to engage the most deeply affected populations. And those typically are communities of color.
 I illustrated this by a 1936 map, and this is just one of a whole series of maps that were done in 1936 showing patterns of racial distribution across the city. And as kind of horrifying as that is to notice that the city spent time actually mapping where racial distributions occurred in the city,
 At the same time, we can go back and look at some of those maps and say, how were these populations affected, and how can we find those places that are still being lost, that we don't know about, and engage those communities to help us? Let's see. The photograph at the bottom is from the...
 internal conversion study that the city did, I believe just two years ago. So historic preservation can increase density. There are barriers to that, but there are ways that we can overcome that. And historically, many large houses across the city were rooming houses or boarding houses. It's been done before and we can do it again.
 So this is kind of the final pitch that we'd like to make for updating the historic resources inventory. I may have mentioned this story before, but when I served as an architectural historian in southern Maryland in a small rural county of under 100,000 people, over about a seven-year period, that community spent approximately $250,000 to do an update of their inventory back in the 1990s.
 And ever since then, I think that community has harnessed its history to the greatest extent as you possibly could. It was a community undergoing change. The population increased by almost 100%. They felt that the agricultural component of the community was being undermined by the tobacco buyout.
 And so it too was a community that was facing quite a significant amount of change in terms of character, in terms of the people who were there and everything. And they spent a fairly significant amount of money to update their inventory because they really cared about their history. And I think that as Portland moves into the end of the 20-teens, there's a real opportunity here for the city to take a more of a leadership role in its inventory.
 There have been, I think, some very positive movements in that direction. We've seen some funding over the years to develop plans to get the survey started. But what we really need is a more substantial commitment from city council because it's really difficult, I think, to plan for the city's historical resources without—
 without the most up-to-date information possible. And there are several cities across the West Coast that have jumped down the preservation bandwagon, including Los Angeles and Seattle, San Francisco, Denver. There's an endless number of cities just within the past 10 years that have spent a significant amount of money, even as they experience a significant amount of change as well.
 So I thought I would conclude our presentation on that note and open it up to questions for myself and Kristen on anything within our state of the city. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you very much for all of your work. Thank you for this very clear presentation and the report. You caught my attention in many places, particularly throughout the report, the emphasis on equity and who pays, who benefits, who's burdened, and who particularly needs attention at this time. I really applaud the way that you presented that as well as the thinking on that.
 The question I have, though, is on the Southwest Corridor, and I'm wondering how much assessment have you done? I know one property owner that wrote to me and said that they had a historic property that might be impacted by the Barber alignment. Did you look at... What did you do on the Southwest Corridor? We've had two briefings so far. It's such a large project that, you know, it needs to go...
 it needs to be seen by pretty much everyone in the city of Portland and further out than that even. So the process isn't quickly moving, but they have identified, and there's sort of a table of properties that would be affected under various scenarios. And so they're still deciding on, you know,
 which exact route they're going to be looking at. And part of that equation has to do with the number of affected historic properties, but there's also many other factors that come into play.
 So we have seen a preliminary list, but we don't yet know which properties for sure are going to be affected. And you haven't given any advice on this route would be better than that route based on the identified historic properties, is that correct? No.
 We have given advice based on, you know, the least number of historic properties affected. But we also acknowledge that there are many other factors. Plus the inventory is out of date, so we're not quite sure as yet. If you could forward to me, if staff could forward to me the recommendation on the Southwest Corridor, we're going to be hearing that now on November 1st, and I do appreciate your advice. Thank you. Great. Thanks. Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish.
 First of all, thank you for an outstanding report and PowerPoint. And a couple questions. First, the historic resource inventory update asked, the $80,000 would go to whom to do what?
 I might need to bring Brandon Spencer-Hardell, if he's willing, to speak about that just a little bit. But the $80,000 ask was from the last fiscal cycle. So I'm not sure that that even would be the ask for this coming year. Are you contemplating it going to the Bureau of Development Services or to some third party or to your commission?
 No, it definitely wouldn't be for our commission. It would be for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I see. So I'm sorry. Okay, that makes sense. And I think actually we owe it to you this year to take action on that request. Thank you. You're lucky. I'll just speak for myself. I think you made a persuasive case. And what we'll be looking for –
 when we get our first numbers from the budget office, is how much of that one-time money do we have? Because this is a classic one-time ask. And so I appreciate you framing that. You know, I was looking at your report, and it has beautiful pictures in it, and you have the project of the year. And I'm constantly being accused by my children of being clueless and missing things and growing old not gracefully.
 And I was looking at this picture, and I thought, I cannot believe this is my neighborhood, and I have not ever taken in this beautiful building. And then I was relieved to see that it hasn't actually been built. Great. It was actually, I think, a food cart of some kind or a chocolate stand, but it is to be built. And I agree with you. I think Allied works –
 does superb work. Can I go to page 25 and 26 of your written report for a second? Sure. So I'm very pleased that you highlighted Washington High School, which I guess got your highest award, the Art DeMuro Award, and it really is an extraordinary conversion. And who knows? Someday there may be affordable housing in a parks facility that's adjacent, so we'll see. But on page 26...
 You have a photograph of 734 East Burnside, which I take it is Le Pigeon Restaurant and their new annex. Is that right? But it's not identified in the text. And is the point that there's just been some historic – that the storefronts have been brought back and they've expanded the restaurant space but done so in a historically sensitive way? Sure.
 Exactly. I think the point of this photograph was to make you think of a really iconic place in Portland. And certainly all of those insets along Burnside where you have the arcaded facades, that is something that is unique in Portland. And so it's just an example of historic preservation and how we need to save those unique places. And finally, thank you.
 I want to say that in your narrative on the URM, the unreinforced masonry ordinance, which will potentially come back to us in a year, and as you know, the council is very unsettled on this. I think I know where the trade winds are blowing.
 I appreciate the analysis, and I appreciate this idea of admonishing us or challenging us to think about ways of incentivizing conversions, not demolitions. I am very concerned that our current thinking, which I think is a short-term play, is likely to result in a substantial number of demolitions.
 At the very least, I think our policy is going to make it extremely difficult for people to refinance their properties to get the money out they need to make improvements.
 And I think over time they could lead to demolitions, and I've been very clear on the record that I can't support that approach. So we'll be looking, as you'll be the incoming chair, so in the next year when this comes back to us following more staff work, I think it's very important that you're at the table helping us understand with people like Walt, who submitted testimony that is superb, very helpful.
 It's going right in my URM file in terms of the necessity of having the right mix on incentives. If we don't get it right, we're going to lose a lot of buildings, and we're not going to get them back. And I don't support that approach. So I appreciate the thoughtful text. Anyway, it's, as usual, a nice report. Thank you for your work. Thank you. Commissioner Daly. Oh, sorry. I muted it.
 I'm having a sneezing fit. Oh, no, I'm doing it again. There we go, sneezing fit. So I just want to thank you for the report, say that I share all of your priorities and goals. I'm especially heartened to see the focus on equity and inclusion because I think there is a really kind of delicate balance to be struck between
 preserving historic structures and not preserving historic inequities in our neighborhoods. So I am really excited about the conversations about how we can achieve greater density but preserve all these beautiful buildings and neighborhoods because I believe it can be done and I'd love to help with
 engaging the community in this conversation however I can because I think at this point Portlanders are so shell shocked by the rate of change that they're just really digging their feet in not open to more change even if it's going to be for the greater good so I had one more thing to mention but
 I think the sneezes, you wiped out my brain. Pass it off to you. There you have it. Time for a reboot. Oh, I support the historic inventory, the new historic resource inventory. I want to say that. I'll add that to your list. Yes. You have other testimony. Is that correct? Very good. Yes, we have invited several individuals to testify as well. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. So who's next? Okay.
 Just stand up. Go ahead. I'll do it. We have a third chair if anybody else is intending to speak. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I think I'm sitting low. Oh, well. I'm Peggy Moretti. I am here representing Restore Oregon and was very honored to be invited to share some thoughts.
 On behalf of the members and volunteers and board of directors of Restore Oregon, I'm urging the City Council to thoroughly digest and act upon this incredibly thorough and spot-on State of the City report by the Landmarks Commission. This is really an extraordinarily in-depth effort by a group of volunteers who have very busy professional lives, and I think we're all in their debt today.
 Restore Oregon agrees with everything that this report says, and we note that it's longer and more detailed than in past years, because to many of us it appears the city is backing away from its responsibility to steward the historic fabric that makes Portland Portland. Recent evidence that has been concerning to us is found in the refusal to provide even the token funding for the historic resources inventory in the last budget,
 the contradiction of city policy and public process surrounding the last-minute spot zoning of incompatible heights in Japantown-Chinatown Historic District, and the outsized influence of developers in the Central City Plan.
 As Portland wrestles to grow without sprawling and to increase the amount of affordable housing, I just want to seize this opportunity to reiterate that preservation and density do indeed go hand in hand. I think you all know and have heard us say many, many times that historic neighborhoods are already dense and can be made even more so. The key is compatibility and incentives for retention of the existing buildings.
 We also believe that preservation is essential to the war on homelessness. Historic buildings are a major source of affordable housing. Just ask organizations like Innovative Housing, Inc., and the Central City Concern, among others, who have adapted historic buildings for that very purpose. And I would just say very succinctly, the most affordable home is the one already standing.
 What city has ever built their way to affordability while demolishing hundreds of modest-priced homes and replacing them with more expensive ones? If unfettered market rate building actually reduced prices, then the San Francisco Bay Area's average home price wouldn't be well north of a million dollars.
 Portland's historic buildings are a multi-billion dollar asset, embodying our identity, culture, struggles, and aspirations, providing housing, incubating businesses, and attracting tourism. If only we knew where they all were. Like a shopkeeper who has only a vague idea of the inventory in his warehouse, Portland has only a vague idea of our historic assets. So how can we manage and make effective decisions about them? Thank you.
 There's no excuse why a city of our stature should not make a modest annual investment of $80,000 to $100,000 to update our historic resources inventory. I want to acknowledge there's been a lot of pushback recently about neighborhoods that are seeking historic designation.
 This has little to do with exclusivity and everything to do with people grasping for the only tool at their disposal to thwart an ongoing demolition epidemic that is chewing up their neighborhood character and making it more expensive. There's also been an uproar over the loss of iconic buildings like the United Workman Temple and Lotus Cafe with no public process or public voice in it.
 Both scenarios point out that Oregon's process for historic designation and protection is broken and completely out of sync with the rest of the United States. Restore Oregon is working with a coalition of organizations to bring forward legislation in the 2019 session that would change that by instituting a more transparent, democratic, flexible, and locally driven process for historic designation and protection,
 and by passing a state tax credit for rehabilitation and seismic upgrades that would incentivize more preservation. We look forward to sharing our legislative concept in the very near future, and I hope that we will have the city's support. Restore Oregon appreciates the complex problems Council is dealing with. We really do.
 And it may be tempting to brush aside preservation of our historic places as a lower priority. But these places matter a great deal to our cultural, economic, and environmental health. Once they're gone, they are gone forever. So I would just like to close by repeating again, the most affordable home is the one already standing. The most affordable home is the one already standing. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Jessica Ingeman, and I'm a former Landmarks Commissioner, and I'm here to show my support for the wonderful report that was put out this year. Specifically, I wanted to talk to the point of incentives and the great need for incentives that we have. Several of you, I know, knew my name.
 Long-time mentor, Art DeMuro. I've worked for Venerable Properties for 15 years. I live and breathe incentives. Most of my time is spent working with other developers and owners, helping them find ways...
 to make historic preservation projects happen. And it is not easy. It's not easy to reuse old buildings. It's not easy to reuse old buildings in Portland. I know that there are other jurisdictions that are difficult, but it is difficult here in particular. I consult in Vancouver, I consult in Redmond, I consult in Salem, and my most challenging projects are here in Portland.
 There are also a lot of projects that come before me that don't actually ever happen.
 And I also know this firsthand working for a developer, that there are projects that we just can't make happen because they don't pencil, because we don't have the tools that we need, because the land values are too high, because the tenants can't afford to pay the rent that would be required to justify the code-required upgrades to those buildings, the seismic upgrades, the other life safety upgrades. Yes.
 And so I can say with a great amount of experience how much we need a better toolkit of incentives. And I think that that really starts with something that would be at the state level, whether that's a state-level historic tax credit, whether that's a URM tax credit, whether it's tied to true designation or not.
 We need something that really helps in a meaningful way start to make the pro forma make more sense for these projects. There is, of course, a 20% historic tax credit at the federal level that was weakened with the last Tax Reform Act. It's still there. Projects are still using it. We, Oregon, we should be leveraging the value of that federal tax credit.
 with a state tax credit. So that would be certainly the first priority. I think we also need better zoning incentives. We have some zoning incentives, and I believe there actually might be something in the works that
 makes this process a bit easier, but we need the flexibility to reuse historic buildings, and we need to be able to do so without an onerous multi-step land use process. I have several clients that are contemplating becoming a local landmark.
 Then going through a second type 3 review to use a preservation incentive, and then having to go through yet another land use review for their design alterations. Many months, many thousands of dollars. We need to make conversions easier. We need to make conversions easier.
 We should look for ways where do historic fourplexes really need to use the commercial building code that is so onerous. I have a client whose project was nearly stalled out because of the cost increases that came with having to comply with the commercial building code for a fourplex. We need a more predictable and streamlined FAR transfer process.
 And ideally, we would really like to have more building code flexibility. In other jurisdictions, the code official can make reasonable exceptions to historic buildings to balance retention of fabric with making important code upgrades.
 And that process, in my perspective, is more onerous and less flexible in Portland. So I hope if there is anything that you can do to create a stronger toolkit and make it more feasible, it would certainly go a long way in keeping more of our wonderful buildings standing.
 Thank you. Just want you to let you know that I'm working on the floor area ratio piece of that. You had a long list, and I appreciate all the suggestions. And that's the piece that I'm trying to help with. Thank you so much for that. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Dan Cook with Allied Works Architecture.
 And I'm here with my colleague Rebecca Wood, who's sitting in the back row there. We're the architects for the project at the corner of Northwest 23rd and Gleason, where the historic Burkhart building once stood and was unfortunately destroyed in the well-known 2016 gas explosion.
 And last week, we were delighted to hear from Hilary Adam with Design and Historic Resources that our building design was awarded Project of the Year by the Historic Landmark Commission. We're definitely honored to receive such recognition, and would like to speak briefly to how the historic design review process informed our design.
 This was our first project that we've presented to the Commission, and we honestly didn't have a strong sense of what to expect. We'd heard that the process could be arduous, and so we focused a great deal of effort and time towards proposing thoughtful solutions through a clear and deliberate presentation. We took the Commission's design guidelines and goals seriously, and
 and studied the neighborhood's existing fabric to register important characteristics of building scale, materiality, and order. We were pleasantly surprised at our DAR presentation by the commission's receptiveness to our ideas. They provided a great deal of positive feedback, along with...
 thoughtful criticism or critical input that we heard and responded to with our subsequent design review presentation. The process did push us in directions we probably would otherwise not pursue and the building's design is definitely better for it.
 It's our intention that the building complement the neighborhood and that it feels like it belongs while being a product of today. And again, we're honored for the commission's accolades, and we take them as a testament to the power of thoughtful design. Upon its completion, we hope that this building proves out our deliberate choices.
 does all that it can to heal this prominent corner of our city and become a true asset to its northwest neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. And do we have one more person who's part of the panel? Is that correct? Very good. Thank you. And while that individual is coming up, just a couple of quick announcements. Item 1065, the Design Commission 2017 State of the City Design Report.
 which was scheduled for tomorrow afternoon, Thursday afternoon, has been rescheduled to October 17th at 2 p.m. time certain. Item 1066, the Latinx Heritage Month Proclamation, which was scheduled for tomorrow afternoon as well, that has also been rescheduled to October 17th at 3 p.m. time certain. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Welcome. Walt McMoneys. I'm not sitting in that chair. Last week I ended up on the floor. Thank you.
 I stupidly pulled the wrong lever. Anyway, hopefully I rise above my past problems. I was asked yesterday by Brian Emmerich, an architect I work with, to give his talk or give a talk for him today. So I scrambled him. There's a 27-page outline here for a three-minute talk with a couple of pictures at the back. If you've got those...
 The pictures are of the, first one is of the Trinity Place Apartments, which we've done a full seismic upgrade on, pretty much close to life safety. And that's, I'm very proud of that building, and we managed to do it for only a million one. And behind that is a picture of my grandfather's store in what was called the Lad Block in 1884.
 He moved in there and had a saddlery business that then became a golf bag business, McClellan saddle business, fishing creel business. Anyway, this building, unfortunately, was demolished in 1948. So that's the reason I brought the picture, because we lost something in that period. In the late 40s, early 50s, we lost Ladd and Tilden Bank. We lost...
 The Ledbetter House, we lost the Portland Hotel, just any number of great buildings that would be wonderful to still have, but we weren't sensitive at the time, and they went down. I've done some renovation of historic properties. In my lengthy written testimony, I recite them all. I've done four buildings. We brought them or bring them or have brought them to current earthquake code, and they were expensive to do, and we were lucky we were able to pull it off.
 I want to give kudos to the All-Volunteer Landmarks Commission for the great work they do. I served on the Finance and Policy Committee, and I appreciate their strong support for the mandatory URM upgrade. I'm a proponent of the mandatory upgrade, even though I am an owner and find it to be extremely expensive to do. But if we have to do it, there's really going to be a huge earthquake, and we can't just put our heads in the sand and ignore it. Okay.
 Apartment buildings are kind of my thing, and they are important, and there are some beautiful apartment buildings in Portland. I don't know, the Oregonian ran an article recently on the 20 outstanding apartment buildings, and I had a couple of them on there. I was proud of that.
 But we really do have some beautiful buildings, and unfortunately, those all have to be seismically upgraded, or pretty much all of them are URMs. So that's going to be an enormous cost, and some of those buildings hopefully don't get demolished. But because they're so beautiful, I think that probably the chances are they will be preserved by someone, if not the current owner. In terms of financial assistance, and I balk at the word incentive. To me, incentive is giving a polar bear a slight a sight of salmon and saying, why don't you go over to that side of your cage?
 These aren't incentives. These are essential financing assistance that's needed by these buildings. They aren't trivial. I mean, again, some people take incentives to be a non-pejorative term, but to me incentive is something that kind of, gee, these people ought to do this anyway, but we'll give them an incentive to do it. People don't have the ability to do it themselves. They need the financial assistance that only the city and the state can give. You did a great job in passing SB 311 in the last legislative session, and that's the dollar-for-dollar reduction of...
 property taxes for seismic work, which hopefully will get implemented. And we definitely need the historic renovation or seismic renovation tax credit at the state level. It works wonderfully. The federal one works wonderfully. It has been gutted a little bit, but it's still there, and it's an enormous incentive to someone like me to do a renovation. Again, with the mandate, the mandate has to come down, but it is going to threaten some of the more marginal properties with demolition.
 And so, again, we need those, quote, incentives, close quote. The inventory is essential as well. The mid-century modern houses that we're all now thinking are wonderful were not even mentioned in the original inventory, I don't think. There wasn't any furor about it. People didn't know they would even be valued. But they're completely absent, I think, from the inventory.
 Things like that. And the inventory, there are many changes that have occurred to the buildings they didn't identify. They've either been renovated or they've been demolished or whatever. We need a current inventory. Well, that's pretty much my testimony, and thank you so much for putting up with me. Walt, do I have a question? Sure. First of all, thank you for your written testimony. It's very, very thoughtful, as usual. I'm just curious, you know, you have some of the most –
 storied historic properties in the city. And, yes, a couple of them were featured in that Oregonian profile. Yet you're able to keep your rents at some of them as low as $2 a foot versus new construction at $4.50 a foot or more. Correct. And I'm just curious, what's your formula? Okay.
 Well, my formula is buying that building for about $1 million, and it's now worth about $13 million. So, you know, you're not getting a complete return on – it's really a $13 million property, which is what the county assessor says it is. It's real market value. If we were going to have a proper return on that value, we'd be charging rents that were twice as high as they are. But we need enough money to pay the bills and have a certain money come out every month for us.
 But we don't need – we probably couldn't rent the apartments for $450 as we're afoot anyway. But it's really the low basis in the property and the fact that we have these tax incentives. I have a tremendous management company that does a wonderful job at getting things done for half the money people say they're going to cost. And that's not by cutting corners. It's by just approaching things in a different way and realizing that you can accomplish the same result with spending less money. Okay.
 For instance, hardening and strengthening the perimeter walls of our other anyplace apartments. We did what you guys did with the city at the train station.
 and what the McMenamans did at Crystal Ballroom. They got oil drilling rigs and drilled the top walls top to bottom and inserted rebar and concrete into those holes, so now you have a stiff blow-bearing wall that's resistant to lateral force. But that's not the kind of standard, by the book, engineering approach. It's to some extent cutting edge.
 But, again, the city is the one who implemented it at Union Station, so it's to your credit that you did. It worked really well there. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming in. We appreciate it, as always. Thank you. Very good. That completes our testimony. Any further discussion, or I'll entertain a motion. Mayor, I move to accept the report. Commissioner Fish moves the report. Yes? Sorry to interrupt. I actually called the city yesterday. So I worked full time, and I do not have time to come.
 Would you be willing to give me five to ten minutes max? You have to open up to everyone. I'm sorry we can't, but I will do this. Is it possible that you have your remarks written down? And if not, I would be happy to meet with you right after this meeting, and I'll hear what you have to say. I don't really think you want me to submit that. Your handwriting couldn't be any worse than mine. But why don't we do that? I'll be happy to sit down with you, and if one other of my colleagues, we can't have more than...
 that's fine. Perfect. Okay. I've made the offer and you can... But it's also warm, so we're taking more time to discuss it than we can just... I understand, but this is a report, so we have explicitly through legislation requested that this commission come back and present to us on a regular basis. It's not really a question that's open for public discussion. This is a mandate.
 Okay. And I'm the presiding officer, and I've told you what I've decided to do. We have a motion and a second. Udailey is seconded. Please call the roll. Udailey. Well, I have recovered my thought process, and I'm muted again. And I just wanted to say that I'm particularly excited about you highlighting the need to identify and advocate for
 historic resources in underrepresented communities which are not necessarily big
 beautiful architecturally significant buildings, but they're culturally significant. It's something near and dear to my heart. So again, if I can, my office, or perhaps Civic Life can be of any assistance doing outreach to some of these communities, I just would love to participate in that. I think that's a just really exciting conversation. Bye.
 Fritz? We often do give superlatives when the reports come in. This is always one of my favourites. I think this is a spectacular report. It's really outstanding in that it says not only the common sense things, but the unexpected things, and in particular calling out where the City Council, in your opinion, has made progress and where we have made maybe mistakes. Thanks.
 And I appreciate that as a report from a community commission, that's exactly what I hope that you continue to do. So thank you. It's a brilliant report, and I'm very grateful for the emphasis on equity, as I mentioned earlier, for the specifics of what we need to be doing. And I do hope that we can get that historic resource inventory funded and started this year because time is running out.
 Thank you to Hilary Adam and Cara Fajara-Venti and Brandon Spencer-Hartle. Your work is supporting the commission. Their support is yours, and you make a really good team. Thanks to Claire Adamsick on my side. I grew up in England. I got married in a church that was started in the 900s, and so I'm ever mindful that if we don't preserve old properties...
 we won't have any in the future and there won't be these beautiful places like City Hall where every day I come in I feel blessed that I'm working in this amazing architectural and historic building. And as Commissioner Udairi just said, there are other places that may not be as spectacular as City Hall but are nevertheless significant and need to be saved. And as Peggy Moretti said several times, thank you, the most affordable building is the one that's already built and we do need to be looking at reuse
 rather than zoning and other changes that are going to encourage even more demolitions. Hi. Fish. Well, I want to begin by thanking Kurt and Kristen for the presentation and the outstanding written report. And I think...
 If I'm counting correctly, I think we have the votes to cover historic resource inventory, or at least we have two of the three we need. And the next thing is to keep a sharp eye out for the forecast that we get just to see how much one-time and ongoing money. But I think you've made a compelling case that we should fund it this year, and I would prefer you don't have to come back next year and make the same case. So we'll see what we can do on that. Thank you.
 And I appreciate just the quality of the report and the conversation. Peggy, I also think we got the final vote wrong on Old Town Chinatown. And it was, I thought, unfortunate because it was the final action of a lot of really good work. And it sort of overshadowed. That's a bad pun. But it had the effect of displacing.
 the moment where I thought a lot of good work had gone into the other things we took up, but I regretted that vote. I voted against it, and I thought we made a mistake. We do that from time to time, but we also, it's a democracy, and reasonable people can agree and disagree. I just think we got it wrong. I appreciate that both you and the Landmarks Commission will stay involved in the URM discussion.
 Walt, there's a line in your testimony that you submitted that I'm just going to read for the record. You say, quote, I have been able to do voluntary seismic retrofits without enormous difficulty. And you've explained why, both in terms of your background, your experience, the financial strength of your buildings, and your cash flow. But you go on to say, the same cannot be said of small mom-and-pop owners who often lack financial experience.
 or access lenders. They need targeted assistance, and I completely concur in that. And unless we come up with the right package of targeted assistance, I don't think it's fair to put mom-and-pop owners in a situation where their only recourse is to sell. So we have a lot of work to do in the next year. Peggy, you didn't mention it, but I want to just acknowledge that we have a historic carousel we're still trying to find a home for. Thank you.
 waterfront and um i hear i hear some lobbying up on the dais and maybe there's someone here has an idea but um i will tell you the parks bureau stands ready to fully engage uh and there's also a lot of interesting development you know that's in the works uh there's an incredible vision for the new albina district there's there's a plan for the post office site there's the zidel site there's the
 innovation quadrant, so the four kind of corners of that downtown corridor, plus other opportunities. So I have a hunch with your perseverance and the opportunities that are coming up, we'll find a home for that historic carousel, and thank you for taking on that fight. Like Commissioner Fritz, I really look forward to this presentation every year. You know, we didn't get some things right, but obviously some things are happening in our community that we can also celebrate.
 Congratulations to Allied for the design of the newest building, which is two blocks from where I live. So I look forward to seeing it when it's completed. Thank you all for your work and your service and the testimony and the presentation. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Well, I'm going to continue to – there's a lot of issues going on here. The panel raised some really interesting and provocative questions. In some cases, you've offered some really good ideas where I think we're in alignment and we should be fighting together. You mentioned, for example, the historic preservation tax credit. That is on our legislative agenda. It's been on our legislative agenda for some time.
 And rather than simply passively putting it on the agenda, I think there is an opportunity for us to work with our state legislators when we have them here for our annual legislative breakfast. And I am confident my colleagues and I will like to seek a commitment from our legislative leadership and our legislative representatives because I heard some degree of unanimity in that regard. I'm also going to put out a request for help. And here's how it's shaped.
 I hear as mayor about very specific issues overwhelmingly. It will not surprise anybody in this room. I hear a lot about housing affordability and access to housing in this community and making sure that we are a real community where people who are in the arts or the culture or the maker space or teachers or firefighters or whatever else have access to housing.
 I've taken a principled stand with regard to height and density within the urban growth boundary because we've chosen to have an urban growth boundary. And people from all over the country, we just had a delegation from Denver here, saying how do we replicate that and what are the tradeoffs? And I was sure to tell them that one of the tradeoffs is if you create –
 Any scenario whereby you are protecting wilderness and natural lands outside the boundary, you are therefore accepting a commitment to increased height and density inside that boundary. And I'm going to continue to be on that side of the equation. I want us to be able to be an accessible, affordable community.
 I want us to continue to support height and density where that height and density is appropriate. And that means some very tough and politically unpopular stands around residential infill, around density, around height. But you are our check and balance against reckless infill or reckless use or appropriation of height and density. But you...
 I just want to reiterate that there are real tradeoffs. There are no right answers or wrong answers. Really, we each have to come to that conclusion on our own, and you're there as sort of a check and a balance and a rational solution
 community-based response to what it is we're trying to do. And I want to continue to use you in that regard. You may not always agree with me. At the end of the day, we may not be on the same side of an I or an A vote, but I want you to know I continue to respect your experience and your approach to these issues. A lot of talk about budgets. I try not to commit to anything in advance of the budget process because we are going to have way more budget asks coming.
 then we'll actually be able to deliver on. But I want to reflect on something I heard both Commissioners Fish and Fritz say, which is this has been a very credible ask, repeatedly made over a long period of time. And I think a minimum...
 Today I can sit here and say I think we need to commit to what this looks like going forward. I didn't hear a specific ask. I think I heard 89,000, and then I heard 89,000 annually. I really want to see the proposal before I commit to anything, and I want to kick the tires hard, and I want to have some feedback from you as well. I mean, maybe.
 Maybe the ask isn't the final ask. Maybe there's something else that we should be looking at with a little more depth or maybe a little more breadth or maybe some different partners in the room. I'm open. Let's have that conversation. So that was already more long-winded than I wanted. Thank you. I vote aye. The report's adopted. Thanks again for your volunteer leadership and support. We are adjourned. Did you want to meet? Did you want to meet? I'm not sure. Yeah. I have to go to a meeting. I'm sorry. I have to go to a meeting.
 That's good to know.