Good morning. Please call the roll. Udailey. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Salzman. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning.
 Good morning and welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you. And, Sue, I understand the first four individuals for communications would like to come up together. Is that correct? Correct. Very good. Item 1067, request of Donna Cohen to address council regarding continued delays and broken promises in implementing the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2. And you can all come up, please. Thank you.
 Item 1068, request of Ruth Welland-Dix to address council regarding the St. John's truck strategy phase two plan. Item 1069, request of Barbara Quinn to address council regarding the St. John's truck strategy plan. And also request of Rachel Hill to address the same. You can just pull up another chair.
 And it's my understanding, Sue, that with prior agreement, Donna Cohen has swapped with somebody else. Is that correct? That's me. Yes. Oh, very good. Thank you. All right. In any order that you would like, three minutes each. Name for the record, please. Thank you.
 Well, since everyone's looking at me. My name is Barbara Quinn. I worked on the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 and also Phase 1. And I also worked on the St. John's Plan 2002 to 2004. I did miss out on the original St. John's Truck Strategy 2001 phase.
 And I would like to say a thank you to the city. We did a, I mean, I really appreciate that the city decided to work with St. John's community on truck strategy phase, or not phase one, but 2001. That was a long-time issue, has been a long-time issue. It was discussed between the community and the city probably starting in the 80s and definitely in the 90s. And some of you may even remember that.
 Some of that, possibly. It's been something like 30 years from the community perspective. And I'd just like to point out that since the St. John's Truck Strategy 2001, it's been about 20 years. That's a long time. And one of the main priorities we had back then even was North Fessenden. North Fessenden has been used as a de facto truck route.
 for years. And in fact, at the time of phase two negotiations, there were about 500 trucks per day using the route, and about a half a percent of those were making local deliveries. So three to four trucks per day were making local deliveries. The rest were cutting through. So...
 I'd just like to say that I'm acting as sort of a continuity person here, since I was aware of the very first negotiations and what that was. And I'm disappointed that what's happening in Phase 2 as far as the delays is exactly what happened in Phase 1 as well.
 And I hope that with the latest developments, we're going to see some actual construction on the ground. But I'm not going to believe things are going to happen until I see that construction on the ground, because we have seen a series of promises from PBOT that really haven't really fleshed out.
 My hope is that in coming here today, I just want to assure you that we have a lot of people in St. John's, activists who have been active for many years, and we do have a sense of continuity in the neighborhood, and we're going to remember things. So we'll hopefully keep that up as this construction progresses and in the future, and we'd really like to see it get started. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 good morning good morning uh my name is francesca burini and donna was nice enough to let me just come and talk to you for a few minutes i've been following this truck strategy for about since probably since 2012 was when i found out about the strategy when they were doing their initial studying and they came to the neighborhood and they talked to us they showed us some graphs and we're like fantastic we're gonna get something done and i have a lot of patience for uh
 the mechanics of government and, you know, things take time to build. I'm a maker. That's my trade.
 But traffic is getting worse there. I am a runner, and it's very hard for me to run across the street at the corner at which I live. I live on Pier Park Place, and that's where Fasenian and St. Louis meet. And a part of the truck strategy was that you were going to put two crosswalks there. And I watch people from the apartments with strollers. There's a bus stop across the street. It's the only place within like half mile on either way you can cross the street to get to the bus stop, and you have to run through heavy traffic.
 They came, they keep telling us they're going to build it. I mean, here's something, Portland has a lot of issues that are really, really difficult to work on that have solutions that you're still debating. Here's something that they've come and studied. There's supposedly the money for it. Everybody wants it. We're all on the same side. Why don't we just start making it now, 2018 when they said it was going to start? That's my main point. Thank you.
 My name is Ruth Llewellyn Dix, and I'm a Concern St. John's resident. I'm a 76-year-old resident who lives one block south of Pheasanton. I travel across Pheasanton on Charleston Avenue to work at my plot in Pier Community Garden several times per week. At first, I would walk the route, but because the traffic is so fast and heavy, I have resorted to driving.
 Even driving is problematic. So I turn right, then turn left instead of driving straight across. I think I speak for other seniors in my neighborhood as well as parents and children who cross this corridor daily.
 Before moving to St. John's three years ago, I worked at the St. John's Community Center, where I met residents who are here today and have been working on this issue for close to 20 years. Today, I want to urge you to make good on the promise to complete this life-saving project by 2019. Thank you.
 By completing the planned strategy changes, we can better achieve Vision Zero. Please, no more delays. After all, I'm not getting any younger, and I wish to enjoy my trips to Piergarden, especially with my grandchildren. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor and Councillors. My name is Rachel Hill.
 There are three corridors affected by the St. John's Truck Strategy, Columbia Way, the St. Louis-Fessenden Corridor, and North Lombard between St. Louis and Bruce. The reason I come today is to stand together with these advocates across St. John's, demanding that the truck strategy improvements that have been promised and delayed numerous times be implemented without delay. We're heartened to see that PBOT received the go-ahead for the project, and we urge you to assure that it occurs as promised and on time.
 But I also come to advocate for residents on and near Lombard, the designated truck route, whose story is part of this bigger one and also has its unique struggles. Namely, we have the impact of massive amounts of trucks that are on a primarily residential street. Since truck traffic has been fully diverted onto Lombard, safety and livability have taken a nosedive. Constant freight noise, diesel pollution, and frightening pedestrian experiences are negatively impacting our community. Accidents have increased, especially on the S-curb at St. John's and Jersey Streets.
 In images I provided you, you can see a detached trailer that fell off of a semi and narrowly missed hitting William Travis, the owner of Dubs BBQ.
 as he was removing his sandwich sign. Dub wrote me yesterday to say that this was, quote, an almost very tragic accident for him. This section of Lombard, St. Louis, DeBruce includes crossings for Sitton Elementary School, Pier Park, the 40-mile bike loop, and a public pool. It has 80 single-family residences, five apartment complexes, and six businesses. It represents a wide cross-section of stakeholders and tends to be a place where renters and lower-income residents live.
 The 44 and 75 bus routes reach the farthest parts of our city and neighborhood and service the port. It's a place for people, not just trucks. Much has changed since the design development in 2013. All trucks are now on Lombard. When PBOT came to talk to us about design engineering in 2017, we engaged fully and made important improvements to the design, including speed reader boards around the S-curve, more trees and crosswalks,
 and a better outreach process with mail notification and an evaluation.
 Community evaluation from lived experience is an important metric going beyond traffic engineering. We've agreed to make, they have agreed, PBOT has agreed to make the revisions that the community feels, if the community feels safety is not adequate. And these promises are in a letter that was signed by Interim Director Chris Warren. We also feel the city must continue to work on a better, longer-term solution. Traffic on Lombard is increasing.
 The new Amazon shipping facility will have a thousand new parking spaces and truck traffic. As host to the truck route, St. Johns and Lombard are carrying heavy traffic burden, not just for the neighborhood, but for the city overall. We need a freight strategy that looks at community health and economic viability together and gets massive volumes of trucks off of our streets.
 The community members on Lombard want to see the improved safety of all three corridors. I'm here to join my neighbors in requesting that the construction of this important and long-delayed project be expedited as soon as possible. I've included a document with other neighbors' testimony. We want to have a strong relationship with the city, with accountability and the ability for residents to have feedback and impact on the solutions that affect them. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your being here.
 I could give a quick update, but I think one of you may have already mentioned that this We're expecting to have the low bid contractor on October 23rd and construction is slated for January 2019 it's very skeptical still well I
 I'm not so skeptical. I am the new commissioner in charge of PBOT. It's only been a month. But I've got a lot of information here that we don't have time for me to share with you right now. But, of course, there's always potential for other delays. That really depends on the contractor, if they're good to go in January. But it really does look like things are proceeding as of January. Okay.
 That's good news. One last thing. It is the darkest time of the year, and we've already had deaths on our street. Like, people have literally been killed crossing the street. And there's very little lighting in a lot of those places. And just, I mean, somebody might die again. Very strong possibility. You've made a good case, and you've made a good case for the urgency. And I'm encouraged to...
 by what Commissioner Udaly says, and I appreciate her taking up the mantle as our new Transportation Commissioner, and I'm sure you will continue to hold this Council accountable. I'm not as well-versed on all the details of the Phase 2 strategy, but if I'm hearing what's being said, it sounds like the request that you're making is being acted upon, and Commissioner Udaly is pushing that forward. So it looks like we have...
 at least to my ear, a resolution here in the making. Thank you for coming in. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 1071, request of Ida Pingala to address council regarding creative ideas and potential solutions for citizens of Portland and all counties. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Well, good morning, people. I hope you're all doing well.
 The first thing that I would like to address is the condition of the shelters, the so-called shelters meant to keep people safe and out of the elements. First of all, they're in deplorable condition.
 And on a daily basis, people's human rights are getting violated. And also people are literally put out to die without a blanket at night. They may be disabled. And everybody that I've ever met, seen, or know of that has been in any shelter at all that's already disabled, their condition degrades. And so infrequently they end up in the hospital.
 Enough said about that. The thing is, is they're inhumane, the shelters, and they don't work. They keep people in this place of being non-functional, as non-functional as they might already be, or it exacerbates conditions that are already there, whether it be mental, physical, or not.
 We're not able to get out. We are only allowed two bus tickets a month to go out and find housing or to get medical help or to get our medications or any such thing. Two bus tickets a month does not find a person a job, nor does it help find a person a place to live. Okay, that being said, housing. There needs to be some very immediate and very serious things done about the housing issue.
 situation in Portland and in Oregon. There are people that are being even more marginalized and even more stigmatized because they are not housed and it makes it even more difficult for these people to get jobs, to hold jobs. It's almost impossible to hold a job while a person's staying in a shelter or camping or living on the street.
 The thing is, is that I think that it is not beyond all of our intellects and our powers and the money that is available to get very creative about this. Okay? There's not just, we don't want all condominiums, we don't all of us want condominiums or need condominiums.
 I don't really care if it's lean-to or teepee or the small houses or anything, but there's space out there, and there's plenty of apartments and houses and basements.
 that could be rented out. And it's not like all homeless people have no income. Most of us out there do have an income or have degrees in this or have abilities to do this or that or the other. The thing is that it's about money, and I understand that. I understand that the landlords and the poverty...
 want to make more money off people, and it's just not... Yeah, it's a great idea. It's capitalism. We live in America. I understand that. It's acceptable. But the thing is, when people are dying outside because they have no place to live, we need to change things. And yeah, I'm willing to work. I'm willing to work for free to build places for people.
 And let's start using some creativity and some imagination to get people some housing. Good message. Thank you for sharing it. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Carla, I'm sorry, Sue, I apologize. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Item 1079, pulled by Mr. Walsh. Very good. Could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item 1072. 1072. Authorize new construction financing in an amount not to exceed $4 million for the Magnolia II apartments located at 415 Northeast Fargo Street. Thank you.
 Colleagues, this ordinance is to authorize funding for the new construction of a 50-unit multifamily project in the northeast neighborhood. This is in the interstate urban renewal area. It's called the Magnolia II Apartments. The project will connect to the existing Magnolia Apartments, and when finished, it's going to look as though it's all in one project.
 It's located a block south of the newly constructed 80-unit Beatrice Morrow Apartments. All of these units are subject to the city's preference policy. Six of the units will serve households at or below 30% AMI, in other words, very low income, with three serving permanent supporting housing residents and the other three serving homeless families.
 and we have Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau and Sarah Stevenson from Innovative Housing here to tell us a little bit more about this ordinance. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm really pleased to be here today and to be joined by Sarah Stevenson of Innovative Housing, Inc., to talk about one of the latest projects to begin in the north and northeast neighborhood strategy area.
 This project will join a total of 501 other units that we've put into effect since enacting the strategy with the city council in 2005.
 With that, I would like to just say that this was a NOFA, the first NOFA that we offered in 2017, February. NOFA being? I'm sorry, Commissioner, thank you. Notice of Funds Availability. So an award announcement for funding that we had available. And IHI and their marvelous design was the winner of that NOFA award based predominantly on their work.
 with low-income communities in that neighborhood and their ability to bring us a very cost-effective project. So with that, I'd like to just – you can see on your monitor a few pictures of the rendering of the building and how the buildings will work together. And –
 Sarah, if you want to talk through a little bit about how – so you'll be joining both of the two buildings together, which you can see now. There is an existing Magnolia I, and then the second building will join that building.
 And this is a mix of the affordability of the building. We expect 145 people to be housed in those 50 units. So even though we talk about units, it's also important to focus on people. As the Mayor mentioned, 30% of those units, I'm sorry, six of the units will be at 30%. And three of those units will be permanent supportive housing.
 That's something that IHI agreed to after the fact with our new focus on this with the city and county on permanent supportive housing. So we're grateful for that. And the other units will actually be, the 30% units will be focused on families coming out of the homeless family system of care. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Sarah to give you a few brief words on the project.
 Well, I was actually going to talk more about innovative housing because you guys have all the details about the project I'm happy to answer questions. We also have our developer here if you guys have technical questions I think we have some slides
 I just was going to remind you, many of you know Innovative Housing. We've been developing, owning, operating in the Portland region for over 30 years. Our portfolio includes family housing, like Magnolia II will be, workforce housing, low barrier housing for adults, as well as permanent supportive housing for both singles and families. This is a list of some of the properties you may be familiar with that we've built and that we operate in the region.
 We're particularly proud of our 2015 historic rehabilitation of the Erikson Fritz Apartments, which some of you have visited, and also Magnolia One, which we completed back in 2013. IHI pairs our housing with services that are designed to help our residents stay stable in housing and use it as a foundation for success in all aspects of their lives. The services aspect of what we bring to the table we think is really important here.
 For families, our services include employment assistance, household budgeting, teen mentoring, summer lunch programs, after school homework clubs, and assistance applying for college.
 At other properties, our services focus on helping residents manage chronic health conditions, address food insecurity, and obtain benefits to ensure financial stability. At all sites, we focus on eviction prevention and making sure our residents' basic needs are met, including providing winter coats for all of our resident children, which we're working on right now.
 We're very excited to partner with the city to complete the second phase of Magnolia Apartments. As Mayor Wheeler said, it's designed to connect to Magnolia One, which we built in 2013. At that time, we used a grassroots leasing strategy to very successfully ensure that we housed people who already lived and worked in the neighborhood, rather than further displacing people of color from northeast Portland.
 We're really looking forward to working with the city's north-northeast preference policy, which we've not yet had the opportunity to do, to continue that anti-displacement work and make sure that new housing opportunities at Magnolia II, these 50 new homes, will be accessible to families with historic ties to the neighborhood.
 Magnolia I is all one and two bedroom apartments. As you've heard, Magnolia II will be focused on families. It has one, twos, and three bedroom apartments. It includes indoor and outdoor play space, and a new amenity that we're very excited about, which is a maker space, where residents can build, they can craft, they'll be able to explore the construction trades, and they'll be able to begin pre-apprenticeship training right there in the building.
 We're partnering with Constructing Hope to offer both introductory workshops for residents of our building and the neighborhood to the construction trades, as well as a youth training program right there in the space. Give me one sec. We have a technical glitch. Can we either have the testifier on the screen or the PowerPoint or both? The PowerPoint has concluded, Commissioner. So we're bringing it back to the testifier. Thank you.
 Sorry, I was just going. The words weren't on the PowerPoint. There were just some pictures, I think, to help illustrate what we're talking about. But what we're really excited about is that these two buildings are going to connect. We'll end up with 100 affordable homes right here on this block that all have access to these really awesome opportunities for pre-apprenticeship training and to help low-income children and parents access good, high-paying jobs in the construction trades.
 In addition, we will, of course, bring our full range of family services to help residents succeed and make the most of their housing. We really appreciate the city's support and partnership in our efforts to bring more affordable housing to Portland. I'm happy to answer questions about the project if you have any or also defer them to our technical experts if they're over my head.
 Commissioner Fruits. It looks like a great project. Thank you for your partnership. I noticed that Ms. Pangala is still here, and I was wondering if after the hearing you could check in with the person who testified about this very need. I mean, this is something the city is doing, is the $4 million. I don't know whether she would qualify for the preference policy. This seems like a good opportunity to at least look into what might help. And thank you for all that you do for so many families and individuals. Certainly.
 And how much is our $4 million leveraging and other financing? I believe the total project cost is $16 million.
 Yes, the total project cost is $16 million. And so we are able to contribute just a quarter of the cost of the project to get this project over the finish line. One of the things that we were very grateful for is this project had a small gap remaining to move it forward beyond what the city had contributed, and the new state lift program stepped in and awarded this project.
 earlier this summer, the remaining funds it needed. And with that, we are proud of this project, but we also were able to close all of the gaps.
 with all of the projects that we had in the north and northeast strategy area. So we'll be bringing all of those projects to fruition, as we promised to the community, despite the fact that we've been facing tax credit pricing issues as well as rising costs in construction, which is really what has caused the gaps for our projects. But in combination with the great work of our affordable housing providers and
 The collaboration with the state and the available funds they've had, we're able to make our commitments to the community and to the preference policy families that we'll be bringing into those units. So we're very pleased at the collaboration and the ability to leverage. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you both, and thank you, Housing Bureau Director.
 Shannon Callahan for being here. Thank you. In your capacity as the director. We appreciate it. Do we have public testimony on this item? We have four people signed up. Very good. Let's hear from them. First three, please come up. Lightning, Catherine Baker, and Maggie. That was subtle there. I never like that. Good morning. Good morning. Would you like to start? Should I? Okay. Yeah, thank you. I would like to talk about the...
 Portland Housing Bureau and the housing projects that you're putting up, they're not the numbers of 30% and homeless people that you're planning to house in these housing projects alone.
 are a drop in the bucket. And you're cherry picking, you're taking people who have the most social security income and are the least disabled, and you're putting them in this housing. And then you're leaving to the shelter system
 where there's kennel cough, MRSA, lice, bed bugs, the most disabled. So that would be people with dementia, Alzheimer's, wheelchairs, walkers, canes, bipolar, schizophrenia, and then the economically excluded because they've been...
 ousted out of their their units because their rent has gone up and up and up and up and they cannot afford it because they either work a low-paying job or they work part-time because they can't work a a really you know good job that that will pay market rent and and so why you think you're going to get people out of tents and off the streets with this pathetic number
 of housing units and the most disabled in these human rights abusive poverty pimps perpetuating apartheid for profit.
 It's like, it's beyond me. You should be ashamed of yourselves. I'm ashamed for you. I'm ashamed for Portland. I'm ashamed for our society. That this is the way we treat the most disabled, the ones who lack the capacity to defend themselves.
 I don't know how you can sleep at night. It's awful. These shelters, the Portland Rescue Mission, Salvation Army, these shelters where they're located, what's going on there, they should have been shut down years ago. You can't treat people like this. It is human rights violations. These people can't even take care of themselves, and this is the way you treat them.
 Ma'am, could you put your name in the record? My name's Maggie. If you want my full name from birth, you can have that off camera. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity XXPDX1. I like the project. I think Innovative Housing, Inc. is a good, respectable company.
 I just have some clarity, I guess, from my position. I always like to know the overall unit price or per unit price. I understand that would be maybe around $300,000 if I'm correct. Again, I like to see the square footage of the units. Again, when we're talking the twos, threes, and the ones, again, that's important to me to understand my analysis. Okay.
 Again, I'd like to also see from the developers and Innovative Housing, Inc., the number of jobs created on these projects. It's very important to me when we're talking developing new units. I tried to get that information on a project from the Housing Bureau, and they didn't have the accurate information. I was surprised because when you start trying to get financing on a project,
 you better have some numbers in front of you that make sense to the people you're getting the financing from. So possibly this company could put on a website how many jobs are created on this project.
 electricians, plumbers, painters, various jobs created. Very important to me. I like to also understand the materials being bought for this project because I like to see the money spent throughout the community. So we're putting money back into the communities. Now, also on this situation, it says financing, construction financing.
 I assume that's a loan. I assume that will be paid back upon permanent financing going into place, which that's the way I want it to be. Now, if you're going to tell me this is a grant, I need to be made aware of that as the public to understand that money's going to be not expected to be repaid. It does not state that here.
 Again, I like the overall project. I like the fact you're doing supportive housing. I don't like to use the term permanent supportive housing. Nothing's permanent in this world. Nothing. None of you up there either, unfortunately, unless you can find a cure for aging. But anyway, looks good to me. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it. And were there two others, Sue? Yes. Thank you. Catherine Baker and Charles Johnson. Yes.
 Good morning.
 This may be a stellar leading edge project. Aside from the people who may be, for the rest of their lives, dealing with SPMI and needing permanent supportive housing, it's also focused on possibly getting people to break through that 60% MFI cap. And I think that that's something that, you know, it's a challenge. And I hope that IHI will be working closely with their tenants to talk about that.
 you know, what happens when they break through that 60% MFI and that there'll be resources in place to help those people adapt to the insanity of market rate housing in Portland. But, you know, when we talk about dealing with people in poverty and dealing with homelessness, we have a whole spectrum of symptom severity. And it's great to see IHI, you know, there was this talk about cherry-picking people
 And that is something that needs to be looked at more seriously by Ms. Callahan at PHB and also Home Forward. But there are people who, for a while, have been stuck under 60% MFI, but they have the capacity to earn competitive market wages. They just need support and training.
 It's going to be a difficult challenge for you all to figure out with limited funding how much we can fund programs like that and how much we just need to look at large-scale shelter at places like Wapato and elsewhere to protect people from the elements, get them a little bit more stabilized so they can at least even apply for Social Security to be in a situation where
 Because we have very few units for, we talk about 30% MFI, but we've never talked about the 0% people who haven't even been able to focus enough to be approved for SSI or SSDs.
 So definitely this $4 million, it's a little bit of a question mark whether it's ever going to come back. Is it really financing? Is it a grant with urban renewal money? But that's not as important as getting this project completed, opening up these 50 homes, which at first I wasn't clear from the presentation if every single unit is under 60% of the median family income. It is. We need these desperately. So I look forward to you all approving this $4 million, but also talking to us about
 Some things Ms. Callahan mentioned about, she says perhaps 500 units have come online recently. The 10-year plan for homelessness died, and it's very rare for us to see in this chamber's actual graphs about how the population for Portland is trending up and where the stagnation or even the drops in low-income housing were and how we're going to recover from that. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Was there one more? I'm sorry. Apparently not. Very good. Colleagues, were there any more questions of staff? Seeing none, please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 People lose their housing one person at a time, one family at a time, and people get into housing one person at a time, one family at a time. I really appreciate this project. Fifty units is a lot on the things that we do, and they add up eventually. And I remind everybody there are two ballot measures. Those who are registered to vote will be able to act on on November 6th.
 One would provide affordable housing for the metro area, and the other would make government dollars go further. So obviously I can't advocate one way or the other, but I just want to put it out there that those are there. And so if you're wondering what you can do, the answer is vote on November 6th, please. Fish. I want to join in what the Mayor said earlier in congratulating Shannon on her appointment. Where is Shannon? There she is.
 Push us back there. Congratulating Shannon Callahan on her appointment as the permanent director of the Portland Housing Bureau. She's done a superb job as the interim, and we look forward to working with her now that she has the permanent assignment. I don't remember the last time we had an application before us where all the units were 60% of median family income or below. No.
 I mean, so this really is where the highest degree of need is. I'm pleased that there are three units of permanent supportive housing, although obviously we'd like to do more in each project, but it's a good start. I think there's some confusion about who this is going to serve. This is in the North Northeast Housing Strategy, so there is a right of return that attaches to a number of these units. I think some of the testimony is,
 was wildly off the mark because I don't think people understand who is intended to be served by this housing. But, again, I think the presentation made clear. This is a good partner. We have a good record with this nonprofit partner. Thank you.
 And I want to join in what Commissioner Fritz said, that for people that think we're not doing enough to boost the supply of affordable housing, Measures 102 and 26-199 squarely address that issue. And if that is very important to you, take a good look at it. The voters' pamphlet is out. There's a lot of pages of explanatory material, and I hope people take the time to look at that carefully.
 because it's part of a comprehensive set of steps we're taking, which will make a dent in the lives of people in our community. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank Sarah Stevenson and Innovative Housing for their continued good work to serve people with good housing, with services. I'm very impressed with the array of services you mentioned are on site and will be on site, especially the job training and apprenticeship opportunities. Yes.
 This is a great project. I think it was the first project I toured as housing commissioner in 2013, the opening of it. And I remember then just being impressed with both IHI, but also the quality of the construction seemed very good, very durable. And I'm sure that will be carried forward to Magnolia, too. So congratulations and good work, Director Callahan. Hi. Wheeler. Well, this is a great project. I appreciate the partnership. Thank you.
 This is really, in my mind, it gets sort of all three of the critical pieces. Number one, it provides a transition from either the streets or shelter into housing, and that's been a withering need in this community. Number two, it provides affordable housing to people in our community who are currently being priced out.
 of our community, and number three, this provides the kind of wraparound services, including close proximity and pathways to job training and economic prosperity that people would naturally need. So I think this is a very, very well thought out and worthy project, and I'm very happy to be supporting it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 Next item, 1073, please. 1073, authorized financing in an amount not to exceed $3,213,319 for the redevelopment of the Oak Leaf Mobile Home Park. Welcome back, Director Callahan. Good morning, Mayor. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. Good morning.
 This morning I'm happy to be joined by Laura Bennett and Heather Bunch of the St. Vincent DePaul Society of Lane County.
 Hold on just a second. I'm trying to bring up my PowerPoint again. As some of you may remember, in June of 2016, the Oakleaf residents of the Oakleaf Mobile Home Park came to this council to talk about their distress at their park being sold and the desire to ask for help from city council to help them. Thank you.
 retain this important asset both for their stability and for the stability of the surrounding Cully community. The specific request at the time was a $1.5 to $6 million request to help with the purchase of the property from the park that was about to be sold to a private market developer, and
 The park itself consisted of over 35 units at the time, and the park was in, frankly, very bad disrepair. You'll hear quite a bit about the situation at the park.
 from St. Vincent de Paul themselves. But we, as the Housing Bureau, took on this project, realizing that it was important to not only save these residents but have our first experience in the mobile home park preservation. This was the first time the Portland Housing Bureau had attempted to work on this financing project.
 So the mobile home park now, the costs are exceeding what we had originally estimated at $1.6 million. You'll hear a lot more, as I said, about the structure of the park and the issues, but quite frankly, almost every single part of the infrastructure of the park needed complete replacement or repair.
 meaning the sewer was bad, the storm water was bad, the electrical was bad, the units that people were living in
 virtually almost all of them were unsafe and unsanitary and quite frankly should not have been people should not have been living in those conditions for as long as they were living in those conditions that said these were still people's homes and they still felt a strong sense of community which is why we took the extra time and took extra money to make sure that this park would work
 I will say that one of the major struggles was to find an operator of the park. We did not have a nonprofit working in Portland, specifically on mobile home park rental preservation. But thankfully, St. Vincent de Paul of Lane County had experience in this and was willing to come and work with us in the city of Portland and step in to help us learn how to do a new model. And we're very, very grateful for that. Okay.
 Just to give you a brief sense of the present mix of the parks residents, they are currently at low income levels. The majority of them are under 30% MFI, and their rents are currently affordable to those families. Okay.
 As I mentioned, the park initially had 34 spaces, but due to a variety of different factors, including the fact that there were just too many units crammed on the site, we reduced that number to 22. So the park is actually going to be run correctly and not having people literally units crammed next to each other in unsafe and unsanitary ways.
 And again, here's a little bit of information for you about why the initial costs were so high. I'm assuming you didn't turf anybody out. I mean, you didn't ask.
 To reduce the number, how did you get from the number? I think St. Vincent Paul can talk with you, because they intimately know the details of every tenant. But no, no one was relocated unless they had a request to be relocated. And it's been quite the process to work with existing tenants in a park while you're trying to do sewer and infrastructure improvements, and yet keep people in a place that they are safe.
 And so with that, I would just like to mention finally that one of the most challenging things about mobile home parks for us
 is the lack of ability to leverage any funds. Mobile homes themselves are not a financeable asset in the way that you would consider a traditional home to be financed. And so it makes the ability to leverage funds much more difficult. That said, St. Vincent de Paul, in collaboration with a lot of partners, have brought a lot of leverage to the table. You know, I think we will be seeing...
 More desire for us to work in an area related to mobile home park preservation and our staff is prepared in the next year to bring you some recommendations about How we would structure those and ways of going about that as you know the overlay that you recently passed for mobile home parks is Is currently in place, but there are a number of parks presently that are being offered for sale on the private market and
 So with that, I am going to open, I'm going to turn it over to St. Vincent de Paul. And would you like me to pull your PowerPoint up at this point? Yes, please. Sorry, I can take a second. Okay. Would you turn that off just for a moment because I'm struggling to find it on the...
 hello mayor and commissioners my name is heather buck i'm special projects director for saint vincent paul part of what i've been tasked with for the last eight or nine years is the renovation of extremely distressed mobile home parks primarily in lane county when we were asked to come up here to portland to take a look at this particular park we welcome the opportunity to share our knowledge and information about this naturally affordable um
 reoccurring affordable housing stock. We now have eight parks in which we have done complete renovations for. We have one more in addition to Oakleaf that's actually in progress. I'm here mainly to respond to questions for you, but we did want to convey that this particular park has actually been one of the most complicated. We really target
 the most troubled parks in Oregon because of their impact on the surrounding community. We believe that what we provide in services and infrastructure and knowledge on this particular style of housing is incredibly beneficial for the rest of the community. Mainly, these parks house people that would otherwise be on the street.
 They really are in substandard housing, but it is housing of some sort. We want to bring that to a higher level, and we are here today to ask for your support. It's been very complicated because of all the different...
 entities that we coordinate together, and just the lack of infrastructure in the site. Normally we come into the parks and do some capital improvements, a new community center, some new roads, but this one was actually a park where we have to start from scratch again.
 and also make sure that we don't displace anybody that's currently living there. It did start with 34 spaces, but due to several planning requirements, we had to reduce the number of spaces to make them clean and safe and also have the correct setbacks so that emergency vehicles can get in and service the place as well.
 This is not uncommon. Most older parks do have far more houses in there than they should, just because of the lack of monitoring of these particular parks. We're here to help the city of Portland in any way we can. Regarding this particular housing stock, we look forward to working with more. And I'm available for any questions, should you have any. I have a couple of questions.
 To what extent – so the replacement units that we would purchase, the mobile homes, where are they being – who are they being purchased from? And to what extent are we trying to capture some alignment with modular housing being built in the state of Oregon? Yeah.
 So we have a handful of park-owned units that we've pretty much all had to tear down, and some others that are tenant-owned. And those that are tenant-owned are allowed to keep them. We move them to the side while we're doing our work. For the new homes, we work with a private manufacturer, Golden Pacific. They have a particular floor plan that have changed,
 been very well utilized for small spaces in many of our other parks and we've developed a relationship with them over the years to make sure that we have quality housing and fit as many units in a space that we can where are they located we they have a portland office
 I think just outside of Portland, up here. And we work through, I think, a sales entity that works with that manufacturer. But what about sort of aligning ourselves with Oregon manufacturers? I mean, there's a lot of work going on. The Bureau is particularly interested in modular housing and bringing down the price per unit. Can we be more intentional in that regard? Sure.
 I am in many of those groups and forums with the other manufacturers and other providers in the state of Oregon. Modular housing is actually more expensive than manufactured housing.
 and there are fewer providers for them. We look forward to trying to develop that industry as well because we want to have high-quality homes, but the manufacturing housing industry also has some very good quality homes at a lower price point so we can actually do more projects.
 Commissioner, I think you've raised a really good question and point that, as we've indicated, I think we'd like to look into more and more. This was the first park that we have done in the city of Portland, and it has definitely been a learning lesson for everybody involved. And we would like to try to incent these parks going forward with more local projects.
 local products, and thank you for that suggestion. So, Director Callahan, another question is, in light of the distress that we've identified in terms of the condition of the units and the basic infrastructure on the site, is there anything we've learned now that, in hindsight, would have impacted the price we paid to acquire the site? You know, we – I think –
 Yes, I think so. I think also there's a question. This was a very important park to the residents and the community members. This was probably one of the more expensive parks you'll see us do, as you've just heard. We had no idea how bad the sewer systems were.
 Those were some things that I literally I think I can use the word cesspool About what was happening at the oak leaf which was not known to us and originally this park was planned to be an owner an owner Cooperative Park
 But based on the fact that the actual amount of money that would be needed to upgrade this park, we realized very quickly that the existing tenants of the Oak Leaf Park would not be able to finance that themselves under the traditional cooperative model. But yes, we've learned a lot of lessons from this park, including I think getting a better sense of what we're getting into up front.
 And the funding that we're being asked to approve today is mostly community development block grant money? Yes. So that's a precious commodity of which we have a scarce amount. Why did you settle on CDBG versus other potential funding sources?
 Commissioner, as you I'm sure are aware, most of our funding sources are still geographically tied with the exception of the new construction excise tax as well as the Portland housing bond. The other two sources of citywide funds we have are both federal sources.
 At the time that we made this commitment to the project, in 2016, the housing bond had yet to materialize and CET, construction excise tax.
 had not yet gone into place to develop enough funding so our original commitment was with CDBG as I've said this park has exceeded our original cost estimates but we felt that that we at the Housing Bureau had made a commitment to the residents as well as to City Council to work on the preservation of this park and st. Vincent de Paul stepped in very early on to help us it is even
 Even though our cost per unit is a little higher than we'd normally see, these are units that house folks that but four would truly be on the street. There are many people in this park who are not...
 There are many residents of mobile home parks that are not as successful in traditional multifamily developments. Had we known at the beginning of the price when we went in, we may have made a different decision. But as this was our first park, we learned a lot along the way. And we have a lot of lessons that, in collaboration with our partners, we can bring to our next work in this area. Thank you.
 So, Director Callahan, would you say the main lesson learned here, a commitment was made in 2016, and obviously it was made in good faith to the community and the residents, and this is a very low-income population we're talking about, as you just said, but for their ability to maintain this housing, they would very possibly end up on the streets.
 but that we really didn't do the detailed level of due diligence in advance, particularly on the infrastructure. So is the lesson that we need to do more of that due diligence before we make a commitment to the community? Yes.
 I would say that it is partially that, yes, but I also think that as this was our first project, we did not know the extent of what we didn't know. And this project has taught us a lot, and I think it will help us in deciding how we move forward with mobile home park preservation acts in the city of Portland. I will also say that this was probably, in everybody's minds, one of the...
 one of the worst run parks in the city of Portland at the time in terms of the maintenance and infrastructure. And there were some things that we did know at the outset and some we didn't. But yes, Mayor, we've learned a lot from this park and how we would choose to make investments going forward. So in 2016, we made this commitment. And I want to be very clear, while I'm not particularly happy about the way it's unfolded,
 this commitment was made, and I think we have an obligation to uphold that commitment. But there's another piece to this, too, which is that the park was allowed to deteriorate to the condition that you described in a particular way. I'm not going to use the word, because, frankly, I've just eliminated it from my vocabulary. But...
 It feels like there's a lesson learned in terms of the deal, the transaction, in terms of due diligence that maybe could have been conducted in 2016. But there's also the question of how did the park get to the point where people were living without basic utilities that were functional? And that's not really your specific portfolio, but it's all of our responsibility to take a good hard look at that and ask the question, have we repaired that part of the question?
 that part of the equation. You know, Commissioner, I'm sorry, Mayor, I don't believe that we have fully repaired that part of the question. There are always issues with how to enforce and when to enforce with the Bureau of Development Services and how to work with park owners or property owners.
 was a park, honestly, of last resort for many individuals. There were many things in the park that you would not even consider to be a mobile home. We're literally kind of more like little teeny trailers, et cetera, very old, being rented at really substandard conditions with very high rents.
 So I think that the city does their best to try to figure out the balance of when to enforce their requirements. And I don't know that any of us knew the extent of how bad the park was until we actually got into the park. And we're able to see some of the homes from themselves. Because these are individually owned units. They were not rentals. Mobile home parks are a unique area.
 creature, as it were, in the housing market where the pad space is normally rented, but the homes themselves are individually owned. And so there are a lot of unique challenges regarding mobile home park preservation going forward. Thank you.
 So will the new homes be owned by the residents or owned by us? They'll be owned by the park. The new homes that are purchased for the spaces will be owned by the park, and then the handful of ones that are owned by the tenants will continue to be owned by the tenants and just placed on new updated paths. And when you say owned by the park, who is the owner? Is that us, the city? That would be St. Vincent of Paul as the developer. Okay. Thank you.
 Very good. Does that complete your presentation? Yes. Very good. Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have five people signed up. Very good. The first three are Joe Walsh, Lightning Super Creativity, Catherine Baker. Is Catherine Baker here? Go ahead and start. Thank you. My name is Joe Walsh. I'm going to stand because I'm having some problems here.
 this is the only case that I know of that you have a trail cord that's a mess, and we're going to redevelop it and buy it, and we made huge mistakes along the way. So we're saying, okay, this is a good thing because it's low income, $17,000 to $50,000 according to your paperwork.
 which means it'll exclude everybody on the street. It has nothing to do with them. It has to do with people that are living here, I presume. The question that came up, and I'm not sure, when I raised my thumb, I thought you asked the question, Commissioner Fish, of who owned the property before this? Who did we buy it from? And what responsibility do they have for the mess? I mean, when you go in here,
 and sell a house, it's evaluated. Didn't we do an evaluation on this? This is three million bucks, you know? I don't spend that on lunch. It's a lot of money to me. I don't know if it is to you. I guess if it's not yours, maybe not. This is a screwed up job, and everybody is saying how wonderful it is. It is not wonderful.
 And if you do this the way you're planning to do it, you're going to leave low-income people all by themselves. And if we learn anything from the projects of New York and Chicago and anywhere else that they built them, you can't do that. You have to intermingle people. Don't do this. If you say $17,000 to $50,000...
 My retirement is only $35,000, so I would qualify for this, I guess. But how are you going to keep this place up and running? What you guys do is spend the money and walk away all the time. We see it over and over and over again. You spend the money on the nonprofits, and you walk away. And the nonprofits screw it up. Then they come back for more money. Mm-hmm.
 I can't believe my three minutes is not up. Carry on. We objected insufficiently. Yes, my name is Lightning, and I represent Lightning Super Creativity XXPDX1. Again, to St. Vincent's DePaul, I look at you kind of like China on the trade agreements. We had people doing those agreements that really didn't protect the interests of the people. Now, here's what I'm going to say.
 I don't have an issue with St. Vincent de Paul. I want to ask, is this financing going to be paid back, which I assume it's not. It's a block grant. So obviously you know you have an issue with me on that, where the financing came from. Issue number two, we're about $5,200,000 overall project. That, my understanding, puts us up to about a $240,000 per unit valuation, if I'm correct.
 Again, you get down to the numbers and you start to say to yourself, and I say this all the time and I've said this before to you, Commissioner Salzman, build new. Build new. When it starts to cost you as much money to renovate something, you want to build new. Again, why I've been stating this, you create jobs. You build everything up to ADA standards. You build everything new. So you're employing the people in the community.
 you're buying materials in the community and you're getting something new which is going to have much more longevity than renovating something. Now here if we start looking at this again and we're talking these bonds and I hope people will listen on this. We're looking at this project of being downsized to 22 units, downsized. Now this is where it gets interesting. There's only going to be five of the remaining people that will stay in this park.
 Five of the remaining. Because they're going to buy all brand new units. And they're going to rent those out at 60% and above MFI. So when you're talking preserving and taking care of the current people that were currently there, we missed the mark. We missed the mark so bad you can't even begin to understand. And Commissioner Fritz, I'm going to point at you on this one.
 Because I think you really wanted to see something happen on this property. You've done your nice little new park over there, and you wanted that community input that you wanted to save this park. Guess what? Build new. Build something new. Build something that will last. Build some family-sized units. Build something that creates jobs in the community. Build something that actually has longevity for many, many years. And again, like I say, this is well-deserved.
 over the budget, well overpriced. And if anybody in the investment community, anybody out there, even you, Donald Trump, and I know you know a lot more than I do, trust me, I already know that. Find me a mobile home park in northeast Portland that it's going to be $5,200,000 for 22 units. Anybody find me one out there?
 isn't going to happen. Congratulations. We made history. Highest Price Park in Northeast Portland. Congratulations, public. It's your money. Have a wonderful day. Thank you. My name's Ida Catherion, and my goodness. Okay, I lived in one of these places before, to my chagrin. Not this particular place, but yes, there are
 They're always in disrepair, unless they're absolutely brand new. And I just don't even know where to go with this, except to say that if improvements are made, of course it's going to cost more money. And whether, yeah, it can create more jobs, and it better create more jobs within this area. But the thing is, is that any sort of improvement that's made there,
 The rent's going to go up. It actually is going to not really achieve what the idea or the so-called hopeful idea might be, which is to house more people. Yeah, it may house more people, but still in a substandard way, and the rent will go up. Oh, Lord. Okay, I really wanted to start this piece by saying,
 By quoting a person that is alive no more, named William Blake, you might have heard his name before. He said, Vox Populi, Vox Deus. Do you guys understand the translation? It means, the voice of the people is the voice of God. Okay? Anyway, beyond that...
 Yes, we need more places for people to live that are affordable, that are safe, that are clean, that the sewers are taken care of, that are monitored, things that are monitored. Just because it's low-income people or, you know, not the right part of town or whatever, these places need to be monitored, they need to be kept up, and they need to be accountable, just like me, just like you guys.
 in whatever we do. And there's a lot of manpower, people power out there that we can, and there's a lot of people that are very willing to help make these things work. And accountability is very important in every aspect of all this, whether it be a new court, whether it be an old court. And upkeep, yeah, that's really important too. But it doesn't happen as much upkeep.
 keep in accountability with things like sewers and sanitary systems and running water and electrical. These places aren't kept up like that and aren't monitored typically and historically. Oh, Dan, don't fall asleep yet. Yeah, because they're low-rent places. Yes.
 Most people don't care. They just kind of want to put people in these places and say, yeah, their house is good, so what if the toilets aren't working, and so what if they don't have running water? It's just part of it. But thank you. Thank you. May I have a question for Shannon? The last two who signed up are Maggie and Charles Critchbain-Johnson. I signed up. I signed up. You signed up on 1074. I signed up. You're not on here to be confident.
 Okay. First, I want to say how much I love Joe Walsh and Lightning and Charles for coming every week. And second of all, I want to say how much I approve the idea of preserving these low-income places like mobile home parks because...
 And I want to talk about that due diligence and about the not knowing what they did not know. That sounds like very Ollie North talk there. Ted, I bet you didn't know you were going to be Portland's slumlord when you hired on to be mayor.
 and yet that's what you are. So what I want to say is this is a good idea to take these units and either give new units or fix them up, or how about allowing tiny homes in these mobile parks? Because I have priced out.
 10 by 20 share weight units with solar panels for the electricity, with two hot water tanks, one for the bathroom and one for the kitchen,
 hooked up to these solar panels and very expensive composting toilets at $8,000. Okay, unassembled, not like that guy Emmett who wanted to do those $40,000 units.
 units. He's up in Seattle right now and he's got a $12 million grant to house 72 people. I'm saying you could do units with solar panels with very expensive composting toilets that only need to be cleaned out once or twice a year for $8,000. And that's like with a wraparound porch, 10 by 20, raised roof,
 loft for the bed unless they're disabled and then they can have it, you know, all one level. And you could do that for $8,000 per unit. What is that? That's like just to, okay, that is unassembled. So you would have to have volunteers from, say, Lowe's, from Home Depot, from Habitat Humanity come in and
 assemble these units, but I'm talking about that's including the solar panels, that's including the hot water, that's including the smoke detectors, the sinks, the fire extinguishers, everything, soup to nuts, 8,000 a unit.
 unassembled. Now I realize that that guy who went up to Seattle, he wanted to do them 40,000 and he wanted to assemble them and then put them there, but I think we could get volunteers to have these things up in no time. And when you're talking about the fact that you don't have to have an elevator
 You don't have to have a sewer. You would have to have a gray water system. Well, okay, from the kitchen sink, from the shower, okay, you can just go directly into the sewer. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, but it's probably not me who should be sitting here at this table. It should probably be Tracy Reeve, city attorney, explaining why...
 We didn't do what we were supposed to do, which is sue the piece of crap assholes that you bought this property from. Okay, just a reminder, we have an FCC requirement here. Let's keep it clean. So this is the city that works hard to overpay predatory poverty pimps. You're going to buy...
 The flea bag, bed bug infested West Wind Apartments and reward that scumbag slumlord with a big chunk of city cash or managed through the county. You rewarded the predatory pimp who did disgusting things to the people that were residents at this property. And now I want my $119,000 back.
 That's if we spread that out over the 27 units. But really, we're just paying for 22. So I actually want $146,059. I guess I'll have to go file a lawsuit over in the federal court against you and Tracy Reeves to get it. And then I'll put up 22 trailers.
 These people, the city made a commitment. I understand why you're going to approve yes on this, but you're not going to, doesn't sound, you did ask a couple of good questions, Ted, about what we have learned from this. It's a very expensive lesson. There should be an after action report on how we screwed this up, where the original 35 people went, how many are dead or suicided or taking up space in other public housing units.
 Mr. Fish, you asked about Golden Pacific. Apparently, we think these trailers are made maybe in Northern California. They do have two offices, Milwaukee and I think Tigard or one of the T-towns, Tualatin, something like that. So there is some keeping the money circulating through the Oregon economy. But, you know, maybe we should have gone with modular housing at a higher price for this welfare project. I mean, it's not...
 We've had Catholic charities manage the Kenton Women's Village. Twelve people, almost half as many as here. I don't think we did $119,000 expenditure per woman in the Kenton Women's Village, but we should have. So please know that I'll be this obnoxious and worse until the report comes out and talks about the lessons learned and the actual lives that were impacted. Thirty-five original residents...
 Now we're going down to just 27 spaces, five of the original owners. I don't want to say jackpot because these are people that have been through some trauma in their lives. And hopefully our friends from down in DeFazio land, Mr. DeFazio's constituents there in Eugene and Lane County, are excellent people. The St. Vincent de Paul Society locally does some good work. But when we have tens of thousands of people, or maybe only 9,000 people, sleeping outdoors every night,
 on a limited budget, we could have done better. We know this started under the previous mayoral administration, and you've had a lot of distractions. I appreciate your tone that you, like, maybe wish you'd had a little tighter oversight on this or better outcomes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Does that complete public testimony? Thank you, ma'am. Exploitation. Very good. Was there any further questions? Commissioner Fish had a couple of questions for Director Callahan. Welcome back. Yeah, I have two questions. We had some testimony about...
 who were serving at this location, and we did fill the chambers with people that urged us to acquire the site when it was at risk, they were at risk of being displaced. Have we tracked what's happening, what's happened to the existing tenants? Yes. We are working with a number of the existing tenants in the park themselves in the –
 Five of them were owner-occupied units, meaning they were actually the owners of their coach, their mobile home. And so those are the ones that are getting moved over to the side. When you have a mobile home loan, it's a commercial loan, not the type of loan that you would think of when you are a homeowner where you have a 30-year mortgage and
 interest terms, you're actually on a general loan that one would think of more for an automobile. And so the loan terms are not as favorable as a home mortgage. There are a variety of different factors. It is really hard to sell these coaches once you own them because, quite frankly, they depreciate so quickly over time.
 Those owners are being taken care of, and we also have additional residents that are remaining in the park that will be moved into new units that will be owned by St. Vincent de Paul themselves. So yes, we are tracking that, Commissioner. And my second question is, you know, in terms of what we've learned here, at what point do the costs of redeveloping as a mobile home park reach a point where,
 It's in our best interest to consider other kinds of redevelopment, including multifamily. I believe that this park is a very good example of a potential situation where...
 where a different development type would have been more cost effective and provided more density on the project. That said, at the time, this council was faced with a lot of different members of this mobile home park who do have loans on these homes. So when a park closes, they're essentially left.
 homeless and even more in debt with their initial coach. I would not, if I had the benefit of hindsight on this project, I would not recommend this one as one to go forward with.
 I will say that I agree with Mr. Johnson, and the staff is preparing an after-action report on this project, as well as some guidance, because I believe that we will be called upon more and more in the future to look at mobile home park preservations, especially as the design overlay or the changes in zoning have gone into effect. A number of parks are now, as I mentioned, for sale.
 I will say that this park was not purchased by the city. This park was initially intended to be purchased by the owners themselves, the owners of the coaches, in a cooperative home ownership model. And at the time, this property had actually initially been sold to another developer.
 And the park residents were able to use a variety of different tactics available to them through state law to get the rights to actually purchase this property.
 Just to clear up a few issues. But, yes, Commissioner, I think that in hindsight this would not have been a good park to necessarily invest in the way that we have invested. That said, I think there are a lot of lessons learned for us going forward, and this was the very first time we'd ever done a mobile home park preservation in the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you.
 I have some questions. Commissioner Daley. Thank you. So I'm still a little confused because we've reduced the number of units, and not everyone who was living in the park is still there. So was anyone involuntarily displaced, or did they lose their housing as a result of this development? No one has been involuntarily displaced. Many residents actually requested to move to other areas.
 and those residents were primarily ones who were renting the actual pads and homes attached to those pads or spaces. Everyone who's asked to remain, St. Vincent de Paul is working with them to remain, including the owners of the five coaches themselves. And instead of replacing those coaches, they're working to do weatherization and other improvements to make sure that there are no leaks, that they're habitable, that their electricity is safe.
 So there is a large amount of work going on, but no one was displaced involuntarily. And a couple points of clarity for the public. It's going to provide space for 22 mobile homes, correct? Yes. Do you know roughly how many people will be housed? Because I think there's an impression that only 22 people will live there, and I'm assuming it's going to be double that or more. Yes.
 About 60? About 60. Okay. And also, to be clear, I do think this is an extraordinary amount of money to put into a property of this nature and share regrets and frustrations.
 Between the city and the developer, we're not spending $5 million on 22 mobile homes. We're spending that on roads, sewer, community centers. Is that correct?
 Yes, and I'm trying to make sure that we also have the service space and the space for these families and the kids that are Living in these parks to actually have the type of services that they need to be successful This park will be regulated for the next 99 years It is not a short-term investment nor a short-term commitment By our partners from Lane County who stepped in to really help us save this park We had no model to do this before and
 It had never been the city's. We had never even attempted something of this type. So, yes, Commissioner, thank you. And obviously the developer has a history in this particular area, rehabbing trailer mobile home parks, and I assume has a good reputation. Okay.
 Very good reputation. And quite frankly, as I mentioned, we sought them out because of their work, especially with low-income communities in Lane County and their reputation in the nonprofit community. And they stepped up in a very big way to come to Portland and try to help these tenants and help us preserve this park. So I have great gratitude for St. Vincent de Paul and great respect for their work. Yeah.
 I mean, I really don't want to minimize the expense, but I think it's important when we're looking at these numbers to not oversimplify it and only consider the per-unit cost because there are a lot of other expenses that went into this park, not just the individual units. Yes. Thank you. Very good. Please call the roll. Uda Lee.
 Well, I share a lot of the frustrations in the room, and it sounds like those are also shared by the mayor and other commissioners, perhaps, as well as our new housing director. Congratulations, Director Callahan. It's a commitment that the city made over two years ago. It predates the mayor and I. It predates the current housing director. I think...
 It's important to keep in mind we're housing 60 low-income individuals, and this was an anti-displacement effort. And I hope we will get it more right in the future. We've done a really poor job preventing or mitigating displacement during this lengthy and ongoing housing crisis, and this was a well-intentioned effort.
 This is also the worst kind of profiteering during a housing crisis. It's reprehensible to me that this landlord was not only allowed to raise rents when they were providing dangerous and substandard conditions, but was allowed to charge rents at all.
 And it just underscores how vital it is that we get our rental registration system up and running, and we start the mandatory rental inspections through BDS, which is one of the efforts that I hoped to begin during my tenure as the commissioner in charge of BDS.
 I'm going to strongly support policies in the future that harshly penalize landlords who are providing substandard housing. I'm going to vote aye. It's with regrets, but we need to do this. We need to follow through on our promises and move forward and keep these 60 people housed. So, aye. Prince. Aye.
 When the Housing Commissioner made the decision to buy the oak leaf in the previous mayoral administration, this room was packed upstairs and downstairs with people telling us to do it, including some of the people who are here in this chambers today. And as Commissioner Hideo just said, when government promises something, we should keep our promise.
 and we have invested a lot of money in learning. I appreciate the B&F direction report. Thanks to Living Cully, who did some interim work with the Oakleaf residents while a long-term owner and operator was located. Thank you very much to St. Vincent de Paul of Lane County for coming up to Portland and helping us learn from your experience. And thank you to the residents of the Oakleaf for their patience and engagement during this project.
 As Director Callaghan said, not everybody does best in multifamily housing. And these homes and communities can be wonderful places for people to succeed, as we heard from the residents of the Oak Leaf in 2016. Hi. Fish? Well, I share the frustration of my colleagues on this one, and it's clearly a close call.
 and I think what's been documented at the very least is a painful learning curve. We made a commitment. We're trying to use this as a sort of a living laboratory to understand better how we might save this critically important piece of the affordable housing spectrum. I think based on that commitment and based on the quality of our partner,
 It tips the scales in favor of moving forward, but we need to get it right going forward. Aye. Saltzman? Well, as the Housing Commissioner who brought this proposal forward, you know, I think that none of us really thought the ownership model was going to pan out. And we were on the hook for $1.5 million. That was it. And the advocates were going to somehow come up with the rest of the money from the state or somewhere else, but
 It didn't pan out, and I think most of us at the time didn't think the ownership model was going to pan out. It's just not possible. But the dynamics are not going to change for other mobile home parks that come before this council. I think there will be others. We passed that overlay. I recall from the report there's thousands of people, maybe 9,000 people, living in mobile home parks of questionable origin.
 both questionable ownerships in terms of predatory rents, but also just the conditions of the housing stock themselves. So this problem will not go away. So I think it's good that we're sort of truing up here on the oak leaf and really realizing that at the time we knew the 1.5 we thought was going to make this issue go away from our perspective didn't go away. And when we deal with the next mobile home park, we'll have better, accurate, more information about how much,
 we're in it for. But as Commissioner Fritz just said, these are real people. This housing is important to them, and it's important that we help them. And I'm sure we have learned our lessons around the next ones. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. So we are way behind schedule, so I'd like to pull one item. Could you read item 1086, please? Yes.
 1086, amend Portland renter's protections code to clarify the exemption for affordable housing providers. I'm pulling this item back to my office. There are some technical adjustments that need to be made. We'll reschedule this for another time. I want to make sure this item gets the time that it is due.
 We have a very long agenda today, and we're only at the very beginning of it, and therefore, henceforth, public testimony will be limited to two minutes. Could you please read item 1074?
 Amend contract with Bursit Term Inc. for upgrades and maintenance to the computer-aided dispatch system used by the Bureau of Emergency Communications. Increase the authorized not-to-exceed amount by $215,000. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Bob Causey. I'm a director of the Bureau of Emergency Communications. It's a pleasure to be here today. The purpose for our visit, first of all, I'd like to introduce Merle Morley. He's our technical systems manager, and if there's any specific technical questions, I'll defer to him.
 We're here today to request an amendment to a contract between VersaTerm and the City of Portland for the computer-aided dispatch system used by our Bureau to increase the authorized not-to-exceed amount by $215,000 from $9 million to $9,215,000. There is no fiscal impact as these funds are already available within our existing budget. November 14th of 2007...
 An ordinance was passed authorizing the replacement of the computer-aided dispatch system used by the Bureau. In July of 2009, the contract with Versaterm was made effective with a not-to-exceed amount of $7 million, and that amount included funding for maintenance for the first six years.
 After that, in November of 2016, an ordinance was passed to increase the amount to $9 million to cover anticipated support costs and system upgrades beyond that original six-year time frame. Today, we're asking Council to increase the not-to-exceed value of the contract by $215,000
 to $9,215,000, and that additional value will be used to pay the remainder of the outstanding support invoice covering this fiscal year and for VersaTerm charges for system upgrades that we anticipate early of 2019. Those projects include a CAD to CAD upgrade which ties our computer-aided dispatch system to the rest of the regional computer-aided dispatch systems.
 Additionally, we have an implementation of a protocol called automatic secure alarm protocol, or ASAP to PSAP. And what this feature does is allows alarm companies to enter data that appears automatically in our computer-aided dispatch system. That prevents our call takers from having to take calls from the alarm companies automatically.
 and tying up the calls so that we're not able to answer 911 calls at the time. Additionally, we would like to implement a priority medical dispatch system as mandated by Multnomah County Emergency Medical Systems.
 Contract number 30000502 between Versaterm and the City of Portland for the CAD system is up for renewal July 3rd of 2019, and we'll be working with the Bureau of Technology Services and Procurement on a new support contract for the future. Do you have any questions? That was intriguing where you said the CAD systems...
 from the area would now be linked? Yeah, we already have a CAD to CAD system in place. We're in the process of upgrading it and much of the upgrade costs are paid for by a grant and tying all of the regional 911 centers together. There could be some unanticipated costs on our side that may not be covered by the grant so we want to make sure that we have funding available for that. Very good. Is there a public testimony on this item?
 Yes, we have four people signed up. Sarah Hobbs, Ida Pingala, and Maggie. Carla, do you know what that sound is? That's something coming out of the speakers. I'm awful. I'll see your head, Mike.
 For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. BOAC is a myth. On July 13th of this year, I was on a number six bus going to North Portland when I saw a suicidal man literally standing mid-span on...
 the south rail of the Hawthorne Bridge. I screamed to get people to call because I did not have my cell phone on me. One passenger called and got put on hold for quite a while. Not knowing what to do but frantic, I ran to the bus operator
 operator and said there is a suicide crisis going on the Hawthorne Bridge. Would you please call this into your dispatch? I followed up later and found that the only two calls that got through was God bless that person who stayed on hold for God knows only how long and somebody from TriMet.
 Thankfully, the Behavioral Health Units and Hands Crisis Intervention Team got to the man in time, but it resulted in 10 cars, a full shutdown of the Hawthorne Bridge, and an hour and a half, almost two-hour effort. But thank God they got the man to help.
 When time is of a severe issue in serious life-threatening emergencies, we cannot have people put on hold with emergency communications. Something needs to be done. Thank you. Truth comes to the city. Truth does not emanate from the city.
 Okay, I agree. If you're going to budget, I understand there was something wrong with the computer system. Please do not...
 prioritize your calls so that the rich gets served first and that the poor gets served last. This idea of you going into a rich guy's home who's got unlocked long guns and calibers of bullets all over the place, and you're going to serve this guy who's having a heart attack. As far as I'm concerned, he can have a heart attack and die because I'm pro-gun control. But then you
 disabled people in a wheelchair or with a cane or a walker or bipolar, schizophrenia, you stage those calls and you don't get to these people. And guess what? The federal government did a study and said that the sooner you get to the hospital for those patients, the
 the less money they cost in medical care. So when you stage and prioritize, poor people last. Guess what? They go to the hospital and they cost more money to take care of because they're sicker when they get there. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll. Oh, there's more? Ida Pingala and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Come on up.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridgecrank-Johnson for the record. Thank you, Commissioner Schultzman. You've got BOEC, so hopefully a few months from now we'll see either Loretta Smith or Joanne Hardesty as Commissioner in Charge of BOEC. And they will have a very important job after you all vote in favor of this $211,000 or $215,000 cost adjustment. BOEC also, like Ms. Callahan noted, independent reports need to come from bureaus and need to go to the public. It's especially important for BOEC because...
 Even the mayor can have no confidence in the information he gets from the Portland Police Bureau about the guns that are on top of parking garages and whether their ammo is in the same car or moved to a different car or whether we don't tell the mayor for one or two months or whether the police chief goes on the air and says crap about people on the left while hiding the fact that, oh, and I also found some right-wing protesters with guns on the roof. This is about the contract. Can we focus on the contract, please? Thank you, Ted. Thank you.
 With BOEC, and this is also important for the quality of your work, Mr. Mayor, you need to be able to task someone on your staff to look at analysis of the calls coming into BOEC.
 And contrasting that with the information or disinformation you're getting from some of the reliable people and some of the unreliable people in the Portland Police Bureau. So approve this $200,000. Versaterm will give you a lovely system. For a little bit of extra money, they'll probably even tell you how you can have a special super watchdog to make sure that we're getting quality policing and not some bullshit propaganda game.
 Does that complete public testimony? That's all signed up. Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. That brings us to time certains 1075 and 76. Please read them together.
 1075. Consider the proposal of Tim Sotuda, Southwest Hills LLC, and the recommendation from the hearings officer for removal of conditions of approval imposed by prior comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendment ordinances for property at 2855 Southwest Patton Road, LU18- 112-666 CPZC and 1076-
 Remove conditions of approval imposed by prior comprehensive plan map and zoning map ordinances for property at 2855 Southwest Patton Road at the request of Tim Sotuda, Southwest Hills, LLC, LU18-112666CPZC. So, colleagues, I need a motion to approve the revised findings for item 1075. So moved.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second by Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? I appreciate everybody who testified. This is a really close call for me, and I believe that or I hope that the 3,000-square-foot commercial area in this new development will get used commercially and that the neighborhood will be happy with it. I recognize that there's many people who are disappointed that there's not going to be a large grocery store.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. No. Wheeler. Aye. The motion passes. This is the second reading. I'm sorry, and you already read the ordinance. This is the second reading of the ordinance for item 1076. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thanks to Lauren Hill and Lynn Louise for their land use guidance, to Mark Moffitt and the staff at the Bureau of Development Services, and again, for the community input. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. No. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. On to the regular agenda, items 1081 and 82 can be read together, please.
 1081, accept a grant in the amount of $105,060, appropriate $35,000 for fiscal year 2018-19, and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for the Domestic Violence Enhanced Response Team to be partially reimbursed for a police bureau sergeant through September 30, 2020.
 and 1082, authorize a memorandum of understanding with the partner agencies that constitute the Domestic Violence Enhanced Response Team for the stated project goals listed in the Office on Violence Against Women, Fiscal Year 2017-2020 grants to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of protection orders, grant program application, and award.
 Very good. And we have staff here. Come on up. Thanks for being here. Welcome. I'm Derek Rodriguez, Captain of the Family Services Division. Hello. Thank you, Captain. The timing of it all. Sergeant Mason just stepped out, and he's supposed to give a little presentation, but I'll hold on until he gets here and let Mr. Bray go. Okay. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Peggy Samalinski, and I have the privilege of working with Multnomah County with the Department of County Human Services. Shall I wait? Yes.
 He's here. How about if we let him go first and if that's okay with you, sir? Here he comes. He's rushing up. Here he goes. It never fails, right? You're waiting for two hours and you leave the room for 30 seconds and you get called up. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Thank you. My apologies. No worries. My name is Ron Mason. I'm a sergeant with the Portland Police Bureau assigned to the Domestic Violence Enhanced Response Team.
 This project has been a 14-year collaboration with the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office, the DA's office, Department of Community Justice, Animal Services, DHS, and community-based advocates, as well as Multnomah County. The PPP team is comprised of two police officers, Multnomah County detective, and two community-based advocates.
 We serve a vulnerable population that is at high risk for lethality in domestic violence situations. Our focus is on interagency collaboration to be able to hold offenders accountable and help the survivors and their children to live in a peaceful situation. The valuable work that we do has no doubt in my mind has lessened the violent consequences as well as
 prevented further violence and homicides. So thank you for considering this grant proposal. Thank you, Sergeant. Great, thank you. Again, Peggy Samulinski with Multnomah County. I am currently the interim manager for the Domestic and Sexual Violence Coordination Office because my colleague, Rose Bach, recently departed. So I'm going to start today with two quotes from survivors who have engaged in services through DIVERT, one who said, "...I will forever be changed by this experience and seeing the good people who are courageous when you're in crisis."
 Another woman reported, the advocate and team I worked with saved my life and helped me rebuild my self-esteem. So the DIVERT grant, overall grant, supports kind of several areas, both capacity building and training for community members and partners, as well as direct services. So in 2017, the DIVERT team provided 20 trainings to over 550 professionals working in the fields of law enforcement, community justice, and victim advocacy.
 During the last year, we've spoken at several conferences around the work and about this partnership that we have with the Portland Police Bureau to speak about.
 about the successful collaborations and how this is a model for others to try to replicate. And in 2019, we're super excited to be invited to present specifically about the Divert collaboration at the End Violence Against Women International Conference in San Diego, California. So that's a big honor for us to be asked to do that.
 During 2017, the DIVERT team worked with over 150 victims of high risk for lethality and domestic violence situations. The team provides advocacy and safety for survivors and accountability for perpetrators. Being able to work collaboratively with local community agencies, local law enforcement, and other system providers has increased the safety of survivors who are experiencing and attempting to leave violent domestic violence situations. Thank you.
 For the last 14 years, this Divert program has provided an essential service and a collaborative capacity to Multnomah County, reaching survivors and their children at some of their most vulnerable times. It's in this collaborative spirit that we're here today to ask you to support the IGA and MOU. Thank you. Thank you, Peggy. Does that complete your presentation? Any further questions before we get to public testimony? So do we get three additional...
 Divert people funded through this grant? Not three additional, Commissioner. It continues what we've been funding. So it's part of a sheriff of the Multnomah County, part of a sergeant, and then two direct service advocates in the community. Excellent. Thank you. Public testimony? Yes, we have four people signed up. The first three are Sarah Hobbs, Ida Pingala, and Maggie. Thank you.
 My name's Sarah Hobbs. 21 years ago in the middle of the night, my children fled a domestic violence situation. It was a lot of services. This was 21 years ago. Plans in place then are gone. But what I hear is the services that they are proposing were similar services that helped make
 I literally spent my first day in the shelter was the day of my 10th wedding anniversary. I got married at 18, had no skills, fled with my kids in the middle of the night. I beg you to agree to support because we need...
 The law enforcement. Women are at their most vulnerable for being murdered in domestic violence murders when they leave. I got married at 18, was a stay-at-home mom, had no job skills, nothing. It was services like what they proposed that helped my family make it. But I have been concerned that these services were gone. I am encouraged now.
 encouraged beyond belief to hear that some of these are coming back. I wish there was still some discussion about domestic violence transitional
 supportive housing because that's what saved me and my family. I didn't hear that. That has me kind of sad but everything else please women's lives can depend on it and for people like me who were also fleeing with children it's more it can be more than just women whose lives will depend on this and I beg you please support.
 Thank you, sir, and thank you for sharing your story.
 Thank you. Good morning. I just want to say I think funding domestic violence programs are important because I see in the shelter women of all economic backgrounds who have been affected by domestic violence, and there needs to be a program not only just for them to get out of the situation but then help them rebuild their lives. That's all I want to say. Thank you, Maggie. Appreciate it.
 And the last person is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. You're good. All right. Thank you. Any further questions, colleagues or staff? Please call the roll. I'm sorry. These are non-emergency. Item 1081. Commissioner Saltzman, you bet. I thought we were running. I just want to thank Captain Rodriguez.
 for his leadership of the Family Services Division, and Sergeant Mason for his leadership of the Domestic Violence Reduction Unit. It's really tough work that you do, you gentlemen do, and your colleagues at the county, the district attorney's office, and at the city. And we really appreciate it, and I appreciate your leadership in particular. Thank you.
 Item 1081, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 1082, it is also a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It also moves to second reading. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you for your hard work. And thank you also for the very compelling testimony. It's appreciated. Next item, 1083. Thank you.
 amend a contract with Central City Concern to increase the not-to-exceed amount by $375,742 to provide additional treatment readiness services, transitional housing, and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees. Thank you for being here. Good morning.
 Is anyone working on the sound issue, the popping? They were checking with open sound. Okay. It's really tough to listen to. Is the ticking a little too loud? It's ticking. The mics have seemed quite loud today. I turned the speakers off upstairs. Yeah. Thank you, Carla. Would you like to tell us about this item? Absolutely. Okay.
 I'm Emily Rochon. I'm the Service Coordination Team Program Manager with the Portland Police Bureau embedded within the Behavioral Health Unit. The proposed ordinance adjusts the current contract between the city and Central City Concern to match the increased already approved budget in this year's budget 18-19. We entered the current contract in fiscal year 16-17 after an RFP process.
 The adopted budget and amendment will include increasing the number of supportive transitions and stabilization units from six units to 12. So increasing the number of clients that we are serving.
 which includes also increased staffing and client support services. The Supportive Transition and Stabilization Program is a portion of the service coordination team run by Central City Concern. The program is currently a six-bed program, which allows the Behavioral Health Unit and the Behavioral Health Response Teams, that's the officer-clinician teams, to address those issues.
 who they're working with that have perceived mental illness and also homeless to address the housing first. So it's a direct resource for the behavioral health response teams.
 to refer to the program, and then Central City Concern provides all the wraparound services for next steps, stabilization, connecting to treatment services, and then next steps to appropriate either transitional housing, permanent housing, and again wraparound services. It also includes...
 It also includes an inflation adjustment since we've been in the contract since 2016-17 As we all know cost of living has increased housing has increased just overall cost in the city has increased so I
 And also the Oregon minimum wage is increasing and central city concern is proactively adjusting current employee wages to ensure equitable wages for experience and longevity as well and also with the inflation of unit costs are increasing and and
 Since we've been in contract with Central City Concern, the units that we paid for were actually below average than other Central City Concern units. So there's an adjustment there as well. And it's still actually below average of other single-room occupancy units throughout the city. Thank you. Did you want to add anything or –
 I'm Melissa Bishop. I'm the Associate Director of Recovery Housing Programs, and I oversee the STS program. And I just want to say since the beginning of this program, we have served 77 of our very most vulnerable folks on the street with mental health disorders. Twenty-eight of those people have exited into permanent housing and are still doing well today. That's a really big number when we're talking about this population. These are the people that we see that...
 that we see over and over for years that are not getting services, and we have been able to bring them into our program and really make a difference. And so some of those people go into higher mental health programs, and exiting into permanent housing is really important for these folks. And so we're just really excited to do this work. Thank you. Any questions? I have a question. You mentioned about inflationary costs. Do we pay all of the staff at least $15 an hour?
 No. The current, about a third of the employees there make under $15. So that's not in compliance with our policy, though, is it? The Oregon minimum wage is...
 But they're not city employees. But they're contract employees, and we passed that. They actually have. Sorry. So all our assistant case managers, they are the folks that work our 24-hour staffing, all have been bumped up in this new budget to $15 an hour. So everybody working at the Golden West right now with the HRR program, STS, are making $15 an hour.
 Good. I'm glad to hear it. And I would encourage you in future to look at pay increases as well as inflationary increases because these staff are doing incredibly difficult work, important work, and it's important. Sarah, could you not snap, please, because it's very distracting. Thank you. Thank you.
 It's important for the clients to have continuity, and when people can't afford to live in Portland, for example, because they don't make very much money. So even though we may increase our investment, we may not then expand beds, but I, for one, will vote for that because I do want your staff to know how very important the work is, and I value it. They're very valuable to us, too. Yes, I appreciate that. Thank you. Is there a public testimony on this item? Yes, I show five people signed up. Sarah Hobbs.
 I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm going to have to call the next one. I'm
 within the homeless community. The service coordination team's work is to reach those people who are most getting arrested. So as police commissioner, you're going to help yourself, Mayor, by approving this budget and getting those statistics down.
 What frustrates me is we are constantly here at City Hall debating the service coordination team's budget when I personally feel it is the best program the police bureau has to minimize the criminalization of the police.
 Of the homeless. So I'm appealing to you, actually, Mayor, in your position as police commissioner. And I'm sorry it's not my goal to be distracting, Commissioner. You can tell how strongly I feel about this and want the attention brought to it. Forgive me for distracting you. Well, if you see it, tell me. If you could give me a thumbs up.
 So I know I'm being heard. I'd appreciate it. But again, sorry for the subtraction. This is an amazing but horribly underfunded program that will do great work toward the
 the goal of decriminalization of the homeless and it will get a lot of people off your back there so i'm appealing a little personal here too thank you thank you and i i enthusiastically agree with you and this was a top priority for me in this last year's budget and also moving it from one-time funding to permanent funding and so i'd look i look forward to expanding it from here
 And as you know, there are other service partners besides the police bureau, there's Central City and others. And therefore, as we expand the program, we also have to think about the capacity that those programs have. But I enthusiastically agree with you. Yeah, it's CCC's program.
 role at the FCT, but it's not just Central City concerned. It's the service coordination team of the whole. I'm in complete agreement with you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Well, I think actually, didn't we also move it to cannabis tax money? That's a much more dedicated funding stream. You don't need to keep coming back because it's now, as the Mayor said, in permanent funding with a solid revenue source. Do I have a witness to what the Commissioner just said? Yes.
 It's all on the public record. Thank you. Thank you. Maggie, do you want to go next? Sure. Thank you. Okay. I want to talk about the fact that I have a letter from my landlord when she upped the rent $250, and I was economically ousted out of my home.
 after eight years and kept all my rental receipts, and I've never been to jail or arrested, and I'm 54. Yeah.
 So, you know, if I end up on the street and I've been a victim of fair housing and you've got these BID districts and these clean and safe people going around and taking people's stuff and I end up on the street with everything I own in a bag and you take my bag after I've been a victim of the fair housing laws, you know, you're just criminalizing me for being poor. Right.
 I want to say, you know, after I started advocating against the conditions in Salvation Army, which you came and you called them ahead of time, and I know this because they were checking all their fire alarms and putting all their chairs in line before you came. And this is – let me finish what I'm saying, please – is –
 people can't go into the shelter if the shelter isn't safe. And if you go in and call them ahead of time before you come in and cover your eyes and ears, and you don't know what you're looking at and you don't know what's wrong unless people come and tell you, and unless you're willing to talk to those people, you're just criminalizing the poor. Thank you.
 Yes, I'm Ida Pingala, and in relation to what Maggie just said— Ida, can you make this relevant to the subject at hand, which is the contract with Central City Concern?
 And they're a force in this community because they're here and they're everywhere and they've got their little cleanup things. It looks like a lot of window dressing, and it is mostly window dressing. They're one of the biggest collections and companies of poverty pimping that's going on in this city, if not the state. They have...
 certain rules like a person has to be clean and sober to live there. Yeah, fine, except what if the person has never had a problem with drugs or alcohol and let's say the person takes communion Sunday and it shows up as alcohol. Then they get kicked out and then they're back down in there. Okay, CCC is not only corrupt, but it's also corrupt in
 But a lot of the things that they're doing are not right. Okay, yes, they're opening up places for people that have low income. But you know what? It's being turned into the cycle. They're perpetuating the cycle of getting people in there and then getting them out, getting more people in there and then getting them out. It's not a very, shall we say...
 positive situation. Yes, they're there and they're there and they're obvious and they're helping people. But actually, they're just keeping it at a level to where it's just the mill. It's grist for the lowest rungs of the mill. And I would like to see them be seriously accountable on...
 for what they're doing and why they're doing it and who they're allowing in and why, and why they're not allowing other people in and why they just aren't elevating the types of places they have. They're just terrible accommodations. Thank you. Does that complete public time? I know because I've lived there. Charles Crane Johnson. And I've dealt with CCCMA levels. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And I'm not sure if that's Central City, the way they do it. But one way they could administer this sobriety testing at Central City Concern is they could make you say, Dr. Rachel Solitaroff, who's now the director, emeritus director of Blackburn, has moved on. One thing that, obviously, this funding is critical. The most dramatic evidence that it's critical is...
 The number of times you walk past Central City's building on Burnside and you see the people sleeping on the sidewalk outside. Probably also the same situation just a few blocks north at the Golden West. And when you approve this funding, it's also critical. And if you'd had a more open and engaging dialogue with these testifiers, they would tell you that they're only able to serve a select few people.
 and the rest of them are left sleeping outside on the sidewalks in front of their buildings because we don't fund adequate emergency housing. Warehousing people isn't fun, it isn't pretty, but it's prettier than hypothermia, and also it does give an element of stability. So...
 Talk to the central city concern workers and find out that, yes, this investment will help them move people into very limited housing resources. Some people will be saved if you just move them into mass shelters. It doesn't matter if it's Wapato or some other building that's got a U on it that can be made slightly safer.
 People are having relapses and staying in chronic substance abuse because this is the only way they can cope with being locked out of public buildings and sleeping on the sidewalk and urinating on the sidewalk and defecating in the parks because we don't give them adequate indoor structure. They don't all need this level of expenditure and care. Some of us do, but we also, with this, need to provide basic humanitarian indoor hygienic shelter. Thank you.
 Thank you. Is there any further public testimony? That's all who signed up. Very good. So this is a – colleagues, any other questions? This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. But in response to some of the testimony, I just want to read –
 uh... one set of facts as you know central city provides the services that support the service coordination teams effort to decrease chronic arrests of homeless adults who are enrolled in the bureau's housing rapid response program the program is proven
 there was an based on data from 2017 there was an 82 percent reduction in post program arrests for those who had graduated from the program that is the point of this program is to reduce interactions between the chronically homeless and the police and to do that by providing whatever services people need to get off and stay off the streets including
 drug addiction treatment. Is it too small? Yes, of course it is. The problem is much bigger than this solution individually can possibly address. But as I say, and Sarah certainly said, I am enthusiastically supportive of this. It moves to second reading. Next item is 1084. Thank you.
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $391,694 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program.
 fiscal year 2018 local solicitation to assist the Portland metropolitan area law enforcement and criminal justice community to prevent and reduce crime and violence. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I'm here to provide some testimony on this and want to remind you that this is part of a public hearing of the governing body of the local government, City of Portland, and
 And could you state your name for the record, please? I beg your pardon. My name is Bob Delgazee. I'm a business operations manager with Portland Police Bureau. Thank you, Bob. So as a public meeting, this is providing an opportunity for a review of what this application involves, and it provides citizens with an opportunity to comment on the application. And at the time of accepting the award, the mayor will certify that this has taken place. The question.
 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistant Grant for 2018 was submitted. The application was submitted to the United States Department of Justice on the 22nd of August, 2018. The 2018 solicitation still requires a minimum 30-day review by the governing body, as I just mentioned.
 although the Office of Justice Programs has decreased the application window from six to four weeks this year. So upon advice from city attorney, the Bureau has proceeded with the application ordinance to fulfill the review requirement. The grant program instituted by Department of Justice in 2005 is named after Edward A.D.R. Byrne, a New York City police officer who was killed while on duty in 1988.
 The Department of Justice directs funding of local law enforcement agencies to assist in their efforts to prevent or reduce crime and violence. The 2018 JAG funds will be made under disparate certification to the City of Portland, Multnomah County, and the City of Gresham. The solicitation requires the City to submit a joint application for the disparate municipalities and to also act as the fiscal agent for the grant.
 The formula award amount is allocated to the three entities based on a statutory formula provided by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. The Police Bureau will receive $189,585, Multnomah County $148,960, and Gresham Police Department $53,149 for a total of $391,694 in federal funding.
 Although the federal grant award period is four years, for federal statute, local agencies spend their awards within two years. The Police Bureau will utilize their JAG funding for the following items. It will support the first year of a three-year bicycle registration program designed by the Bureau's Bicycle Theft Task Force. This is modeled on the successful Vancouver-British Columbia program.
 Grant funding will provide for personnel and event expenses for participation in bicycle events to encourage on-the-spot registration and for registration kits for low-income community members. Bike thieves target about 10,000 bicycles each year, and this equates to $10 million worth of property loss for the community. If a bicycle is not registered, there's less than a 10% chance that it will be returned to its owner.
 The second project is a digital exchange known as a hub for sharing police records data. The hub will be separate from the records management system, and it's designed for easy integration with any RMS any agency may choose. Multnomah County will fund a portion of the personnel expense for the North Neighborhood Deputy District Attorney position.
 The Gresham Police Department is asking for grant funds for their education program titled Every 15 Minutes, which is designed to dramatically instill teenagers with the potentially dangerous consequences of drinking alcohol and texting while driving, which is distracted or impaired driving. The Department of Justice has stated that the JAG 2018 awards will be awarded after the 30th of September 2018.
 Do you have any questions? Commissioner Fritz. Did we actually get the money this year? The award has not been announced yet. From last year? We just received the award notification for the 2017, I think that was on the 11th of this month. So we are going to be getting the usual money that we usually get? We did receive the award for the 2017 grant, albeit later than expected. Thank you.
 Thanks, Bob. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have three people signed up. Maggie, Catherine Baker, and Nancy Newell. This is about... Are you talking? Okay.
 Okay. You wanted to talk about theft and crime reduction. Well, I've been Memphis. To be Memphis is when you advocate for something. I'm sorry. Because we're running late, I have to really make sure that we are focused on the issue at hand. The testimony has to be directly related to the topic at hand. Okay. The JAG grant for the theft.
 Are you judging jury on that, Mayor? Yes, I am. I don't think so. Yes, I am. I am the presiding officer, and it is my job to keep the meetings on. I'm speaking about you're taking the freedom of speech away from public citizens and public testimony. Yes, you are. I am not. Council rules dictate. We'll meet you in court. Time, place, and manner. Okay. So a judge has decided that it's unconstitutional.
 for Metro to be ID'ing people on the maps. This has nothing to do with the child grant. Either get it to the child grant or I'm going to move on to the next individual. Thank you. You're up. Okay. Time to start. You reduced it to two minutes, is that correct? That's correct. Okay. So are you having fun?
 Okay, so our water situation is causing the very problem that you're trying to deal with. No, no, no. Oh, excuse me, Mayor Wheeler. Take a recess. Our water situation, we do not have regulation of water that is no longer coming from our mountain. This is water from well water. We're wasting everybody's time.
 I can't. It's not related to the item under discussion. It causes autism. It causes craziness. We'll take a three-minute recess. It causes all kinds of serious problems. Go ahead, walk out. You have had me be the state treasurer. You have to remove. This is all relevant. There's plenty of security. We'll just have a little chat. The, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the, um, the,
 All right, we're back. It's in session. Was there anybody else who wanted to testify on the subject at hand? That was all who had signed up. Very good. This is a first. I'm sorry, did anybody have any questions about this? This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 1085.
 amend inclusionary housing code to make technical corrections to the floor area ratio requirement for a tax exemption as designated in the zoning code. Director Callahan, welcome back. Matt, good to see you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. We are here to bring a minor technical correction to the inclusionary housing program. As you know, we are constantly examining this program and making sure that we have it correctly calibrated.
 And we are bringing a minor amendment to the program, which deals with the base FAR and the ability to get a full tax exemption. And with that, I'm going to turn it briefly over to Assistant Director Matthew Schibold to walk you through a couple of the finer points of the changes. So given the time, I'm just going to focus on this slide and –
 The original calibration of the inclusionary requirement with the incentives focused, one,
 When construction reached 5 to 1 FAR or above, given that it would most likely trigger a higher cost of construction, the full property tax exemption on all residential improvements in a building was offered. The way we wrote the code at the time was that if the base zone was 5 to 1 or greater, that the project would be eligible for the full tax exemption.
 What we have learned from feedback from industry stakeholders since the adoption is that there are a number of locations in the central city, and you see a map of the FAR there on the screen, where the base FAR may be below 5-to-1, but with transfers or bonuses, the developer is able to actually construct a project above 5-to-1 FAR.
 So we're making a change to the language in our tax exemption code in order to stay true to the original policy nexus of the program calibration, and that if a development is at 5-1 or greater, that with this change they would be able to receive the full property tax exemption. Director Callahan, you know, I've done a number of brown bag lunches recently with law firms,
 for the purpose of advocating for some ballot measures. And in the course of those meetings, when the conversation opens up to broader city issues, I have often been asked about the city's inclusionary housing policy and whether we're going to make some adjustments so that it works better. And it occurs to me that...
 And the answer I always give is, yes, we are listening to our key stakeholders, and we will be making adjustments as we go along. My question to you is –
 How do we do a better job of making sure that the development community understands the fine-tuning that we are doing, like today? I notice there's nothing in the materials before council that has any letters of support from the development community, and I'm likely to get the same question at the next brown bag. What are you doing on inclusionary housing? Is it working? And how are you working with –
 with the folks that are investing in housing. So what can we do to make sure that there's better communication with some of our key stakeholders? Well, thank you, Commissioner, for the question. We are actually, we just have released an 18-month review of inclusionary housing, which also talks about the next steps for refinements that the city is considering. We have sent that out broadly through the development community and with some of our partners, for instance, at,
 I believe Smart Growth America, formerly known as Locust, and I think actually you will hear from Gwen Baldwin in a few moments to talk about this policy in particular. But making sure that we are regularly communicating about next steps is going to be important. We have just taken over the responsibility of reporting on inclusionary housing from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and want to increase our efforts to communicate with developers in the private market.
 I just to give you a quick example of what you have seen in the 18 month report. This is a map actually of where all the inclusionary housing units are located in the city with the little white building.
 icons and then the black arrows are actually where there are early assistance permits. So some of these units are actually in the permit process and some of these units are coming on. Not to say that our early success doesn't mean we're going to continue to recalibrate and look at this program,
 As I said at the outset, Commissioner, we all knew this was not a static program. It needs to be responsive to what's happening with current market conditions. So the other piece of that that I would urge you to consider is, again, in the course of some work I've done recently in briefing editorial boards on some ballot measures, I also was struck by, A, some of the persistent –
 critiques that linger and along the lines of, you know, the success of this program, the extent to which, you know, we're developer friendly in our develop and how we interact with people through the Bureau of Development Services and things like that. So if you do have reports and updates of this stuff, I would urge you to also consider sending them along to the editorial boards to keep people with cover notes.
 because it's an ongoing job of educating people about the process we're engaged in. It doesn't mean they're going to necessarily give us any credit for the work, but I think there's a big gap in terms of understanding the amount of outreach we're doing and the fine-tuning we're doing. I think that's useful information that we ought to share with more people. Thank you, Commissioner. A very helpful suggestion. Will those unit numbers you just showed be used?
 affordable units or those are the total units associated with those? It's the total number of projects and total units. We're seeing the number of inclusionary units sit at about 15% of the total units. So there's 362 inclusionary units, meaning units that will be affordable units,
 to households making 80 percent or 60 percent of median income, but they represent a larger number of actual units that are coming online fully in the market. So we show you both to make sure that you have an understanding of how many buildings and what's actually happening in the development community overall.
 Does that complete your presentation? It does, Mayor. Great. Thank you very much. Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes. I show two people, Maggie and Gwen Baldwin. Very good. Come on up. Let's just make sure this is about tax exclusion for nonprofits, quote-unquote nonprofits, right, for their buildings? No. No? No. What is this one about again? I was in the bathroom. These are technical corrections to the inclusionary housing code. Oh, okay.
 Okay. Do you want to hear what Gwen says, and maybe that will help? Yeah, go ahead. Very good. Go ahead, Gwen. Thank you. Thank you.
 Gwen Baldwin here today representing Oregon Smart Growth as Director Callahan. Congratulations. Noted earlier, we were formerly known as Oregon Locusts. We are a coalition of developers, investors, and allied professions who are committed to livable, walkable communities. And that means making the most of each opportunity to bring units forward that are in high opportunity areas like Central City.
 And in this particular case, I definitely want to give credit to the Housing Bureau for hearing the feedback we had and the concerns where if you get to that threshold point where you have to build a more expensive type of form, a high rise or a podium that uses a lot more steel, it's a more expensive form. And often you can get to that with the three to one bonus that is a part of inclusionary housing.
 at much lower base FARs. And so it's really important to make the most of each opportunity. This, I will note, does not change the heights that are on each of these properties, but it simply allows the full offset package to be available in these more expensive forms. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here. You're welcome. Okay. So is this the inclusionary housing where the government found that, you know,
 They weren't meeting their – No, ma'am, it isn't. It isn't. It's a mandate that requires a certain set-aside of affordable units in private market development in exchange for some incentives.
 It used to be preempted by the legislature, and we lifted the preemption. The city now has implemented it, and it's a mandate in private sector development. Okay, and they didn't meet their quota? In other words, they didn't get the number of – No, it has nothing to do with quotas. It has to do with fine-tuning the specific requirements of the program. Okay.
 I don't think they met their quota of low-income housing that they were supposed to offer us. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Gwen, thank you. Please call the roll. You daily? Well, thanks for bringing this item forward. And I'm excited to see the numbers starting to come through. As we know, there was a mad rush to get permits in before we implemented our inclusionary rules.
 housing rules and a lot of developers have told us that it's not penciling out but Apparently some of them have figured out how to make it pencil out. So I vote aye Fritz aye Bish aye Saltzman aye Wheeler aye the ordinance is adopted. Thank you everybody for your good work on that Carla. Could you read 1087 and 1088 together, please?
 1087, approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program under the Inclusionary Housing Program for 26 and Upshur Apartments located at 2590 Northwest Upshur Street. And 1088, approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program under the Inclusionary Housing Program for Nehalem Apartments
 located at 1645 Southeast Nehalem Street. Colleagues, these projects will join 37 other private sector projects in the inclusionary housing permit approval pipeline, totaling a minimum of 342 affordable housing units and otherwise market rate developments.
 Together, these apartment buildings will provide 208 units of new housing combined, 60 of which will be affordable for 99 years to households earning up to 80% of median family income as part of the inclusionary housing program.
 Twenty-sixth and Upshur will restrict 22 of its 145 total units at 80% MFI. Nahalem Apartments will restrict nine of its 63 units at 80%, an additional 29 units at 60% MFI for two other IH subject projects in development at 5955 Southeast Milwaukee and 1717 Southeast Teneno.
 Urban Development Group, UDG, is the owner and developer on both of these projects. In total, this ownership group has seven IH projects, six of which were re-designed.
 vested under the inclusionary zoning, voluntarily opting into the program in order to access the incentive package available through inclusionary housing, reducing obligations on the developer. The multi-unit limited tax exemption or multi-program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects that make units affordable rather than paying a fee in lieu.
 Each multi-application, as you know, comes before the City Council for approval. In addition to the 10-year tax exemption provided by the multi, these projects will receive an exemption of the affordable housing construction excise tax and system development charges that otherwise would have been due on the affordable units. Director Callahan, welcome back.
 Good afternoon, Mayor. Dori VanBakkel, the Development Team Incentives Manager, and I are just here to answer any questions you have about these projects before you today. Colleagues, any further questions on these items? Is Urban Development Group one of the first...
 Step forward with a development around Mount Tabor. Is that, I'm thinking of the same company? Most of these projects are in the Selwood area. Right. I'm not sure if they've had any quite around the Tabor area, Mount Tabor area. The primary owner of this firm is actually Dennis Sackhoff, Commissioner, who you met with during the inclusionary housing development process. But he has been utilizing this product in a variety of different places throughout the city, yes. That's good to hear.
 Is there any public testimony on either of these items? Maggie has signed up. Thank you. Maggie, did you want to testify or not?
 It was either the Portland Tribune or the Oregonian that reported that these developers were not meeting their quota of inclusionary housing. And it was also coming from Salem that was saying they were not meeting their quotas for inclusionary housing. So as far as like giving developers a break on taxes or giving them money,
 maybe these programs need to be monitored more closely and maybe we need to have
 Like why 80% MFI? Why not 60%? Because the state legislature only authorized that, ma'am. Okay. You're mixing and matching things that have no – they're totally unrelated. There is no – there has been no report of developers not meeting their goals. There was a report – Aren't you the Parks and Recs guy? Former housing commissioner, ma'am, but you're tying up our time with misinformation. Okay.
 Okay, you are the Parks and Recs guy, though, right? Right now? And you have an obligation to say something factual. Okay, but you are the Parks and Recs guy, are you not? I'll let you finish. Are you the Commissioner for Parks and Recreation? Just let her finish. She has one more minute. Am I right? You're the Commissioner for Parks and Recreation, correct? Correct.
 Is he? He is, but it's not germane to this discussion. Right, but I just want to correctly identify who is talking, and he's not the commissioner of housing. Okay, so...
 I want to talk about inclusionary housing that's actually inclusionary and not just for people who maybe are at the edges of the market rate and giving these developers sweetheart deals.
 doesn't increase housing for low-income people. So that's all I'd like to say. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll on item 1087. Udaly? Well, we have one of the nation's most stringent mandatory inclusionary zoning ordinances, and I am happy to see these proposals and developments coming forward. I vote aye. Fritz?
 I noticed that almost everything on today's agenda has been about providing housing and services for people who need them, and I appreciate this multifaceted effort. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Yeah, very encouraged to see these new developments stepping forward and taking advantage of our inclusionary housing program. It's great to see. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 1088, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye.
 Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Last item is the second reading, 1089. I'm sorry, second to the last item, 1089.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreements and grant agreements in support of the lead hazard reduction program for five years beginning fiscal year 2019-2020 in an amount up to $425,000 per year and increase the annual not to exceed $425,000.
 authorized amount for fiscal year 2018-19 to $395,000. Colleagues, this is a second reading. There's already been a presentation and public testimony. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thanks to Scott Bradway, the program manager of the Water Bureau's Water Quality Division. I thought it was an excellent presentation last week, and I'm excited about the advances in prevention of problems associated with lead in fixtures. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 1079 was pulled by Mr. Walsh. Is that correct? Yes. He is no longer here. Please read the item and call the roll. I authorize intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Department of Transportation for the Central Systemic Signal and Bike Ped Elimination Project in the amount of $1,859,554.00.
 Please call the roll. Sorry. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned. That's pretty straightforward. Good afternoon, everybody. We are in session. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on Wednesday, October 20th. Excuse me, October 17th. Carla, please call the roll.
 Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? All right. I mean here. I already took my vote. Now you all know. Dang it, there goes the suspense. I didn't know you were going to vote on this. Good afternoon, Robert. How are you doing? Very good. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings and
 so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thanks, Robert. Carla, could you please read the first item?
 Item 1090, accept the Portland Design Commission 2017 State of the City Design Report. Colleagues, the first item of business today is to thank the dedicated volunteers who serve on the commission. A number of them are here today. This commission has met three, sometimes four times a month in 2017 and the first three quarters of 2018, and often for many hours at a time. They review...
 land use cases and they provide design advice. They are a very dedicated and hardworking group of people. It includes Julie Livingston, the chair, who you'll hear from shortly, Jessica Mullinar, vice chair, Tad Savinar, Zeri Santner, Don Ballester, Andrew Clark, and Sam Rodriguez. Could you all please stand up so that the council can recognize you and we'll suspend the rules for a moment. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for your labor. I'd also like to specifically recognize Commissioner Tad Savanar, who just completed his service with the design commissioner on September 30, 2018. Thank you.
 Tad began his design commission career back in December of 2012. He sat in over 170 Thursday evening design commission hearings and countless other steering committee and advisor roles as a design commission liaison, for which he was paid nothing. The volunteer time commitment...
 expended towards making Portland better by design is nothing short of admirable and deserves this kind of public recognition. Thank you very much to TAD for your dedication and service to this very important volunteer board over a period of many, many years.
 Now, this commission will be presenting their sixth report before the council, but they've been operating in the city of Portland since about 1980, providing leadership and expertise on urban design and architecture and on maintaining and enhancing Portland's historical and architectural heritage.
 This report comes to council at a very important time for the city, and it's expanding design overlay districts as development and construction, as we all know, is unprecedented right now in terms of the overall history of the design review.
 These neighborhoods deserve the appropriate protection and predictability of quality infill that meets our density goals and inevitable growth. I look forward, as I'm sure all of you do, on hearing more today from the Commission members and interested public and those who are committed to supporting the Commission in all of its efforts. Commission Chair Julie Livingston is here to start us off. Thank you for being here. Thanks for your great work.
 So, thank you very much. It is a pleasure to be here today. We have what I think is a very interesting presentation for you. You have already received hard copy of the presentation, and in fact the hard copy that was distributed in advance has more information than we will present in the PowerPoint today. If you have the ability to view the slides that I am looking at, you see a photo of our current design review staff and commission.
 This was taken just a couple of months ago, and at the time, Tad Savinar was still vice chair. Our agenda today is to discuss the purpose of design review, share some DOSA administrative improvements, look at some caseload data, and that caseload data spans 2017 and many months in 2018 as well. An overview of projects from 2017-2018.
 and then the 2017 Design Excellence Award, and finally some testimony. We have five people here to testify today. And because there is a lot to pack in, I'm going to stick to script. And if you have questions, please interrupt me and ask the questions, but for the most part, I'm going to do my best to move through my presentation fairly quickly. You may have questions about some of the statistics, or maybe about DoSA, so please do interrupt me.
 Could you just tell people watching at home what DOSA is? DOSA is the Design Overlay Zoning Assessment and Now Zoning Amendment Report that has been here in council chamber a couple of times. And we will talk today about the administrative improvements, which are the responsibility of the Bureau of Development Services. It's how it plays out, how DOSA is playing out in our hearings room. Thank you.
 So beginning with the purpose of design review, the DOZA consultant, Mark Hinshaw of Walker Macy, recommended Design Commission adopt a charter and clarify its scope. And as part of that work, we also reworked the purpose statement that's included in Title 33, and that is what you are looking at here on the screen. Doing this work early in the DOZA implementation process has given BDS, the Design Commission, BPS, and the Planning and Sustainability Commission a strong foundation for DOZA legislative work.
 The refreshed language also addresses one of Mark Hinshaw's priority recommendations, using the three tenets of design to simplify, consolidate, and revise standards and guidelines.
 The purpose statement is built around the three tenets, context, public realm, and quality, and work done to date on standards reflects this organization. So the design excellence, context, public realm, and then quality and permanence terms that are highlighted in this slide are really where we are focusing our attention for statements and in the future for guidelines as well. And this is how we organize conversation in the hearings room. So a checklist of...
 a summary of administrative improvements that were recommended through the DOSA process that have been made to date by the Bureau of Development Services. The hard copy includes actually the DOSA work plan, which is a much longer list than you see here. So BDS and the Commission have done as much as possible to implement DOSA and have been very focused on hearings room efficiencies, timeliness improvements, and predictability in all aspects of the process.
 These are issues that are very important to applicants. And we are finding that early design advice requests are proving to be critical to streamlining our process. Early advice gives applicants greater confidence as they move through the design process and allows them to integrate feedback from the commission at an appropriate time in their design process. And highlighted in blue here, you can see our Twitter handle. We are at PortlandDCChair.
 Could I ask you a question about that slide, please? So I was reading through endorsements in one of our more prominent local newspapers today. I was reading endorsements surrounding the housing bond that's on the November ballot.
 And a comment that was made by one of the newspapers was that we have been slow to actually change the design review process to be more responsive to the demand for housing, in particular in our community, and the speed with which the urgency with which the community needs to approach this issue. Yet you have a long list.
 of things that you have done here. Is there a way that we could better communicate all of this good work that you have done to the local media to let them know that, in fact, concrete steps have been taken? And how could we help you with that?
 Thank you for offering to help. I think that we would be very glad to do that. We often have media in the hearings room. It is largely focused on large, high-profile cases, and most housing developments are not large, high-profile cases. So there is not a lot of opportunity for conversation with media around housing when it flows through the hearings room. But we would be glad to put together some suggestions on how we might do that. Thank you. Yeah, and I think it's very important. Thank you.
 So this slide is fairly self-explanatory. It's the annual increase from 2010 to 2017 in the number of cases we're seeing in the hearings room. There were a total of seven cases in 2010, and in 2017 that was up to 37. So this is just type 3 approvals, and the workload continues to increase in 2018. So...
 We thought that a side-by-side data slice through 2017 and 2016, the two most recent years, would be fairly informative. There's been a 460% increase from 2016 to 2017 in design advice requests and Type 3 approvals, and a 143% increase in Type 2 approvals. So it's not just that commission's workload is expanding. Staff's workload is expanding as well.
 In 2017, the Type 3 appeals to counsel represented 7.8% of our caseload, and Type 2 appeals to commission represented 2.8% of our caseload. And I've got a little bit more data on appeals later in the presentation. So this slide looks at hearings efficiency. The green bars are the overall number of Type 3 approvals, and the blue bars are the number of one-hearing approvals. And again, this is from 2010 to 2017.
 So in 2017, you can see that we have really been able to increase the percentage of cases that move through in a single hearing. And this is due in large part to the design advice request and the effectivity of the design advice requests. Mark Hinshaw, the DOZA consultant, said repeatedly that an attitude of collaboration is important in having successful design outcomes.
 And this idea plays out very clearly in the hearings room. When all parties, the commission, staff, and applicants come to the table, an applicant can move through the process in less time overall and with fewer and shorter hearings. Sometimes it takes more than one hearing to get to yes, and this is usually attributable either to the complexities of a case or sometimes a lack of responsiveness on the part of an applicant. So looking at the central city...
 I find this fascinating. The number and location of buildings approved through the Type 3 process in 2016 and 2017 by neighborhood. So this is 2017, and there is 2016. Forty-two new buildings over both of those years. All of our central city neighborhoods are gaining a significant number of new large buildings that will impact and change neighborhood character. And the Design Commission has to be able to understand and interpret many different contexts.
 We also have to be able to consider present and future contexts. So there is a lot at play in Portland's central city. Here is a little bit more on the type three appeals that have been made to council. Generally, what we are looking for is that a proposal meet approval criteria on balance. We are always working hard to get to yes. There has been one denial since 2010. It was the Ankeny Apartments.
 There have been, I think, two cases, three cases where conditions of approval have been appealed by an applicant. One is the next hotel, Central Eastside, the studio and guild theater building window replacement and renovation work next to Director Park and the vibrant Apartments Affordable Housing in the North Pearl. And then there have been a few approvals that have been appealed by the neighborhood, the Press Blocks Tower building,
 In Goose Hollow, the Fremont Apartments in North Pearl, and Block 290 Apartments in Northwest Portland. The one denial from Commission's perspective was a case of not all parties bringing the attitude of collaboration that Mark Henshaw noted to the process forward.
 We don't want council to be the design commission, but there are really two issues at play here. Appeals are commensurate with our workload. When we hear more cases, there is more risk of appeal. And then the second is that DOSA improvements include greater public outreach, and so there is more public participation in our process, and it's not unreasonable to assume that moving forward there may be more appeals because there is more public participation in the process. Thank you.
 So given how much time we all spend thinking about Portland's housing crisis, we decided to take a look at how housing has been playing out in the hearings room over the course of the past couple of years. This slide looks at Type 2 and Type 3 housing approvals between 2010 and 2017. And again, Type 2 is a staff-level review, and Type 3 is the design commission. The blue bars, the top of each bar that's blue, that's housing. And the green bar is all other cases.
 So we have all heard about the significant increase in housing proposals prior to inclusionary housing going into effect on February 1, 2017. And you can see the blue bar of 2017 is significantly larger than the blue bar of past years. So it's true that a record number of housing units flowed through our process in 2017. And it's important to note that not all of these approved housing projects are permitted and out of the ground yet.
 So this is a snapshot of housing cases only, and this time it's by the quarter. Since the last quarter of 2016, that's about the time the rush to beat inclusionary housing began. And again, this is type 2 and type 3 approvals. The green bars are type 3 and the blue bar – sorry, that's backwards. The green bars are type 2 and the blue bars are type 3. And the –
 Second quarter of 2018, you can see, is a significant uptick in housing applications. This slide shows how many of the pre-inclusionary housing vested units aren't yet out of the ground. So type 2 on the left, type 3 on the right. Some of these projects are in permitting.
 Given nervousness around current market conditions, a few of them are up for sale. Not all of these will move forward, but for all intents and purposes, there are about 4,800 housing units in the Type 3 pipeline alone.
 So this is our last slide before we move to the overview of projects, and it's a look at housing proposals that have moved through the design review process since February 1, 2017, projects that aren't vested and have an obligation to provide affordable housing units.
 The Type 2 bar on the left is a standalone, but the Pre-App Conference, Design Advice Request, and Type 3 bars are cumulative. So there are currently about 3,000 housing units in the queue, in the Type 3 queue. Thank you.
 So here, we're going to move into the overview of projects from 2017-2018. Here is the real reason the City of Portland values the design review process. We are going to share the images of 15 buildings that we believe really raise the bar on design excellence. There have been many more than 15 since the start of 2017. But these 15 really exemplify creativity, innovation, and a strong response to context. Okay.
 This is a building by GBD Architects. It was designed...
 as part of a modification approval for the Broadway Tower, which sits right behind. That's the large building that's just completed construction that you see in this image. But the small building in the foreground is a small housing building that GBD designed. Their offer was, in order to increase the development capacity for Broadway Tower, was to put affordable housing units in this new housing building on the South Park blocks.
 It is our belief that this really does a great job with A8, contribute to a vibrant streetscape, and B5, make plazas, parks, and open spaces successful.
 The Fleidner Building, built in 1905. This was by Jones Architecture. It is a renovation and a little bit of a restoration of this building. It is a quarter block building in the west end and is really a significant contributor to the character of this neighborhood. It does a fantastic job with guideline A6, reuse, rehabilitate, and restore buildings. And C3, respect architectural integrity.
 So on the PSU campus, Hacker has undertaken a renovation of Neuberger Hall. This is a fantastic example of B1, reinforce and enhance the pedestrian system, and C8, differentiate the sidewalk level of buildings. You can see an image in the upper left of what the building currently looks like, and then the larger image is what the building will look like when construction is complete next.
 Now it really doesn't have a ground floor. There are no windows. There's no kind of interaction with the public realm. And so PSU and Hacker are doing a really nice job of making this building be the building that it always wanted to be. Julie, can we go back to that for a second? Yeah. So that's the new Jordan Schnitzer art gallery, right? Yes, it is. Okay. The thing you're not seeing here is the park facade because this building sits right next to the park blocks as well. So it also does a really great job of addressing the south park blocks.
 1010 Northeast Grand. This is 240 units of affordable housing that I'm very close to. C2, promote permanence and quality in design. And C4, complement the context of existing buildings. The building that is under construction right now is the mid-rise in the middle ground, the kind of shiny building. Can I just put a little plug in for this building? Please do. Because I'm old enough to remember when we created the Portland Housing Bureau,
 Then-Mayor Sam Adams agreed that we would transfer all the – most of the – I think most, if not all, the properties currently held by PDC over to the Portland Housing Bureau. The Portland Housing Bureau had a completely different mission statement than PDC in terms of developing properties. This was originally designed –
 by the Westin folks to be either a luxury hotel or luxury condos. And it was going to be a tall, narrow structure, a kind of a Vancouver point tower at one point.
 When it came to the Housing Bureau, it was subject to the guidelines of the Housing Bureau, which was affordable housing. So this is a conspicuous win for the community because this could have been just high-end condos, and that's what PDC was working with the developer on. And when the transition occurred, we got a chance to pick up affordable housing in a very high-opportunity area in a very desirable location. We are just beginning to install windows at the lower floors.
 So another Lloyd District project, this one by Works Progress Architecture. This is modular. As far as I know, this isn't moving forward right now. This is one of the projects that has been shelved. But there may be a lot of this in Portland in the future. These are stacked modular units. Yes.
 This does a very nice job with A5, enhance, embellish, and identify areas. This is the very north end of Lloyd. And B4 provides stopping and viewing places. There's a really great pedestrian alley that was developed on the south side of this building. What do you mean by modular? Are they just Lego blocks? Every one of those boxes is a housing unit that arrives fully assembled, and then they are stacked together on site and attached. Are they going to stay up in the earthquake? They're going to stay up in the earthquake? Yes.
 Yeah, that is one of the strengths of this system. Yeah, they are seismically great performers. Thank you. Also in Lloyd is the Lloyd Center. The group that owns and is working on redeveloping the Lloyd Center kind of piece by piece is doing a very good job of
 updating this building and making it be responsive to public realm guidelines, especially C8, differentiate the sidewalk level of buildings. And then here, of course, C13, integrate signs. So the Burnside Bridgehead in the central east side is undergoing a lot of change. You see here not only the yard, but another building that is currently under construction at the old Fishel's site.
 A1, integrate the river, done very nicely with this building. And C11, integrate roofs and use rooftops. You can see some green space at an intermediate level there that makes really nice outdoor space immediately adjacent to Burnside and across the street from the yard. And in Goose Hollow, Providence Park came in for a design advice request. It's a great place.
 With a really nice strategy that responds so well to Portland architect A.E. Doyle's original design for the stadium. A2 emphasized Portland themes and C10 integrate encroachments are done really well here.
 Also in Goose Hollow, the press blocks, the Oregonian buildings are being redeveloped. This tower, as well as the small building immediately to the left of it, and then a building that is almost off screen to the left, those three buildings constitute the press blocks development.
 B4 provides stopping and viewing places. There's a very nice plaza. And C5, design for coherency. Bert Gregory from Methune is here to provide some testimony today. This is Bert's work, and Design Commission is always thrilled to see Bert work in Portland because his work is so incredibly clear and coherent. Thank you.
 In the River District, a small project by TVA Architects. This is not in the Historic District, and yet the architect did a really great job of developing a loading dock that is along 13th and elevated the outdoor space adjacent to the river.
 13th Avenue Historic District. Just a really nice gesture on the part of a very small building. C4 complement the context of existing buildings, and C7 design corners that build active intersections.
 Also in the River District, we are seeing an immense amount of self-storage in the central city. It's everywhere, but it has definitely landed in the central city. And that is in large part because so many of the housing units that we've built over the past several years are so incredibly small. And people need a place to put their stuff.
 So there will be a new self-storage building built at the north end of the Pearl District. This one, by comparison to a lot of what's built around the city, is really pretty nice. They did some active space at the ground floor and did some nice facade manipulation. There was a little bit of glass in this facade. It's not just blank wall.
 So B1, reinforce and enhance the pedestrian system, and B3, bridge pedestrian obstacles. There were some street connectivity issues at the north end of the neighborhood here that this project is doing much to address.
 And then in Gateway, responding to the Gateway Regional Center Guidelines rather than Central City Fundamentals, a nice little townhouse development by Ankram Moisen Architects. A1, strengthen relationships between buildings in the street. And C5, transition to adjacent neighborhoods. This is a really nicely scaled residential development. And up at OHSU, the Markham Hill Design Guidelines. NBBJ is...
 Doing a really nice, nice building. The Elks Children's Eye Clinic. The Markham Hill design guidelines are structured a little bit differently than others, but guideline one, enhance views of Markham Hill, and guideline four, develop successful formal open areas. Thank you.
 And finally, this was an appeal. This was a Type 2 case that came to commission on appeal. It's in the St. John's neighborhood. It was designed by Jones Architecture, the same folks that did the Fleidner building. This is a really nice small residential project that commission felt...
 is a great fit for the St. John's neighborhood. P1 enhanced the sense of place and identity by incorporating site and building design features that respond to the area's desired characteristics and traditions. This is a CLT building.
 by the way, and E4 create intersections that are active, unified, and have a clear identity through careful scaling of detail and location of buildings, outdoor areas, and entrances. This is immediately adjacent to a small plaza that the city of Portland owns that really does need some attention.
 But this is a nicely scaled small building in a neighborhood that will likely continue to experience growth. And this was the community design guidelines. And what was the subject of the appeal? The neighborhood appealed it. They felt that it did not fit into St. John's. It lacks the storefront character of the smaller one- and two-story buildings in the neighborhood. The guidelines themselves are –
 pretty broad. They allow architects and designers to interpret the existing context fairly broadly. And so Commission felt that this was a really nice modern expression of those guidelines. And now our 2017 Design Excellence Award, which is in the central east side and is awarded to Hacker Architects for District Office. It is under construction right now. When you travel down Grand Avenue, you probably see this coming out of the ground.
 I surveyed staff and other commissioners a couple of months ago to find out, you know, what really was the best project that rolled through the hearings room in 2017. And it was unanimous. This building knocks every guideline out of the park, especially A5, enhance, embellish, and identify areas. The scale of this, the scale of the openings, its responsiveness to the context of the central east side, all really well done.
 A8 contribute to a vibrant streetscape. There is a beautiful ground floor of retail space that is just so consistent with the architecture of the floors above. The coherency of this building, C5, is really something we don't see very often in the hearings room.
 And then also see to promote quality and permanence in design. The materials of this building, it's a CLT structure, and it's clad with a really creative mortar-washed white brick. There are large operable windows at the upper stories, and then the storefront at the ground floor. Everything just works together beautifully. So this was the unanimous selection of staff and the commission. Is this a beam development project? I believe it is.
 And Corey Martin from Hacker is going to be one of the testifiers today, and he will confirm that for you. Urban Development Partners. So testimony today, first up is Corey Martin from Hacker, and then Anile Halava from Project, Bert Gregory from Methune, Tom Deschiara from Cairn Pacific, and Dave Oddie from the AIA Urban Design Panel. So, Corey, if you'd like to come up.
 While they're coming up, could I ask you a question? So there's broad agreement that an active first floor ground floor is very, very important, and that usually means retail. What do we know about the dynamic of retail in the community and the projected demand for retail in the community? This is a conversation we have every time there is a project proposed in South Waterfront.
 because South Waterfront hasn't gotten there yet. And so the real goal is flexible spaces that can be programmed as active use rather than single-purpose spaces, because they just don't provide the flexibility that we want over time. So in the near term, what kind of options do you have other than pure retail? We've been seeing, especially in South Waterfront, we've been seeing a lot of work-lived spaces and, in fact –
 Burt Gregory, the projects that Mithun does often at the ground floor have work-lived spaces, so they can be used as office, retail, or residential. It's a matter of kind of the proportions of the space. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, everyone. My name is Corey Martin. I'm a design principal at Hacker Architects, part owner of Hacker Architects as well. I joined the firm in 2011. And so before that, I founded Path Architecture with my former partner, Benjamin Kaiser, who also served on the design commission at some point before.
 So I've led projects through the design review process for my entire career, beginning with staff reviews early on in north and northeast Portland, and then including projects built in historic conservation districts, which are really important,
 And then more recently with reviews by the design commission in northwest Portland and southeast Portland. And as I was thinking about this testimony, I realized that possibly coincidentally, both my current business partner, David Keltner, and my former partner, Benjamin Kaiser, have both served as design commissioners. You're adjusting. Yeah. Yeah.
 So, interestingly, that's allowed me to experience being on both sides of the table. So I've seen those guys go through the process of helping others navigate the design review process. And I've also navigated the design review process myself with my own projects.
 an interesting point of view that I've earned through that process. So my personal goal is to design extremely humane spaces that support true well-being and connect people to our amazing landscape in the Pacific Northwest while also protecting it. And so building on that, our firm's goals really are aligned, but kind of expanding that into taking a really long view when we're designing. We want to design new buildings that...
 contribute to our city in the long term because all of us, you know, will be gone long before these buildings are gone. And so we take that very seriously and we're kind of known for acting with a lot of restraint during the design review process relative to a lot of firms in town. Yeah.
 So above all, we want to participate in the continued success and creation of this great city and create meaningful connections between people and nature through architecture. And so for us, the quality of design in Portland is higher than in other cities that we've visited. So, you know, personally, when I see what's happening in other places...
 I'm really thankful that Portland has such a high standard for design. You know, when I go to places like Austin or Seattle, they just don't have quite the lasting design strength that our buildings do. And they're built with many of the same components at the same cost. So it's interesting to see that happen, you know. They don't, somehow, they're not getting to the same level of design as Portland. And so the average level of design here is incredible.
 We're a design city and we're known as a design city. The bar is very high. And so again, as a designer, this standard makes my work pretty challenging, but that's okay. The high standard helps me develop mastery of my craft. And so we've won a lot of design awards, both here and beyond. But I have to say that honestly, when we win an award in Portland, it feels really good. It feels almost better than winning a national design award.
 We also work in other markets extensively. And so when we bring our Portland design process to other places, we're pretty much good to go. So our clients are impressed. They appreciate that our process helps them realize their projects more efficiently and more cost-effectively, frankly.
 from it stems from the ways that we help them navigate through the approval processes and their communities based on our experience here and Then how our process helps them make critical design decisions early in the process which again design review Forces us to do and so much of why this is the case is because we have a healthy design review process in Portland And I think the design review process makes our entire city stronger as well. It helps to elevate Portland's brand and
 It helps keep our economy strong by drawing people and businesses that value design to our city.
 All of this is about the larger impact that the design process and the design review process has on our city. Specifically, though, for myself and our firm, the design review process provides a framework that makes the design of our projects more efficient, clear, more clear, more impactful, and cost effective. So I know that a lot of firms, or maybe it's just a few, they've been resistant to the process. Right.
 and that the amount of oversight can seem daunting to people. But having been through the process many times and having seen the direct impact on the projects through the eyes of my partners who have served on design commission, I think it's worth it. It's really important. It's part of why those firms and companies were attracted to Portland in the first place. I'd argue that rather than making the design and entitlement process more difficult, it makes it more efficient.
 Design review is just one part of the process. So it helps what can be a complex process seem more efficient and more kind of driven by logic and kind of looking to the big picture. So the design review process all the way from the DAR, which is optional as you know through the final approval, provides a really clear structure that helps us.
 and helps our clients make their projects successful. The designer view process helps us to make hard decisions earlier in that process, and it helps us strip away the less important goals and ideas and focus on key issues. It helps guide us towards ideas that will last. It helps us strip away our egos and think about the community that the project serves, because, again, after all, we're going to be gone long before these buildings are gone. So thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Okay, and Aniele is next. Hello. There we go. Okay. My name is Aniele Halova, and I'm a real estate developer here in Portland, Oregon. Our company is called Project, and there are three partners, including myself. Today I'm testifying on behalf of myself and not any of the boards that I'm on, including the Land Conservation and Development Commission.
 So Project is a values-based developer that focuses on sustainability, well-designed projects, and we build with quality and placemaking as our foundation. In our nine years of existence as a company, we have permitted 12 buildings in the city of Portland and six buildings in other cities in Oregon.
 For the Portland project, six have gone through either a Type 2 or Type 3 review. I'm here to testify in support of design review and the work the city staff and the Design Commission have made to develop a process with solutions that are beneficial for the city of Portland and its inhabitants. As background and for full disclosure, developers, including myself, do not like discretionary processes.
 So if you go to any developer at any given day and ask if they will voluntarily sign up for design review, they will always say no. But that is not because design review is not good for the city and leads to good outcomes or because the system is broken. That is because a process, any process or extra layer in permitting adds an element of the unknown which is risky for schedule and budget.
 However, I think the question at hand that you may be presented is, one, is the design review good for the city and its citizens? And two, is it too onerous of a process so that it impedes development or adds exorbitant costs? The answers would be yes, it is good for the city, as demonstrated in the staff presentation. And no, at this time, design review does not impede development. It also does not add exorbitant costs.
 as long as the developments are done right. In other words, the system is not broken. What few people understand is that developers behave as a cohort in many ways, learning from each other's worst and best practices and even copying each other. If a developer or an architect sees a project that goes through design review quickly, they take note about what is done well and what could be improved in their own application to make their process go faster.
 We and hopefully others have learned that the key for passing through design review the quickest is first, hiring a good architect. Second, guiding the team to focus on placemaking and improving the public realm. Third, getting early assistance and feedback from the city staff. And finally, working in good faith through the pre-development phase to keep the approved design intent intact.
 Given this, the majority of developers doing good work are getting through design review well and quickly with little damage to their budgets. It has become a predictable and understandable process. However, there are some developers and architects that have become dismissive about the process and thus find themselves in a process where the design is brought to the commission prematurely with less thought into how these significant buildings are contributing to the benefit of our citizens.
 These developers are now learning through the process how to improve design, and the city is better as a result of this.
 Given the importance of good design in our city and also the strong desire for processes to be clear and objective, I believe it is very important to keep highly qualified design commissioners on the commission, people that believe in good design and are experts in the discipline. This is critical as it allows for a more consistent and well-directed process and greater predictability for developers and design professionals as they navigate the process.
 It also ensures that commissioners don't nitpick on things that are a matter of taste. In the future, there is a potential opportunity that a system such as design review won't work anymore. This is not the case with design review right now, which has been getting better over time. As with any processes, there is always room for improvement.
 If I had a chance to make improvements, I would ask the city staff be given more discretion to approve changes made by the design team after the design review application has been approved. The reason? To account for things that are not yet known about the project at the beginning when they submitted for design review. Design review happens early on in the project when the constructability and viability of a project are not yet solidified.
 For example, the cost and availability of materials change very often during pre-construction. Additionally, the constructability of the original design may not prove feasible, cost-effective, or aesthetically pleasing when the design details are worked out.
 With the ethos that more density is good for our city, infill and growing up rather than out is right for a sustainable future, providing housing of all types is needed in our city, and that city processes should not add unnecessary cost to a project, I believe the city staff can be given more flexibility after design review approvals to allow for the natural changes in design.
 and the ability to enforce the rules and stop developers or architects that do not build what they say they're going to build, and not to punish the rest of us for doing good work. This will lead to a process that is more flexible, allow projects to go more seamlessly through the approval and construction process, and will continue to be highly regarded by the city. Thank you for giving me time today to speak in support of the design review process and the design commission. Thank you.
 So what did you mean when you said that in the future design review may not be necessary here?
 I didn't say necessarily. I said basically there could be a moment at which it's broken if it's not continually improved or if commissioners are not qualified to give good design advice. I think then it could be relooked at. But at this time, with the expertise on the design commission and also the approvals in process, it's definitely really good for our city. Okay. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay, next up are Bert Gregory and Tom DiCiara. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Bert Gregory, a design partner at Methune with offices in Seattle, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. I was the lead architect for Heartline in the Pearl at 13th and Johnson and currently designing the Press Blocks residential tower in Goose Hollow and the Pepsi Blocks on Sandy Boulevard.
 I'd like to commend the mayor, city council, design commission, and city staff for whether I consider the best city in the country for its fostering of a quality urban experience, equitable development, and great design. It's my favorite place in the country to work with its great zoning code, its high expectations for design, and excellent design commission process.
 You are responsible to design a city for the next 100 years and it is commendable to review and update the land use review process on a regular basis. Portland's current design review process works extremely well and modest improvements are always helpful, but compared with my experience outside of Portland, the review process and commission sets the bar for other cities to follow. It is interactive.
 collaborative, efficient, and consistent for those applicants that are well prepared and seek excellence. The high caliber of the design commissioners, very experienced in design and development, makes projects a better fit in the community and exceeding design expectations.
 Design advice requests are a critical advisory tool that allows for a collaborative exchange of ideas with the design commission, neighborhood citizens, the designer, and developer applicant. I believe that community outreach, then a three-step commission review is important for success. At the conceptual phase, review of the massing and approach.
 At the second, DAR, schematic level, ground floor, fenestration, and materials. And then design development at the land use review level to review details and implementation of the commission's advice. Be cautious about reducing DARs and not having the commission's eyes on the details, as these are successful aspects of Portland's process and is what helps make a great city.
 The Design Commission and the collaborative BDS staff are not slowing things down. A high-caliber design and development team to start the process is critical to a cost-effective, speedy, and successful collaborative process in any jurisdiction. Portland's design review doesn't cost more money. In fact, it's less risky and less expensive than in many jurisdictions, if you are well prepared and do the proper due diligence.
 In all cities, there's areas to help speed. Interdepartmental coordination sometimes can be an issue in any city, and sometimes important, that's true too. We would suggest some improvements to formally tie and integrate the land use process with the public works permit process, with a timeline for each for completion.
 We would suggest perhaps a senior level PBOT decision maker attend and be part of the DAR and LUR design commission meeting process. Consider a PBOT design commission staff being located as part of BDS. Also consider having BDS staff represented at public works permit reviews to also speak of the design standards and commission goals.
 Increasing staff if needed to increase processing speed would be beneficial. Review and consider if it's possible to reduce the BDS completeness check from 21 to 7 days and move from a 51-day wait period to 30 days. Those might be actions that would help the staff and the team. The state of the city design report had some great suggestions.
 Some thoughts and comments. Make sure the commission evaluation checklist is the right checklist and supporting the goals for a beautiful city seeking design excellence. Set DIR at one half block and above, not a half block and below.
 Having a city-centered design commission and a neighborhood commission should be explored. That might be beneficial to not have the commissioners there for weeks a month. The suggestion that the community design standards and neighborhood-specific design guidelines need updating and coordination is a very good suggestion.
 Updating these fine documents while reinforcing Portland's excellent DAR and LUR process is a great opportunity to continue to make Portland one of the most livable cities in the nation. Keep the bar high. You're designing the next 100 years. Thank you. Thank you. Could I ask you a question? Sure. So you had a whole list of very good suggestions. Are these just your suggestions or are these ideas shared broadly by members of the commission?
 The suggestion for improvements? Yes. I don't know. I think speaking with the commissioners would be a good idea on that. This is from experience. I think, you know, improvements in collaboration and interdepartmental efficiency is always a good strategy, and it's difficult in any city. Any chance I could get a copy of your written testimony? Yes, I have those with me. That would be great. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mr. Mayor. My name is Tom DeChera. I'm principal and owner of Cairn Pacific. We're a Portland-based, Portland-grown development company that's been most active in building out the Slabtown neighborhood in northwest Portland on the old Conway campus. That's kept us busy most recently. But I've been in the business for about 24 years now in different capacities. Started out for eight years as an architect with GBD, so I have experience coming from that side of the business in the last 16 years as a developer here.
 I've been a frequent flyer in front of Design Commission over those years. I think preparing for this testimony, I came up with 14 buildings that I've entitled through the years, totaling about 2,700 residential units, plus a few office buildings and some grocery stores, including the New Seasons Slab Town store that we're particularly proud of. So I've been over in front of commission many times during those years, different commissions, and seen the process evolve quite a bit over those years as the city has grown tremendously during that time.
 Early in my career as an architect, I'll admit that the process at times drove me crazy. Sometimes as a developer, I've complained about the process, the time it takes, its sometimes unpredictable nature. Had more than a few healthy architectural debates with staff and commission through the years.
 But overall, if I look at it in its entirety, I would say that the process does result in better buildings citywide that would otherwise not be the case. It's helped ensure that we were building a city that will hold up over time with good streetscapes, great livability, and a quality pedestrian experience. That also ensures that we're listening to our neighbors. To see proof of all this, I think all you have to do is look to the east side of Portland, outside the design review overlay zones.
 for C projects that are getting built without design review scrutiny. There's a big difference. I'm a longtime Eastsider, and I lament some of what's happening to Eastside neighborhoods that haven't seen the scale and scope of development that we see in the downtown D overlay zones.
 So I see a lot of missed opportunities there, and I personally am one that would advocate for extending the design review overlay versus pulling it back that you may hear from other folks, but there's a big difference in quality. And I would say as a developer, have to compete with those buildings now. It didn't used to be necessarily the same sub-market as it is today as the city has grown. There's no real difference on an east side and a west side building, and having the same set of rules I think is something that we should be encouraging.
 So while the process can be lengthy and unpredictable at times, which, as was said before, developers don't like unpredictability, I appreciate that staff has always been accessible during the process and works hard to get to an approvable project.
 It's not always easy, but there's always a path to get there, in my experience. My most recent project, for example, in Slabtown called Saltwood, was a two-block project containing about 350 units. We got through in one hearing without a DAR with unanimous vote.
 There were some circumstances on that one that paved the road for a smooth process, but it can be done if you work well with staff early, work with neighborhood, build support. As is mentioned, hire a good local design team and really focus on the design guidelines and understanding the process. I think where people trip up is the people that don't go through that process and show up at a hearing without a positive staff report and not having gone through those steps. You have to kind of go through the process in order to get a good result.
 So, I mean, there are certainly, you probably hear a lot about projects that get stuck in design review process, but I think there are reasons always where that happens, and using good local talent certainly helps avoid those. So, with that said, I do have a couple thoughts. Some of these have been touched on in terms of how the process can be improved and streamlined a little bit.
 First, empowering staff to use discretion and have more discretion during the process, and particularly after the process. As was mentioned before, there are often small details that change through the life of a project as it moves from design development into construction, things you can't anticipate at the design review level. So having staff have a little bit more discretion to kind of work through those details without triggering a new hearing is something that I would really encourage. And I know there are reasons in the past where certain projects have made changes that have caused problems
 Changes in policy, which maybe I would say are a little overcorrected of late. We've been getting check sheet items on very, very small things that may have changed from a design review application that aren't really significant. So I would encourage more empowerment of staff to use discretion on what's really important. So to not clog up the system with little things. That's kind of been happening a little bit lately. Okay.
 I would encourage staff to focus on compliance with design guidelines. I think sometimes we get maybe into conversations about style that, in my view, don't always have a direct relationship with context and design guidelines. So keeping it to the design guidelines is always important in my mind. I think it's okay to approve a great project without changes if it comes through and is deserving it. We don't have to make changes just for the sake of making changes. Thank you.
 And that being said, I don't think commissions should be afraid to force bad projects to start over if they're not following the design guidelines and that they shouldn't have to apologize for that. I think they get criticism sometimes for projects that truly do need to be rethought before they move through the process.
 And then lastly, on the DAR process, this is something that didn't exist when I first started in this business. It was introduced as a way to get early feedback from Design Commission. It started out as a pretty informal, let's have a conversation about it. I think over time it's evolved into almost a mini-designer view, which does cost time and money and a schedule. So my view is...
 They should be used for more specific circumstances when there are unique circumstances you need to deal with or you're deviating, for whatever reason, from a design guideline or a code guideline, but not necessarily a matter, of course, of a process. I think, like I said, if you...
 If you follow the process, follow the design guidelines, and build your team and address those concerns, you should be able to work through the design commission. Without a DAR, I think over all the years and those projects that I mentioned, I've never had a project take more than two hearings to get done. So maybe I've been lucky. But it doesn't mean there hasn't been a lot of conversation on those, but you can get through there if you do your homework before.
 So in summary, I think while there is room for improvement, I think we're talking about small tweaks, not major overhauls. As it was mentioned before, you know, this is a complicated business. It takes time to get through the details. These are buildings that are going to outlive us all. So investing the time up front is an investment well made. Thank you. And, Tom, Council is looking at two images of the two Saltwood buildings that were in the hearings room last week.
 So two blocks in Conway that were done in one hearing, right? Yes. Okay, thank you. Okay, one more person to testify, and it is Dave Otte of the AIA Urban Design Panel in Holst Architecture. Dave is in Colorado this afternoon, and so he sends you this video. Oh, but there's no sound. Julie, if we didn't have a technology hiccup, it just wouldn't be a normal hearing. The fact that there is actual video is surprising to me. I am not the person who made this happen.
 Greetings Mayor and Commissioners. You did it. My name is Dave Otte and I'm wearing three hats today. First, representing the Urban Design Panel, a multidisciplinary team of local architects, planners and landscape architects from the AIA, the APA and the ASLA that assist the city in maintaining high standards of urban design by reviewing projects and policies related to our built environment. Second, representing my company, Holster Architecture.
 a firm of 40 designers in the central east side that have been helping make Portland special since 1992. Third, I'm representing myself as a citizen and resident that fell in love with this city the first time I stepped off the MAX in Pioneer Square 20 years ago. Thank you for allowing me to speak remotely today as I'm traveling for a large project in Corvallis.
 The Urban Design Panel has been closely collaborating with BPS and design review staff on the Design Overlay Zone Analysis, or DOZA, process since its inception. In fact, early workshops and outreach facilitated by the Urban Design Panel helped identify the need for DOZA in the first place. While the process has been lengthy, its initial results have been extremely successful.
 Ask any architect that has been navigating DesignerView over the past few years, and they will tell you that the process today is more efficient, more consistent, and more productive towards creating better buildings and places than in recent history. Positive change is happening. Now, the next steps for DoSA are critical. Crafting new guidelines and standards that will define what kind of city we want to be. So far, we like what we see.
 Keeping things simple with a version of the Ten Commandments of Urban Design, my friend and mentor Patty Tillett recommended, the new guidelines are clear and focused on the right priorities. We strongly urge total support from City Council for BPS to work hand-in-hand with Cara and Tim and their team at Design Review to realize these new guidelines and standards that have been needed for a long time to ensure decisions about our city are well considered and built on sound urban design principles.
 At Holst Architecture, we have navigated every aspect of design review in recent years, including Type 2 procedures with staff-level decisions, Type 3 procedures with the Design Commission, as well as historic resource reviews with the Landmarks Commission. We have navigated these processes with a diverse range of project types, from thousands of units of market-rate housing to hundreds of units of affordable housing to community health and cultural centers to tiny commercial storefronts.
 With this experience, there are two observations we wanted to share with you for future planning. One, discretionary, guideline-based processes are vital to fostering design excellence. And two, design advice requests, or DARs for short, help create a discretionary process that provides the right balance of flexibility with confidence.
 We do work in many jurisdictions doing design review in cities all across the West. And far and away, the best results come from places that allow for design flexibility with discretionary review. Portland led the way a generation ago to create a discretionary process that fosters creativity with results that speak for themselves when you walk down our streets. There's a reason that cities like Seattle, Austin, and Boise look to Portland for our urban design playbook.
 and it's because our discretionary process is central to our success. A newer aspect of our city's process is the DAR. The Design Advice Request is a voluntary process that was initially intended to create a venue for design teams and owners to get initial feedback before going too deep into a project with potentially flawed assumptions.
 What has evolved is a process that is seen by the best design firms and owners in the city as an elemental step to an efficient process with an appropriate amount of certainty. Holst has used the DAR process on both public and private projects, large and small, to get on the same page with the city early in our design process, to ultimately save time and money in the long run. Most recently, my deeply affordable modular co-housing design for transition projects in Kenton, called LISA,
 went through a voluntary DAR with the fees thoughtfully waived by the City. Because our design was atypical, we found the DAR process to be invaluable to discuss different solutions that better meet the intent of guidelines in a public forum that provided both flexibility and confidence for my client moving forward. Again, I want you to hear that the DAR for this project saved us time and money and aligned perfectly with our schedule.
 The process is not broken. The process works. Finally, as a citizen and resident, I wanted to finish with why I love this city. I love Portland because it breaks the rules. From that first decision in 1845 to create tiny, ever-walkable streets with 200-foot blocks, to 2015 when we opened a bridge for every conceivable mode of transit other than the car. Portland does things differently in ways that improve the built environment and enrich the human experience.
 turn a parking lot into a piazza, and tear up a highway to make way for a waterfront park. These are bold ideas that come from thinking creatively together for the common good. I would venture to say nothing great about Portland's design ever came from a checklist or a prescriptive set of rules that have a lowest common denominator. Yes, you need to have a baseline of what is deemed acceptable, but we love our city because of A-plus design. We don't want to be like Houston and barely pass with a D.
 Design Review's discretionary process is decidedly a Portland way of doing things that encourages each of us to do better. And I urge you to give Design Review all your support and help us continue to create a city that we will love for generations to come. Thank you. Thank you. And that's it. Thank you very much. Julie, if I could. Please. Julie, I have a couple questions. Sure. I was reflecting on the...
 few number of times on a type three that's been appealed to council where we've had a respectful disagreement with the commission. But one of the areas we had a disagreement and we provided a little more latitude was a project that the Jupiter Hotel chose to go forward with. It's now been built and I've been dying to ask you after the fact what your verdict is. When you visit that building, you will likely notice...
 that on the surfaces that are vertical or inverted, that the shingles are responding to gravity. And the way that shingles are attached, it's a pretty simple system. There are a few points, for all intents and purposes, just simple nails that hold the shingles in place. And so there is an immense amount of gravity acting against those points where the shingles are attached. Some of them are already starting to slide. Okay.
 Okay, so. I guess we know. I should have assumed you were prepared for that. The other thing I just wanted to comment on is Dave, in his presentation, showcased bug car comments. And, you know, the –
 One of the things that we did there was we decided to use a half block, not the whole block, an urban form building, not a suburban form building. And it opened the way to another building, which is going to be the health department building. And I wonder how many cities at the foot of what is such a marquee entrance, I mean, it is the foot of Broadway, it's our cultural district, has as two knockout buildings one.
 One building that's for deeply affordable housing for low-income people, and the second a health department building, which together seem to speak to each other in an interesting way. I wonder what your thoughts are. Yeah. So thank you for that question. I agree with you. Sure.
 Those two buildings are very prominent. And when we began the work on Bug Clark Commons, we looked at so many sites in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood. And that was, for all intents and purposes, a throwaway site. Nobody was interested in it because it had so many challenges that were associated with the on-ramps to the Broadway Bridge. As far as we could get from the Dirty Duck building. Yes, that's right. Right.
 But now we have two new buildings that both have deep mission, and I think we need to be very attentive to what happens north of this site. What is the plan for a village underneath the Broadway Bridge, and how will those activities impact buildings?
 what is already a very impacted neighborhood, we need to be very thoughtful about how we move forward. And then, of course, there is the Broadway Corridor Master Plan area across the street, you know, where the post office is, where buildings will be even taller and more present on our skyline than Bud Clark Commons, which is now a very petite building. Diminutive, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Thank you. Yeah, very good. Thank you. Oh, footnote. Dave, Adi, and Holst Architecture have been selected to design the new affordable housing building that will be going up at Southeast 30th and Powell. Excellent. Thank you. Do we have time for a question or two? Of course, yeah. Great presentation. I mean, really, I really liked how you highlighted some of the work you've been involved with this year. But I just noticed I didn't hear any mention of the words here.
 Green building, sustainable design. Are these things like out of fashion now? Well, we work with the guidelines. And the guidelines have not yet been updated. So, you know, Title 33 is the zoning code. Okay. Addresses, you know, bird safe glazing and green roofs and being PV ready. So buildings that roll through the design, the hearings room, have those elements about them. Mm-hmm.
 But our guidelines specifically have not yet reached a point in development. Our new guidelines have not yet reached a point in development where we see that language in our guidelines. There's a little bit of it in the purpose statement. We have swapped out the word quality. When you say our guidelines, are you talking about the design? I'm talking about the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, the Community Design Guidelines, and the actual guidelines.
 guidelines, documents that we have for many different areas in our city. They will all be updated, but it takes a lot of time for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to move through that process. So our revised purpose statement, we've changed quality and permanence to quality and long-term resilience. That's kind of our first nod towards a lot of the ideas that rolled out of the 2035 planning process. Okay. Thanks.
 Very good. I will accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly. Well, thank you to Chair Livingston and all the commission members for volunteering your time and expertise to the city. I also want to thank staff and commission members who have worked hard to implement DOZA recommendations to make sure the design review process goes well.
 is more effective and efficient. And I think we're doing great, but we still need to look for ways to improve the process, and especially for vital projects such as affordable housing. I vote aye.
 Thank you very much for an excellent presentation. Thank you, everybody who attended and participated. Thanks to Tim Heron and Cara Fioravanti and others who do such great work staffing this commission and as well as doing those Type 2 reviews. Really great to see all those statistics and know that thousands of units of housing are coming online very, very shortly. So the work that the council has been doing is definitely...
 proving successful. And that gives you a lot of work to do, but I can see that you really enjoy it and appreciate the opportunity to contribute to a wonderful Portland and continuing to be that. So thank you for all your work. Hi. Bish? Julie, thank you for an outstanding presentation. I think it's a high watermark for one of the presentations from the Commission. And I appreciate the way you wove in the voices and the buildings. Thank you.
 and sort of educated us. So first of all, thank you for an outstanding presentation to you, to the commission members, and to the staff. Thank you for focusing us on the long-term health and success of our city. When you have a housing crisis, when you have growing pains that we're going through, when you have a fractured narrative about what the future of Portland is,
 It's very easy for people to become critics, and we have our critics about the whole design review process, about the commitment to quality, opportunity, sustainability. We have our critics. But thank you for reminding us that we're building a city for future generations. And here's one of my sort of guideposts. In all the time that I've been on this council, and believe it or not, we're now 50%,
 just eclipsed the 10-year mark. I went from being the most junior to the most senior member, now with Dan departing. I have never heard someone come before us and say, we'd like a crappy park, so let's value engineer it down so it's as crappy as possible. We'd like a library that we're ashamed of. Please, no design elements on the library. Just fill the stacks with books, and we're happy with the crappiest building you can come up with. We'd like to send our kids to schools that are crappy.
 and build for the short term, and please, nothing that gives us any pride in our schools, and on and on and on. I've actually never heard those appeals in this room. Portlanders are very proud of their city, but they also take the long-term view, and they want to build something that we can be proud of not just today but tomorrow, and as many of your guest speakers reminded us, for 100 years.
 So the mayor and I have been on a circuit recently on a couple of ballot measures, you know, pleading the case for ballot measures 102 and 26-199. People will make up their own minds when the ballot shows up. But what has struck me in that debate is how contingent, or let's put it this way, how much debate is going on about things that I thought were bedrock. I thought we had resolved the issue of the urban growth boundaries.
 I think we actually have to fight that battle all over again and make the case, because I think a lot of people who've moved here in the last, say, five or ten years aren't clear about what the tradeoff was. And I think there are people using this moment opportunistically to make a pitch for either eliminating or greatly weakening the urban growth boundary. So I think that's a fight we have to take on anew.
 I think design guidelines have been thrown into this narrative that a handful of people have pitched, along with undue delays in the permitting process and a few other things, that essentially urges us to throw the baby out with the bathwater, that in this time where we need lots of development, we've got to streamline the process and potentially compromise on our values. We see it clearly in the affordable housing side.
 There is a wholesale line of attack on the idea of building affordable housing for the long term. It has quality where people are paid a living wage that's sustainable and that is built in high opportunity areas. And conversely, there's a narrative about moving the housing to the corners of our neighborhood, of our city, where the dirt is the cheapest, building for the short term and worrying about rebuilding later on.
 And these are not idle conversations. These are conversations that are driving editorial board decisions. They are driving opinion leaders because there are some very noisy voices, including people we didn't hear from here today who are developers that –
 apparently are much more frustrated than the panel that we've had and are not bought into the long-term benefits to our city, as your guest so clearly articulated. So I am inspired by what you presented today, but I'm also just throwing up a cautionary flag that I think we have to re-litigate some of these issues more broadly. And I think some of our critics...
 have managed through anecdotal evidence and through complaining to certain opinion leaders have been able to change the dynamic a little bit in the conversation. And I'd hate for us to lose our foothold here. We can always improve. You made it clear in your presentation, and many of your guests said there are things we can do. And I love the sound, and I hope the mayor takes this up, of giving staff more discretionary authority. We hear that in almost every area of our work.
 where we want to empower people to have the ability to make decisions and back them up to streamline the process. But I appreciate that you've highlighted that we have something unique and special here and that to abandon it would come at a cost and that we have to weigh benefit and cost. But I am, after having done the circuit to editorial boards and a lot of work on this ballot measure season,
 I'm officially alarmed at how anecdotes have baked into strong opinions, particularly among opinion leaders in places like editorial boards that have some influence, and I think we have our work cut out for us. But anyway, thank you for an outstanding presentation. I'm proud to accept this report. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank all of the design commission members for the enormous amount of time
 and sacrifice you make in order to serve our city. So thank you. I know your meetings, you know, I read about how long they are and can't believe it. You stay engaged and you do your work, and so we owe you a debt of gratitude for that. And I think your work is showing itself in our city, and I think we are rightly proud of our design standards, our standards of excellence. I think, you know, we probably...
 Not being an architect or a designer, I think there's so much that just goes by me when I walk by a building. I really don't appreciate probably every aspect of the design and how it influences me and the environment. But when I listen to your presentations and see your award winners, I start to get it. So I really thank you for maintaining being our standard bearers as well.
 And, you know, finally, I just want to thank Tad for eight years of dedicated service. And I really appreciate your service to the Design Commission, as I do for all of you. And I'm very proud of our design community, too. I think they really, well, they know we impose high standards, but I think they impose high standards on themselves as well as a result of knowing and loving this city. So thank you so much. Bye. Bye.
 Wheeler. Well, there's a lot of dedication in this room and it is going...
 without saying that you're making our city a better place to be more vibrant, more livable, more desirable for everybody in this community. So thank you for that. When I look at the work that you're doing alongside developers in this community, it is very obvious to me that Portland is rapidly walking towards being a globally recognized city. And certainly the integrity of our architecture is a huge part of that.
 As the commissioner now in charge of the Bureau of Development Services, I look forward to working with the design commission to talk about how we unfold the Central City Plan and the 2035 plan, how we actually continue to evolve these values, make what changes, pragmatic changes we can to improve the process, but not lose sight.
 of the core goals of what make this city a really great place to be. So thank you. You have made a huge investment in time, in energy. You bring a lot of talent to the table, and by doing so, you're benefiting all of us. So I'm really appreciative of it. And I'm not saying that as mayor. I'm just saying that as somebody who lives in the city, loves the city, and appreciates the way that we come together to –
 to address our mutual needs. So thank you for that. I certainly vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. We'll see you next time. Mayor, can we take a two-minute break? Yeah, let's, why don't we take a two, we'll be generous. We'll make it a three-minute break and then we'll come back for the Latinx celebration, Latinx Heritage Month celebration. Thank you. All right, we are back in session. Carla, can you please read our final item for this afternoon?
 We have some regular items. I don't think it's the final item. After this. We've got a bunch. Yeah. I stand corrected. Unless you want to make it the final item. Yes. Item 1091, proclaim September 15 to October 15 to be Latinx Heritage Month.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. As we all know, we had to reschedule the Latinx Heritage Month proclamation to today due to council member absences last week. I realize this puts us outside of the officially observed Latinx
 heritage month time frame of September 15th through October 15th but really it shouldn't be just one month anyway. Any time should be a good time to celebrate the Latinx cultures and people. I want to thank our Latinx PDX City of Portland Employees Affinity Group for again bringing the proclamation to council especially Linda Castillo from the Office of Community and Civic Life, Cynthia Castro from my office, Tatiana Elahadjic
 I could do it. I can do it perfectly. Okay. Ele Hardy, right? Ele Hardy. From the Office of Equity and Human Rights. So by the time I'm done with being its commissioner again, I will have it just like that.
 Francesca Garfia from the Office of Management and Finance, Mariana Garcia Medina from Commissioner Fish's office, and Michelle Rodriguez from the Office of Community and Civic Life. We are going to ask Mayor Wheeler to do the honours and read the English version of the proclamation, then Tatiana will read the Spanish version, tell us more about the adoption of the term Latinx, and hear from guest speakers. Very good. Thank you.
 Whereas Latinx Heritage Month of the United States extends historically over five centuries and has been a consistent and vital influence in our country's growth and prosperity,
 And whereas Latinx culture is tied to Iberian ancestry, the rich tapestry of our culture recognizes that Latinx are multiracial and multicultural and also trace their historical roots to indigenous and African ancestry. Thank you.
 The Latinx population represents people with origins from 23 different countries, including the United States, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador,
 Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, and Chile. They reflect an array of distinct and vibrant cultures that have enriched our community in many valuable ways. And whereas growing at the same pace as the nation, Oregon's most recent data shows that 13.1% of the state's population is now Latinx.
 Since 2010, Oregon has added nearly 91,000 Latinx residents. In Portland, there are 67,551 people of Latinx descent, making up 10.4% of the city's population.
 While Portland's overall population grew by 1.3% between 2016 and 2017, the rate of growth for the city's Latinx population was 3.8% during the same period. And whereas in 2017, 66.4% of Latinx in Portland were native-born, the median age for Latinx in Portland is 28.4 years.
 And whereas Latinx have supported Portland's economy with a myriad of contributions in the fields of commerce, science, technology, public service, health, and many more. Today, their purchasing power in Portland is nearly $4 billion.
 And whereas Portland recognizes the many organizations, institutions, and people helping Latinx overcome disparities, such as poor health outcomes and low educational attainment, working tirelessly to ensure they remain a flourishing community.
 And whereas continued access to jobs and livable wages for Oregon Latinx is essential for our state to thrive, Latinx currently makes up 7.1% of the City of Portland's workforce.
 To help connect more Latinx to city jobs and to support them throughout their careers with the city, the Latinx PDX City Employee Affinity Group was re-established in 2014. Latinx PDX has reached over 75 members and continues to grow.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, do hereby proclaim September 15th to October 15th, 2018, to be Latinx Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. My name is Tatiana Elejalde, and I'm with the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 Por cuanto la herencia latinax en los Estados Unidos se extiende históricamente más de cinco siglos y ha sido una influencia constante y vital en el crecimiento y prosperidad de nuestro país y por cuanto la cultura latinax está lijada a raíces ibéricas a las que se suman la gran riqueza y diversidad multicultural y multiracial de nuestras culturas indígenas y africanas.
 La población latinax representa más de 22 diferentes países de origen, incluyendo
 Estados Unidos, México, Puerto Rico, República Dominicana, Cuba, Guatemala, Belice, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panamá, Colombia, Perú, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brasil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia y Chile. Reflejan una variedad de culturas distintas y valiosas que han enriquecido nuestra comunidad en forma notable.
 Y por cuanto la población Latinx de Oregon está creciendo al mismo ritmo que la tasa nacional, los Latinx representan el 13.1% de la población estatal. Desde el 2010, Oregon ha añadido casi 91.000 residentes Latinx. En Portland hay más de 67.551 personas de origen Latinx que representan el 10.4% de la población estatal.
 mientras que la población general de Portland creció un 1.3% entre el 2016 y 2017. La tasa de crecimiento de la población Latinx de la ciudad fue 3.8% en el mismo periodo de tiempo. Y por cuanto en el 2017, 66.4% de los Latinx en Portland eran nacidos en los Estados Unidos. La edad mediana de Latinx en Portland es de 28.4 años de edad.
 Y por cuanto la población latina ha contribuido a la economía de Portland con su sin número de aportaciones en las áreas de comercio, ciencia, tecnología, servicio público y salud, entre otras. Actualmente su poder de adquisición en Portland es de casi 4 mil millones de dólares.
 Y por cuanto la ciudad de Portland reconoce la multitud de organizaciones, instituciones y gente ayudando a la población Latinx a superar disparidades tales como los indicadores rezagados de salud y nivel de logro académico, trabajando incansablemente para asegurar que sigan siendo una comunidad próspera.
 Y por cuanto el acceso a puestos de trabajo y sueldos dignos para los Latinx en Oregon es fundamental para la prosperidad de nuestro estado.
 La población Latinx forma un 7.1% de la fuerza laboral del Ayuntamiento de la Ciudad de Portland. La Asociación de Empleados Latinx PDX fue restablecida en el 2014 con el propósito de conectar a Latinx con puestos de trabajo en el Ayuntamiento de la Ciudad de Portland y apoyarlos a lo largo de sus carreras. Actualmente, Latinx PDX cuenta con más de 75 miembros y sigue creciendo.
 Por lo tanto, yo, Ted Wheeler, alcalde de la ciudad de Portland, Oregon, proclamo que del 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre del 2018 sea reconocido como el mes de la herencia Latinx en Portland e invito a todos los habitantes a celebrar este mes. Ahora voy a hablar un poco sobre adoptar el término Latinx en la proclamación de hoy y lo que significa.
 Nuestro compromiso con Latinx se basa en justicia e inclusividad. Afirma las vidas de las personas LGBTQ, de género fluido y no binario latinoamericanas y reconoce la experiencia de identidades interseccionales. Por decir Latinx en esta proclamación, como gobierno de la ciudad, estamos tomando un paso hacia mostrar un compromiso con una cultura de inclusividad y pertenencia a nuestros empleados y a nuestra comunidad. Esto es sobre justicia de lenguaje, esto es sobre ser visto.
 Lenguaje y cultura son fluidos. Muchos de los latinoamericanos aquí en Estados Unidos no se ven o se incluyen en la expresión binaria de la lengua española. No todos los que se identifican como latinoamericanos hablan español. Esto es sobre crear espacios para nosotros mismos a través de nuestra lengua para que seamos inclusivos de todas las identidades dentro de la comunidad latinoamericana.
 Porque somos únicos mientras nos unimos en solidaridad, representando la hermosa diversidad de todas nuestras culturas, backgroundes, historias, lenguajes y identidades. En los Estados Unidos, la historia de nosotros unirnos sobre lo que tenemos en común, mientras celebramos las diferencias, es cómo hemos organizado y creado comunidad. Cuando nos organizamos, tenemos mayor poder político, y cuando nos organizamos, reconocemos que tenemos poder consumidor significativo.
 Con el poder político, la voz y la justicia aumentada a través de nuestros objetivos comunes, podemos ayudar a las próximas generaciones a lograr más inclusividad y justicia y ampliar nuestras voces. Cada comunidad conoce su propia historia y sabemos que el colonialismo ha jugado un papel en la supresión y erasión de idiomas indígenas y africanos en los Estados Unidos. Esas lenguas a menudo tenían estructuras que no eran binarias en el modo en que es el español. En concluyendo, esto se trata de ser visto, inclusividad y un sentido de pertenencia y justicia.
 Our city affinity group previously named Unidos Latinos Americanos, or ULA, has changed its name to Latinx PDX. I'm going to put our logo up in just a moment. So we've changed our name and I just want to say that this affinity group, I can speak for myself, provides a great sense of connection and community as a city employee. Thank you.
 Y quiero agradecer a todos los involucrados en el grupo y a todos los involucrados en hacer que hoy suceda. Me gustaría presentar a nuestros invitados, Mayra Arreola, directora de Equidad Social y Comunicaciones, y Diana Núñez, directora ejecutiva de la Cámara Hispana Metropolitana, que, como podría notar, su sitio web tiene el término latino. Gracias por estar aquí. Gracias.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Mayra Arreola, and I'm the Director of Social Equity Policy and Communications at Prosper Portland. I want to appreciate your time and the invitation to be here to share a little bit of my story and what it has meant to me to live in this country as a Latinx. Thank you.
 My journey as an Oregonian started in 2007. At my arrival, I had no history, no network, no community, and I realized quickly that reaching out and hard work were not going to be enough and that having somebody believe in me was going to be crucial. It became clear that I needed to establish roots, to feel centered, and to have the opportunities to advance professionally, I needed three things. Seek through personal connections, work really, really hard, and have somebody open a door.
 That realization has stayed through my trajectory in this country, and I am extremely thankful and appreciative of all the people that have been a source of support, enacted as mentors, provided guidance, and validated my experiences as a Latinx, immigrant, person of color, non-native English speaker, and as a woman. I simply would not be sitting here today if it had not been for all of them.
 Given this experience, I am mission and values driven. These values drove me to join Prosper Portland and its incredible team to keep making progress towards building an equitable economy, to ensure that opportunities for wealth creation are accessible to all Portlanders, and to support our communities by building trust, listening and learning from our past, and increasing transparency and access to resources.
 One example that comes to mind when thinking about trust and access is a quick story on the power of opportunities and how they can change life.
 lives. Some years ago, I worked in rural communities doing economic community and leadership development with Latinos. At the time, we were partnering with high schools to deliver leadership programs to students. One of our main goals was to invite them to participate in other programs we offered at the time, to keep advancing their leadership skills and their connections with the larger community, and to bring much-needed Latinx voices and perspectives to spaces where they had not been a part of.
 I remember clearly a student that did not have much hope. This student was brilliant and about to finish high school. She had no resources, no support, and no understanding of the process to apply for college. Both her parents worked full time, and she was a primary caretaker of her younger siblings. She did not believe college was an opportunity for her.
 Once the student shared this story, she was surrounded by local mentors and leaders that coached her throughout the process of the application, and she ended up getting a full scholarship to go to college. Her life changed instantly because of the combination of hard work and opportunity with the power of community. The Latinx community experiences a lot of barriers, yet today I really want to focus on one opportunity that you have been working really hard and focusing on as a city.
 I believe that we still have the opportunity to enhance diversifying the workforce, and most importantly, to open leadership positions to people that represent the richness of our diverse city.
 Once those opportunities are open, the real test is on retention. Retaining staff that have different approaches, that will bring new styles and ideas, that speak different languages, that will work through these mental racism and oppressive systems, that will challenge the status quo, and that understand the power of collaboration and community, that's when true change happens.
 Experiencing racism and oppression is not easy, and having people around you that know what it means, and more importantly what it feels, is a need, not a privilege. For this reason, I just want to take a minute to recognize the power of the voices of the Latinx community and appreciate all the amazing leaders affecting change in their spheres of influence.
 Muchas gracias por su coraje, por su valentía y por su persistencia. And thanks to all of you for your time and the opportunity to be here today. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you, Mara.
 Hello, my name is Diana Nunez, and I am the Executive Director of the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber. We are a 25-year-old nonprofit organization and business chamber whose mission is to advance Latinx economic and community vitality through business development, leadership, education, and advocacy. Thank you.
 I was asked to briefly share a little bit about my story as an Oregonian, which started about 45 years ago with my parents immigrating from Mexico, the state of Puebla and the state of Morelos, to Los Angeles, California. I was born in Los Angeles, California, raised there, went to the University of Texas at Austin for my undergraduate degree in microbiology and clinical laboratory science.
 I was a failed computer science major, and I graduated instead in microbiology and became a researcher in oral antibiotic health, or oral health and antibiotic research. I found that being a researcher was very lonely and had a lot of solitude involved in it, and I much more wanted to be connected to work.
 that I felt would make a difference and I could see the more immediate results. At the same time, Texas was not also feeling like I fit with the state there and the politics that were happening around the same time. And so 16 years ago, I moved to Portland, Oregon.
 and became a Portlander and an Oregonian. And I'm proud to do so. I think I have found many opportunities here that I might have not found elsewhere. And one of the opportunities was working for Multnomah County Library. I became a librarian and got my graduate degree in library science and research.
 specifically around early literacy for bilingual early literacy learners and English language learners. That work is something that led me to wanting to understand more where the funding of these programs that were so valuable to our communities that needed most was coming from.
 And at the same time, I found the Multnomah County Library allowed me to participate in a leadership program, a leadership development program with the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber. This was about nine years ago, which opened my eyes and my doors to what it meant to be civically engaged, to know who your elected officials and leaders are, what it meant to be on boards and commissions. And it really ignited a passion in where I wanted to be and where I wanted to sit in my career.
 At the same time, the city and the county were having discussions around compression and what sort of funding needed to happen to what sort of government entities. And my program that I worked for over eight years, Raising a Reader, which touched 14,000 families and provided early literacy opportunities, was cut from the city's budget.
 which made me even more want to make sure that I knew where the funding was coming from for the programs that I wanted to work on. I networked my way in through what I learned from the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber Leadership Program, and it took a little bit of time, but I worked for City of Portland former Mayor Charlie Hales as one of his outreach directors on policy, which, again...
 him being in his office really allowed me to understand the mechanics of what it meant to be in policy and how it affects our communities upstream and downstream and how policy can actually be an amazing tool for the advancement of all our communities, not just the Latino community. So I'm proud to have been in the city and worked with the Office of Equity and Human Resources. And I'm proud that I am continuing to have that partnership with the city of Portland through my work at the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber.
 One of the questions that was asked of me or put before me was how I see myself as a leader. And I don't know that I see myself as a leader so much as I think that...
 Those that came before me were able to open doors, give me access and opportunities, and I want to do the same for those that will come behind me. So my job in my work is to make sure that I'm finding access and opportunity wherever possible, and through policy, through funding mechanisms, through new and innovative ways to work with my community. Thank you.
 There are so many memorable stories of how I work with my community and the progress and opportunities that have come about because of how we work with our community. We have a leadership program that every year 50 students are awarded scholarships. Mariana Garcia Medina, Commissioner for Fish's Policy Program.
 Director, I don't know if she's a Director of Policy person, was one of those recipients. We got to engage with her and she was one of our speakers at our last event celebrating her talents, her experience, and where she is now as the exceptional person she is making changes in her pathway.
 We also work with businesses. So we see 91% Latinx businesses that come through our door to either start, grow, adapt, succeed. We help them develop the necessary skills needed to advance their businesses, to grow their businesses. And we see 52% of those businesses are women, which is the national trend when it comes to business nationally. The Latino community by far is creating and starting businesses, and women and Latinx
 in the Latinx community, our head of households and single women are creating those businesses and starting them. So we want to make sure that we're supporting them and finding the tools. We work with Prosper Portland to be able to do some of that work. And we are glad to be partners with them because we see over 350 businesses a year and we see them succeeding.
 I think what obstacles I see in front of our community here locally and regionally is that we have a workforce issue and a pipeline issue. As far as we have a young community, 28.5 is the average age, and we need to be a conduit for them to be finding these opportunities.
 workforce opportunities and job opportunities, and also to be starting businesses in the innovative and tech sectors. We have these business clusters that are here, and they need us to make sure our talent is ready, and our talent is ready. We need to just be connecting them, so investment in innovation and tech and how our communities of color are connecting to those opportunities is vastly important to the future of our
 our economic region being successful and continuing to be progressive. I appreciate the opportunity to speak with you a little bit about the work that I do, my appreciation for the city and the work that they do in connecting resources to us, and we hope to continue that partnership moving forward. And I look forward to celebrating and appreciate celebrating Hispanic heritage with the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. That's it. Yes, thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 Does anybody else have comments that they would like to share? Because this is a proclamation. It's not a vote. So anybody else would like to say anything? Well, I'm just curious. Is Latinx like a standard term now? Or is this something that just started locally and is growing or –
 I think it's a national movement. I think the term Hispanic, which is something that we're working on as well as an organization, is an antiquated term that is rooted in census language. And so moving towards Latino as more inclusive. And then Latino being binary. So then moving, you know, we're moving to be much more inclusive with X standing for whatever your identity stands for. I think it's originating from national social justice movements and is, you know,
 you're going to find a variety of people engaging with the term differently even within the Latinx community. But it's definitely a term of inclusivity.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. I would also like to mention that we have a reception following this with Tres Leches cake and agua fresca. So if you would like to join us, please do. That sounds really good. We'll race through the rest of our agenda. Exactly. It should have been the last one. Michelle, do you have your camera with us? Could we get a photo? Oh, I'm sorry, Commissioner Udeli.
 I feel like I would be remiss in my duties as the newly appointed arts commissioner if I didn't mention some of the important contributions of the Latinx community to our arts and culture landscape. So I wanted to mention that recently RAC and the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber teamed up to create Latinidades. Latinidades. Latinidades. Yes. An art show celebrating...
 Latinx artists, which included 11 local Portland Latinx artists. And I'd like to give a special shout out as well to a couple women who I'm big fans of, Daniela Del Mar and Camila Arreia, who run Letra Chuka Press, which is a female Latinx-owned letterpress operation dedicated to empowering underrepresented... Underrepresented... Oh my gosh, it's been a long day. Underrepresented...
 communities. Just a couple examples of how Latinx Portlanders are shaping our city and community and I'm excited to get to work with them and many others to highlight their contributions as we strive to bring more equity and diversity to our arts funding. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So
 Folks might be really interested in the Office of Equity and Human Rights Workforce Demographics Dashboard as was mentioned in the proclamation with the statistics on how we're doing. We want to thank Matt Lim for managing it for us. He has been able to replace Latino wherever it appeared with Latinx, so that's
 a good thing. And while we have seen a growing number of Latinx individuals joining the city workforce, they are still underrepresented in higher level positions that pay competitive wages. We need to do more to retain Latinx employees and advance them, which I personally have been doing with Christina Nieves, who's been with me for five years and has been a leader in what is now Latinx PDX.
 and is the brains and passion and diligence behind the Open and Accountable Elections Programme, which will open up opportunities for a lot of folks too. Also, previously, Goldan Salazar was a member of your leadership programme and she's now on a year's leave of absence teaching in Ecuador. So I was pleased to hear that. And...
 Cynthia Castro, after five years in parks, is now one of my policy advisors, and I'm also welcoming Yesenia Carrillo, who, just an amazing group of women that Tim, we tolerate my chief of staff, and he supports us all. And so I just...
 I want to personally mention how very important the Latinx PDX has been to me to support the work that I've done over the last 10 years, and thank you. Can I just throw in thank you for the shout-out to Mariana Garcia Medina. I thought I've been to a number of the Hispanic Chamber luncheons. I thought her speech – I'm biased. No, I think you're correct. But I thought it was a perfect speech. Fantastic. And –
 She did such a beautiful job telling her story, and her family, her mother and father, sat at our table. And my regret is I'm the only member of my family that's not bilingual. Everyone else, my two kids and my wife, are bilingual, and it's a wonderful gift to have the gift of language and to understand culture. Mariana has the hardest job in my office. She is my scheduler.
 She has a policy portfolio. She's the office manager. And in her free time, she's one of our most high-profile dreamers, making the case that it is high time that America resolve that issue once and for all. We can ill afford to lose talent like her. So thank you for acknowledging her, and thank you for your excellent presentation. Very good. Can we get a photo up front? And then the reception is in the atrium from 4 to 5.
 Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well done. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, next up is a second reading. Carla, could you please read item 1092? Okay.
 authorize a contract with Century West Engineering Corporation for professional services for the design of the Stark and Buckman East Reconstruction and Green Streets, project number E10216, for $1,610,883. This is the second reading. There's already been a presentation and public testimony. Colleagues, any further discussion?
 Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Udaly. Who knew that second reading would be two of the sweetest words in the English language? I. Brits. I. Fish. I. Saltzman. I. Wheeler. I. The ordinance is adopted. And next up, item 1093. Thank you.
 accept a boating facility grant in the amount of $86,055 from the Oregon State Marine Board for the Swan Island Boat Ramp Facility Design and Permitting Project. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, as one of the few public boating facilities on the Willamette River in Portland, Portland Parks and Recreation's Swan Island Boat Ramp receives very heavy use.
 The city is experiencing increased maintenance expenses, and the existing ramp, docks, and pilings are in very poor condition. Through this ordinance, Portland Parks and Recreation would like to receive grants from the Oregon State Marine Board and the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to improve this community asset. Today we have Brett Horner, planning manager, and Maya Argarwal, planner from Portland Parks and Recreation, to provide a brief presentation about these two grants. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you and good afternoon. We're happy to be here and have this item before you. Hold one sec. Mayor, can we have item 1094 read in concert? Please read 1094 as well, Carla. Accept a grant in the amount of $86,055 from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife for the Swan Island Boat Ramp Facility Design and Permitting Project. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And again, we're happy to be here and have this item before you. We wanted to highlight that it's a very good example of leveraging our limited operations and maintenance dollars with partners to really solve and address an urgent maintenance need in our park system. Maya has a short slideshow. Before she starts, I would like to thank, because this project has spanned...
 Two of our commissioners, I'd like to thank both Commissioners Fritz and Commissioner Fish for their support on this. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. We're here today to discuss Swan Island Boat Ramp and to ask the council to accept grant funding for design and permit submittal for improvements to the facility. Thank you.
 To orient you to the location of the facility, the Willamette River flows south to north through the city of Portland until its confluence with the Columbia River. Swan Island is bordered by the Willamette River and Swan Island Lagoon. Swan Island boat ramp, indicated in this image by the red star, is located just north of Central City. Let's zoom in a bit and see it in more detail.
 the boat ramp facility was built in the 1980s by the port of portland the city of portland bureau of environmental services acquired swan island boat ramp in 1996 with the intention of building a wet weather facility for the for the combined sewer overflow project in 2003 it was determined that the site did not fit the needs for the project and was declared surplus
 The city, which is committed to maintaining the parcel in public ownership for recreational purposes, has transferred ownership of the parcel from BES to Parks. Swan Island Boat Ramp is one of the three motorized boating facilities on the Willamette River operated by Parks. Now let's take a look at the key elements that comprise the site.
 The first element is the ramp. The ramp is the paved portion that boaters use to put their boats in the water. They maneuver their vehicle and boat trailer, backing down the ramp and launching the boat into the lagoon. Once the boat is launched, they drive away and park their vehicle and trailer in the parking lot.
 The second element is the floats. Boarding floats serve as a means to help safely and efficiently launch and retrieve boats and load and unload boaters. Boaters also use the floats to load gear into their watercraft and to tie up for a short time.
 The third element is the piles. Piles are slender members, typically wood or steel, driven into the ground and used to maintain the horizontal position of the floats by resisting loads that are applied by floats, boats, current, wind, and waves.
 As one of the few public boating facilities on the Willamette River in Portland, Swan Island Boat Ramp receives heavy use. During the fishing season, the facility is filled to capacity with boaters putting in, taking out, and waiting to do so. However, the facility does have some challenges. The existing boat ramp is not wide enough for heavy morning and evening concentrated use.
 The toe of the ramp is too short and in deteriorated condition. The boarding floats are not long enough and are at the end of their useful life. The wooden piles in the ramp are in poor condition, making it difficult for boaters and anglers to access Swan Island Lagoon and the Willamette River. Swan Island Boat Ramp is important to the city, and it's identified as an integral part of city river access infrastructure and several planning documents.
 To improve safety for boaters and the public, Portland Parks recently was awarded Grant No. 1623 from the Oregon State Marine Board in the amount of $86,055, along with another grant from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife's Sport Fish Restoration Program in the amount of $86,055. Thank you.
 Combined with a parks match of $114,739, these funds will cover costs to prepare 60% design drawings and submit permit applications for the replacement of the boat ramp, boarding floats, and piles. The total cost of this first phase of the project is $286,848.
 Acceptance of the Marine Board and Department of Fish and Wildlife grant funds represents a first step in bringing the Swan Island boat ramp facility up to full functionality and improving safety. Construction would not be covered under this grant.
 Future phases would include design and issued permits and construction. Parks intends to apply for future grants for full design, permit issuance, and construction. Can I make sure I understand that slide? So when you say 60% design permit submittal, does that mean 60% of the design permit submittal process? No, it's...
 What does that mean? It means that the drawings are taken to a 60% stage where there is some good knowledge of the detail of how the project would work. And those are submitted as permit, to gain permits. Okay. So those are more conceptual as opposed to the actual designs that will be used to build. To build, right. Their completeness level. Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. Sure. Okay.
 So we asked the council to accept the two grants, the first from the Oregon State Marine Board for $86,055, and the second from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife for $86,055. These two funding sources, in combination with our matching funds, will be used to implement the Swan Island Boat Ramp Facility Design and Permitting Project. The ordinance language is noted on the slide. Thank you very much for your time, and we'll take any questions. Thank you.
 I noticed that the pilings were wood in the example that you gave. But it seems like the more modern ones we see, including city facilities, are made out of metal. Is that the intention here, to replace it with something more durable? That's correct. Okay, very good. Yeah. Yeah.
 Will the dock facility, the floats, be the same size and scale, or will they be bigger? What's your thinking there? So what we're thinking right now is that they would accommodate. They may be a little bit bigger, but the key is that they would accommodate two-way traffic. Instead of being off to the side and accommodating one-way traffic in and out, they would be in the middle of the ramp so people could be moving in and out on either side. Okay.
 So I'm not sure if they would necessarily be bigger. I'm guessing they would be. They might also be made out of a different material. They could be aluminum. Okay, but that's sort of to be determined. That's right. Got it. Okay, and who owns the property immediately to the south? Is that the city? It's the city. Very good. Are there any plans for that, or is that just retained? Retained.
 Brett, you gave me a little tutorial on the space to the north and the south. Why don't you give us a quick – or either one of you. Yeah, if you want to roll back to that bigger slide. So the property there is managed by parks. And the sort of dirt open space that you see that's not a parking lot is actually used as a maintenance facility for us. And we have a large –
 A bark chip maker, I would call it, that's called The Beast, and it makes wood chips for use in our park system. And we've had a hard time finding a good location for it. This one actually ended up being a really good spot for that because of its industrial zoning. The Beast. Now, you have to admit, that was a more interesting answer than you all thought, right? There it is. And what are some of the potential long-term uses for that? I don't know either.
 So the Marine Board is very interested in actually expanding this facility. We have looked at reorienting the parking lot area
 trying to use the parcel more efficiently. The bark chip machine actually needs a lot of space and a lot of storage area to keep the bark chip material. So we haven't done any long-term planning on it, but for the immediate future, it is for the bark chip operations. We do have a trail that comes through there, too. The regional trail for the Willamette Greenway comes right past the boat area. Yeah.
 That concludes our presentation. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person, Lightning Super Creativity. Lightning, you get some kind of award today for sticking it out all day. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity. One of the problems I have on this is that when it wasn't going to be used for the original use, the intention of a building, a wet weather facility,
 I really don't think it should have been transferred to parks. I think it should have been surplused and sold. And why I say that is that what I'm seeing by those pictures is pure neglect to this facility. It looks so dangerous from those pictures and the way that the walkway looked out of place and my understanding some of the wood planking has fire damage and various things, and it should be shut down. In fact, I'm labeling that...
 boat ramp as of today from lightning a nuisance and as the nuisance inspector I'm going to walk out there and I'm going to write a hundred thousand dollars worth of fines on you like the city of Portland did on my marina called Columbia River Marina when I owned it because you're so corrupt
 at what you do and so hypocritical at what you do my marina was in much better shape and you people just wanted to remove me off my property off of Northeast Marine Drive Columbia River Marina which I owned and bought and let me tell you something
 What I see here is neglect. What I see here is people not being able to manage or run this properly. It is a hazard right now. And I'm asking it to be shut down, made into surplus property, and sold off because of your pure neglect and not understanding how to operate a boat ramp.
 You shouldn't be in the business of operating a boat ramp like you tried to bankrupt me when I was operating a whole full facility, Marina, of 110 plus slips. And let me tell you something to any one of you up here. You can pull that up through BDS.
 Pull that up under Columbia River Marina, and you'll understand I speak the truth. So when I'm talking about a marina, I want to see this actually have concrete or stainless steel, like they've stated on the walkways. Again, as Mayor Wheeler stated, you go to the steel pilings, because back in the day when they had the high floods...
 All those wood pilings all snapped off. So that's why I had all steel pilings in because the insurance companies won't even insure your marina without steel this day and age, plain and simple. But what I'm saying here is that, you know, from my position, get out of the...
 Boat ramp business. You don't know what you're talking about. You came into my property before. You wrote me up $100,000 worth of fines to run me out of town because I didn't like talking to those stupid-ass inspectors. I'm sorry, FCC. I'll take that back. Thank you. And my other point is get out of the golf course business also. Sell those too. So I'm just saying turn it into surplus business.
 Get it finished and get out of the business. You don't belong in it.
 And I think you said that to me many years ago with the sheriffs escorting your inspectors side by side with their little toy guns. You're all a bunch of hypocritical, pathetic jokes to think you can operate this boat ramp facility. All right. Thank you. Besides the mayor. Thank you very much. Jesse Waters compliments the mayor, and I'm a Jesse Waters fan. Thank you. Who's Jesse Waters? Jesse Waters.
 I'm completely lost. Yeah. All right. Let's proceed. All right, 1092. Treat of the day. Yeah, treat. I'm sorry, 1093, please call the roll. You daily? Aye.
 Fritz. I'm very happy that we were able to keep the Swan Island boat ramp in city ownership with the transfer from environmental services to parks in June of 2016. Portlanders do want river recreation as was outlined by the Willamette River Recreation Plan sponsored by the Office of Healthy Working Rivers and Parks and Planning.
 And so we are doing what the community of Portland has told us we want to. And as Commissioner Fish said back in 2016, this is a demonstration of our new property disposal policy working well. Thank you to the Oregon Marine Board and later the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife for these grants. Thank you, Brett Horner and Maya Agual for your excellent presentation. And thanks, Don Athe and Don Jothlin for overseeing the day-to-day maintenance of the Swan Island boat ramp. Thank you.
 Fish. Well, Commissioner Fritz just gave my closing statement, so I'm just going to vote aye. Thank you. Seltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on 1094. E. Bailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you both very much. I know this will come as sad news to everybody, but we are adjourned. I still want to know who Jesse Waterman is.