Steve okay good morning everyone welcome to the October 19th meeting of the Portland City Council you need to let us get going okay thank you very much we're gonna get started with public communications in a minute we sure are now if you could have a seat we'll get started so would you please call the roll would you call the roll please here fish saltzman here hails here welcome
 Welcome, everybody. We have four people signed up for communications this morning. We'll take those first. Then we have some time-certain items, a consent calendar, and our regular agenda. We're going to probably suspend the rules on item 1172 and let people speak on any subject whatsoever on that one.
 which obviously normally we ask people to confine themselves to the item at hand when we're working on something. If you'd like to testify on a council calendar item today, just let our clerk know, and she will make sure you have access or that you are on the list. Again, we have communications items up front. I'll call those folks first. Are there any requests to take anything off the consent calendar?
 Okay, then we'll act on it later as it is. Welcome to the City Council meeting. We are happy to have you here. Again, if you want to speak, let our clerk know. You need only give your name. You don't have to give your address. We follow the rules of decorum in this chamber so that people can be heard. It doesn't always work, but once again, we're going to try.
 And that is if you want to indicate your support for somebody's position, please feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand or some other hand gesture that's silent. And if you disagree with someone, a polite hand gesture to the negative is all right as well. But we ask that we not applaud or make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view when they're in this room expressing those points of view.
 We make exceptions for visiting dignitaries and school children, so if you're one or more of those, you might get a round of applause. So with that, let's get started, please, with item 1153. Request of Mr. Eng to address counsel regarding supernaturalism. Come on up, Mr. Eng. Okay, then let's move on to 1154. Request of Joe Walsh to address counsel regarding addressing activists. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walls. For the record, I represent individuals for justice. I would like to extend my time two hours because I want to list all your offenses, and I don't have time in three minutes. So would you give me the two hours? No, we don't have two hours, Mr. Walls. I didn't think so. I come here today not to compliment you. I come here to mourn. This may be the last time I get to address all five shirts.
 as I call you in polite company. But the real title is not shirts. I want to acknowledge your wonderful accomplishments. I will just list a few because I only have three minutes. Starting with your last achievement, the authorization for the police to contact the protesters and throw them out last week. Number two, the police contract that you voted on last,
 Three to one last week in a setting that had only invited guests and the public was excluded. The arrest of dozens of activists and journalists and video journalists throughout the year. The order to arrest, beat, and jail anyone who might object to your Mussolini-style form of running a city council, Mayor.
 At this point, I would like to read a statement from Sarah Hobbs. You know Sarah. She is an advocate for suicide, and she testified before you on many occasions, so you should know her. And she says, And the city is.
 This is a complete corruption of the settlement agreement between the city and the Department of Justice. And we just heard this morning that you may go to jail, Mayor. Our mayor may go to jail. We've been warning you now for three years that the way you run this council, the way you run the police department, you're going to end up in jail. And I will bring you cookies.
 I will bake them myself. Thanks very much. Okay, let's take the next item. A lack of transparency. 1155. And a grade of F. 1155. For transparency. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. You're done. I don't blame you. Mr. Walsh. Request Richard Gover. Mr. Walsh, your time's elapsed. All of you. Mr. Walsh. And we will watch. The thumbs that can get on no way. Mr. Walsh, you're done. Okay. I will voice it in your head.
 We have to wait another two years, and Mr. Sullivan, you're out. Mr. Walsh, your time is up. Mr. Walsh, you're being disruptive. I'm going to have to ask you to sit down. Mr. Walsh, you need to be seated. We're recessed. Mr. Walsh, you're excluded. You can go to jail. Counsel, return to order. Please have a seat, Mr. Davis. All right, let's get to work. So let's take item 1155. What place for you?
 Ma'am, you're going to need to be seated and let other citizens speak. That's what we're doing right now. 1155. Ma'am, one more disruption and you're going to be excluded from the council chambers. Do you understand that? Have a seat. Go ahead. 1155, please. Request of Richard Gover to address council regarding shelter for dads with children and why there is no number to call when IV needles are found. Mr. Gover, are you here? Okay, let's take 1156. Okay.
 Requests of Craig Marquardo to address counsel regarding litany of red tape and excessive fees involved to offset a conditional use permit for Portland Meadows. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. I don't mind being your judge. Anyway, I'll try and fit everything in three minutes. I'm Craig Marquardo. I used to run the Portland Music Awards for six years. I ran the Portland Arts Foundation as well as Published Music Spectator magazine.
 I have been, for the last couple of years, working on a plan to produce a major jazz festival in the summer more akin to, say, the former Mount Hood Jazz Festival and the Blues Festival. The difficulty is you would think, being Portland, that we had more location options available for such a thing. The long and short, we've narrowed it down to a few, one being on Savi Island, but I'm petrified of a little bit of rain turning it into a mud fest.
 Portland Meadows, apparently in the 90s, used to have excessively loud rock concerts that pissed off the neighborhood associations. And then that ownership and management had some contentiousness with the,
 with the then City Council, and it resulted in them having a conditional use permit that they can now only do one concert every two years. There's been two ownership changes and several management changes since then. None of them from that period exist, and none of the City Council from then exist. We are trying to figure out a way to try and have that conditional use permit altered so that we can have the event there at Portland Meadows. It's
 I mean,
 I mean, honestly, it's a promoter's dream. They have built-in parking. They have electricity and water. They have easy accessibility for public transportation and the location between Portland and Vancouver. Unfortunately, their poor behavior in the past has penalized them. The problem is I've gone through all the proper channels. I've spoken with various offices. But I'm told that there is a $500 early assistance meeting fee. Then I have to pay a $5,300 pre-application fee
 conference fee and then eventually pay a $12,000 application fee just to get a permit approved, to get reviewed on the chance that they might say yes. And for me, asking me to pay $18,000 out of my personal pocket to have the possibility of having something like that approved is not exactly business-friendly.
 and I'm hoping, and I've gave her my business cards. I'm hoping that, um, there's some way that this can be, uh, done in a,
 less costly and more efficient way. You know, it may be treated as a new venue, as a new opportunity, because it certainly is, you know, an ideal scenario for both the city and for other events that might come in. Obviously, I've already spoken with the neighborhood associations and the appropriate, you know, people. And fortunately, Commissioner Fish isn't here. He was a big supporter of the music awards and whatnot, being a jazz fan that he is.
 And so I'm just hoping that there's an easier way. So have you gone through that first stage of the process with the pre-application? I haven't. My concern is if I go through the – well, the pre-application already cost me $6,000 by the time I get there. So between the $500 and the $5,300. So it's a very expensive process. And it's not my venue. We're just trying to hold an event there that would change their permitting. So clearly they'd have to be involved as well.
 And I just met with him last week. I can't remember what the duration of those conditional use – is it infinite? Is it 20 years? At this point, I don't know that there's a timetable on it. It was dictated in 2000. So what do you think he should – where should he start, maybe? I'd certainly be happy to check in on that. I'm not going to make any promises. No, no, no, sure. We'll have fees. And I've talked to Dora Perry and various others. I mean, I've talked to the right people. I just –
 you know, that's just what they've sent back to me and said, this is the way it is. Why don't you let commissioner Saltzman's office, um, at least get things started because the Bureau of Development Services. I think commissioner's office is who sent me to Dora. Well, we're not going to, we're going to try to avoid having you in a run around in this building. Sure. There, um, it's good that you've already talked to the neighborhood associations because that was the issue in the past. Uh,
 Well, they were doing really loud rock concerts. Yeah, so obviously if you're able to get to yes with them on a scenario, that's helpful. It doesn't solve the red tape issue, but at least the Bureau of Developmental Services can at least show you what the path is. And I think it also answered the question for us of is there anything that can be done legislatively as opposed to –
 you having to go through the application process to solve this problem. So legitimate question. We'll try to get you an answer. Thank you so much. Thank you. And good luck with this. Thank you. Okay, let's take the consent calendar then, please. Let's take a vote on that, and then we'll move to the time certins. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, time certain item 1157.
 Encourage the Oregon legislature to create a transparent public process to ensure all Oregon residents have timely access to equitable, comprehensive, high-quality, and affordable health care. Mr. Novick. Colleagues, this resolution before us today was requested by Health Care for All Oregon.
 Ensuring that all Portlanders have access to affordable, accessible healthcare is a passion of mine, which I believe is shared by the rest of the Council. So in healthcare for all, ask me to introduce this resolution. I'm very happy to do so. We have one panel of distinguished guests who will speak to why they support this city resolution. I'd like to welcome Senator Michael Dembro, Ben Gerritsch from Cascade AIDS Projects, and Nancy Sullivan from Nurses for Single-Payer and the American College of Nurse-Bidwise to provide some remarks.
 Welcome, Senator. Hello, Commissioners. I'm very pleased to be here. I'm Michael Dembrow. I'm the State Senator for District 23. That's Northeast and Southeast Portland. I want to thank Commissioner Novick for presenting this very important resolution and the council for hearing it.
 You know, back in 2010, when we passed the Affordable Care Act, well, when Congress passed the Affordable Care Act, we knew that it would do good things, certainly around Medicaid expansion and some other pieces. But we also knew that even when it's fully phased in, there are still going to be problems.
 Health care or access to quality health care is still going to be largely a function of employment. The high cost of health care is not really addressed in that act. There are a number of things that we are going to have to do to keep working on providing universal health care that's quality care that's affordable for everyone.
 One of the positive things that happened in the passage of the Affordable Care Act was a provision was put in, and actually that was largely due to the work of our own Senator Ron Wyden, that allows states to look at and –
 ultimately request waivers for alternative programs. This could not happen until 2017 to give the Affordable Care Act time to roll out, but it's something that states were encouraged to do. And we have followed up on that here in Oregon.
 Looking at crafting in the legislature, working with advocates, bills that would be an Oregon version of universal healthcare. Starting in 2011, we have provided a bill in each session that would look at what it might look like here in Oregon. In each session, we've doubled the number of sponsors of the bill.
 in order to keep this conversation going within the legislature and to be a vehicle for the state to be talking about this and for organizing to happen. Because we knew that this was not going to be something that the legislature alone could fix. Ultimately, something like universal health care in this state, which is so badly needed, would require a vote of the people and would require organizing all over the state.
 We knew that to do that, we would have to give the voters confidence that this was a good, responsible plan. And so in 2013, the legislature enacted House Bill 3260, which laid out the principles of what universal health care could look like
 and crafted a study that could be done by an outside group to look at what would be the best way of getting to that vision. In 2015, the legislature funded that study, and it's currently underway by the Rand Corporation in connection with a local group, HMA Associates.
 We'll get the results of that study mid-November, so just a little over a month away from the results of that. We don't obviously want this to be a study that just goes up on the shelf. The next step is to look at the study and to operationalize it.
 And so I have a bill in for next session to create a task force that will take the findings of this study and craft a plan that could then go out to the voters ultimately.
 We want to make sure that we have the most support possible for the work of this task force. And so we're asking local governments to weigh in and to encourage the legislature to keep doing this work.
 And hence this resolution, which is in concert with resolutions in governments all over the state. Ashlyn Corvallis, I think Eugene, you'll probably hear more. This is really a fine resolution, and I really appreciate your putting it forward.
 and I'll stop there. I'd be happy to answer any particular questions you might have about the bills, the study, etc. I have one and that is why does it take a vote of the people?
 The for universal health care will require a different funding mechanism. And so the legislature could pass it. But we know that it's the kind of thing that would inevitably be referred to the people.
 And so it just makes sense to me and to many of my colleagues, let's be proactive about this. Let's assume that this is something that will have to go to the people and do the organizing to build the support for it. And, you know, what we're talking about in coming up with something which is –
 you know, really very comprehensive and that would address the needs of all Oregonians. This really is something that all Oregonians should weigh in on, I believe. Thank you for your leadership on this, Senator. I really appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. I just had one question. I guess I'm lost. How does this relate to getting a Medicaid waiver in 2017? So...
 This is not just a Medicaid waiver that we're talking about. Now, the state is always asking for different kinds of Medicaid waivers, and we're looking for another one related to our CCOs. That's a different story. This is a waiver, and I don't remember the clause in the Affordable Care Act. That's how professionals refer to it. But it's that waiver which allows states to create their own public option or
 or more comprehensive system. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Good morning, and thank you, Honorable Commissioners, people in the hall this morning, for your support of equitable access to affordable health care. As Vice President of Health Care for All Oregon, our grassroots statewide coalition, I appreciate this opportunity for coming together, an opportunity to take action for improving health care access for everyone in our state. Thank you.
 I'm also here today as a case manager from Cascade AIDS Project and an SEIU 503 board member, both of which are among Healthcare for All Oregon's 120-member organizations across the state.
 As a case manager, I see the negative impacts that ever-increasing health care costs have on working families. I see it in the fleeting smile of a houseless, single mom doing her best to stay healthy while providing for her kids, affording health care for her family as a luxury far from her reach. I feel the impact on my own family.
 I was shocked this year my husband's health insurance premium increased over 30%, a 30% increase with reduced benefits. Having enough money for food and housing is challenging enough. Too many of our families are forced into hoping for the best while worried that illness could result in us losing everything.
 With more than a quarter million people in Oregon uninsured, including over 18,000 children, leadership on this issue is lifesaving. Equitable access to affordable health care is the right thing to do for our families, the right thing for our friends, our neighbors, the right thing for our communities. A healthy Portland is an economically empowered one.
 As commissioners representing our state's largest city, you can make a powerful statement today. Raise your voices. Champion the economic opportunity that the RAND report may offer by calling on Salem to empower the task force to move forward on health care. If you believe we all deserve affordable health care, vote yes on this resolution. In it together...
 we can make health equity a reality. And I brought a copy of the letter, which Lee Mercer from our organization, I believe, sent across to each of you electronically. And we just wanted to make sure that each of you received it as well. So would it be okay to bring it forward? Yes, please. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Nancy Sullivan. Good morning.
 For the record, I am a former board member of Health Care for All Oregon and a current board member of Nurses for Single Payer. I am here as a retired nurse midwife to speak in support of the resolution to ask the Oregon State Legislature to create a task force based on the results of the RAND study on financing universal health care in Oregon.
 Thank you for taking some time to listen to Advocates for Universal Single-Payer Healthcare. Those of us who have been actively supporting this issue appreciate the opportunity to tell you why we believe that the best solution to our current out-of-control healthcare system is the solution adopted by every other developed country.
 Support for universal single-payer health care in the United States has been around for decades, but efforts to legislate it into being have been attacked and defeated in every case by heavily funded insurance, pharmaceutical, and hospital industry lobbies. As grassroots volunteers, proponents in Oregon know that our strategy to achieve our goal must be to educate the public and to enlist activist supporters.
 As nurses for single payer, we believe that nurses can be effective advocates. We are actively reaching out to recruit and engage from among the 55,000 registered nurses in Oregon. We are working with the Oregon Nurses Association, already a contributing member of the Healthcare for All Oregon Coalition, and nursing educators throughout the state to take a leading role in our campaign.
 The American model of health care is twice as expensive and considerably less effective than care in many other countries. Of particular interest to me as a midwife, U.S. women are more likely to die during childbirth than women in any other developed country, leading the U.S. to be ranked 33rd among 179 countries on the health and well-being of women and children.
 The burden of this increased mortality falls not only on poor women without access to care, but also on middle and upper class women who receive too much care, unnecessary cesareans, elective inductions, and so forth. Likewise, our society as a whole is affected by skewed levels of care. Too little for some, too much for others. We can do better, and we must do better.
 Thank you again for your interest in our campaign for better health for all Oregonians. We hope to have your active support in approving the resolution before you today and in future steps toward universal health care in Oregon. Thank you very much. I have a question which I think probably is answered by the membership of your coalition, but I just wanted to get it into the discussion, and that is,
 We as a city government intersect with this issue in several ways. One, we're an employer, so we spend a great deal of money providing our employees with good health care, and that's a blessing that they receive that not everybody obviously does. Secondly, we have an interest in...
 the prosperity and livability of our city for everyone, regardless of their income. And so we see the effects of people that can't afford their health care, and maybe you're getting a big rent increase at the same time. So, you know, those economic justice issues end up, again, landing on our economy
 agenda and how do we respond to those sometimes downstream crises that the healthcare issue causes. Another way, and that's why I'm getting to my question, that we really specifically intersect with this issue is mental health and addiction.
 although the state and county governments are the primary caregiver for mental health and addiction, the police bureau ends up being the first responder or the fire bureau. For example, our firefighters and police officers so far have used the antidote to heroin addiction, I think it's now 812 times, which is, again, a blessing in that 812 people have been saved from an overdose, but it just illustrates that those two...
 those those areas of drug addiction and mental health end up intersecting with our work and of course with the whole livability of the city so big big long winded introduction bear with me for that to what extent does your vision and
 program that you ultimately have in mind encompass mental health care and addiction care as opposed to traditional preventative care and responsive care for more typical physical health care because obviously a true health care system is going to pay attention to mental health
 Our national one doesn't do a very good job of that right now. And a comprehensive health care system is going to pay attention to addiction because that's a massive health problem in our community and across the country.
 So how are you thinking about those two facets of health care as you develop this vision? I think the core of the vision is integration in all ways, integration of delivery, integration of funding, integration of every piece of a person's health.
 and that is specifically called out in the vision for health care that's in 3260. I won't read each of the elements, but you should take a look at it sometime because I'm really proud that the legislature did say that it finds that the best system for the delivery and financing of health care in this state will follow these principles, and integration is really at the heart of it.
 Good. Thank you. Thank you very much. Other questions? Thank you very much for being here today. Appreciate this. Thank you. Other invited testimonies to see? No. Okay. Others that would like to speak on this item, come on up, please. I have about ten people signed up. Okay. I guess let Carla call you. Sorry. Frederick Wilkins, Mary Henrich, and Mimi Germain. And they'll be followed by Robert West, Chris Lowe, and Jesse Sponberg. Okay. Good morning.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I was a strong supporter of the Oregon Health Plan. Unfortunately, some of the support for that was fought in the legislature by the education lobby. In 1993, there was a sales tax for schools, which failed. I was part of that. But because of that, Barbara Roberts did not run for a second term. I have dentistry from the county. It is covered. They just did dentistry on me for $400. It was covered by the Oregon Health Plan.
 Okay? So this is real stuff. I do not believe soon there may be amnesty for Hispanic Oregonians. 100,000 of them. They'll need health care and they probably can't afford it. It should be free. There's countries like England where health care is free. Canada is free except for dentistry. You have to have
 a plan like $300. Canadian officials came down to Oregon and wondered how Oregon could pay for dentistry on the Oregon health plan, right? It was really weird. But at least there is some remnants of the Oregon health plan left. And basically that money is directed towards women who need abortions and cannot financially support a child. And that was done by the federal government and administrated by the state of Oregon.
 I want to remind Amanda Fritz that the first time I ever talked in front of city council was the fact that the Healthy Kids did not cover non-residents of Oregon. And you said there would be no backlash, and you were right. So I actually, if I want to be a lobbyist for Salem, I will be for single-payer Canadian-style health care. Unfortunately, there's a catch is...
 that in Canada they have a 5% national sales tax. So if you ever see people talk about single-payer, they only say Canadian style. Oregon will probably never have a sales tax. But I support it. I was in the Army. I got free health care. I also believe that food stamps should be administered to all Oregonians. Nobody should starve in this state. And food is a matter of health care. If you don't get food, you die. So it's a health care issue.
 On education issues, I believe in private schools. I believe in homeschooling. I will vote for Measure 97, but I don't think it will pass, and neither does Mayor-elect Ted Wheeler. It has been actually to the 11th week announced that the Measure 97 is a sales tax. Some people have said that. I don't think it will pass. That will actually make sure that the education lobby does not fight the health care lobby.
 for the next couple years we have a good we have a good opening here for single payer in oregon thank you thank you very much good morning good morning i'm mary lou henrich and i am a retired public health nurse administrator and know most of you from my past experiences working on issues that are near and dear to both of our to all of our hearts and i'm not going to repeat everything that was said this morning i just wanted you to know that um
 I'm really pleased, Steve, that you are putting this forward, and I believe that it will get passed. It's a small step. I think that it's important that the study that everybody has fought for, that RAND is now doing, is getting done so we can really look at really kind of the devil in the details. What would it really look like? Because as you say, the city, the county, the state...
 private employers, everybody is throwing a ton of money at health care. And it's just
 the costs keep rising. You keep hearing about the increases in the insurance costs and in the costs of, you know, I looked at when I was executive director of Care Oregon and was looking at costs of MRIs in the early days, you know, they were about $250. And now, you know, they're $1,800 and $2,000 and more. And it's kind of like, that's only 10 years. Right.
 So really, indeed, we have got to get our hands around, and I really agree with him, the answer is a single payer where you've got your arms around it and you can look at the prevention activities, the things that need to be done community-wide, the parks, all of those pieces, housing that really are things that make people happy.
 allow them to be healthy. Then you have for the times when your genetics and other things, accidents, whatever get in the way, then you have to have the care that comes in. And it has to be affordable, has to be coordinated. And our heads and our bodies are not disconnected. And so our mental health and our physical health need to be integrated. But when we've got this system that it's kind of like the house that Jack built,
 It's going to be difficult to dismantle pieces, to change pieces. Everybody hangs on to the devil they know versus the devil they don't know, and it's a scary proposition. So moving it forward and just keep pushing. And I laughed when I heard Nancy talk about how many decades we've been working on this in 1965.
 I was a state debate champion from a small school, and our topic was hereby resolved that the United States of America will have national health care. Some good ideas take time. Thank you. The next three are, was there a Mimi, Germaine, maybe? Okay, so the next three are Robert West, Chris Lowe, and Jesse Sponberg. Come on up.
 The West may have left. Let's go ahead and go with Jim Robison or Robinson. Good morning. My name is Chris Lowe. I'm an activist with Health Care for All Oregon. I'm also on the board of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, which is a member of Health Care for All Oregon.
 I wanted to talk to you today a little bit about politics and the politics of health care. This council in 2009 passed a resolution led by Commissioner Randy Leonard endorsing HR 676, which was a national single-payer bill at the time. Commissioner Fritz was on the council at the time, and Commissioner Salzman, though I think you were out of town when the vote actually happened.
 and I think Commissioner Fish was on the council. So Portland as a city is on record supporting the principle of single payer, which is essentially what was at stake in that resolution. That same year, I attended an event that included Representative Blumenauer, State Senator Alan Bates, who unfortunately passed away earlier this year from Ashland, and Mike Huntington, who was a representative
 President, first president of the current incarnation of HCAO. He's one of the mad as hell doctors who toured around. And Senator Bates, who's kind of, you know, if you follow the health care politics in the state, he was one of the real crafters of our current system. The transformation, the merger of that with the Oregon version of a kind of, you know,
 sort of like what the ACA is nationally. He said this very interesting thing. He said, if you look at the way that the costs of health care are going, you know, the curve for income goes up,
 this much and the curve for healthcare cost goes up this much and at some point, maybe around 2030, they cross. And, you know, healthcare is the entire income, you know, and that's not obviously really going to happen. But the other thing he said about it was right now, 60% of people are more afraid of losing what they have and like it well enough, not that it's necessarily great, but good enough
 that they're not going to support a single-payer system. He was agnostic about that. He was saying, if we could get there, it might be great. But I don't think it's going to happen, so let's see if we can do things in the meantime to solve the problems by other means. But he said, if that doesn't happen, the rising costs are going to make it worse and worse, and eventually we're going to get to a point where 60% of the people are more afraid of what happens to them under what they currently have than in the future. And...
 And what we see happening now is that that dynamic is playing out. Those of us who have been consistent single-payer advocates have always thought this would be the case. The dynamics of the system, the ACA does not address the underlying crisis. So in terms of moving to politics, this task force gets the Oregon legislature more into the practicalities of how we take the next steps.
 So I'm here to ask you to support Commissioner Novick's resolution as tribunes of the people of Portland to the legislature. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Mr. Palmberg, I think you're next. Go ahead. My name is Jesse Spalmberg. I would just ask that you guys support Commissioner Novick's resolution. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Jim Robison. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners.
 I just wanted to share with you a recent incident that highlighted for me the importance of taking action on this. I'm a state board member of Healthcare for All Oregon, and I have seen far too many people over the years who just suffer from our current system, and it needs to be fixed.
 But one thing highlighted that for me just the other day. Some of you have met my mom, Rose Robinson, and she fell the other day and broke her hip. Her first comment after she fell was, I hope my insurance will cover this. This system is so bad that an 86-year-old retired ICU nurse is concerned about whether her injury would be covered.
 it shouldn't be the first thought on anyone's mind when they have an injury of whether or not they're going to be covered for treatment on that. Now, fortunately, she is covered by Medicare, and so she's able to get that treatment. But for many people, there's no option. They have to either go without treatment or go deep into debt.
 That shouldn't be the system. I really support this, and I appreciate the work being done on this. I also greatly appreciate the leadership of Senator Dembrow and Representative Smith-Warner in the legislature in moving forward with this. Thank you. Thank you very much. Hope your mom's doing okay and that she was covered. Yeah, and she's in very good spirits. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 So let's move on, folks. But first, I've got to make an announcement. Commissioner Saltzman's had to leave the chambers because he's the commissioner in charge of the Fire Bureau. And we're going to have to move our other items this afternoon because he's going to be on scene. We've had a gas explosion at a –
 at a bakery at 23rd and Gleason, and we have a couple of firefighters, at least a couple who are injured, and they're still looking for other victims of this. So obviously it's a serious situation, and as the commissioner in charge of the Fire Bureau, he needs to be there. So he will be absent for the remainder of this morning's session. We'll act on items or hear items that don't require four of us to be here, including this one. So we can continue with this discussion and other stuff on our agenda that we can do this morning, and we'll move the other items to this afternoon.
 so please next three are david davis charles bridge crane johnson and barbara council come on up all right go right ahead well when i walked in i didn't know i was speaking but i don't mind i just signed up to come in thank you very much for your time so usually when i talk about this i talk about my experience in 2005 i had a great job great insurance very fortunate i had a very bad accident which totally disabled me
 I was very lucky. As I was getting out of the hospital, I found out that my bill would have been $450,000, and they weren't even done with me yet because, well, I nearly lost my life. While I was recouping at home, I'm thankful. I had family to take care of me instead of putting me in a nursing home. And I was reading articles in the Oregonian that were making me sick. One
 I read about a child who was six months old who died because her parents waited to take the child to the emergency room, knowing how expensive it was. And these were working parents. They just did not have access to health care.
 The second one was so disturbing. Originally, I felt so guilty for surviving what I survived because I found out that a 15-year-old died because her parents, both working, they had insurance. The insurance company denied them
 the care for their daughter who needed a liver transplant, and I just had one. And so I knew that the insurance company was full of baloney. I mean, it's risky, of course, but it's doable. And they made their decisions based on profit instead of on what this child needed.
 And instead of staying home and being depressed, I went and fought for it because I met Mattis Hill doctors and the physicians group and eventually joined Healthcare for All Oregon. So that is why I'm a big volunteer for Healthcare for All Oregon because I know it's necessary. And I don't think children...
 obviously Oregon's done better and we do have pretty good access for children but it's still not enough and I do not think that we should allow profits to make decisions over people's health care. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here. Good morning. Who'd like to be next? I'll go next. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson and
 And it's been my privilege to occasionally volunteer off and on with HCAO. For those who don't know, the quickest way to find out more about this issue is on the Internet, simply hcao.org, healthcare for all Oregon. And we have a chance to treat our neighbors, to be groundbreakers in the treatment of our neighbors, to move ahead, hopefully ahead of the state of Vermont,
 It would be hard to catch Colorado depending on how their vote goes this fall. But anybody who's – we sometimes have unfortunate experiences with our elderly relatives and a little glitch in Medicaid, but almost everybody knows that the inequitable way we have a single-payer system for older Americans and not for younger Americans clearly illustrates that nine times out of ten people will agree that
 younger Americans get an even worse runaround from an even worse private insurance system than anything that our parents or grandparents have to face. Because of the power of the insurance lobby, we need to engage. The way HCAO works is through neighborhood area, regional coalitions as part of a statewide organization. And if you really want...
 your children to have the best outcomes possible for health care. It's important that, obviously, the council pass this resolution to help move the state in the right direction, but that you engage on the local level, not just in quadrennial or biennial elections, but go to the website, hcao.org, and meet some good people and work on a very important issue. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 So I wanted to talk about expanding healthcare and being progressive and actually sending people that have drug problems out of the country to Mexico or Canada to go to Ibogaine clinics, which actually has been proven to cure addiction instead of prolong it with programs like methadone and other stuff. And again,
 The reason why Ibogaine isn't legal in America is because the pharmaceutical industry owns America. And I would like to see progressive health policies like Ibogaine clinics actually possibly coming to Portland. And we have an ayahuasca church here, which, you know, is legal under Oregon Constitution.
 And there's actually religions that are based on the iboga plant in Africa. So maybe with a little twerking of laws based on religious freedom, we could actually expand health care here in Oregon. And do any of you guys actually know about Ibogaine? Heard about it. Appreciate you bringing it up. Well, you should Google it. There's a...
 It's known all around the world, and it actually has an amazing rate of curing addiction, which would lower crime and all kinds of stuff. So that is something you could do to actually expand health care in Oregon and be progressive leaders and cure addiction and things like that.
 Thanks very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, next three. If Mimi Germain and Robert West were the last two who signed up. Okay, come on up. Sure. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Robert West, and there's a few things I wanted to bring up. First, I'm all for the health care thing. The other thing that I wanted to bring up is that there's got to be some kind of health care because, again,
 For instance, like last week when the fascist goons attacked peaceful protesters at City Hall, one guy got a broken arm out of it. I believe three or four people were sent to the hospital. And I think that...
 um something needs to come of that you know they need some kind of medical care some kind of where the city can pay for it or where the state can pay for it uh one of the people that had a broken arm is actually a actually stays at r2d2 and doesn't have money and when he uh when he was at the hospital he was met with a security force that stayed outside his door and
 and dealt with doctors and stuff that had really bad bedside manner. And they heard that a four-year-old girl was also transported to the hospital with pepper spray injuries. And I find it sort of ironic that the Portland police find it necessary to pepper spray a four-year-old girl. To me, that's just beyond...
 what I would consider even social, you know, being social. There's no reason why the police should have forced elderly women, children, and adults, and forced them to basically shove them outdoors, stomping and stumbling on other people. I understand an officer got injured in that, which I really don't care.
 because I was there, I was in the front part, and the police actually were the ones that initiated the actions. That's why I called them fascist goons, because they didn't care about public safety. They didn't care about anyone else's safety. They just wanted to force people out. And like I said, several people got injured. Four went to the hospital. Twenty had to lay in the street. And some of those that laid in the street were charged with disorderly conduct.
 And I haven't heard anything from City Hall or the police on any kind of apologies. The only thing that I've heard is that it's the protesters' fault for being in the hallway. And that people of this society, of Portland, need to decide, do they want mayors and commissioners that decide that they're going to allow police to
 assault peaceful people and what's next a Gestapo type police force um I heard you've talked about how you want to bring police officers in and actions like that won't bring good police officers in it'll bring in the racist cops it'll bring in the cops that have vendettas against people
 that's the kind of police force that you're trying to bring in. And we can use universal health care as an incentive, but the truth is that very few people like bullies, and I've seen a lot of bullies with badges, and the mayor and the commissioners really should be ashamed of themselves at the way the police reacted.
 They made sure that people that had tickets, I still got all six of my tickets, were not able to speak. Police weren't allowing certain people upstairs to speak. And I really think that the city commissioners and the mayor really needs to look at the situation. They definitely owe the public an apology.
 There was people out there when the protesters got out and was on the sidewalk and the police came out and was pepper spraying people. You had bystanders looking around going, what's going on here? Why are they spraying people on the sidewalk and stuff? One lady was injured and couldn't move, and there was an officer standing over her, and she wound up being arrested too.
 Two people were charged with coercion, which was ridiculous. The DA dropped those charges immediately. So that's what I wanted to bring up. I wanted to let you guys know that me and other people are getting really sick and tired of the brutality of the police force. And...
 that I intend on doing everything I can to document and bring, and also, if possible, bring civil and criminal charges against any officers or city workers that assist the police, condone the police, or anything like that, as far as assaulting, injuring, or, you know,
 or any or anything like that to protesters or anyone else like i said a little four-year-old girl got pepper sprayed and wound up in the hospital and the police brought nothing said nothing about that thank you very much appreciate it thank you anyone else on this item that's all who signed up okay then let's take a vote please novick
 Thank you so much to Senator Dembrow, Ben Garrett, and Nancy Sullivan for speaking today, to all the others who spoke. Especially, I have to say, Mary Lou Hendrick, and I still feel guilty about not supporting you for that state representative seat years ago. Thanks to Lee Mercer for his role on this issue.
 Without question, the Affordable Care Act has succeeded in improving health care for many people. Specifically, the Medicaid expansion has been a tremendous help in reducing the number of Oregonians and Portlanders who are uninsured. The expansion isn't perfect. Notably, it doesn't extend coverage to immigrants, leaving a large and unconscionable gap in the program. It's made a huge difference to many people, driving down the uninsurance rate in Oregon to just 5%.
 I recently, Mayor Elect Wheeler and I went to San Antonio to view a homeless services campus they have there. And they have a medical component of their services. And that cost them about $4 million a year. And I asked them how much of that would be covered if Texas had accepted the Medicaid expansion, which it rejected. And they said all of it would be covered. So I'm grateful that we did accept the Medicaid expansion in Oregon.
 But the Affordable Care Act has not made health care affordable for all, and it hasn't solved core issues related to portability and the cost of health insurance benefits that are borne by employers and employees. It's important to note that health care is economic development. If we could drive down the cost of health insurance for employers, we'd go a long way toward improving their economic competitiveness.
 This resolution calls on the legislature to take the next step toward the goal of comprehensive, affordable health care for all. I'm pleased to support the efforts of Health Care for All Oregon and pleased to vote aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick, for introducing this resolution. I was very proud to work with Mayor Adams and Commissioner Randy Leonard in 2009. They co-sponsored the resolution calling on the Congress to do this. Of course, they haven't yet, but at least we have President Obama having given us, as a country, a great step forward with the Affordable Health Act.
 Affordable Care Act. I've seen Chris Lowe and Jim Robeson and Mark Sturwood, many people here, have been working on this for a very long time. You can tell by my accent, which, by the way, is more British because my family just came over for my son's wedding and it got stuck. LAUGHTER
 So a couple of people said that healthcare is free in England or in Canada, and of course it isn't. It costs quite a lot of money, and that's why Senator Denver is suggesting that we send it to the voters. The city of Portland has a great plan with wonderful benefits, and we haven't had a cost increase for several years in a row, I believe. So it is possible if you've got a well-managed system that focuses also on prevention and wellness, as well as getting people to see their primary care provider at the right time rather than waiting to go to the...
 emergency room, we can do it. So please add my name as a retired registered nurse to the thousands of Oregon Nurses Association members, of which I can remain one, to support this. And
 Thanks to Commissioner Novick and Laura Hansen on his staff, who worked very hard on this resolution, as did Goldan Salazar on my office. It's good. And we will be having a legislative agenda-setting process in November. I encourage you all to be part of that, where we're going to not only see what other things do the citizens want to include on the city's agenda, but also have some training on how to advocate effectively at the legislature. So watch out for that date coming soon to a venue near you. Thank you very much for all your work. Bye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick, and all of you who are advocates for good public policy, because that's what this is. And this resolution is both timely and influential. Timely because, as Commissioner Fritch just mentioned, every legislative cycle we develop a package of issues that we care about, and we and our lobbyists go to the legislature in coalitions like this and try to make things happen. And it does.
 It tends to actually work lately thanks to an excellent legislature. So things like getting the ban on the preemption of inclusionary housing was accomplished last session in just such a coalition effort where it was in our legislative agenda, developed with public advice like Commissioner Fritsch just said, and then carried down there. So this is timely and just in time for us to add that to our package, and I believe obviously that we should.
 Secondly, it's influential, and I want to reinforce your belief in this kind of grassroots effort, because I see three areas where policymaking at the local level and then sometimes rising to the state level then starts to have a national or even a global impact. One is the environment. You know, I was a newly minted city commissioner sitting where Steve sits in 1993 when we passed the nation's first local climate action plan,
 Well, now there are cities all over the world with a climate action plan, and we're one of 80-some cities that are in the C40 group, and those cities turned out to be really influential in Paris when the latest climate change accords were adopted, not to mention the fact that if we do what we've got in our plans, it'll have a huge impact on climate right there. So there's a case where...
 Grassroots action at the local level then has risen to the global level, and that's true now as we take up the question of fossil fuels in our city and how much, if any, expansion they should have here.
 Another area is human rights. We passed a domestic partners ordinance when I was on the city council the first time around, and then we supported marriage equality, and other cities and states did likewise, and then it became the law of the land. And so on human rights issues, the same sort of bottom-up, grassroots-driven effort, yes, has changed the country for the good.
 And then the third is economic justice. We've taken action here at this table on wages for our employees, on banning the box. And again, we're seeing that kind of upwelling from the community level to the state level to the national level. And I believe that's what's going to happen on this issue too. It's just...
 the force of history. Maybe it's taken way too long for those of you who have been working on this for a long time. Thank you. But I do believe that more and more we're seeing that pattern where the people have their say at the local level. It turns into state policy, and it eventually turns into the law of the land, at least with a good Supreme Court. So we appreciate all of you very much. And, Steve, thank you for your leadership on this. Good work. Aye. Thank you all very much.
 All right, let's move on to our next time certain item, which is 1158. Authorize the Portland Bureau of Transportation to initiate the Keep Moving Portland pilot program for the central city in 2017 to require advance notification and coordination for closures, detours, for capital projects, capital maintenance, development, and utility activities. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 Colleagues, what we're going to talk about here is better coordination in the right of way. Our streets are the bones of our city. They carry pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists, and folks who are rolling. They carry underground pipes and utilities. They act as emergency response routes, and they're used for special events and parades.
 Here's an example of an issue that could be addressed with the Keep Portland Moving program. Imagine a new building being developed that needs to utilize one lane of a street for seven months. The project would create a detour. Now, also imagine the Water Bureau needs to upgrade pipes on a nearby street. That project could also create a detour. However, the problem that sometimes arises is that one project's detour is detoured by the other detour.
 Now, with better coordination between these multiple projects in a dense area, PBOT engineers can better coordinate detours, the effects of various projects can be mitigated, and the disruption to the public is minimized. That's just one example of how improved coordination helps our city work better.
 And now I will turn things over to PBOT's Asset Manager, replacing the great Jamie Waltz, the great Emily Trich. Good morning. Thank you very much. Good morning, Mayor Hales, Commissioners Novick and Fritsch. My name is Emily Trich. I'm the Asset Manager with the Bureau of Transportation. And I'm pleased to speak with you today about the Keep Portland Moving Resolution.
 Keep Portland Moving may sound familiar to you. From about 2008 to 2011, my bureau led an effort to coordinate work in the right-of-way to support the mobility of Portlanders downtown despite construction. This new Keep Portland Moving program endeavors to do much the same with the addition of improved coordination and communication between city bureaus and with our sister agencies for work in the central city. So why now?
 We expect 2017 to be a busy year for construction. On your screen is a quarter-by-quarter snapshot of what we expect to occur downtown. From full to partial closures of three bridges, to transit work on the west side, to improvements at Pioneer Square, 2017 looks to be a full year. You can see from this image that there's a great need for coordination downtown so people can get to where they need to go.
 in favor of preserving mobility and accessibility downtown through 2017 and consistent with the administrative rule for safe accommodation of pedestrians and cyclists in and around work zones. Keep Portland Moving would underscore existing requirements for advanced notification for work within the right-of-way of at least five business days, notification within 24 hours for emergency work within the right-of-way, both consistent with city code,
 Some bureaus are already providing this advance notification to PBOT, in particular the Bureau of Environmental Services, who provides contractor schedules three weeks ahead of planned work. This resolution would also require the identification of liaisons from each bureau's capital projects and maintenance groups to serve on a Keep Portland Moving working group throughout the year in order to support effective communication of work.
 In order to support our coordination efforts and improve our outreach to Portlanders, this resolution would have a focus on the central city and on the Cully neighborhood in East Portland. We wanted to include as part of the resolution a focus on an outer East Portland neighborhood and identified Cully because of the several projects and programs of significance slated for next year, including the Connected Cully Program, Cully Neighborhood Streets, and a proposed Smart Trips grant. Thank you.
 For the Keep Portland Moving Working Group, we intend to engage liaisons from the capital maintenance groups of each infrastructure bureau, as well as partners at TriMet, ODOT, Multnomah County, Streetcar, and our franchise utilities. And I believe you've received the letters of support already from the Bureau of Environmental Services and TriMet in support of this resolution. We'd also like to engage stakeholder groups throughout 2017 comprised of agencies who are concerned with mobility and access in their communities,
 This list includes but a few. And we also intend to come back to you in December with an evaluation of the Key Portland Moving Program to detail how it performed and the resources required to expand this effort in the future. I'd like to invite any questions or comments on this proposal. Questions? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Do you have some testimony invited on this item, Steve? No.
 I don't believe so. Okay, so just see if anyone signed up. Carly, have people signed up? I saw two people signed up, Jesse Sponberg and David Davis. Okay, come on up. Anyone else? Go ahead. Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I don't know if I want to give thanks or condolences to Steve Novick for these back-to-back programs that really rival the bridge crane. The...
 One thing that I wish we had presented testimony on is within the past few months, we had a number of citizens testify specifically on the issue of sidewalk mobility and signage. And I think there's really – is there any other way than just the general information number, the – Amanda knows about our 823-4000, I think, for people to –
 communicate when they think that Keep Portland Moving is glitching. Emily, what other numbers can people call? 823-4000 and 823-SAFE are great tools, as well as PDX Reporter, to file issues or complaints. We also have a keepportlandmoving.gov website, and that's where you can get information. And as part of this effort, we propose additional outreach to the public in two ways.
 Thank you. Since you're here, what provisions are there in this for pedestrians as opposed to other businesses and road users? Well, the intention is to improve our communication to the public so that they can make plans and detour their routes accordingly.
 We're investigating the possibility of coordinating with Waze and their Connected Citizens Program in order to use tools that people already have in hand in order to plan their routing. Certainly that's primarily used for motor vehicles, but it's another consideration for pedestrian and cyclists as well. This resolution is intended to focus on communicating these activities in the right-of-way and ensuring that there is a safe through path
 in terms of additional safety provisions for pedestrians that's reliant on the traffic control plans that are approved prior to the action. Thank you. And maybe if you could continue to look into the requests we've had from people who are not able to see to get the audible and also to have a way so that pedestrians don't have to go very much around a difficult route. I'm sorry, you may have answered this while I was out of the room, but
 Last time we looked at this set of issues, we were looking at it from the regulatory side. What do we require of developers, and does that need to change? Where are we in that path? In other words, have we, in your opinion, Steve, or the Bureau, have we gotten our regulations to the correct level in terms of saying, sorry, I know you don't want to spend the money on doing this, but you need to build this as you're doing a project that interferes with the right way?
 I think we've made pretty significant progress. We'll always be monitoring to see if we need to do better. What do you think, Emily? I think that's still in the works, and we hope to have a robust process working with our developers and our permitters to make sure that we are doing all the right work in consideration for protecting our users of the right-of-way. Thank you. I appreciate that. And also, Mr. Johnson, I appreciate you bringing this up.
 yeah the second second related question again i'm sorry charles may have brought this up but um you know our um our record this year is really awful we've had 34 traffic deaths in the city so far this year i i hope that none of them was a result of a
 constrained right away where somebody was at risk because they were walking too close to traffic. I don't think that's the case. But obviously that highlights the need to do this the right way. And if we have to raise the level of effort by private parties that are building this or building that, much less our own agencies when they're out digging up a street, I mean, we just have to really redouble what we're doing if we're serious about Vision Zero. And we're 34%...
 to the negative 34 lost Portlanders away from Vision Zero, and that's terrible. I think this is a terrific opportunity to hold your city bureaus more accountable in their coordination and communication efforts with each other. I think by holding us to a higher standard, we can meet that challenge and deliver a more
 and safe right-of-way for movement through the city. Well, I hope, again, I know we've had this discussion a couple times. I appreciate the progress. I hope what you're consistently hearing from us is, you know, go to the responsible limit on this issue. Thank you. Okay, thanks. Jesse, did you get to speak? No, sir. Go ahead.
 During the brevity of my remarks, I'd just like to add one more thing. I think that in addition to inter-bureau communication, I hope that now that we have major tech companies like Google here, who does excellent map interfacing, also Uber has an office. They bought a local mapping company. So I hope that we can find some bridges here
 The PBOT representative mentioned ways, but to get that data into essentially right to the palm of people's hands so that they are, you know, if we're going to reduce congestion, that will only happen if people have knowledge about where the congestion is. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead. Good morning. Good morning, guys. I probably shocked you guys a minute ago when I didn't.
 Take the single-payer health care and turn it into my own soapbox. But I think that few enough people spoke on this issue that I can take this moment. So we can do this two ways. I can dance around it like Bridge Crane and create euphemisms. Or I can just ask you very simply, why, Charlie? Why? Why did I deserve to get thrown on my back last week when all I was doing was filming your police officers hurting women? When you can hear on the videos where I'm just screaming...
 Please, please stop hurting women. Do you know how it feels to have to beg a cop to stop hurting a woman? Where I'm going, please, I promise I will get all these people out of here if you just stop this stampede that's created and that was authorized by you. What have I ever done wrong in this city? I consider myself a pillar in this community, man. I get school coats for children. I get blankets for homeless people. In here, I've never been nothing but a gadfly.
 I've never committed a crime. I've never done anything besides just voicing my opinion as a citizen. And because of that, you sent your goons to beat us up, Charlie. I haven't been able to sleep in a week. I've been to the emergency room two times now. Every time I bend my neck, it pops and it crackles. And I'm up all night on ibuprofen and muscle relaxers and heating pads.
 All I did was break out my video camera. I wasn't in the way. I wasn't even standing in City Hall. I wasn't even standing in City Hall. Now I'm a national embarrassment. Now I'm on the front pages of newspapers getting thrown on my back by the biggest police officer.
 Now, I have to hug my sisters out front when cops walk by because they start shaking and sweating and I can see the tears in their eyes. And what did they do wrong? All they did was try to speak their opinion. Isn't that why we're here? I mean, isn't that why we come here? And you found it okay to authorize those people to be hurt. I mean, to be hurt. I really hurt. And I wouldn't just come here and cry if I wasn't sincerely hurt.
 And if my friends weren't sincerely hurt, I really just want to know why. And I think that you owe that to me. All right. Thanks, Jesse. I'm sorry you got hurt. And I hope, obviously, that you have started the process of asking for a complete review of what happened. I have as well. So you know how that process works, and I hope you avail yourself of it. I'm not going to try and convict anybody in this room, either a citizen or a police officer. But that process is there for a reason, and we should all make sure that it works.
 Without being hyperbolic, sir, if I could have one more sentence. I think you've brought incredible, incredible shame to our city. I think you've made us a national shame. We are in national and international news for how terribly you have handled not just this police issue, but this whole city. And I really, really, sir, I really encourage you to resign and spare the rest of this city the next 10 weeks of bullshit that are only going to be created because of you.
 Thank you for your time.
 are you ready carla yes okay all right let's uh resume our work please uh i think we had we taken all the testimony on this item uh that we got to everybody who signed up yes okay any further council discussion then uh let's take a vote please novick aye
 Well, thanks to Mayor Sam Adams, who was mentioned in the previous version of this. I'm glad to see the improvements. Emily, that was a fantastic presentation from you as a staff person. Thank you. And I remember when Commissioner Novick...
 made the announcement that Leah Treat was going to be the next director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. She had had some experience in Chicago with exactly this kind of management and pledged to implement it. So I appreciate that you followed through on that, Commissioner Novick. And I appreciate also that we're looking at not only vehicles, including bicycles, as well as motor vehicles, also pedestrians and that.
 and particularly thinking about people with disabilities and how are they going to be able to get around in a safe manner and not having to take a very circuitous route. So thank you very much for that.
 Yeah, thanks for your work on this, Commissioner Novick, and the Bureau. This is obviously important in terms of safety, and the rate of development activity that we're experiencing in the city is apparently not likely to let up any time soon. So it's really important that we get this right, not just for convenience's sake, but for safety's sake, and that's the most important reason to do this work. So thank you. All right. All right.
 Okay, now I understand we're going to move 1159 to the regular agenda. Is that right? So without objection, we're going to move 1159 from a time certain to the regular agenda, and we'll take 1160, please. Declare that no form of sexual violence should be tolerated and that Portland City Council stands in support of survivors of sexual assault and rape. Commissioner Novick. A couple of Fridays ago, I was appalled to see Donald Trump –
 bragging about committing numerous instances of sexual assault. But I have to say, I was even more appalled by the news they heard shortly thereafter. There was a poll of Donald Trump supporters in two major states in which they said that that tape had no impact on their view of him, not just that in spite of it, they were still planning to support him. It had no impact on their view of him. And that brought home to me something that
 Women in America already know which is not only that are they at risk of sexual violence? But they live among far too many people who think that sexual assault Apparently is no big deal and let's not cut ourselves I don't think this is purely partisan issue if that many Donald Trump supporters feel that way We have to assume that a fair number of Hillary Clinton supporters feel the same way that is not acceptable
 And I think it's very important for us as elected leaders to let survivors of sexual assault know that we believe them, that we stand with them, and that we are committed to creating a society in which sexual assault is not tolerated.
 We've invited other leaders from around our community to talk about the work they are doing to support survivors, and I would like to offer them the majority of the time scheduled for this item. We're going to hear from Baltimore County Chair Deborah Kofori, Liesl Wendt, Director of County Human Services, Don Reese, Chief Deputy District Attorney for Baltimore County, Annie Wynn, Victim Assistance Program Supervisor for Baltimore County, and Meg Garvin, Executive Director of the National Crime Victim Law Institute. Chair Kofori. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you. Thanks so much for having us today. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I'm Deborah Kofori, Multnomah County Chair, and I'm proud to be here today in support of this resolution. I was introduced early in life to the pain that sexual violence causes and the way that it can affect a person's life.
 I'm sure you've heard my stories about when I was a child, my mother would open up our home to women escaping domestic violence and overcoming the trauma of sexual assault. This was at a time when shelter and services were in short supply. Some mornings I would find a stranger at our kitchen table, someone who needed a safe place far away from her abuser.
 My mother helped start the Bradley Angle House, the first domestic violence shelter on the West Coast. And later, when she served in the legislature, she dedicated the marriage license fees to support services for domestic violence and sexual assault victims. Two decades later, when I served in the legislature, I fought for the first general fund allocation to expand these services. And now at Multnomah County, I'm proud to say that we're adding funding for survivors of sexual assault.
 In Multnomah County, approximately 2,600 women are raped annually, and 14,000 experience other forms of sexual assault. Seventy-five percent of sexual assaults in Multnomah County are not reported. Women from communities of color and other marginalized communities are significantly less likely to report the assault to law enforcement, significantly less likely to show up in our hospital emergency rooms, and therefore,
 are significantly less likely to receive any victim services. So while we've come a long way since my mother opened our home to those who needed shelter, we have a lot of work to do. And that's why I really appreciate Commissioner Novick bringing forward this resolution today. It is a reminder of the need in our community, and it will help us focus our work.
 Funding is critical, but it's equally critical that we treat survivors with respect at all levels, in health care, in criminal justice, in housing, and in our supportive services. We have a plan to focus on services, crisis intervention, long-term help for the adverse effects of trauma, as well as prevention of future violence.
 The Sexual Assault Advisory Committee, which is led by Multnomah County's Domestic and Sexual Violence Coordination Office, has identified a need to prioritize enhanced services for sexual assault survivors from marginalized and underserved communities. As we enhance services to make our systems more responsive to people who need help, I look forward to our continued partnership with the City of Portland. And now I'd like to introduce our Director of the Department of County Human Services, Liesl Wendt.
 Good morning, Mayor. Excuse me, and Commissioners. I'm Liesl Wendt, Director of the Department of County Human Services. And as you heard from the Chair, it's common sense that we invest in sexual assault services. And in fact, at the county, we recently named our Domestic Violence Coordination Office and expanded it to include sexual assault, recognizing that our focus had been too narrow, and we really needed to identify sexual assault as a priority area for policy and for future investments.
 We've looked at innovative states and communities around the country that have been able to design high-quality programs to reduce and prevent sexual assault. These programs have created significant improvements and are the kind of innovations we're looking to implement in Multnomah County. As the chair said, we developed our program this year in response to the needs identified by our Sexual Assault Advisory Committee and conversations with advocates, community of color, and other service providers. So this year, we have a small investment, and this is what we plan to do.
 We're launching a project with El Programa Hispano-Catolica Unica to give advocates the flexibility they need to get in the community and work with people who, for a variety of reasons, are not in a position to seek assistance or identify sexual assault when they're going to different agencies. Advocates will go to schools, urgent care, churches, community health clinics, and homeless shelters to identify people in crisis. We will work with providers who are already seeing survivors in order to increase capacity throughout the county.
 and will learn how to remove barriers to service and remove the conditions in our community that cause sexual assault. And this is just the beginning, I should note. I also wanted to mention that I'm the parent of two college-age kids who are both extremely involved in their campuses, and over their time being college students, they've raised my awareness of sexual assault on college campuses as they've had friends or watched the communities either respond correctly or incorrectly to sexual assault.
 And what I know, I have a fairly opinionated daughter, so I told her I was coming here today, and she said, this is what you should say. And she really said we have to raise awareness about this topic and remove the stigma for people to talk about their experiences. And not just for young kids, for adults as well, to create that atmosphere where we're not afraid to acknowledge what's happening in our community and to create places for people to be supportive.
 She went on, but that's the Reader's Digest version. So I thank you for your support today. I think we have an opportunity to educate our community and change the social norms in Portland. As Commissioner Novick noted, we may not be able to influence the national dialogue, but I sincerely hope by today's action and by your continued leadership that in Portland, this can become a safe place for survivors and a place where sexual assault is not a chronic issue in our community. So thank you.
 Thank you both. Thank you. No questions. Thank you. Do you have some other invited testimony, Steve? We do. Okay, please. And I'd like to ask Don Reese. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Novick. I'm Don Reese, one of Rod Underhill's chief deputy district attorneys in the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, and
 First, thank you for this important resolution. Second, I had two comments I wanted to share with you earlier.
 First, I wanted to introduce Annie Nguyen, one of the newest members of our staff, whose job is focused on helping survivors of sexual assault and other crimes. And two, I wanted to update you on an important project in my office that's aimed squarely at helping victims of sexual assault. So first, Annie Nguyen joined us this summer. She has a master's in social work. She has 10 years of experience helping survivors of sexual assault.
 and other crimes in Orange County, California, although she's returned to us by way of Oregon, being an Oregon State University graduate. And we're glad we were able to extract her from Southern California.
 She heads a program of 14 victim advocates in my office who all help survivors and victims of crime navigate through the criminal justice system, whether their case is prosecuted or not. So she's doing that work and overseeing our expanded staff.
 Secondly, in terms of an update, I'm sure you're aware of the national problem of backlogged sexual assault kits. These are forensic or sometimes called rape kits, examinations of biological evidence taken from the bodies of women and sometimes men who have been sexually assaulted and then, unfortunately, simply put on shelves and untested. Rudd Underhill early on identified that this was a problem in Portland.
 And with the generous assistance of Cy Vance, the elected district attorney in Manhattan, New York, who offered nationwide millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars for this testing, Rod Underhill was able to receive a $2 million grant. And that money is being used exclusively to test 3,000 backlogged cases or kits in Multnomah, Marion, and Lane counties.
 uh the work's being done by a private lab in salt lake city swarinson labs because the oregon state police crime lab is already at over capacity and they couldn't take on a project of this magnitude the update is the first kits have been shipped off to the laboratory for testing and examination and we're starting to get the results back and they're being analyzed by a dedicated investigator
 Amity Kurt in my office, one of our top prosecutors who's assigned solely to this process, and a victim advocate who is assigned solely to this project as well. And undoubtedly, through this work, as we look at these 3,000 rape kits, we're going to identify victims.
 sexual offenders who previously have gone undetected and unpunished. And we will identify and prosecute and hold accountable these offenders. And in doing this work, we're sending a message to survivors of sexual assault that they are important and these cases are important. And finally, our goal, in addition to all of that, is to
 identify the systemic reasons why the backlog occurred in the first place and to ensure that we don't have a backlog in the future. Thank you again. Thank you. Good morning.
 Hello. I'm happy to be here, and I appreciate the introduction, Dawn. I am Annie Nguyen, and I'm the new program supervisor for the Victim Assistance Program with the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office. And just to add quickly to what Dawn already shared, our office efforts in this area of sexual assault and sexual violence. Our office recently has expanded our victim assistance program, dedicating resources. So we have now 14 full-time victim advocates compared to the eight that we had in years previous.
 We also have been able to designate specific assignments to some of these advocates. So in addition to our domestic violence unit, we also now have one full-time advocate dedicated to the issues of human trafficking, and then one, as Don mentioned, for the sexual assault kit initiatives.
 That's their full-time responsibility to respond to the needs of the victim survivors of these types of crimes. We also are proud to offer 24-hour response to all the local area hospitals for victims who are seeking a sexual assault exam, as well as coordinate the sexual assault response team for the county. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. I am Meg Garvin. I'm pleased to be here. I am the Executive Director of the National Crime Victim Law Institute, which is based here at Lewis and Clark Law School, where I'm also a law professor. I was thrilled that this resolution was being put forward, and I'm very grateful to the
 We're in Domestic Violence Awareness Month. So the timing is interesting, but it's critical that we talk about sexual violence 12 months a year, recognizing that it happens both inside and outside intimate partner relationships. So the timing of this is both timely from a national conversation, but also to acknowledge that happens within intimate partner relationships. For survivors of sexual violence,
 Victimization, the moment of victimization is horrific, but sadly, the aftermath can be equally horrific for them. When they choose to come forward, when they choose to come forward, they are faced with a backlash at times, a backlash that questions them, their history, their choices, their motivations, all of it.
 And what is critical is that we as a community start to create spaces, spaces where survivors' voices can be heard, where they feel safe disclosing their victimization, and then we create space for them to choose their path to how they survive. Criminal justice is one path to surviving sexual violence, and we have some amazing partners here in Multnomah County and in the city working in criminal justice.
 Other avenues to surviving also matter, and creating space for survivors to choose their path is important. The National Crime Victim Law Institute, we do work predominantly in the criminal case.
 We work to ensure that survivors are provided no-cost legal services to protect their rights during that process, their rights to privacy, so protection from invasive subpoena requests, to dignity, to respect, to being present or not present in courtrooms when they're being questioned by pro se or other persons.
 We work incredibly hard to ensure that criminal justice and civil justice are accessible for every survivor. So if that's the road they choose to take in the aftermath of their victimization, they can access it in the immediate aftermath.
 or decades later. And so this resolution is critical. It's critical because it is saying that the city of Portland and each of us as individuals in this city say no to sexual violence and say we're willing to hear you when you've experienced sexual violence and create safe space for you to survive. And so incredibly grateful for this and for all the partners that work to make sure survivors can have a voice in the system.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much for being here. Steve, did you have any others? I think that's it for our invited testimony. Carla, do you have anybody signed up? I show three people signed up. Robert West, Jesse Sponberg, and David Davis. Anyone want to come up? Don't leave. I wanted to talk to you, actually, more than address you. I wanted to address the fact that
 This city is number one for child sex trafficking and other issues, and it doesn't seem to be taken very seriously amongst the mayor and city council in general. And I'm all for helping out victims of sexual assault and all that. And, you know, I'd like to see all the untested rape kits in this county and in this state be taken care of.
 and more services provided, and more law enforcement actually targeting sexual predators and pimps. They're pimping kids out. They're going around to Lloyd Center, recruiting girls all over the city, you know. I don't ever really...
 hear much about any of these pimps being busted except occasionally, and it's usually through some big major FBI sting that takes place around the country, like what recently happened down in Eugene, and I know they busted a couple people here in Portland, but I'm not sure that hasn't made the paper, the actual people involved, but, you know, this
 This town's filled up with child sex trafficking pimps and scumbags of all sorts. And then you have, you know, the mayor and the chief of police going and meeting up with a child rapist pastor, Matt Hennessy, instead of Don't Shoot Portland, a couple weeks ago, who also was a Portland police officer.
 employee for 12 years. And then everyone on city council, minus Amanda Fritz, who doesn't take campaign donations, has taken campaign donations from Terry Bean. I hope Ted Wheeler isn't amongst the...
 people that are feeding at the Terry Bean trial to get campaign funds, but I really haven't looked into that yet. But hopefully Ted Wheeler is not one of those people. I know the Attorney General just denied Terry Bean some...
 campaign donations and send them back. But I'd like to see this city really work on not being number one for child sex trafficking and maybe dropping down to, like, number five or ten or somewhere lower on the list within the next year or two, because I know government moves slow. Thanks very much. If you can actually get on to that.
 Thanks, Mr. Davis. Who's next? Cedric? I believe in this, and I'll say it backwards about... Put your name back in the record. Put your name back. Mr. Cedric Wilkins. There you go. Thank you. I believe that rape and assault on women means that these women, if they get pregnant, should have a free abortion. I believe in abortion rights, and a woman should choose the...
 genetic makeup of the father. When I was going to PSU, I had an argument with one of my professors, is 50% of what you are genetic or 50% is environment? The professor said 75% of what you are is genetic. After that, I kind of agree that there is like a rape gene for aggressive men and women should not father their children. As another supportive argument, I have a natural fear of heights.
 Right? My ex-wife likes roller coaster, and my kids don't have a fear of heights. So my fear of heights got bred out by my ex-wife. So just as there are aggressive dreams or people who are not afraid of things, like committing assault, there are people who don't commit assault. I have a natural fear. I've never shoplisted because I'm afraid of getting caught, just like I have a fear of heights. Some of these things are genetic, and I think no woman –
 Should, if she says that I have been raped or involved with sex trafficking, she should not, we should pay for her not to have that child because things are genetic.
 But, you know, my ex-wife married me because I graduated from Portland State University, and she thought I was naturally smart. She found out otherwise. So, you know, but I am saying there is 75% of what you are is probably genetic, and there are aggressive genes, and there are fear genes, and these are genes. And those kind of genes were kind of bred out of me, and that's kind of proof. Thank you. Good morning.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. In the past, one of the concerns I had was on the forensic labs. As you know, these untested rape kits are being tested now at a private lab. One of the concerns I have is that I wanted more emphasis on the state labs to be upgraded, better equipment. I'd like more input from the forensic scientists.
 I want to make sure that the employees there are receiving the proper education and understanding that they have the best equipment that we currently have out in the marketplace. Another thing that I've stated is that I never thought there should have been so many untested rape kits. There are organizations out there that when they're aware of the situation that they come in and actually give grants.
 If somebody would have brought this to the attention of various groups, there are groups out there that will privately fund testing these rape kits. Whoever allowed this to happen should be fired, removed from their jobs. This should have never taken place in this manner. We need to understand that there are ways to do checks and balances on these rape kits, and
 When you have the state lab, you can also have a private, you can do five tests at the state lab, come back in and bring a private lab and either test one of those fives. That keeps a check and balance on these rape kits. As you know, on some of these labs there have been potential fraud, and they're watching this very close. But again, my emphasis is that we need to keep upgrading the state labs, rely upon the state labs,
 hold them responsible, and continue to make them more efficient so we don't have this backlog. Again, when you're talking about lack of funding, I disagree with that. I disagree, and there have been studies done on this. And again, for that to happen, who was ever really in charge of that should have been fired immediately, replaced, and made sure that this did not happen in the past –
 And it will not happen in the future because they're right on top of this now to make sure that does not happen. And some of these untested rape kits, as you know, if you study up on this, they are getting hits on this. And they are being able to find out some of the perpetrators at this time. So it's very effective. And it should have never happened where this evidence was jeopardized by not being tested in a timely manner.
 And again, from my position, someone needs to be fired and removed from their job. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? That's all who signed up. All right, then let's take a vote, please. Novick? Thank you so much to all of our speakers. I really appreciate your coming here today. And thanks so much to Laura Hansen of my staff who prepared this resolution and is a tireless and determined advocate for survivors of sexual assault. Thank you.
 My purpose in bringing forward this resolution is to help make this a community where, as numerous speakers have said, the goal should be, where victims of sexual assault feel safe talking about their experience, where they know they will be believed and supported, and that action will be taken against their assailants.
 Thank you, Commissioner Novy, for bringing this forward. And thanks to Board Chair Debra Kofori for coming over with Ms. Lwent to tell us what the council, what
 what the county is doing now. Indeed, the statistics are horrendous and that's probably an underestimate. I appreciate the time that we've come in the nearly four years that I've been on the council with my colleagues on either side that in 2013 we had a major discussion about funding for services for survivors and as a result of that in the fall we added more
 extra money to what had been done previously. And with that, the police bureau, through the Women's Strength and Girl Strength Programme, established a Boy Strength Programme, which provides training to middle school boys or young men about what is appropriate sexual behaviour and relationship behaviour. What do you do when you're angry? And maybe some of these...
 Young men have not had that discussion in their homes. And so we've really got to get a head upstream to discuss what is appropriate behavior in our city, in our country. And I share Commissioner Novick's concerns about the debates at the national level. And it's indicative of all the people who are coming forward and saying, oh, yes, that happened to me.
 And so it's good that we're having this conversation. I need to apologize to Katie Shriver. She was the staff person on the transportation management issue, and I got mixed up between the four time statements that you're doing today, Commissioner, and indeed I want to echo your thanks to Laura Hansen, who's worked on this resolution, also Guldan Salazar of my staff, who's now my executive assistant, and also worked at the National Centre for
 for the Crime Victim Law Institute at Lewis and Clark with Meg Garvin. So I appreciate everybody who's come in to shine light on this. It's not by any means fixed. I would also like to thank Jerry Jimenez, who is formerly Jerry Williams, who works in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, who we've sent with representative...
 Commissioner Randy Leonard really brought some attention to this issue in 2008 and 2007, looking at what's happening on 82nd Avenue. And also to recognize that in addition to Deborah Caffori and Commissioner Gretchen Caffori, there's been a lot of effort and much of it has been done in this past several years. We need to be clear though that we're talking about all
 crime victims and all victims of sexual assault. The Portland Women's Crisis Line has recently changed their name to a call for action because it's not only people who identify as women who are targeted in this way. And it said that at least 50% of the women who are outside on the streets are there because it's safer for them on the street than it was in their abusive household. Similarly for transgenders.
 trans women and transgender people it's even worse and that um appreciate the work that is being done to make our streets safer as well as um shining light on this which is happening in far too many homes around our city thank you commissioner novick aye neil's thank you steve very much aye okay uh we're gonna turn to our regular agenda and um
 do a little bit of work. So let me give everybody an update. We've had a really catastrophic situation on Northwest 23rd. We have at least three firefighters injured and civilians injured in a gas explosion. Commissioner Saltzman is there along with folks from obviously the Fire Bureau and the Police Bureau. I'd like to get out there myself by about noon. So what I propose that we do is take some of the regular agenda items that we can act on with three of us and obviously move the rest to this afternoon. Thank you.
 So we're going to move 1167 to this afternoon. We're going to take up 1168. Next. 1168, authorize the contract with McMillan Jacobs Associates for owner's representative services on the Willamette River Crossing project for a not-to-exceed amount of $3,950,000. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Macmillan Jacobs Company for the owner's representative for the Willamette River Crossing project in the amount of $3,950,000.
 the original estimate on this project was four million dollars and the bureau's confidence level was high procurement services posted the rfp 253 for this project on march 4 2016 publicly notified all professional services vending community including certified firms six proposals were received none from certified firms unfortunately on april 13th and were evaluated in accordance with portland city code 5.68
 June 2, 2016, a notice of shortlist was issued and two proposers were invited to interview. June 13, 2016, the notice of intent towards McMillan Jacobs was issued. No protests were received. The contract has been negotiated with the consultant in the final amount of $3,950,000, which is just not quite 2% under the original project estimate.
 Port of Water Bureaus worked carefully with the consultant and has identified that $957,000 of the work will be performed by state-certified DMW ESB firms. This figure represents 24.2% of the contract dollars and is divided as follows. DBE, $509,000. Excuse me, could you tell the people at home what those letters stand for, the DBE? Oh, I'm sorry. Disadvantage Business Enterprise, $509,000.
 WBE Women Business Enterprise, $132,000. ESB Emerging Small Business Firms, $316,500. McMillan-Jacobs is a Portland, Oregon-based firm, but is not a state-certified DMW or E-firm. McMillan-Jacobs is in compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements and
 If the council has any questions regarding the RFP and evaluation process, I can answer those, or Dave Peters from the Water Bureau is here if you have any technical questions about the project. Okay. Thanks, Larry. Questions? Thanks very much. Anyone sign up to speak on this item? I did not sign up to speak. All right. Then is there a motion to adopt the report? So moved. Second. Roll call, please. No vote. Thank you very much. Aye.
 great thank you for good work and a very succinct presentation thank you i fails all right thanks thank you all okay um let's see it looks like we can do 1169 except bid of landis and landis construction for the southwest terwilliger boulevard sanitary sewer extension project for three million four hundred forty thousand nine hundred and twenty six dollars
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Landis & Landis Construction. The engineer's estimate on this project was $3.8 million. On September 8, 2016, seven bids were received, and Landis & Landis is the low bidder at $3,440,925.50, which is 9.5% below the engineer's estimate.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good. The City put forward an aspirational goal for DMWESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs of this project.
 Landis identified five divisions of work for DMW-ESB opportunities with participation at $21.06, or $725,000, with work being performed in flagging, signs, trucking, and concrete cutting. I will turn this back over to Council if there are any questions regarding the bidding process. And there's someone from BES here if you have technical questions. Thanks very much. Questions? Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 Okay, a motion then please to adopt the report so move second. We'll call Thank You Christine Okay, looks like we need to do 1170 this afternoon and we have a we have a majority of the council here to act on it No, you may not 1171 There are not four people here it's an emergency item I announced this earlier no we're gonna move on yeah
 1171. 1171, authorize water revenue bonds to finance water system additions and improvements and to refund water revenue bonds. Roll call, please. Novick. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And do you want to do 1172 this morning? Yes, please. And this one, some members of the public weren't here this morning when the mayor suspended the rules and said that anybody who was signed up last week can testify on whatever they want to under this item.
 So let's take 1172, please. Accept the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, Fiscal Year 16-17, Housing Emergency Community Engagement Plan. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. So just as a brief reminder, last week you heard a presentation from Mark Jolin, the Director of the Joint Office for Homeless Services, and also from several community members about this engagement plan. This report is coming back to Council as required in the budget note. Okay.
 and I have had discussions, my staff have had discussions with Commissioner Saltzman's office, and they are now comfortable with the way forward. Great. All right, and no staff presentation at this point because we had it before. Okay. All right, anyone want to speak on this item? I show four people signed up. Robert West, Jesse Sponberg, and David Davis. Come on up.
 And while they're coming up, were there any people that were signed up last week who... We just set out a whole new sign-up sheet. I see. Thank you. Go ahead. Okay, my name is Robert West, and I wanted to bring up the fact that, you know, we can talk about anything on this item. I wanted to bring up the fact that several people were assaulted by police yesterday or last week, and...
 Traffic was blocked, and the police maliciously filed charges against people, including people that were laying in the street, some of the people that were laying in the street that was pepper sprayed. And I really condemn the police commissioner and the police chief for taking such drastic actions as allowing the fascist goons from attacking people.
 peaceful protesters and filing malicious charges against people for standing up for their rights to protests. There is no reason why the protesters were removed from City Hall.
 And there's no reason why the city council meeting moved from downstairs to upstairs. They should have kept the meeting where people would go in there. I still got tickets from last week because they wouldn't let me upstairs because I'm an activist. And I've talked to other people that had the same problems.
 I really think that something should be done to the police department. I've also seen G4S grab Keith today. And they've also assaulted Joe Walsh before, too. He's got injuries from G4S. I would really reconsider the G4S contract. It's...
 For some reason, the police and G4S think it's all right to assault and harass people that are protesting and people that just come to city hall meetings and stuff like that. All Keith did was walk right over like this, walk around like this,
 And he was grabbed by that security guard right there, which is ready to grab me for walking in here. And I thought that was absolutely ridiculous. He wasn't doing anything. He wasn't touching anyone. You guys weren't in here. And that security guard had no reason to grab Keefe there except to say, well, Keefe's in a restricted area.
 Um, and then he threatened to have... Thank you, Mr. West. We're going to move on to the next person now, because we're going to be adjourning or recessing in 15 minutes, so we want to give people a chance. Go ahead. Davis, are you going to speak? And what is this about? Anything you want. Anything you want. So I wanted to talk about getting arrested last week. My name is David Keith Davis with Multnomah County Cop Watch, separate from Portland Cop Watch. But, uh...
 I seem to be getting targeted by you guys all the time, you know, and I know, you know, that you basically now are out of compliance with the DOJ settlement. And, uh, because you covered up for, uh, Chief O'Day shooting his friend in the back and then you didn't report that. And, you know, it's pretty, it's pretty damning when we have a police union contract that went through and, uh,
 You know, you couldn't even get the union contract through last week without launching a DOJ investigation against your own city for the treatment of protesters. That's rather damning right there. But also, you know, as the police commissioner slash mayor, in your dual position of power, it lends to corruption more.
 And so I basically don't even view any of your votes, Mr. Hales slash Mayor Police Commissioner, as being valid at all. Is there any police stuff that you haven't rubber stamped? So you basically last week pushed a union contract through for $10 million with the Portland police and said,
 Right after that was done, there was a violent celebration by the police, and they shoved women, children, handicapped people, people that have amputated legs even. They pushed people down the stairs. Sergeant Michael Poole is the guy who pushed Jesse Sponberg backwards and also Sarah Long.
 and he assaulted several other protesters. I saw people getting maced in the face, point-blank range. Linda Sen, who's a regular fixture at co-op meetings, she was sitting by the door at the back entrance, and she got blasted in the face, um...
 Bia Cini, I think is how you pronounce his name. It's I'm not sure exactly, but I'm pretty sure that's how you. Thanks very much. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 I am Mr. Cedric Wilkins, and no matter what you're talking about this, Mr. Davis, this is not a church. And these people that come here and keep saying the same thing over and over again, go find a church and just chant over and over again. Obviously, if I'm going to tell you to shut up, Mr. Davis, you need to let him speak. Mr. Davis, the mayor has every right to other rooms. If you keep doing this stuff, this is not a church.
 You know, I can say repeat things twice. Like, I don't like the police contract either. But if I say it more than twice, it's a church. You're just repeating the same thing. And he has every right to sit there and hold a meeting somewhere else if you keep cutting him off. Thanks. Okay, let's take anyone else that wants to speak. Come on up, Mr. Johnson. I have the right to say that. You're exceeding your freedom of speech. Why don't you go yell fire at a thief? There is no exceed.
 Good morning, commissioners. Charles Johnson, for the record. I probably won't be able to join you for whatever you're able to piece together this afternoon after we see how things are hopefully getting better in Northwest near the gas explosion. But at 2 o'clock, we may be able to touch base with Mark Joelman, who I hope that this open comment realizes that homelessness is such a crisis that it was unfortunate that the way he was scheduled and Mr. Walsh not being able to comment was –
 a point of contention for a lot of people. I also, in light of what's just occurred between Shedrick and Mr. Davis, want to say that it's still unclear, I think, in the eyes of many people, including attorneys at Ball-Janik, if what you did last week actually is within the confines of the law. I'm sure the 40 staff attorneys at the city attorney's office with their $100,000 a year salaries will come out with some paperwork that say it is, but it'll be unfortunate if...
 City resources and time need to be wasted to litigate the fact that we were unable to have leadership that brought us together as a community to address what is really an insult. I think if more city employees will think about it, they should feel insulted by all of you except Steve Novick.
 I don't know, and I hope other people will work with me on researching this, if any collective bargaining agreement for any agency of the city has ever been approved eight months in advance with raises and no criteria for approved performance. So DTCU, I don't know who else is here, AFSCME, SEIU, but I hope that they will really think about what happened and if we have...
 a city where some police bullying and some strange insider things here. I know a lot of people have called, have been displeased with the way Amanda Fritz saw things, and I hope that she will continue to be open to realizing that many people see that she chose Charlie Hales and fear over the opinion of the NAACP,
 the American, the ACLU of Oregon, even the fricking Sierra Club, which is supposed to be worrying about owls and fish, saw that there was an equity and racial justice problem in the police contract and are rushed to approve it. So I thank you for having this open comment period. And maybe I'll see you if I get a 10. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Let's take anyone else wants to speak.
 Could you sit down, please, because there's somebody else who wants to speak. Yeah, there's some other folks that want to. Mr. Davis, you need to give up that chair so somebody else can come up. Thank you. Go ahead. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. I want to point out that last week three people who got the opportunity to testify to you about this issue brought up either directly the police issue or talked about how you should listen to the community.
 You split that testimony around the contract issue, which I've never seen you do before. You stopped the testimony. You took testimony from one more person and then shut that whole thing down. Did you contact the people who signed up last week to let them know that it was continued to this week? Commissioner Fritz asked about that sign-up sheet. I don't see a whole room full of people like there were last week waiting to testify on this issue. Thank you.
 You have to stop moving the agenda items around. You have to vote on moving the agenda items around. That's what the city code says. This is my third week in a row coming to testify on something and being denied the opportunity to testify on it. I'm not paid to be here. You are. It's very disrespectful to me and everybody else who came down here to testify on these things that you keep moving the agenda around.
 What I was asking before about my point of order is that can't you remove the emergency clause from the police car item and then vote on it with the three of you here? Because if it were an emergency, you wouldn't have delayed it from last week. You said you were doing more work on it, but it was reposted this week exactly. There's no change at all. The PDF actually even had the same label on it from last week. So it was only pulled from the agenda so you could avoid taking testimony last week.
 We had prepared testimony about the police cars. I wanted to talk about how there are more crashes, how it's cost just this year $192,000.
 in settlements about crashes and police cars and wondering whether that's caused by them looking at their computers while they're driving around. That's what my testimony was going to be about. And I also, of course, want to also talk about the thing that other people brought up about last week's vote on the contract, that it violated three aspects of city code, including that when you remove yourself from these chambers, it takes a positive vote of the council to do that. The mayor can't declare that you're moving to the Rose Room.
 So you have violated city code. You're going to have to take another vote on it. And as with any item, anybody who voted in the majority and feels bad about what they did can bring up a vote within 10 days of that vote for another vote, especially given the composition of council today. I think that would be a very brave and appropriate thing to do to bring that up for a re-vote, the PPA contract. Thank you.
 but we're going to pursue our legal uh recourses against the way that you held uh council on that item thank you thank you anyone else okay then uh we can take action on this item then let's take a vote please this is a report
 I'm sorry. Yes, we didn't have a motion yet. Second. Thank you. Okay, now a vote on the motion to adopt the report, please. Novick? Aye. Great. Carl, you did amazing work. Thank you very much. Thank you to Brian Hoop, who has helped put this all together. He's the manager of the Community and Neighborhood Involvement Center in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Thank you to Mark Jolin, to Felicia Williams, and to others who came last week, and to all the people throughout the community is looking at what is this going to do to help get out
 the Home for Everyone plan that we've spent two years putting together, what is the plan for, how neighbourhoods and people can help to provide services and to provide support for people who are living outside and
 what is the appropriate way to engage if you have policy discussions, because we do have this plan. And so there's ongoing policy discussions by the Coordinating Committee, and we will be returning to council with an item on inclusionary housing, many other things on the Mass Shelter Code, which is coming to council from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We need to let people know that there is a plan, that we want to help each other, and that we can address the issue of,
 so many people living outside right now. So thank you very much to everybody who helped put it together. Thank you to my colleagues for supporting it in the budget last year, and to Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish, who, while not here today, I know are supportive of it. Thank you. Aye. Good work. Thank you very much. 1172 is approved. Okay. 1173, like the other emergency items, is going to be set over to this afternoon.
 1174 is going to be set over until this afternoon because it's an emergency item. 1175 we can do. 1175, authorized contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Woodlawn King Alley's sewer rehabilitation project number E10698 for $3,780,000. Good morning. There we go.
 Testing? Okay, perfect. Thank you. Yes, good morning. We're here to ask for authorization to enter into a contract to construct the Woodlawn King Alley's Sewer Rehabilitation Project. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer at the City of Portland Bureau of Environmental Services. With me is David Hammond, who's the construction manager for this effort. And before we get into the details of the Woodlawn King project in specific, I'd like to talk a little bit more about the program.
 The map... The mayor needs to go to the... Want to skip that? I need to leave in five minutes. Got it, got it. Thank you. It's a very challenging morning. So...
 This is very similar to items that you've seen in the past. It's authorization for a sewer rehabilitation effort. We've done our best to make sure we're coordinated with everyone that needed to be coordinated with. And, of course, the results of these bids will be presented to you by Christine Moody when they're received, and you'll have an opportunity to ask any questions either now or then. And we'll turn it over to the council. That is succinct. That's succinct. Appreciate your cooperation with that because we've got a crisis out there we've got to deal with.
 Any questions for staff from BES about this item? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, is there a motion to adopt a report? So moved. Second.
 oh and sorry it is an ordinance not a report i would just like to mention then if since it's going to second reading that i was at the elliott neighborhood association two nights ago talking about some other issues and uh before me was the contractor that you've needed to hire because of so many projects she was doing some of the public outreach and she did a fantastic job and really explained the whole issue to the neighborhood and so i know that you would have also done a fantastic job of explaining how we had the presentation thank you very much
 Okay, it goes to next week's calendar for second reading, and I think unless there's anything that we particularly had to deal with in the remainder of the morning calendar, that is 1176, 77, and 78, I'm going to set those over for this afternoon, and we're recessed until 2 o'clock. Let me know if there's anything you can do. Okay, yes.
 Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the afternoon meeting of October 19th for the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Hales? Here. I think Commissioner Saltzman will be back with us for part of this afternoon. Here's what we're going to try to do. We have a press conference at 4 o'clock that he and I are both going to have to attend, so we will try to get as much of this agenda done in the next hour and a half as we can. Okay.
 And obviously there's some emergency items left over from this morning that will need four of us here, so bear with us. He is still on scene. Just a quick update. We apparently have no deaths from the explosion on Northwest 23rd. The building is still being deconstructed, or the remnants of the building are still being deconstructed, but we hope and pray there's nobody inside.
 it appears that we have three firefighters and two police officers who are injured more, more, some more seriously than others. So Dan, I was just saying, we're going to have a press conference at four o'clock, so we'll get as much work as we can do done in an hour and a half, and then we'll lose a quorum and we'll have to move things over to next week. So,
 Bear with us there for anybody that's trying to get information out to people. There's a reception center open at 1972 Northwest Flanders, so for the people who've been displaced either from their homes or their businesses There are a lot of folks literally just out on the intersections wondering what's going on So we're trying to get that word out as well, but 1972 Northwest Flanders is where the Red Cross has set up a reception center. I
 May I just comment, Mayor, that I'm very grateful to the firefighters and the police officers who ran towards danger to get other people out. It is a miracle that nobody apparently has died. And also I very much appreciate that that's what our public safety staff do day in and day out. Thank you. They did an amazing job. Okay. So let's proceed. I probably want to take the remaining items from our morning calendar first.
 and there were some that we held over because we didn't have four of us. And the first of those is 1159, right? 1159? Yes. Authorized contract with Access Sciences to provide project management and implementation for Bureau of Transportation electronic file conversion project in the amount of $294,000. Commissioner Novick. Okay.
 Colleagues, according to order reports for FY15-16, Kibat uses 4 million sheets of paper, which if all stacked up would be taller than the Empire State Building.
 I assume that would depend somewhat on the width of the paper, but I assume the standard width. This contract would allow PBOT to transition to electronic filing in a three-step process, assessment, development, and implementation. PBOT will form an internal steering committee to help define file needs and engage employees in the change process. And now I'm happy to give the floor to Alyssa Mahar to explain the rest of the details. Okay. Alyssa, come on up, please. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Council Members. Good afternoon. Alyssa Mehar, Executive Director of Finance and Business Operations for PBOT. I also have with me Mary Beth Elms, Admin Supervisor for PBOT. So PBOT has needed a bureau-wide electronic records management environment for a number of years. With the Portland building move upon us, we have realized that we really need to work hard to move forward with reducing the amount of paper that we produce and to advance an electronic filing process using the existing city system.
 Improving the efficiency of our workflow and our file retention is a key benefit for this project. Implementing more standardized filing classifications will help us deliver more security, accessibility, customer service, and greater adherence to legal demands. PBOT currently uses upwards of 4 million sheets of paper in a year, so by reducing our dependency on our paper files, we'll only provide operational costs and carbon footprint improvements for the future.
 Our city enterprise systems, TRIM, or HP Records Management will be utilized for this transition to ensure consistent and secure data and a strong relationship with our city auditors and BTS. In August of 2016, PBOD issued an open RFP for the e-files conversion project. It was posted for approximately three weeks, and we received two proposals. Each contract proposal was stated as self-performing with no subcontractors.
 A specialized knowledge for electronic file systems and city government retention needs is essential for a successful transition of this size and the timeline that we're under. PBOT has chosen to work with Access Sciences for this project. Access is located in Houston, Texas, and has an array of experience with transitioning government agencies into electronic filing. Access is nationally certified as a women's-owned business by the National Women's Business Enterprise Council.
 and it's certified as a women business enterprise in the state of Texas, and 59% of its workforce is women. So this project is part of PBOT's two-year Portland Progress work plan. So we identified it a couple years ago, and the associated costs are included in the budget. The rollout plan is about 41 weeks, so it times out very nicely with the Portland building move-out requirements. Three phases are access and engage with staff, govern and train, and tactical implementation.
 Mary Beth Elms will lead this project with the 21-person steering committee with cross-bureau collaboration and will work directly with the consultants on section-specific needs and procedures throughout the agency. We've been working very closely with archiving and records retention, as well as the city attorney's office, on this project, and we will continue to do so. They have a vested interest in our work, and they will be very close partners with us.
 This project includes staff only in the Portland building at this point in time because of the critical need for moving out, but we will be expanding that to the rest of the Bureau following the Portland building staff. If you have any questions, we're happy to answer those at this time. Thank you. Questions? I'm wondering how it matches or doesn't with the Bureau Development Services ITAP project.
 So because we're moving to electronic files, we are getting ourselves into an electronic state. This is moving into an existing city system, HPRM, which is also called eFiles and Trim. And so it doesn't really interfere with that project. I think it will help us be ready to go when that project is live. It will move everything primarily that's paper today into an electronic form and allow us to access things remotely and from other locations. Okay.
 And I think one of the key benefits is just the huge reduction in paper usage. So, will customers still be allowed to file with paper?
 file what with paper oh yes yes yes so that won't change it's primarily it's more internally focused than externally focused getting all of our city staff to stop hitting print get them to move it into the e-files electronic system have it accessible in an electronic way where it's searchable has a really strong search search engine so it should not impact the public as much but it will help in terms of accessing files
 for public records requests or other legal matters. So it'll make the information more accessible by more people. And will you have that posted on the...
 transportation website or with the city auditor with the trim files? It would be accessible through the city auditor trim files. And has the Technology Oversight Committee had a look at what you're doing? I don't believe this has to go through the talk because it's not a new implementation, a new software. We're basically moving our system into, our paper process into the city's existing system. It's similar to the transition that we did when I was at the Housing Bureau where we moved all the loan files into the electronic file storage system.
 How have they been saved now? They're on servers. They're in hard copy in people's desks and filing cabinets in a myriad of locations throughout the Bureau. And will people have to...
 scan all of the things that are on paper on desks? Not necessarily. So in a lot of cases, I think because of retention schedules, people will be able to dispose of records, shred records. In other cases where we realize it's something that needs to be digitized, we will digitize, but we have anticipated that only about 10% of the work will be digitization, and the remainder will either be
 putting in archiving boxes and sending to city archives or destruction of the records because they are outside of the retention schedule for the city. And I know in my office, whenever we have questions on do I need to keep this, do I not need to keep this, we talk with the city auditor and her staff. What kind of training will be given to the PBOT employees, of whom there are many, to make sure that everybody knows what can get tossed and what has to be saved?
 Exactly. So training is part of the program and part of this contract. We'll be working very closely with Auditor's Office and Archiving and Records Retention to deliver that training to staff. So every employee that's going to be part of this project and transitioning to the new system will have very intensive training. They will have support throughout the project to know if something should be retained or destroyed or boxed. And I think one of the biggest things that we've heard from folks is that they're afraid to get rid of things.
 And so having that resource to say, yes, you've met the retention requirements. It's okay to go ahead and let that go and shred it. And don't keep it on the server. You know, let's go ahead and reduce that usage on the server and move it into e-files. And so has the auditor said that they have the staff to be able to help you with this?
 Yes. I mean, obviously we needed the contract support because we didn't have enough capacity in-house, but Brian Brown and Max Johnson have been very supportive of this project, as has Jennifer Johnston. And so they have already signed up to be part of the project. They're part of the steering committee, and they want to support us moving in this direction because they realize how important it is. Great. Thank you. When you get to the point of construction.
 how to make sure that the public's aware of it. I hope you'll ask the Public Involvement Advisory Committee to advise on that interface, because I think sometimes it's quite difficult, even for me, when I know where something's supposed to be, to find things on the city's website. So I would encourage you to seek their advice at the end. Thank you.
 Looks like a great project. Thank you for answering all my questions. Great. Thank you. So a semi-serious question, that is when you move back into the Portland building, you'll be able to send all those files to archives and not use up floor space in the Portland building with filing cabinets anymore, so we'll have floor space available for people.
 Yeah, that's part of our plan is that we can reduce our footprint, both our carbon footprint and our actual footprint in the Portland building, both in our temporary space and when we move back in. So we want to achieve that before we actually go to temporary space. Even better. Yeah. And then allowing options for employees to access files if we're located in a lot of different locations. Great. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you. So does anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Novick? Colleagues, before we vote...
 I want to take a moment to celebrate Alyssa's 26-year-long career with the city, as she's leaving us to begin a new position as vice president of Platteville Community College. Alyssa has been at the city, as I said, for 26 years, and with the Portland Bureau of Transportation since 2012 as the executive director of finance and business operations. When she worked at the Fire Bureau, she developed PF&R's first standard for emergency response coverage, the CERC.
 co-led pf and r's successful 53 million general obligation bond campaign to seismically retrofit 29 fire stations and build new fire stations while with the bureau of housing and community development she played a leadership role in the merger of the bureau of housing and community development in the portland development commission slash housing division to create the portland housing bureau and helped to establish the first portland housing advisory commission
 Since joining PBOT in 2012, Alyssa has accomplished many things, including led the 18-month funding initiative team, which laid the groundwork for new funding through media budget briefings, community engagement, information sharing, and transparency in financial data. Showed her commitment to Equity University through her work on the equity teams of both Housing and PBOT, her establishment of more stringent hiring practices and protocols, and her engagement in the MWSB pilot program to increase utilization on PTE contracts.
 commissioned a thorough customer intake review to streamline our customers' ability to connect and engage with Peabody.
 I want to elaborate on just one of those, that was his contribution to transparency in financial data. One of my obsessions in life is making sure that people know where their tax dollars go, and it's a high priority of the Bureau of Transportation to explain our complicated budget in as simple terms as possible. We do have a complicated budget. We have so many different funding sources and so many strings that a certain mayor-elect described our budget at one point as Byzantine.
 But ELISA has labored tirelessly and successfully to make Byzantium as transparent and accessible as possible. And as we've worked together to develop all sorts of different charts and graphs, which taken together can navigate the public through all the things we do and show them, here's how your money is being spent. Here's how it's raised.
 And I think that's critical in government across the board. It was especially critical in this last few years as we were asking the public for additional money for transportation. Because when you do that, they have to trust that your existing money is being spent wisely. So I really, really appreciate Alyssa's efforts. And I feel quite confident that the people of Clackamas County will know everything that Clackamas Community College is doing with their money.
 Alyssa's staff know her as a trusted manager, a positive mentor, a collaborative leader. She's always shown a tremendous amount of respect for the talent employees who work for her. They're going to miss her. We are going to miss her. I am going to miss her. Alyssa, in lieu of flowers, wanted to give you something to take into your new position at Collective Attunity College. At PBOT, you have a candy bowl in front of your office, and that bowl has become a de facto watering hole for your employees, a gathering place.
 we wanted to send you off in your new position with new infrastructure for such a gathering place the infrastructure by the way is another candy ball with some skittles to get her thank you alyssa
 Prince? Well, coincidentally, I've been participating in city government for about 26 years, and I'm glad you noted which different things Alyssa has done, because I go, didn't she used to do that? Didn't she? She's done this. So this last project, I think, is a really great one that's going to stand us in good stead probably for the next 100 years. Obviously, our loss is Clackamas County's gain, and thank you for your work, and I'm very pleased to support this bill. Aye. Aye.
 ales i'm sorry he's here well thank you uh thank you for your service alyssa that's great news and i wish you well at clackamasco new college and i'm pleased to have worked with you and pleased to vote aye ales lisa thank you i've had the pleasure of working with you as well and you've done great work here at the city and this is just one nice one more little brush stroke on your way out the door a big painting that you've done of better government thank you hi hi
 Okay. Let's move on to the next item that we had to pass over this morning, which was 1167.
 apply for and accept a grant in the amount of 45,000 $499 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $34,000 for overtime reimbursement for the fiscal year 2017 Multnomah County Dewey intensive supervision program. Good afternoon after balls are nice shirt Thank you. Welcome
 Good afternoon, Councilmembers. I'm Bill Balzer. I'm a police officer with the City of Portland. I'm employed to the Traffic Division. Part of the Traffic Division, or one of our main goals, is the arrest of DUI drivers. So subsequently, out of the officers in the city, we arrest the majority of the DUI drivers. What we find, and within partnership with the
 Multnomah County's DISP, it's a DUI Intensive Supervision Program, there are some individuals that are arrested for DUIs that have multiple DUIs that we're seeing that incarceration is not working. And so we've gone through with this partnership, and we now have a super intensive program.
 treatment court that we work with them on. And this is a grant funded through ODOT for our partnership to work with Multnomah County. What it entails is it's officers that go in. When we initially started doing it, it was just to go and arrest people that failed to follow the rules of the program. But in all honesty, that was really doing nothing because it was just bringing them back into jail where it wasn't working. But we found the biggest
 if you want to say bang for the buck was, is that we're actually going and doing in-home visits. And so part of the program, they realize when they sign up, you may be visited by parole and probation or officers. And so we have the availability to go and visit them at their home, see how they're doing, seeing if they're having problems, maybe complaining.
 something that might not be working out well with their case manager, or just whatever it may be. And so that's where the funds go to. The funds come and directly pay for the officers that go. It's on an overtime basis, but it's entirely paid for by ODOT. And so it's the partnership that we go and work with this treatment court to help the people that need help. Great. Thank you. What kind of outcomes have you had?
 So the further we can get someone through the program, the less likely they are to then re-offend. When a client gets the entire way through their program, which is a minimum of three years, some take longer than others. We see that after they successfully complete, and the statistics we see is that
 After three years ending their probation, only a little over 7% reoffend. Then if we extend that out to another five years, those people, it goes up a little bit, but it's still relatively low. It's only 11% that they reoffend. This last year, we did way more home visits, got into more houses, and it really started this partnership where it was somewhat funny because the people would call the case managers to say, the police are here, the police are here.
 thinking that we were coming to get them. And in all honesty, we're coming there to check to see how they were doing. And it's just a check on that, getting partnerships with the people and allowing them to know that they can call us if something's going wrong or something might not be working right.
 And do you have a go with the Project Respond team? So far, we have not had to do that because the people that are in the program haven't been in a crisis situation. They're in the program. They go to treatment providers. They go to a treatment court, and they have their own program.
 that they go to work with issues like that. Most of it's for their sobriety, but at this point we have not had a need that when we go out to do that, that we need to have that come with us or that facility come with us. So you haven't had any of these so-called kind of welfare checks go bad? No, no. And presumably now that the program's more established that they're?
 the expectation is set up to the start that the officers are going to come and check on you once in a while or on a regular basis. And part of the – to kind of back up on that question you had about going bad, we make sure that – or we try to make sure that before we go to check to see if there are any dangers that either the person may have some, you know, past history with the police and so they may be shocked to have us coming up. We don't want that to happen. And same as when we go, if there's a –
 mental health crisis or issue in the past, we want to know that when we go. So we try to check all those boxes to make sure we're not going to deal with that before we even get to the door. And to be honest with you, if we know that's going to happen, we're not going to go. Or we're going to set it up properly before we go so we have that covered before we go and knock on the door.
 Thank you. And I do appreciate you wearing the pink for breast cancer, which I assume that's what it's for. It actually looks very friendly and I would encourage the Bureau to think about doing this on an ongoing basis because we want people to think of their police and to know that our police are trying to help them in many situations.
 I guess it's on a totally different note, but I've got to tell you, it's been unbelievable the entire month, just the response and exactly what you've said. It's the easing of tensions that all people wave at me, and I'll look to, are they waving at me? But it's actually been a really fun thing to do, and it's been a great thing just to push out to help with the awareness. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thanks very much. Appreciate it. Thanks. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Thank you.
 okay okay i'll find out if they probably don't need me either go ahead mr west uh with the traffic division as low as they are i'm in the record okay my name is robert west i'm with from the police 9-1-1 with the traffic division as low as it is you know um i've talked to officers and supervisors and stuff like that and there's not that many traffic officers left
 Um, my concern is that if you're going to pull traffic officers, even to do overtime, to do house checks and stuff like that, that's, to me, that's not the proper thing for the traffic division to do. Um, we've had, what, 34 fatal accidents this year. Um, we've had incidents where one of them, an old lady was pulling out on the stark and got hit.
 by two people that are racing. We need the officers on the roads. We don't need them going door to door, even if the state's paying for it. The other concern I have is the officers' overtime and stuff like that. I hate for the city to be in a position where we're going to be guaranteeing these officers' overtime.
 and then something happens and the State Department of Transportation or something goes, well, we can't fund the program anymore, and you guys are sitting there and the city's holding the bag. I believe it was early last year, Mayor, you wanted to give the police a raise, and you wanted to raise taxes to do it, and when the taxes, when they decided not to do that, you go, well,
 You can't give the police a raise and you're saying that these homeless programs are in jeopardy and stuff like that. Now you just gave the police a big, huge raise on their contracts. My concern is where's all this money coming from? And like I said, if the Department of Transportation has to back out for some reason, the city of Portland will be holding a contract.
 um, the money, you know, the, the, they still got to pay the officers the overtime. So I hate to put, for those reasons, I hate to put them in a, I hate to put the city in a situation where they have to pay for overtime. And, um, I don't like our, uh, officers that are doing traffic, doing house calls. I think that's an inappropriate use of, um,
 Money and stuff we should have other officers do or we should have counselors I don't think officers should be doing counseling work anyway. Thank you Hi, my name is Casey Milne and my background is in public health And I think sometimes what happens is we get silos creating very similar activities and services that are actually available in other parts of our community
 So my concern, while I totally support the intention of what's being proposed, and I wasn't planning on speaking of this, I was actually here for another issue, but I'm concerned that we're not tapping the expertise of public health nurses, social workers, nurses.
 Even though Multnomah County has a health department, I'm not sure of the collaborations that are going on. And I think we're much more apt to create healthy communities when we work together. And I think the services that people are most trained for in this respect are people that have that background. And you're going to find that in public health.
 So my concern would be putting funds, what are we going to get the biggest bang for the buck? And in this situation, I think it would be for collaboration. Thank you. Thank you both. Anyone else? Yes.
 Maybe you know the answer. Why is it offices rather than... Yeah, I think we should address those questions. And then, you know, what about other... I mean, we don't have community service officers yet, but maybe this would be the kind of function they could fulfill in the future. But...
 What about the question of scarce resources of people in the Bureau right now? Why spend time this way? And are the public health folks from the county, the nurses, the social workers, are they integrated with this work? So we do have, for the second part of that, we do have the social work in that. There's a meeting that happens every Friday with the judges that run the program, treatment providers, the caseworkers, and parole and probation. All the information comes in to share, and it's –
 guided or formed together to give the best answer or treatment to the person in the program. So it's not just us going out. The program's actually been going longer than the police have been involved, but there's only so much the parole and probation can do to go and do the home visits. And so we're just adding to it. It gives a different element of it. As for the
 There was a thing that came up that if the funds went away, if the funds go away from ODOT, it won't be funded. We'll just – our portion of it will stop. We won't do that. The reason why we're doing it is because there's funds through ODOT to do it. So it's not something that the city's going to pick up. We would have to unfortunately call and say, I'm sorry, we can't assist with this right now because the funds were set through ODOT. And –
 The question about time, it's when it's not mandatory. If we don't get to it and if we can't do it because of other events we're doing, mandatory events, whatever it may be, we have to call and let the staff know, sorry, we can't help you this week. And the money would just go back and that would just wouldn't be used. The question is, though, why have police officers going rather than social workers going?
 There are social workers involved with it, so it's just a different element to add to it. It gives us out there some of the people that the officers have actually arrested, and we'll see an interaction or relationship that's built between them. And it's a new way of policing.
 It's not just out arresting and convicting people. It's a treatment and education, and we're part of that to help with that. So...
 It's different. It's way different than I've dealt with in the last 20 years, but I think it's a good difference, personally. That's a great response, so that that then develops a relationship, so if you see the person out on the street after they're done with parole, they know you and you know them. And could the Department of Transportation give this money to social workers and public health people, or is it specifically for law enforcement? Yes.
 I don't know that. I don't know that question. I know that it goes towards, it has to be DUI involved. There are some people in the program that are in there for drug-related things or drug-related arrest. We specifically...
 go towards DUI. It's the DUI portion from the Oregon Department of Transportation. So whether they could give that to someone else, I can't answer that for you right now. And if we had more money, is there still some gaps that could be filled? To be honest with you, the last two years that I've tracked it or seen it, if we had more money, it may be difficult to spend the money, at least the part that we have. So it may be difficult to get to the money. Thank you.
 Thanks very much. You're welcome. Okay, we're ready to take action on this. Let's take a vote, please. Novick? Thanks for the explanation. Aye. Chris? This is a – I really appreciate the opportunity to hear about this program and to get those questions answered that we hear all the time about the effectiveness and the fact that you are doing things differently in the Bureau than was done 20 years ago, the fact that you're developing relationships with people, which is very different from the way – you
 You know that mine used to be in a credit to County Commissioner Judy Shipwreck and others who have done good work on the public safety committee, the joint public safety committee, as have you, Mayor Hales. So that was a very good item. And I appreciate more explanation than we've had for it in the past. Aye. BALZER. Well, thank you, Officer Balzer, for the presentation. And it does sound like it's a new way of trying to deal with some very chronic problems that we have in our society. So I hope it works. Aye.
 what else yeah i like this approach i mean um on one hand i'm a a table pounder about dewey and that is it's it is um it is a heinous offense um and people are hurt and killed and if you kill somebody with your car it's homicide in my opinion and and then driving is a privilege not a right and if you drive under the influence you should lose that privilege
 Having been that clear about the hammer side of this equation, I think it is clear that simply throwing people in jail for these offenses doesn't necessarily cure them of their addiction to alcohol, and therefore getting at the root cause of the bad behavior is important, and how that work gets done, which professionals are involved in doing it. In other words, this is the kind of situation where diversion out of traditional
 jail sentencing is a legitimate strategy and might work better for everyone, first and most importantly, the victims of drunk drivers. So that's why this is worth a try. If it's also more beneficial to those offenders in getting out of the cycle of addiction, so much the better. So this is really worth a try. Over time it may evolve. It may be that once we have community service officers, they'll be the ones doing this. But you make the very valid point that
 the original arresting officer is an important ingredient in perhaps the progress of that individual to sobriety and responsibility. And I wish you well with this program. Aye. Okay. Our next item set over from this morning is 1170.
 Authorized purchase of replacement police patrol vehicles at $3,243,864. Good afternoon, Assistant Chief Lealoff. Do you want to lead this presentation or as our fleet manager? Well, I'd be happy to begin. First of all, hello, Mayor and Council. It's a pleasure to be before you today.
 With the item to replace 86 patrol vehicles for the Portland Police Bureau, these vehicles that are to be replaced are well beyond their economic life cycle, so they're just wore out and needing to go. We have put aside funding each month of the vehicle's life over its economic life cycle, so we're able to use the money that's set aside out of the fleet
 equipment and replacement fund. And with that, I'd like to have Mike introduce himself, and then we'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. And, John, are these the new vehicles? We went through a long process to figure out what kind of vehicle we're going to be purchasing. Is that what we're about here? That is correct. Yeah, they would be the new what I would call either a utility or a crossover type vehicle, yes. Yeah, okay. Great. Thank you.
 Mike Lee, Assistant Chief, Portland Police Bureau. These are the five-year life cycles, five- and seven-year normal rotation. It's a little higher than last year, only because we slowed down in about 2012. Okay. Questions? And you've already – so this is – sorry, catching up to myself. This is authorizing purchase. We haven't yet selected a vendor. Okay.
 Correct. This is just the authorization telling us that we would like to go, and we'll see how the whole purchasing process and where it takes us. We'll be back to you later with the purchasing agent's report. Is this strictly low dollar, or do we have a local preference? We do have a local preference in there.
 Unfortunately, with all the different dealers that we have, there's only one really within the city limits. They have so far chosen not to go through the state bid to supply vehicles, but we would be happy to work with any dealership that is willing to work with us. I must have misunderstood that the Gresham company has already been chosen. Yes.
 Well, through the state bid, they are the local dealer that has a fleet program that allows the vehicles to flow through their fleet program. So even though they are purchased through a state bid, that's how they come to us. But we still do a lot of work with the others as far as buying parts and things that are, you know, because we go as local as we can get. But that's likely to be where you get them from. Correct. Okay.
 At least Multnomah County gets the business taxes. That's good. All right. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? I show some people signed up probably from earlier today. Robert West, Jesse Sponberg, and David Davis. Charles Johnson, Dan Handelman, Julie Cruz Cross, Catherine Moore, and Nancy Newell.
 Okay, go ahead. Come on up, Ms. Norton. Yes, my name is Robert West. I'm with Fulham Police 911. Portland Police have enough vehicles. I live over by one of the precincts, North Precinct. And I see at least half the parking lot with cars just sitting in it. The city says they're low on police officers.
 Why don't they use the cars that are just sitting around in the parking lot? What I see is the apartment complex that's next to the parking lot across the street, they took all that away from the elderly parking and gave that to the police. Signs up there say police parking only now. So the elderly people can only...
 park on one part of the street um but there's never any police cars there but they do have them in their parking lots and they do have them in the parking garages and stuff uh the city doesn't need more police cars especially when they're low on police officers that's cities what 85 officers short or something like that they don't uh they don't need police
 a bunch more police cars. How are we going to be able to afford all this? If we couldn't afford to give the officers wages last year, how can we give them brand-new police cars? I mean, you're mayor. You're dishing out a bill that the new mayor is going to wind up having to eat, and it's going to harm the city more than it's going to help the city, and that's what I've got to say about that. Okay, thank you.
 Good afternoon. Yes, this is Nancy Newell. I'm very concerned about the testimony here today and the quality of oversight by this council. This police department is out of control in expenditures. There's not enough oversight. And the public is trying to make a better police department. Part of that is transport, but it's also a responsibility financially. The police commissioner, I believe, has, as you are, Mayor, both titles.
 the responsibility to make sure that these equations are satisfied. And you have just been told by the Department of Justice, because of your non-transparency in an incident, that they are going to not, what was the wording that they used? But anyway, the process has been dead-stopped.
 The process has been dead stopped by you for oversight for better performance, better cost. All of that is very key to this city's health, and you'll be leaving soon, and we have to live with that. So I would call to your attention that if you have removed a police chief, why aren't you resigning? Because you were part of that, covering it up and the public not knowing that.
 And the Department of Justice has just said that the whole process of the settlement issue in the city has failed. This is serious stuff. And we're here because we believe that this government should function with ethical standards. And those are not ethical standards. And I can't understand why this continues to be allowed in our community. And the money that you're spending, people don't have that kind of money in their pockets. I just might, might.
 Property tax has gone up $400 this year. I have fixed income. How many people are being forced out of their homes of these social problems that they are trying to solve, and they're added to the problem? Because there is an oversight. It's just a vicious circle. And in every incident, oh, this is necessary. This is absolutely necessary. And the efforts that the public put in
 resulted in not much because we were blocked every step of the way in trying to make improvements and that is a fact. And I could line that up for you but that's not part of this specific issue but it's the major issue. I just don't know and I do know that I would request that you remove yourself over these contracts because you haven't been transparent, because we're not getting the kind of results that we should be getting
 And I think it's the ethical thing to do, and I'm asking for that publicly, and I stated this a month ago, that this is out of character for the police commissioner's requirements. It's totally a question of legalities, and some of the people have been treated, thrown down steps. I mean, it's a horrible record, horrible, injured. Their lives have changed, and you get to walk away with a big pension. So I just would like to see more accountability. Thank you very much. Anybody else?
 Okay. Come on up. While Mr. Wilkins is coming up, I want to put into the record that two of the women who had signed up told me that they weren't able to stay, one for a child care issue and the other because she didn't feel safe in City Hall after what happened last week. And they both were here this morning to say that we shouldn't give any more resources to the police. So I just want to put that in the record because I told them I would. Go ahead. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I don't like this crazy attitude that people have here that you're not listening to people and police stuff.
 It was a three-to-five vote yes. He didn't vote for it, and he abstained. So, you know, the city council is not listening to people, and they should resign. It's crap. I mean, you listen to people. It wasn't unanimous. You heard people's considerations. They didn't shut people off from talking here. You didn't shut these people off. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? All right, let's take a vote, please. Aye. This is a routine purchase of food.
 we have to keep our offices in safe vehicles and updated and it's very responsible to do this aye folks aye well i'm going to rely on our fleet manager to make sure that we're purchasing the right number of vehicles and that we're getting a good deal and that we're purchasing them at the right point in the life cycle i'm going to accept for the moment that five years is the right life
 Though I think that always needs to be reexamined. As someone who drives a 1987 Toyota pickup truck, I can tell you that sometimes they last longer than five years. So let's keep an eye on that question. The question was raised about whether our inventory of vehicles is too large for the number of officers that we have. It's a fair question.
 because we are 80 officers down. So I guess I'm going to ask both of you to keep an eye on that question. Obviously, we don't want to purchase police vehicles that are not used,
 not utilized, and we certainly don't want to purchase them more frequently than that cost-benefit curve would indicate. So I'm going to trust that both of you are going to keep an eye on those two questions because it comes down to where we spend a dollar. I'd rather spend it on people first and equipment second, as long as we have adequate equipment to do the job. But with those caveats, I'll support this. Aye. Aye.
 Okay. The next item we have left over from this morning, and we'll still try to get to this afternoon's item, it looks like actually Commissioner Saltzman and I will probably not have to leave at 4, so we're probably going to be okay, is 1173. Okay.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of Willamette Park redevelopment project for an estimated $960,000. Mr. Fritz. Thank you. I'm sorry I distracted. What number are we doing? This is Willamette Park, 1173. Thank you. I'll turn it over to staff. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Afternoon. Good afternoon.
 mayor hills and members of council my name is lauren mcguire i'm the development program manager for portland parks and with me is ross swanson the capital project manager three lead for the willamette park redevelopment project we're here today to request council approval to authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for the construction of willamette park redevelopment project
 Willamette Park is a 26-acre regional waterfront park located east of West McAdam Avenue at Nebraska Street along the Willamette River. The park is an important regional destination with a variety of recreational functions. The park offers a regional boat launch, unprogrammed and programmed lawn areas, a play area, tennis courts, and is a destination for cyclists on the Willamette Greenway Trail. It's also an important component in the mosaic of habitat along the Willamette River.
 Recent projects, both internal and external to the park, have catalyzed the need to rethink the components of the park. The projects include the Hanna Pump Station, the Centennial Oaks Project by BES, the Tilkum Crossing Bridge, and the Selwood Bridge Project. Both those two bridge projects likely will increase the bike and pedestrian traffic along the trail.
 So the goals for this project are to enhance the Greenway Trail and improve internal park circulation for all users. You can see number one on the map. That includes widening and realigning the western portion of the Willamette Greenway. The widening will help handle some of that increased traffic.
 Second is to relocate the dog off-leash area. The older location of the dog off-leash area right now is unfenced, and it's in a swale, so it's unusable during the wet portions of the year. The new design is anticipated to be used all year round and to be fenced in. The third, number three on the map, is the restoration of the oak habitat, which was the former location of the dog off-leash area. And then number four are three different entries into the park.
 that we're redesigning for improving the directional signage and more attractive entry features. This gives you some images of the entries. You can see Nebraska Street entry on the top, and the two bottom entries are the north and south green-white entrances from River Point Lane and from Miles Place.
 This slide shows you some of the design elements that you'll see upon completion. There'll be entry monuments with steel gabions and native stone. And then that gabion and stone detail will move into an entry signage shown in the bottom panel. And also we were able to get a donation from the Portland Garden Club of 31 Eddie White Wonder dogwood trees. 31. That's a very good name. White Wonder. Thank you.
 We've had an extensive public process for this project. In December of 2012, Parks completed a planning effort called the Redevelopment and Phasing Plan for Willamette Park. That was guided by Parks, and we had a project advisory committee comprised of neighbors and engaged citizens in that effort. The plan developed the design concept that incorporated both short-term opportunities and long-term changes for the park.
 And the proposed park design came out of that public process and was facilitated by the Portland-based firm of Mayor Reed.
 So our purpose today is to ask council to authorize the competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible and responsive bidder and provide payment for construction of the Willamette Park redevelopment project. The HART construction costs are estimated at just under a million dollars. The funding is from a combination of locations, the parks SDC funds, system development charges,
 also from the Selwood Bridge mitigation funding. We have funds from land acquisition from the Hannah Mason Pump Station and also some parking revenues from the Willamette Park itself. The project is currently on budget and anticipated to be completed in the fall of next year. So with that, if you have any questions, we'd be happy to answer them.
 One question and then maybe a comment. Is the Sailing Club, are they leasing land from us, or do they own or lease private land? The Sailing Club just to the north. I don't believe they're leasing from us. Okay. Well, the reason I raised the question is I was just out there at the Sailing Club for this launching of a boat by the Winden Ore Boat School, which has young people building amazing wooden boats, and they launched one there. Okay.
 and then commissioner fritz and i were out celebrating the uh the reuse of those dead buildings on the ankeny square and it seems to me that other park agencies maybe are a little farther along i have to hate to admit this than we are on the sometimes on the relationship with concessionaires that make sense where there's a little bit of an integration but
 between the nonprofit sector or the private sector on one side and the parks agency on another. So it seems to me that where there's sort of a beneficial synergy like there is between that, I think, a nonprofit sailing club and the park, that we ought to be thinking about that when we're remodeling. And maybe you already have, and maybe that's already been addressed. But just as a general point, I think, again, I'm not saying we should have
 turn our parks over to the private sector. Quite the contrary. But if you go to great parks like Central Park and you see the role that concessions play there, or if you see the positive outcome that we had at Ankeny Square, or you see the kind of synergy between all the different recreational uses that we have in the city, whether it's rowers or
 or sailing lessons. I don't know. I just want us to be thinking about that when we're doing the physical remodeling at the park. They have a boat ramp. We have a boat ramp. You know, are there opportunities for responsible partnership is, I guess, the rhetorical question that I would want to have people think about when we do this work. Good question. I can say that we did – the sailing club did not interject on this latest round of design, but we did talk with the two partners.
 There's Gorge Performance, which they do a lot of rentals for kayaks as well as paddle boarding. We had a good conversation about how we could improve their access to the river here as well as the kayak company to the north of the park as well. That's great. Yeah, because we've got a shared interest in getting people on the river now that it's clean. Thank you very much. Other questions, comments? Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 All right. Then it is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Novick? Very exciting project. Thank you. Aye. Great. Thank you to the capital project managers, Laura McGuire and Ross Swanson, and also to Earl Straley, Terry Davis, Rachel Felice, Brian Aptekar, Lisa...
 Tyler in the Portland Parks. It's been a great group effort, team effort. Pooja Bhatt and my staff and also the South Portland Neighborhood Association, which I've just happened to visit on several occasions when it's not just happened, you have deliberately been there. And Elizabeth Kennedy Wong and her team have really included the neighborhood. And I know they felt very pleased with that many opportunities to give input. So thank you very much. It should be a great project. Hi. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 yeah this is a jewel of a park and uh congratulations good luck hi thanks a lot okay let's move on to 1174 which we carried over from this morning
 Authorize the acquisition of 12 acres of real property on Northwest 4th Place adjacent to Forest Park for $860,000 to be used for park purposes. More exciting stuff in the parks period, Commissioner Fritz. Indeed. Thank you, Mayor. And Zelaine Nunn is going to give us the summary of this as she's the Interim Property and Business Development Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. As she said, I'm Zelaine Nunn with Parks.
 So, Parks is really excited about this acquisition for a variety of reasons. We targeted it back in about 2006 when we started the Metro Natural Area Bond Program as a priority acquisition due to its significant natural resource value, and it has truly amazing views. I really encourage you all to go up there once we've got it open to the public.
 The funding for this, this will be our final acquisition with that bond money. And so the purchase price of about $860,000 will be paid primarily with the natural area bond money. And then we're also asking for $200,000 in SDC funds that must be used to develop or acquire parks.
 Like I said, the property has great views. It's got mature oak trees. It's kind of everything that we're looking for in a property. It's in the Linton neighborhood, so it will help serve them, and it will be added to Forest Park. Thank you.
 I also wanted to point out, because there was some question, that there are no homes on this property. There's an old barn, but no homes are on this property at all. So this is just a vacant property that's been there for years. The owner lives across the street and is excited to see it be part of Forest Park for the future. So thank you. Great. Thank you. Questions? Excellent. Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Novick? Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 right well thank you zelaine for all your work also trang lamb rachel felice dennis james and estreet who is now no longer with the city of portland she's spending time with her family but this is one of her lovely parting gifts to us she came to my office and told me why this is such a special property and so i'm very pleased to be able to support it with again a good mixture of different kinds of funding to make sure that we can have this property in ownership forever
 which is great. I was just at the Forest Park Neighbourhood Association last night. Of course, this is in Linton. But it's always astonishing to me whenever I go up to Forest Park, to the Water Bureau building there, where the Neighbourhood Association meets, how very, very different it is from everything else in the city and every other neighbourhood. Of course, every neighbourhood is very different, but that's very, very different. So thank you very much for your work and stewardship of it. Hi. Saltzman?
 Well, thank you. It's always nice to add more property to Forest Park. All right.
 Niels? Well, it's one of the great Portland stories that 116 years ago, the son of Frederick Law Olmsted came to town and told us, you should create a forest park because it'll be a long way to the woods someday in Portland. And then bit by bit, some pieces larger than others over the years, we've acquired 5,000 acres to make this treasure. And so it's got to be exciting for you, and it's certainly wonderful for us to add one more piece to the puzzle that's almost complete.
 Thank you. Aye. Okay, 1176. Extend contract with Housing and Development Services, Inc. for licensing and maintenance of the Portland Housing Bureau's core software system and increase compensation in amount of $309,602. Mr. Sussman. I don't have a presentation on this. No, this is just a previous agenda item that I think we had to carry over. Yeah. Does anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then we can take a vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. Aye. I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's ongoing work to upgrade the computer software. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Niels. Aye. And 1177. Aye.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Gresham for $928,067 for the Home Investment Partnership Program. This is also a carried-over item. Do you have any comments about this one? Right. This, I believe, is a distribution of federal monies that we get to Gresham's fair share of that federal money. Yeah, that's right. Okay, anyone want to speak? Then let's take a vote, please. Yes.
 Novick hi Saltzman hi Okay and 1178 Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Good afternoon. Are you here this morning? Thanks for coming back to make this presentation Afternoon, I'm sharing Matias from the auditor's office. I'm Mike seller. I'm a sidewalk inspector with maintenance operations. I
 I'm Chris Rollins, Public Works Supervisor for Sidewalk Repair. And this ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. Any remonstrances have been pulled from the assessment and not in this ordinance. Okay, questions? Anyone here to speak or remonstrate on this item? No.
 all right so i have a question actually because i see that's a small number of homes of homeowners did remonstrate so i understand that when that happens you then go through and see other is the charge what going to stay the same go away or be somewhere in between what happens to those part those particular properties do they then come back to us in another package or they do yes they any remonstrances that we receive we remove out of this ordinance
 put into a pending file, and then once the Bureau of Maintenance reviews those and determine whether or not they want to cancel or reduce or keep the same, we put them in the next project depending on the outcome. Thank you. That's good. Great. Thank you all very much. No one wants to speak on this item? Mr. Weston. Okay. Come on up if you do. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Robert Wuss. I'm with Films and Police 911. Sidewalks are very important. I see people where there is no sidewalks walking in streets and stuff, which can be dangerous. It's also a crime to walk in the middle of the street. So sidewalks are important, not just for transportation, but for people to walk back and forth, people in wheelchairs, people on crutches.
 and stuff like that. The disabled really need sidewalks, and even on areas where there is no sidewalks, sidewalks should be put in for people that are disabled, people in wheelchairs, and so people can walk back and forth without walking in the street.
 And that's my take on the sidewalk situation. Thank you very much. All right, then this item passes to second reading for next week. And now we're finally, thank you for your patience, folks, to 1179.
 Adopt Portland's 2016 a natural hazard mitigation plan also known as the mitigation action plan Which characterizes Portland's natural hazard exposure? Assesses potential impacts of natural hazard events including physical and social Vulnerabilities and lists the strategies city bureaus intend to implement to reduce potential losses from natural hazards Novick
 Colleagues, the Mitigation Action Plan, or MAP, is a plan to describe the city's exposure to natural hazard risks and a strategy to reduce those risks over time through systematic investments in programs and capital projects. Most cities and counties in the U.S. have mitigation plans because FEMA requires such a plan for an entity to be eligible for mitigation grant funds. Mitigation plans must be updated every five years. This is Portland's third iteration of the plan. There are a few points about this plan we want to highlight.
 Equity. This plan was developed with an equity lens. We believe it's the first FEMA-compliant mitigation plan that also uses an equity lens. In some ways, this is reflected in the plan. We had a 32-member steering committee that included three co-chairs from the OHSU Office on Disability and Health, from the East Portland Action Plan, and the Portland African American Leadership Forum. We offered two trainings in equity, vulnerability, and natural hazards to the steering committee and the interested public.
 The plan identifies and prioritizes projects that serve populations that are vulnerable to natural hazards. People under 15 years old, people over 65, renters, people of color, people with disabilities, and people in limited English-speaking households. The plan also represents a strong collaboration between bureaus. The following bureaus participated in the plan process and, quote, own projects in the plan. Every single bureau sent a letter of intent to work to implement their projects. The Bureau of Development Services, the Bureau of Environmental Services, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability,
 the Citywide Asset Managers Group, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, Office of Management and Finance, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, Portland Fire and Rescue, Portland Parks and Recreation, and the Portland Water Bureau. I hope we didn't miss any. I think we can list which ones weren't. I want to thank these bureaus and their commissioners and the mayor for supporting PBM's work.
 Finally, I want to point out that this is not a completely funded plan. In fact, many of the items are unfunded. There's a lot of projects in the plan, 159 to be exact. Some we can do with existing funding. Putting them into the plan records our commitment to carry them out. Others are good candidates for grant funding and their inclusion in the plan enhances their grant eligibility.
 And some are REACH projects that we can't do without outside funds and where we don't know how likely that funding is. It's still worth putting some of these into the plan so we can implement them opportunistically. It's not our expectation that all of the projects in the plan will be implemented. However, the plan included a rough qualitative cost-benefit assessment, and everything that moved forward has benefits that exceed the costs. So we could say all the projects are worth doing if we find an opportunity. Thank you.
 While it is great that some of these items are funded, it's worth pointing out FEMA continues to allocate significantly more funds towards post-disaster mitigation than pre-disaster mitigation. We've been relatively successful in capitalizing on the limited amount of pre-disaster mitigation funds available from FEMA. But in the long term, we'll take some advocacy. We know our congressional delegation is with us in this. For FEMA to allocate the bulk of its funding towards pre-disaster mitigation.
 and i will turn it over to danielle from the portland bureau of emergency management who will walk us through the main elements of the plan thanks hi thank you so much for having me here it is an absolute honor and uh just a pleasure to be here we've been working on this
 for the last year and a half, and so it's very exciting to finally be here. It's today. So we're here today to ask you to adopt this plan. My name is Danielle Butzik, as Commissioner Novick said, and I am with the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management for one more day. Thank you.
 I was brought here to update this plan, and that's what I've done. Here to my left is Mr. Rob Flaner with Tetra Tech. He's with the consultant company that helped us update this plan.
 So, like I said, this project has been just a huge effort over the last year and a half, and many, many Bureau representatives have helped with this plan and also members of the community. This has been just a monumental outreach effort, and it's just been so exciting to see the community coming together around this important topic of hazard mitigation. Thank you.
 Today I want to talk a little bit about the plan content, what's in the plan. It is an 860-some page document, so I trust that you've read it all. It is a large document, but there's a lot of good stuff in there. But I do want to cover what mitigation planning is, what's in the plan, and talk about how we included equity in this planning process and why that's so important. Okay.
 I'll give just a brief snapshot of what we found in the risk assessment. I'll highlight the earthquake risks because that's kind of what's at the top of everyone's minds right now. I'll cover just a few of the actions that were listed in the plan. I believe there are actually 161 actions in the plan. We have added a couple after the draft comment.
 comment period. And there was also a separate breakout study, the Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Risk Assessment and Recommendations Study. So I want to briefly cover that as well, and then talk about the next steps for the plan. A mitigation action plan is the city's overall strategy to reduce our risk from natural hazards over time. And that means reducing our potential for injury, loss of life, property damage, and economic impacts.
 It helps us establish eligibility for federal grants. And as you'll see in these photos, I specifically wanted to call attention to the residential seismic strengthening project that we recently implemented and are in the process of implementing with federal funds. And the Johnson Creek restoration project. And that's another one of these photos that's here. And I know you're all very well familiar with those.
 What the mitigation action plan does is it characterizes our risks from natural hazards, it describes our vulnerabilities, and it also lists actionable strategies that city bureaus can take over the next five years, ideally, to reduce those risks, to reduce those potential losses.
 The Mitigation Action Plan, like most plans, has a mission that it's intended to accomplish, and this is our mission developed with the guidance of the Steering Committee. We want to equitably reduce risk and the adverse impacts of natural hazards by building community resilience through collaborative, cost-effective actions and strategies.
 This plan really focused on equity for a lot of reasons, but it's especially important in hazard mitigation because we think that if you don't intentionally build equity into these planning processes, you end up reinforcing or exacerbating existing historical inequities and disparities. Okay.
 And with hazard mitigation, with natural hazards, there's this concept of the social amplification of risk, which is the interaction of social demographic factors that work together with other vulnerabilities, physical vulnerability and hazard exposure, to create enhanced risk. So social vulnerability looks at the who. The who might be impacted by natural hazards. Okay.
 And certain demographic characteristics might make someone more likely to experience detrimental impacts from natural hazards.
 That might be someone who has a physical disability, someone who has a language barrier and is less able to access information and services. It might be a person of color who experiences institutional racism and is often faced with barriers to services because of that. And so we think that social vulnerability is a big factor in this.
 Physical vulnerability is when structures are either old and haven't been built to very high code standards, or they may just be built of materials that are incompatible with a hazard to which they're exposed, such as a wooden structure in a flood zone or a fire hazard zone or an unreinforced masonry building in an earthquake hazard zone.
 The hazard exposure piece is the where. What areas do hazards occur in? So a flood plain or a seismic risk zone. So all of those work together to create risk or potentially impacts from natural hazards.
 The way that we incorporated equity into this process, and I assure you it's not a perfect process, but our attempt at incorporating equity into this process was by creating an equity lens. We asked ourselves questions about each of the actions listed in the plan about how we could maximize the benefits of the plan for the people who are likely to suffer most from natural hazards.
 We asked how we could reduce the burden of the actions on those particular communities. The bureaus, I have to say the bureaus did an amazing amount of work going through each of their actions and doing this whole worksheet, asking themselves these hard questions and refining their actions to be included in this plan to make sure that they were maximizing those benefits. Thank you.
 Like I said, there were a lot of people involved in this process. We had a 32-person steering committee that met monthly for the last year
 To talk about the planning process, they helped us refine the process. They identified our goals and helped us list actions that the bureaus could implement. And they also were a huge contributor to our public engagement strategy, which was how we interfaced with the public on this plan update.
 The bureaus provided their expertise on city infrastructure and existing programs or policies that we could use to work with this plan to help implement actions.
 And the public, of course, attended our workshops. They asked great questions. They helped us understand what their priorities were. And they really helped us refine the messaging in this plan to make sure that it was clear and was going to be useful to our public. Thank you.
 Before you move on from that slide, I just want to note and maybe explain to folks at home that that's using the consensus model, which is what we use in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement in our budget process, that people holding up a green card means that they're fine with what's being proposed. That's great. The yellow card means kind of slow down, and no means stop, and let's talk about this some more. So thank you for using that. I found it very helpful. Absolutely. Yeah, we found that was a really fantastic tool, and it was actually something that came up after a couple of meetings where it
 was clear that there was a very large committee that needed a tool like that. But it was really effective, and so thank you. And, of course, city council plays a huge role in this plan because you're the ones who will adopt this plan, ideally, and set hazard mitigation as a priority for the city and provide resources to implement the actions that are included in the plan.
 So, if you haven't read through the entire 860-some pages, you may wonder what exactly is in this plan. First of all, there is a risk assessment, which is the where. It talks about our exposure to natural hazards. It shows a bunch of maps, which are very colorful and beautiful, and they show us where our highest risk areas are.
 The vulnerability analysis talks about who's at risk. We did a lot of demographic analysis to show what populations are in higher concentrations in certain areas where there are natural hazard risks. And then there's the mitigation strategy, which intends to implement or lists potential actions that we can take as a city to reduce our potential losses from natural hazards. Okay.
 This is a snapshot from the risk assessment. This is a liquefaction potential map. As you can see, the brighter pink is where our highest liquefaction risk is. It coincides with the river, with both of our rivers, because liquefiable soils are found mostly in places where the water table is high, near rivers or streams. Okay.
 liquefaction, for those of you who may not know, is a condition in which the ground is shaken, and ground, which is normally solid under normal conditions, is shaken to the point where the soil particles actually separate, and the ground behaves more like a liquid than a solid. And it can cause severe damage to structures on the surface, as indicated by this very informative graphic. Okay.
 Another map from our plan, this is a shake map.
 of the Cascadia subduction zone earthquake scenario. A shake map is a map that's developed by the United States Geological Survey, and it uses data on what type of soil or rock configurations are present in an area. And it's important to note that this map itself is actually a very zoomed-in version of a large-scale map. So if you zoom out...
 It actually looks sort of like a bullseye around the Cascadia subduction zone scenario.
 Um, and so the, there were two scenarios that we really looked at closely. Uh, actually it's four, uh, scenarios in the plan, but, but some of the, uh, the scenarios that we really focused on were the Cascadia subduction zone earthquake scenario and the Portland Hills fault scenario for this plan. And as you can see, this, this map indicates light to strong shaking from the Cascadia subduction zone earthquake, which, um...
 Contrary to what is sort of in the media right now, it may not be that bad from the Cascadia subduction zone. We still consider this our worst case scenario because of the duration of the shaking and the regional impact that we're likely to see from a Cascadia subduction zone earthquake. Okay.
 It is really important also to note that there are local faults. I'll call your attention to the purple fault running along the west side of the Willamette River. That is the Portland Hills fault. That was the other scenario that we ran for this plan. And as you can see, the shaking is looking a lot more severe for the Portland Hills earthquake scenario.
 And that's for a couple of reasons. It's a surface fault. It's a crustal fault, so it's very close to the surface. And it's also very close to where we are. It's right along the Willamette River, so it's within our boundaries. So the proximity to us and the proximity to the surface makes it a pretty rough ride for us when this actually breaks.
 Danielle, as to when it actually breaks, it's my understanding that unlike with the Cascadia subduction zone where we can estimate the probability of the earthquake happening within the 20% chance in the next 50 years, we don't have the ability to make those kind of projections on our local faults. That's very, very true. And it is likely that the recurrence interval is far greater, far greater, thousands of years. Yeah.
 A lot of the – some of the reason that we aren't able to understand what the timeline is on these faults is because much of the evidence that we would see, like with the Cascadia subduction zone earthquake, we learned a lot about the timeline from underwater landslides. And we could time – we could figure out the time on those. Okay.
 But with this, some of the geological evidence has been destroyed by landslides and geologic movement over time. So it's tougher for us to find out that information. Well, I assume that in the 800 pages, not all of which we've all read, just because the danger is somewhere between light and moderate or maybe light and strong –
 doesn't mean you should relax, right? Oh, absolutely not. Quite the contrary. But it also, to me, it seems like, I mean, I think we could give people false signals in a couple directions. One is to make it look like this really isn't that big of a threat or that it's so apocalyptic a threat that there's no point in doing anything. But we're actually in the middle, right, that you should go ahead and strap your house down. You should go ahead and have an emergency kit.
 In other words, the risk is in that we can do some things range rather than forget about it. It's never going to happen or forget about it. You know, we're just all going to be refugees without housing or hope if it does happen. You know, it's in that range of action matters, right? Yeah, that's exactly right. That's exactly right. It.
 we are probably all going to survive. So you want to have a plan, and you want to have your infrastructure back online for those days after.
 So as I mentioned, we did a very, very robust public engagement effort on this plan. The first step of that public engagement strategy was to put out a preparedness survey. And these images we used to graphically represent the hazards that we were focusing on for the plan implementation.
 And you might notice there's kind of a strange-looking one in the bottom left corner. That is for space weather. That was something that our steering committee decided to cover as an emerging hazard. There isn't a lot of data to support what our risks might really be from space weather, but it was something that the committee found interesting and wanted to look into. What is space weather? Okay.
 Coronal mass ejection, basically. It is a sunspot explosion. Solar flare. Solar flare. Yeah, yeah. Which would create sort of an electronic pulse that might damage infrastructure. So we received three. Well, more things to worry about. That one, you can't do anything.
 Yeah, right. It's tough. It's tough. But we received over 3,000 responses to this survey, and we got just a whole lot of information from the public, and they were overwhelmingly interested in seismic retrofits for our schools. It was just a recurring comment that came up in many, many of the questions that,
 The survey focused on what steps people have taken to prepare or to reduce their risk from natural hazards, what their experiences are with natural hazards, and what they think the city should be doing.
 The next step in the public... Go on with that. I just want to... You're doing a great job. Sorry to keep interrupting. No, it's fine. I want to caution everybody that we do need to talk to our children and maybe others who've just come to this area and perhaps from overseas about the relative risk of things. I think I maybe overdid it when my kids were growing up and that my daughter is now terrified that our house is going to be swept away imminently. So I do want to just remind...
 remind everybody that, yes, we need to pay attention to these things, and we need to remember that young people especially can be very easily scared. So the second part of the public engagement strategy was a series of workshops. We held nine, what we referred to as planning for real workshops, to which we invited members of the community to come and
 and participate with us and look at maps and figure out what the city's priorities should be for natural hazard mitigation. We asked them what they were most concerned about and if they had any experience with natural hazards. And also, similar to the survey, we asked what people thought that the city should be doing. What are the actions that our public thinks that we should be doing?
 Throughout this process, we engaged neighborhood coalitions primarily and used a lot of their networks to outreach to the public. We also had a meeting with the immigrant and refugee community through the Community Engagement Liaisons Program. You might be familiar with the program. It's basically how the city engages with our immigrant and refugee communities.
 They, in turn, the community engagement liaisons that we worked with, held workshops in their communities, in their primary language, to ask questions like we were asking of them about priorities in hazard mitigation and what those folks worry most about. We also worked with the Coalition of Communities of Color and had a follow-up meeting with them on how their feedback was incorporated into this plan.
 The last part of the public engagement strategy was a series of summer socials. We had socials in the park where we invited the public to come and just ask us questions. We talked about the draft plan and did some science experiments with volcanoes and liquefaction demonstration. And it was just an opportunity for the public to come and interact with us, PBM staff, and our neighborhood emergency team volunteers.
 I want to highlight just a few actions that are included in the Mitigation Action Plan. This photo is a photo of a solar pilot project, basically, in Eugene, Oregon, to help
 homeless populations with their electricity needs when they don't have a traditional way to plug in a laptop or a phone or something like that. That's something that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is really interested in exploring. That's one of the
 Actually, a few of the actions in the mitigation action plan talk about solar plus battery storage projects, pilot projects in various locations, community centers and in low-income neighborhoods that could really benefit from this technology. Okay.
 Second one is for us to really continue coordinating with the levee districts on permitting for new structures around the levees. As you can see in this photo, this –
 home was actually built into the side of the levee. And it's very, very important from a levee management perspective to not have structures built into the levee. So that is something that Bureau of Development Services is working on. They are coordinating with the levee management district, but that's something that we want to highlight as very important in this plan. Thank you.
 The next one I want to talk about is expanding neighborhood emergency teams into every neighborhood and other communities, not just neighborhood structure, but also other communities like immigrant and refugee communities and faith-based organizations.
 We also want to look at strategically replacing water pipes with earthquake-resistant materials. That's something that the Water Bureau is really looking closely at with the replacement of the Willamette River crossing. And they've recently completed a seismic assessment of a lot of their infrastructure, and they really want to look at where we can most effectively reduce our risk to our water system by replacing piping.
 The community was very interested in seeing additional trainings on disaster preparedness, home safety, and emergency response training that isn't necessarily as demanding of their time as neighborhood emergency team training. As you may know, neighborhood emergency team certification takes a lot of time, and you have to maintain it with volunteer hours. But people are very interested in learning how they can make their –
 their families safer and they're interested in learning about how they can do non-structural seismic retrofits, like installing safety latches on their cabinets so that when an earthquake happens, all of the stuff in their cabinets doesn't fall out. So that's something that we added to the plan in response to community interest.
 The last one that I want to highlight is for Office of Equity and Human Rights and all of the bureaus as they implement actions to review them for any unintended consequences that might happen to find ways that we can really work to reduce disparities in how hazard mitigation takes place.
 I have a photo here of the Johnson Creek restoration project. And I put that photo up there because that's an example of a project that could really benefit from an evaluation like that. Because a project like that, when you're offering even a willing seller program, there are potential negative consequences to the community.
 be displaced from their homes if their landowner decides to sell. So that's something that could really be evaluated to see if there's a way to provide renter support or something like that. I also want to just talk really briefly about the Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Risk Assessment
 The critical energy infrastructure hub, as we are referring to it, is a six-mile stretch along the southwest side of the Willamette River, where a lot of our petroleum infrastructure and electrical and natural gas infrastructure resides. This is a map indicating where our study area was. And this is not an area that we invented. It was actually based on a study done by Dogami in 2012. Okay.
 And I just want to highlight in this map the proximity of the critical energy infrastructure hub to Forest Park, which, as we heard earlier, is a very, very critical asset to our city. It's very important to us. And then the Linton neighborhood is the only residential neighborhood that's located within the critical energy infrastructure hub. There were four main findings from this study.
 The first being that the lack of data leads to a really significant understatement of
 We didn't have a lot of data from the stakeholders in our study as we had hoped. We asked for data on vulnerability of the critical energy infrastructure. We didn't have a lot of response to that. We really think that it's important that we expand on this assessment and collect better data, more comprehensive data that can really give us a better picture of our risk.
 Most of the facilities in the critical energy infrastructure hub are located on liquefiable soils. Assets in the critical energy infrastructure hub are as old as over 100 years old, but some of them are relatively new. About 70% of them were built before 1974 when Oregon adopted a statewide building code.
 And as I mentioned before, the Cascadia subduction zone event is not our only risk. Of course, the Portland Hills fault is a huge risk to us as well. And the fault, as you can see in this map, there's actually an indication of where the Portland Hills fault is, and it runs right through that area. Some of the recommendations that came from the report, there were actually nine of them. I'm going to highlight just a couple here.
 First of all, and most important, is a critical energy infrastructure hub disaster resilience work group. We think it's really, really important that all of the stakeholders in these issues get together and talk about potential policy options and strategies that we could use together to increase our resilience in this area.
 This group could implement some of the other actions or recommendations that we have in the report, and they can also work together to advocate for even potentially building code revisions at the state level. Secondly, one of the other recommendations is policy implementation. So, yes.
 A short while ago, the city council passed a resolution to reject any new fossil fuel infrastructure, infrastructure whose sole purpose is to bring more fossil fuels into the city of Portland.
 I think this is a huge step towards addressing climate change for Portland and taking a strong stance. And it's also an opportunity for us to focus on seismic safety of these facilities as well. So Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is actually working on terminal zoning regulations that could potentially implement this recommendation. Thank you.
 There's also a facility inventory project that is hopefully funded, I believe, for inventorying the facilities that are in this critical energy infrastructure hub so that we can have a better picture of what our risks are out there. Just want to footnote that. There's been really good work done, I think, between the bureaus on that effort, that is, to both –
 the Council's direction about not expanding fossil fuel infrastructure here, but also send signals to the owners of that infrastructure that are attractive towards replacing older, more vulnerable tanks with newer, stronger ones. So I want to just commend the work that's been done by PBAM and BPS together, and I think Brewer of Development Services as well. Multiple folks brought their expertise to that, and I think you came up with a pretty elegant solution that actually
 manages more than one objective. Right, right. Yeah, it's a great opportunity. Next steps for the plan are it's currently under review by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Oregon Emergency Management Agency, and that review should be complete by December. We're hoping to have approval with your adoption by the end of the year.
 At that point, it will be on us to start implementing the actions in the plan, and the plan will also be maintained and annually reviewed and updated, and we will produce annual progress reports so that the public can be aware of the progress that's being made on this plan. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Just another footnote on implementation of this. In our upcoming discussions about the fall bump, there's some small funding that's been requested to do some more research for PBM on critical infrastructure. So just want to flag that as one of the action items in the action plan. Okay. Other questions? Other questions for our team here?
 I'm sorry. What happens if the state and the feds reject our plan, but we've already adopted it? Does that mean we have to start back over and readopt something else?
 It's possible. There is language in the resolution that says the adoption would be inclusive of any non-substantive changes that FEMA and the state request. If there are changes that are determined to be substantive, then it would mean coming back to council for re-adoption.
 The reason for this sort of rush toward the end of this project is because we're hoping to have the plan approved by the end of the year so that we can apply for pre-disaster mitigation funding that we became eligible for because of the December storms last year. So that money has been made available to us if we have an approved plan. Anything else, Cedar, you want to add? No.
 thank you very much i know we have some folks that are here to speak on this item so we'll take them and then move forward so i showed you four people so much testimony steve yeah yes we do we have jeremy o'leary from these portland action plan micah mesco from the portland ottoman society and captain hartinger from bbs
 And I'm probably going to be leaving us a little bit early, so turn it over to you, Dan. We've got to go tell people how to get on with life on Northwest 23rd this evening. So it's a little more complicated, speaking of disasters. Yeah, speaking of disasters. Well, first off, I want to applaud the PBIM and the city for shoehorning in equity into an effort by FEMA that was never required. Right.
 And so as with all efforts, where you shoehorn in something after the fact, there's always rooms for improvement afterwards. I mean, it just – so thank you, and there's a lot more work to do on that. And please continue the great work on community outreach and equity when you – all the future plans around seismic retrofits and the energy hub and all the associated ones. So it needs to be a – like, as now –
 MAP is mostly, the Mitigation Action Plan was mostly about, hey, this is how the bureaus can figure out how to keep doing whatever they're doing after the disaster. MAP is not about, hey, this is how we make a resilient Portland. This isn't about recommendations to the citizenry on, hi, do these five things.
 Like, one of the things, yes, now school, doing the seismic upgrades of the schools, by all means, but there's one thing to do, life safety seismic upgrading, and then there's functionality upgrading. So, and it's been shown in a lot of disasters around the world that until the local school is online again after the earthquake or whatever disaster, the community doesn't really get going again. So that's just another, of course, but that's now other jurisdictions and all sorts of bureaucratic funds.
 And so I am the co-chair, one of the co-chairs for the East Portland Action Plan. And so one of the things, speaking specifically for East Portland, is now we are blessed with seismically, mostly fairly seismically stable soils in East Portland. However, my concern is that post-disaster we'll see something very similar would happen in Christchurch, New Zealand, is seismic.
 there was a wholesale displacement from seismically unstable areas to seismically stable areas, and thus displacing a good chunk of the vulnerable and marginalized population that we have. Given that, I have the privilege of worrying about only this hypothetical disaster, whereas a decent chunk of our population is worrying about the day-to-day one of food insecurity and rent increases, etc., etc., etc.
 And let's see, let me look at my notes. Also, as much as possible in the future, be thinking about your capital projects of how, in general, how do we make our, like, the recovery phase after the earthquake or whatever disaster easier? It's one thing, yes, we need to, there's a sprint to make it through the disaster, and like, what do we do after the fact? And so, thank you.
 Next. Mayor and commissioners, thanks for having us. My name is Micah Meskel, and I work for the Audubon Society of Portland, and I was on the committee and also took part in the Breakout CEI Hub work group. So I wanted to second Commissioner Novick and Danielle and Jeremy's points on the praise for this process, specifically around the purposeful equity work, and the collaboration between bureaus was great to see, too. It was really functional work.
 So as the mission states, the intent of this plan was to reduce overall risk of adverse impacts of natural hazards by building community resilience. So this is a daunting task, as much of the city infrastructure and inhabitants are located in multiple natural hazard zones. We have over years developed our city in a way that puts people and property in harm's way, and in doing so also put the ecological health of our community at risk.
 So through the risk assessment, we determined that there was more than 9,500 people and $6 billion worth of property at risk from a 100-year flood, and also 89,000 people and $20 billion worth of property on landside prone slopes. So these are significant numbers, significant human and economic resources that could be lost in a major hazard event. Okay.
 events that are becoming more frequent as climate changes. So one of the key takeaways from the plan is that we need to do a much better job of integrating the built and natural environments and giving far more credence to natural hazards as we develop.
 So this specifically includes, and these are included as action items, accelerating our commitment to green infrastructure to make our communities more resilient, widening buffers along rivers and creeks, protecting floodplains, and reducing rather than expanding development in floodplains and on steep slopes. So in recent years, the city has reduced many of its green infrastructure programs, and we feel that this plan is in part a call to reinvest in those programs.
 Another key takeaway is that we need to aggressively address some of the most hazardous situations. So here I would call your attention to the CEI hub study, as Danielle spoke about, and in particular the fossil fuel infrastructure that we have established in our earthquake liquefaction zone along the Willamette.
 So the CEI hub receives and distributes 90% of the fossil fuels that powers the state of Oregon. So that's a significant portion of that all in one location. It is also located in the extreme hazard zone of six of the seven major natural hazards that we studied in the plan. So it's a very dangerous location. And most notably, the vast majority of the facilities are constructed on soft, liquefiable soils that are typically associated with increased seismic vulnerability –
 and with most of them being constructed to low or no code standards. I would note that you have a significant opportunity in the next couple months to follow through on the ban, to ban new fossil fuel infrastructure in Portland. This is a critical first step that is laid out partially in the CEI hub step to ensure that we don't further exacerbate the existing hazards that we have in that location. Thank you.
 And that, however, is only the first step, that fossil fuel ban, infrastructure ban. We also need to speed up the follow-up and look how we can reduce the risk and increase the safety of existing facilities over time.
 So a couple ways we see that that being accomplished is to fund PBEM and BDS's process to do a comprehensive analysis of the CEI hub and all the assets that occur there, to collect more data, run a community-led process, and formulate a legislative strategy to consider how building codes could be altered to require seismic upgrades in more expedited timeframes than what is currently happening.
 Further, we need to strengthen the current fossil fuel infrastructure code proposal from Planning and Sustainability Commission and designate existing fossil fuel facilities as non-conforming use. We see that as very important as it will require the necessary review processes for upgrades and further enable PBM and BDS to process their process to require upgrades into the future on existing sites.
 So finally, to end, I would like to note two ways that we feel, Audubon feels, that this plan could have been improved. One is that we felt it failed to recognize the new floodplain protections that were put in place earlier this year as a result of a biological opinion released by National Marine Fisheries Services. So we understand that this process started before that ruling came into place. But contrary to the assertions in the plan, poor floodplain protection is not a good
 Portland will likely need to improve its floodplain protections in order to maintain its eligibility for the National Flood Insurance Program into the future. And so we think that needs to be explicitly noted in the plan. And second, there were a few –
 Committee members who felt that the plan should have actually been more aggressive in terms of addressing some natural hazards. And this is specific to our future regulations will be held to under the new biological opinion and additionally protecting specific areas. So again, we appreciate the opportunity to participate in this process and look forward to seeing it implemented. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, thanks for having me. My name is Katherine Hartinger. I'm a planner with the Bureau of Planning Sustainability. I'm currently on the code development team, which seems like an odd match for this, but I was previously on the central city team, and I was the bureau rep on this process. I'm also an emergency coordination center responder, but above all else, I'm a mom. I have a three-year-old and a five-year-old, and their safety is everything. And so this was a really...
 great opportunity to do something that was meaningful both professionally and personally. As a stakeholder advisory committee member, I attended the meetings and basically brought all that information back to facilitate conversations within my bureau. And that was a really interesting process because thinking about who in my bureau needed to be at those conversations and which teams this topic touches, and it really touched everybody.
 So I facilitated conversations with sustainability, solid waste staff, climate action plan people, environmental and river teams, central city, et cetera. So that was a really great opportunity.
 One thing that was really unique that's already kind of been touched on was this plan's emphasis on equity. As you know, equity was a priority of the Portland plan and a guiding principle of the new comprehensive plan. Using an equity lens to evaluate potential items was not a FEMA requirement, and I applaud PBM for asking advisory committee members and bureau representatives to think about equity throughout the planning process. Thank you.
 For our part, staff from throughout the Bureau came together to review and narrow down a list of action items, many of which were provided by community members, and think about how each might benefit or burden different communities. It was a really engaging conversation and really made us think about our Portland community and how differences in race, income, ability, language, and age, but also differences in housing tenure and type, might affect someone's ability to mitigate, prepare for, and recover from natural hazards. We learned a lot.
 I hope these conversations continue and that equity remains at the forefront of this plan as it's updated in coming years, and that ongoing outreach efforts strive to reach underserved and underrepresented communities so we can continue to improve our understanding of the needs and barriers that individuals and families face with regard to mitigation and preparation. And lastly, I want to thank PBEM, Carmen Merlot, and Donna Papa-Efthamieu for their leadership, and Danielle Butzik in particular for managing the process.
 and i look forward to our bureaus working together moving forward thank you any questions for the panel okay thank you all do we have anybody signed up to testify or yes i show three people left um i think brian hoop uh i believe it's denise weller and daniel cyrus okay come on up go ahead um
 So my name is Brian Hoop. I'm wearing my private community member hat on today. I happen to live in Linton. As some of you may know, 102-49 Northwest 109th Avenue. I'm on the board for the Linton Neighborhood Association. And the president was unable to come to attend today to give comments. I will... I have the comments that we approved back in early September that we gave to PBM, which you may already have, may not. I just want to comment that...
 I've been in Lenten for 20 years now and have grown to see Lenten as a very feisty and resilient community, ready to address the many unique geographical challenges that we face. And also had the privilege to actually be on the committee for this group the last several months as a supervisor for the city's disability program with office neighborhood involvement. We were going through a staffing transition. Okay.
 I got to also, I want to recognize D'Reese Weller and Rob Lee represented the Linton Neighborhood Association on that committee process for a year or more. I want to appreciate PBM and Commissioner Novick's leadership on this effort. One example in Linton, I really admire PBM's efforts, have done a great job of helping us get a neighborhood emergency team going in Linton. And their training and their support for that team has been tremendous. So thanks for that.
 The Lent Neighborhood Association agreed with many of the recommendations, but not all that I want to focus on.
 I think what's primarily, what we came to determine was primarily missing is Linton Neighborhood Association is looking for a commitment from our leadership of the council, our state legislators, metro and county, that we need to acknowledge there needs to be a long-term strategy for decentralizing the state of Oregon's energy infrastructure hub. As has already been said, the Portland Harbor, most of the energy infrastructure sits on liquefiable fill area.
 It's not an appropriate site, and it's at great risk when an expected earthquake happens. I think what's also important to recognize is this issue should have been included in the comprehensive plan, something we should be thinking about long term.
 and that this is more than just an issue that affects that kind of immediate area that was on the map around Linton. It's a regional and statewide challenge that goes beyond the Linton boundaries. I think there was a truck accident this December where a truck ran into a train parked along Highway 30 this past December, and the toxic clouds didn't really impact Linton as much as they impacted the folks of North Portland. So that's something to think about.
 Of utmost concern to us with the critical energy infrastructure hub issue is a, it's hinted at something this work group should look at as a possible buffer zone and possible voluntary buyout, which would impact a lot of people in Linton. And I'm just letting you know the Linton Neighborhood Association is quite committed that we will fight and oppose any consideration of such a proposal in the future. Okay.
 A few more ideas that were important to us is we also think there's a need for additional emergency supplies, potentially a fire station, emergency foam supplies in the Linton area. We would love to work with PIVM and the city to look at what kind of rule changes could happen so that
 A rail car with volatile fuel should not be parked within an urban area along Highway 30 or in other parts of the city as well. And we really appreciate that. I came to learn that there is an evacuation plan for Linton, but we need to work more closely with the residents to educate folks that it exists and what to do about it when an emergency happens. So thanks for your time. Thank you. Hi, my name is Darice Weller. I'm on the board of the Linton Community Council.
 Neighborhood Association. I'm a member of the Portland Harbor Community Advisory Group for the Superfund site, and I'm a member of the Northwest Toxic Community Coalition for Region 10. So...
 My power was out until 12.30 today, so the only thing you got was part of my testimony that it was appropriate for this that I had for the Portland Planning Commission. So anyway, that's what you have.
 So PBEN's mitigation plan is a rare opportunity to correct the big mistake of locating the fuel tank farms in Linton-Wilbridge. It's an environmental catastrophe of epic proportions that is going to happen unless measures are taken to correct the error. Yumei Wang of Dogami states that a worse site could not have been found due to liquefaction and lateral shifting.
 Lives will be lost, the river contaminated, Forest Park, and many communities seriously affected. Goal 7 of Oregon Land Use Goals and Guidelines 3B prohibits the siting of hazardous facilities in identified hazard areas where risks to the public safety cannot be mitigated. So I suggest you acquire a rebuilding of the tanks to seismic standards of a nine earthquake or move the tanks to a safer location.
 Mandate insurance or surety bonds to cover the cost of the loss of life, property, and the environment should a natural hazard occur or accidents. And bring up current tanks. They should be designated nonconforming use to facilitate upgrades. Okay.
 A plan was suggested during the process for a voluntary buyout of the buffer zone in Linton using a fee from the sale of houses in Portland. Lintonites are very concerned. Our community has been established since 1843, easily 100 years before the majority of the tank farms were built. We have four generation families living in our neighborhood who really don't want to be displaced.
 We contend that there is a much larger area than the small buffer zone in Linton that will be affected. St. John's, Forest Park, the Willamette, the Columbia, and the industry employees in northwest Portland, and really the entire region will be affected by a hazard that could occur, earthquake hazard that could occur in there, will occur in there.
 And another question was, why are the citizens asked to pay for the risks posed by multibillion dollar corporations? I mean, shouldn't they be supplying the money for the risk? We have dodged several bullets recently, as I have listed in the papers that are distributed to you. Please use this opportunity through PBIM's resiliency plan to save lives and the environment,
 And avoid an environmental catastrophe, and lessen the effects of natural hazards. Thank you. Thank you. You mentioned that your power was out until 1230 today. What time did it, when did it go out? Last night sometime. And is that something that happens often, that the Linton neighborhood is without power when everybody else is back on? Yeah, it happens, especially on my, I live on Termantown Road. And oftentimes the tree, or there's trucks that are not legal there that go driving through there and knock the branches down and put the power lines up.
 Also, the trucks and exit traffic are causing problems with the degradation of the road. And so actually this was a power pole that was right next to the road that went down and took out all the power. Thank you. Go ahead. My name is Kathleen Milning, also Casey. And I want to just make probably about three points. One,
 To just acknowledge the work of the committee, which I was part of, and the leadership, it was absolutely an honor to be part of that. Also, the points that are being made, I totally support. The other piece from my earlier testimony, you might recognize that my background in nursing and public health
 I would like to suggest that what's being presented here has another element that is important to consider, and that is look at how we are developing Portland. I happen to live in a condominium that is in the downtown area, and as we build higher and higher buildings, it's not that the buildings won't stand, but when you've got a loss of power, of plumbing,
 electricity, et cetera, we are asking for much more complexity in the recovery and care of people. We've got elders. A lot of the areas that we wanted to make sure we take a look at in this plan are going to be at risk forever.
 in the downtown area, the areas that are most at risk. We need to be considering how to prepare for the influx of people in Portland. Totally get it. Totally know that's going to happen. I just hope we don't increase the chances of more problems in that process. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all. I think we had maybe one or two more people. Definitely one more. Mr. Sears and Mr. Wilkins want to speak as well. Come on up. Start with you, sir.
 My name is Dan Sears. I'm the Conservation Director for Columbia Riverkeeper. And on behalf of our membership, I want to support the Hazard Mitigation Action Plan and support the testimony that Micah Meskel gave earlier. I think the most important piece that I would like to convey is that there's a really critical overlap between this and the fossil fuel policy. And the interplay between the two, I think, is...
 just important for you to consider because in the next couple months you'll have people coming to you talking about that other policy we strongly support the idea of funding a plan with further study further community involvement and a path forward to to find a way to improve the seismic readiness of the tanks that exist along the columbia river and the williamette river these are
 This situation is something that obviously is of deep concern for our over 10,000 members, both for its public safety implications and also its ecological implication. And so the Portland fossil fuel policy, I think, is important.
 ready to be a nice fit with this plan, and they fit well together, particularly in using the non-conforming use designation for existing facilities as a fit with this. We think that would properly incent the type of seismic upgrades that are really spelled out as necessary in this plan.
 So I think funding PBEM and Bureau of Development Services to collect information, involve the community, and form a strategy to require seismic upgrades is the proper path laid out in this plan. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Wilkins? I'm Cedric Wilkins, and I believe this, that if there was an earthquake at Mount Hood and we don't filter the Bull Run water system, there could be particulates stirred up. I really in the future would wish this city –
 would help school children, because of the lead issue and the lead pipe is not controlled by the city, to drink bottled water. People don't know this. I make $8,000 a year. I'm on food stamps, and I can buy bottled water. So anybody who's low income really can have their kids go to school with bottled water. I...
 The school situation also is weird because several school officials in Portland have resigned because they wouldn't admit the water had lead in it. I just don't care. It's just when in doubt, have your kids drink bottled water. And so I even have an idea that Benson High School, Benson made the Benson Bubblers because he didn't want his employees to drink alcohol downtown or something. Benson High School should maybe manufacture or even study how to make water
 purified water. It's not easy. You have to boil it or you have to run it through filtration systems. You have to test it. Maybe they could investigate that and even let their own students and the general people drink the water that they make and give it in honor of Benson. On the issue of chrononal ejections, the sun emits a chrononal ejection every 11 years. Between Apollo 16 and Apollo 17, they worried that the astronauts may die on the moon
 And because of the, not the person up around the moon, but the people on the moon. In 1850, there was a coronal ejection in which it destroyed telegraph wires and melted railroad tracks. Thank you all. Okay, this is a resolution, so please call the roll, Carla. Novick?
 Thank you very much to Danielle and Jada and the rest of the PM team. Thanks for everybody who participated. People raised some difficult questions. It is absolutely true that this is a bad place to have a critical energy infrastructure hub.
 And it would be great if the facilities were dispersed. Question is, where would they be dispersed to and how would that be consistent with our decision that we don't want to allow new fossil fuel terminals? So that's just one of the many knotty questions that we have to deal with. But I really appreciate all the work that's gone into it, all the community groups that have been involved. And I really hope that the feds and the state will sign off and will be eligible for mitigation grants.
 It's quite remarkable to me how different this report is from the 2010 and the process that went into it. And in fact, how far we've come as a city since we established the Office of Equity and Human Rights in 2011. And the community engagement that's gone into this whole process.
 So I'll be astonished if they don't accept it at the higher level since they accepted the previous one. This, as I say to me, is night and day. And thank you, Danielle, wonderful presentation as well as a great job in writing. Carmen Merlo has really taken the Bureau to the next level
 great heights and I very much respect the attention to after doing things in the way we all used to do them that this is now being thinking about equity and who to talk to, how to talk to people and as I mentioned the importance of not scaring people at the same time as we are.
 helping them to prepare. So thank you to John and Papa, who did great work with this, and Mayor Sam Adams, and are now continuing on with the work.
 I appreciate the citizens and community members who have been very much involved in that. And I'm hoping that as we move forward with this, that we'll build on this increased collaboration both between the bureaus and with the community so that, especially in parks and neighbourhood involvement, we can use this as a central organising theme that maybe people don't have the capacity to come to meetings on land use or transportation, but everybody should be able to come to a neighborhood meeting about how are we all going to manage...
 after a natural disaster. And then we'll learn from each other and we'll help each other. And I think that can be building community rather than scaring community. So thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for your work. And I very much appreciate the detail in this plan. It's excellent. Ike. Thanks, Commissioner Novick and PBIM and Danielle for all the good work on this mitigation action plan as well as the other bureaus that participated in this and our public.
 I remember getting briefed on this when we had a Disaster Policy Council meeting last summer sometime, and hearing about the meetings that were going to be held in August in, like, Coutts Park and Gabriel Park, I really wondered, you know, are people going to come out in August for mitigation action plans? But I think they did, and I think this plan is a better plan for that. But it really does contain a lot of good information and a lot of good recommendations and information we need to heed. So thank you all for doing this.
 Resolution is adopted, and we have no further business today, and we are adjourned until next Wednesday at 9.30.