All right, good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday morning, October 11th, 2017, session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Wheeler. Here. Lots of people are going to testify. When they testify, you may or may not agree with them. Give them respect. Let them speak. Thumbs up, thumbs down. If you're a lobbyist, let us know. First item, please. Thank you.
 Item 1105, request of Angie Even to address council regarding unreinforced masonry retrofit project. Good morning. Good morning. Can you just state your name for the record, please? Yeah. Okay.
 Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler. My name is Angie Even, and I am a native Portland resident as well as been a community business leader in the Woodstock Business District for over 30 years. Today, I'm here to represent myself and other building owners, but also the Woodstock Business District community.
 I'm here to report that the Woodstock Business Association voted last month unanimously against a mandate for the buildings in our district. And the reason for that is because when we did the math on the full retrofits, we would be looking at over $10 million. We see that as a devastation to our business district as well as a displacement of our businesses and also jobs that would be lost.
 I believe that this represents most business districts because when, especially the small districts, it takes a lot of years to build the right mix of businesses and buildings. And any big disruption in that would disrupt the entire ecosystem.
 On a city level, there's over 1,400 of the 1,640 buildings are commercial. Ninety-three percent of those are one-to-three story. Also, there's 270 residential buildings with 7,000 units, and 18,000 of those are low-income city-financed units.
 So most of the buildings that we're talking about are small buildings. They're family-owned buildings and they're worth far less than what the retrofits would cost.
 I have been tracking this and attending meetings for over a year, and at every meeting I've been asking the same question. What happens if building owners can't afford this? And the answer has been consistent, and that has been you will either have to sell or demolish. That was alarming. So building owners started a grassroots movement, and what we did is we pulled our money and we sent out two postcards that cost us a little over $1,000 each.
 And the purpose for that was we wanted to inform other building owners that this was happening and to give them the information of what might happen within their lives. Yes.
 The responses that I received, first of all, was that most building owners didn't know what a URM was. And the rest of them, they wanted to know how they got on the list. And I'm going to run out of time. Anyways, what I want you to know is that building owners are your neighbors and we're also –
 and we're also mostly retired or at a retirement age. No one knows where they're going to come up with the money for these retrofits. We believe in the 2485 of the code and believe if you corrected that code,
 that that would take care of most of these buildings over time. Thank you. Great. Thank you. And I neglected to mention, and I should have said this up front, we're actually not going to bring that code back until December, and it's my understanding there are still some conversations taking place, particularly with the small building owners. It seems like we've ironed out the Category 1 and Category 2 buildings, and the contention point now is really –
 this push-pull between our desire to protect the public and people who are in unreinforced masonry buildings and the reality that there is expense associated with...
 With the retrofits. Yeah. So we're still very much having those conversations. And I believe we all agree that the schools and the critical buildings are a priority in this project. Absolutely. Thank you. Yeah, and I don't think, it seems like everybody's in agreement on that. Everybody agrees, yeah. So we're two-thirds of the way there. We are. Good. Thank you for coming in. Thank you so much for your time. Yeah, thank you. Next item, please. 1106, request of Pippa Aaron to address council regarding unreinforced masonry mandate. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, friends. Hi. Hi.
 So thank you for your clarification, and I want to just speak to that point and keep going with this idea. There are real social implications to the passing of any mandate beyond Pear Pits, cornices, and chimneys. As you may know, I am in a unique crossroads of this potential mandate. There's in a number of ways. For one, I run Pear, nonprofit for homeless kids. We're in a masonry building, which may or may not be on the list. There's some conflicting reports.
 Our landlord has been very clear, however, and she wrote a letter to you, Mayor Wheeler, to this effect, that she rents to us cheaply on purpose because she believes in our mission. But if there is a mandate that passes that would require her to spend several thousand dollars, several hundreds of thousands of dollars, she simply would not do it. Pear would lose its home. Thank you.
 Also, my job is to place homeless young people in affordable homes. And as you may know, I have kids with vouchers, and we can't find affordable homes for them to go into. There's a state of housing emergency. If a mandate passes that would require anything beyond parapets, cornices, and chimneys, any invasive action, any invasive retrofit...
 There are 7,000 units at stake. That means 7,000 people could lose their homes in these retrofits. That means 7,000 more competitors with my kids for 7,000 fewer units. There's real social implications here.
 Also, I'm an owner. In the 1990s, after my father died, I took that money, invested in Northwest 23rd. I own a beautiful building up there. I live there. I have long-term tenants. They're my friends. They're my neighbors. This is my home that we're talking about as well.
 And lastly, I'm an artist. And in the 20s, I spent my entire 20s as an artist renting from Ken Unkless. As we know, he's an incredible person who owns a lot of our town's creative spaces. And I asked him a couple weeks ago how this mandate would affect him.
 and he said, three of my buildings would be subject to this mandate. I would keep the North Seed building because that is my legacy. It doesn't make economic sense, but it's my gift to the city. But to do so, I would have to get rid of the other two buildings. So what we understand is once something's been erased, we can't get it back. And we have to think in terms of neighborhoods. Right?
 Multnomah Village, Woodstock, Hawthorne, Northwest 23rd, Northwest 21st. I mean, these neighborhoods are at risk. They could be gone and demolished, turned into box stores. I don't want that. I don't want California developers swooping in. I know my building already has been... People are circling and asking to buy it cheap because they know this mandate is looming. So...
 What's important to understand, because the committee will tell you otherwise, is that any unfunded invasive mandate with timelines causes evictions and demolitions, period. Okay.
 Walter McMoneys, who's on this committee, has done some retrofitting, but he's been able to do it slowly over years during the individual vacancies of the units. He didn't need to evict everyone because he had the luxury to plan and do things in a logical, sequential fashion. So I'm out of time, but I have more thoughts, and I look forward to talking with you all further. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next individual, please.
 1107, request of Michael Fivas to address council regarding unreinforced masonry mandate. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, my name is Michael Fivas and you did a great job on my name, thank you. I'm uniquely qualified to talk to you about seismic resilience. I have a PhD from MIT in geophysics and I'm a third generation housing provider in the city of Portland. We have buildings that have been in the family for over 50 years. We have tenants that have been with us for over 40 years.
 First, I'd like to describe to you a little bit about what really is the problem here. And then we'll talk a little bit about some solutions. The major cause of death and destruction in earthquakes are tsunamis and fires. Contrary to what you might see on the news with collapsing buildings, that's the major cause of death and destruction.
 Of the collapsing buildings, URMs do cause death and destruction. However, it's important to note that in the last 200 years, there have been fewer than 350 deaths associated with URM buildings. And of that, approximately 70% of those deaths are a result of falling bricks and other debris from chimneys and parapets.
 The city recognized this about 20 years ago when you passed Title 2485, which required bracing of these parapets and chimneys whenever you did a re-roof or a major renovation to a building. The problem with that is that the city has failed to implement it and enforce it.
 As a building owner, I've done many re-roofs in the last 10 or 20 years, and all under permit, all under inspection. Not once did the city mention, oh, by the way, you need to brace the parapet. They said, fine, go ahead, re-roof your building. That's the problem. The city has not enforced their own code.
 It's widely recognized that you get the biggest bang for the buck by reinforcing the chimneys and the parapets. Let's talk a little bit about the cost. The cost to reinforce a parapet is about $350 per lineal foot.
 Well, for a one-story building, it's going to be that same cost as it is for a five-story building. So the one-story building can't afford as much as a five-story building. Any policy you pass must be flexible enough to allow for the different size of buildings, the kinds of uses, and so forth and so on. I propose that you make 2485 mandatory with a set date that it has to be completed by. That's the stick, the
 carrot is if you provide financial incentives for people that do it before the mandate deadline, I think a lot of those people in those one and two story buildings that can't afford a full retrofit can go ahead and do the job and will do the job with the proper carrot. Please provide a funding mechanism that provides carrots
 and sticks to people. The stick can be fines if they don't do it after a certain date. But it's important that there is significant funding. Senate Bill 311 will not provide that significant funding. It will only provide partial property tax exemption. We need a program similar to what was done for the Energy Trust Program, where you get tax credits, where you maybe get rebates. In that case of energy tax credits, it was from
 the power companies, but I think we need to divide a sustainable, viable funding mechanism in order to encourage property owners and the ability to do the retrofits without demolishing or selling their buildings. Thank you very much. Excellent testimony. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next individual, please. 11-08, request of Mark Rogers to address council regarding unreinforced masonry mandate.
 Good morning. Good morning Mayor Wheeler and the members of the council. My name is Mark Rogers and my wife Kathy and I own a 34 unit apartment building called the Morley Court at 1831 Southeast Hawthorne. We engaged Mark Temple of Temple Engineering to do a seismic evaluation or start that process back in February of 2017.
 After spending $8,000, Mr. Temple came up with some recommendations. I'm going to break this down into three steps. Step one is the complete evaluation. Step two is bracing cornices, parapets, and chimneys. And step three is wall-to-floor diaphragm bracing at each level. Step one and two would cost approximately $190,000.
 Step 3, which is the wall to floor bracing in each level, is $660,000 for a total of $850,000. If I was able to get a 25-year loan, it would take 70% of my annual income to fund loan payments for that work. What are my options? I have 45 tenants in that building that would have to be displaced if I'm to do this work.
 Once that goes away, that affordability, these units are affordable, it's never going to come back. Those tenants won't come back.
 The URM Policy Committee has argued that I don't necessarily need to displace tenants to do this work. I believe, along with my engineer, that that's unrealistic with scaffolding, deconstructing walls, the potential for lead-based paint and asbestos mitigation that needs to go on in the building. I just don't see that happening.
 So what's this mean? It means to me that even though this is major construction to do parapets, cornices, and chimneys, that can be done without displacing tenants. We've spent the time and the money to accurately come up with a picture of what it would cost for our individual building to do this work.
 There's approximately 7,000 similar units in the City of Portland, 1,800 of which are part of the City of Portland's publicly financed affordable housing. Javier Mena, the Assistant Director of the Portland Housing Bureau, stated in last week's October 4th policy meeting that...
 that any mandate beyond parapets, cornices, and chimneys, he could not support. He stated we are looking at 15 to 17 buildings, and many millions needed to do the work.
 So what's this mean? We really can't do this without the City of Portland's, we can't make Portland more seismically resilient without your help for funding. In the spring of 2015, the City of Portland formed an incentive committee that was an advisory board for the policy committee.
 The incentive committee had private and public individuals with expertise in funding and financing to make recommendations to the policy committee. At this point, I don't know whatever came of that.
 But my recommendation would be that we reconstitute this particular policy committee with those experts. We've got this part done. So what we really need to do is figure out how to make this funding available at either the state and the city level and maybe the federal level with grants to support this. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Next question. Item 1108, Rick.
 Request of John Hollister to address council regarding unreinforced masonry building mandatory seismic upgrade plan. Good morning. Good morning. My name is John Hollister. And there seems to be a theme in the presentation so far. And I'm going to be right in that same theme. And I kind of, as I was sitting there, I kind of changed what I was going to say. Because what I'm really feeling right now is just tremendous sadness.
 And everyone that you've heard, and they've been stoic in their presentations, but underneath everyone of them, there's tremendous fear. And this is their livelihood. They don't have 401Ks. Their 401Ks are their buildings. And what is being presented to them is things that are going to basically wipe them out. It's kind of like the catastrophic illness that comes that changes the whole ballgame on your life. Yeah.
 So with that, the problem that I believe this committee was started with was that there was a code adopted in 1994, and in 2017 only 15% to 20% of the buildings had upgraded to the code. That's the problem. The solution that was voted on on October 4th was just to summarize it. It's let's make this more stringent with much higher levels of upgrades and create penalties for noncompliance. And it passed.
 Then it didn't pass because the committee members admitted they didn't understand what they were even voting for. And so the bigger problem is these people have been meeting on this for two years, and if they don't understand it, how will we understand it, and how will we be able to implement it? This is a complex problem, and we need innovative solutions. I didn't make that up, by the way. It's the...
 A successful solution cannot be more complex than the problem. My hypothesis is that maybe the 1994 code is just fine. Maybe the implementation was flawed. I'm in sales, and a lot of people in my office will come in and crack champagne when they sign a partnership agreement. Partnership agreements are not worth the paper that they're signed on because 95% of partnerships don't work.
 and they don't work because there's two different bodies that are trying to combine their interests and they don't trust each other and it never goes off the ground so once one is signed that's when the work begins so we've got a good code let's go with the code let's get it implemented
 So I had some awareness questions I went out to the public with, and I asked hundreds of people, what is a URM building? Less than 2% knew what it was. Then I asked them just kind of like the control question is who knows what a brick building is? 100% of people knew what that was. And then I asked them what was the difference between a brick building and a URM building? Nobody knew. No.
 And so the solution can be, I have great hope. And we kid about this book, Mayor Wheeler, but this book is really, really good. And this can be done, I do have hope, with innovative solutions. And it's a combination of awareness, adequate funding sources, carrots versus stick, and implementation.
 Thanks. Great. Thank you, and thanks to everybody who came in to testify today. And just a reminder for people who did not hear, this will be brought back in December. So there's still plenty of runway here, and we do appreciate your input today. That was very good information that was provided. Carla, how many – could you tell me which items, if any, have been withdrawn from the consent agenda? Yes, 113, 114, and 117. Okay.
 Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Please call 1113. I'm sorry, 1113. Thank you.
 reappoint Claire Carter and appoint Alexander Boetzel, Sarah Radelet, and Martha Williamson as members to the Development Review Advisory Committee for three-year terms. And I understand Mark Fetters is here. Is that correct? Can we see Mark? There he is, hiding behind the column. Come on up, sir, and if you could just give us one minute. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Mark Fedders. I'm a senior management analyst with the Bureau of Development Services, and I provide staff support to the Development Review Advisory Committee. The 17 member positions on the DRAC are laid out in city code. They represent different stakeholders to the development review process. And so this motion before you today is to reappoint one of the members, Claire Carter, to a second three-year term.
 and then to appoint three new members representing land use planning professionals, environmental conservation and green building, and public works permit customers. These are currently vacant positions.
 And so these three individuals that have been mentioned have been nominated for those positions. Very good. And I don't know who pulled this item. Joe Walsh. Joe Walsh. Mr. Walsh, if you want to come on up. And just a reminder to everybody, let people testify. Be respectful of their testimony. Please don't interrupt. Interruptions are not allowed of either people testifying or counsel deliberations. If you do interrupt, you'll be asked.
 to leave and if you don't leave when asked to do so, you're subject to arrest for trespassing. We don't want that to happen, so let's all just be respectful. Good morning, Mr. Walsh. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. As a general rule, we do object to consent to gender appointees. We don't like them. We think that the public has a right to know who's going on their committees because this council...
 takes their committees very serious. You do. You take them seriously. When they do a recommendation, you guys normally do the pirate. Aye, aye, aye, aye.
 So we object. We want it out front. We want it under regular business. We want them here. We want to hear from them. We want to see them. We want to ask them some questions. We'll take two out of three because we're not going to get the third one, but we should get the first two.
 So that's our objections. We're going on record. We know you're going to vote on these people going through, and that's part of your problem, Mayor. That's why your approval rating is at 15%. It was 18. It's down to 15. So you're going in the wrong direction.
 Bring your appointees to the council. Let us see them. Ask them some questions. Let's find out who these people are. It is not up to a citizen to do the research on your candidates. It's up to you to tell us how good they are and how wonderful they are. And it's also up to the advocates and the activists to tell you maybe not so much.
 And then you decide. But under consent agenda, you do it under the table there, Mayor. You slip it through. You know, it's like Tammany Hall. That's what it reminds me of. And I'm really not that old. However, I am aware of Tammany Hall in New York. And that's what you're running. You're running Tammany Hall. So stop it. Bring them in here. Let's hear them. Where are they? They're not here. They're not here.
 You like them. Who cares what you like? We, the citizens, should like or dislike them. Thank you. Thank you. And just for a clarification, these are not my appointees. My bureau appointees do go on the regular agenda. I shot an appointment. Well, I just want to be very clear. We have a commissioned form of government. These are not my appointees, and it's not my decision. Please call the roll.
 I need a motion to accept the report. So moved. Second. I'm sorry. Thank you. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The appointments are approved. Call 1114, please.
 accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $22,000 from Bullitt Foundation for the Urban Sustainability Directors Network, Cascadia Regional Network, to support information sharing and spur innovation in city sustainability work. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Amanda Romero from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. A little louder if we can. I'm Amanda Romero from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you. And I'm here to ask you to accept an appropriated grant from the Bullitt Foundation. Okay.
 This grant would support work of the Urban Sustainability Directors Network, Cascadia Regional Network. The network is a group of sustainability leaders that foster sustainability-focused technical exchange between cities in the Pacific Northwest and British Columbia. The funding will be used to support the following three activities.
 Oh, yes. The funding will be used to support the following three activities. Number one, regional information sharing among Cascadia sustainability staff. Number two, an annual Cascadia network meeting. And three, regular coordination and quarterly calls between the network members. Very good. And what sort of benefits do you anticipate could come out of this? Thank you.
 Working together with Cascadia Network Cities, we're able to further the goals that are established, and we're under direction to achieve under our Climate Action Plan. Very good. Thank you. And I'm not sure who pulled this. Lightning pulled this. Very good. Come on up, sir. Thank you very much. Thanks, Amanda. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X.
 One of the reasons why I pulled this item is that the Bullitt Foundation, I really find them to be a very impressive foundation. And what I like about what they do, well, one of their top leaders there is Dennis Hayes. He was the founder of Earth Day. And they have a lot of people on the board that I'm very impressed with.
 One of the local developers, Mark Eadland, is on the board. We have various high-level people, environmental attorneys, people working at PGE. It's a very impressive group that they are looking at sustainable ways of building buildings
 And what they actually do is that they are almost off the grid on a lot of their projects. And what I mean is that when they do solar energy, there's no other forms of electricity. When they do water, they're using the rainwater itself. And everything that when they put into these buildings, they have a...
 very attest that they look at any type of chemicals used, anything in these type of products. They even look at the type of furniture, the type of folders you have. They analyze it, and they decide if it's going to go into this property, which is their headquarters. They're a very impressive group that I think does deserve the recognition. Now, one of the things that I was doing at the beginning here is that
 On their grant application, they're very clear on where they want their funding to go. And when I was reviewing this, it's my understanding the city is receiving this grant and then also giving money back to these various groups. That's my understanding. And they'll be participating in this funding process, which I think is good. That's my understanding on what the city of Portland will be doing. Okay.
 And again, like I've stated from my position, is that it's my belief and their belief also is to really preserve and protect nature around them on how they build their buildings, how they look at how they want to place certain structures outside. And it's a very important concept in the direction they're going is to balance your buildings with nature. And they're very...
 Well thought out. And it's a very impressive group. And I hope everybody takes the time to pull up the Bullitt Foundation, understand the direction they're going, and understand that they're doing some really good things. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Please call 1117.
 ratify a letter of agreement between the city and AFSCME Local 189 regarding work schedules for certain employees of the Water Bureau. I understand Patrick Ward is here. Is that correct? Yes. Yes, very good. Right in front of me. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Patrick Ward, Bureau of Human Resources. The ordinance was pulled from the agenda in order to correct the purpose of the proposed legislation section of the impact bill.
 statement and I'd say just to better reflect the legislation this letter of agreement. Do you want me to move this amendment? Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the amendment? Please call the roll on the amendment. Fritz. So this just corrects the name of the union. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Any further discussion on the main motion? Please call the roll.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you for coming in. And I believe that is the end of the consent agenda. Is that correct? Correct. All right. First time certain item, please, 1110. Proclaim October 2017 Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you. Are we going to read the second item with it? I'm sorry. Yeah, thank you. And 1111.
 Increase a grant agreement with the YWCA of Greater Portland in the amount of $30,000 to allow the YWCA to become a host agency for an Encore fellow position at Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
 This is a time for us to bring awareness to the countless people, victims and survivors, children and families, friends and communities that are impacted by domestic violence. Domestic violence is the ongoing pattern of abusive, manipulative, or controlling behavior where one partner maintains power and control over another partner. This typically happens in the form of physical, sexual, and emotional abuse.
 In the city of Portland, domestic violence accounts for a significant portion of all assaults. It is estimated that nearly one in four women and one in seven men will be affected by domestic or sexual violence in their life. Nearly three women are killed every day by their intimate partners. Just in the past four weeks alone, we have lost two young women due to domestic violence. Shea Martinez, age 29, and Lila Streeter, age 26.
 Shay was assaulted by her boyfriend and died two days later from traumatic injuries. Lila was assaulted by her husband and later died from blunt force trauma to her head and abdomen. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of these two young women. The City of Portland and Multnomah County have a longstanding commitment to prevent and address and help to prevent domestic violence and help families heal from,
 from it and its impacts on our communities. We have invested in specialized police units, provided funding for community-based advocates, and we've partnered together to bring a variety of services and resources for families experiencing domestic violence under one roof at the Gateway Center. Through our joint support of the Gateway Center, we strive to prevent and reduce the impact of violence and its subsequent trauma by providing comprehensive information
 advocacy, and services in a welcoming and culturally sensitive environment. The Gateway Center was also the first place, other than the downtown courthouse, where people would go to obtain a temporary restraining order. Today, our satellite courtroom at the Gateway Center files over 50% of all restraining orders in Multnomah County, and we will soon expand to offer elders and people with disabilities protection orders against their abusers.
 The Gateway Center prioritizes survivors' safety, promotes survivors' rights, and supports survivors' desire to be free from violence and abuse. I am immensely proud of the work that is done every day at the Gateway Center. It is not easy work, and it takes dedicated individuals to make a difference in our community. And we have some of those dedicated individuals with us today to talk more about the work going on in our community to prevent, address, and help families heal from domestic violence.
 We will start off with the Gateway Center Director, Martha Strawn-Morse. Then we have Abby Gassama. Okay, got that right. Tiffany Eggleton, the survivor and dedicated advocate. And I think we also have Chuck Sparks of the District Attorney's Office. I'm sorry, Commissioner. He had to leave to chair a committee. Yes, I apologize. Okay, okay. I'll go ahead and I'll turn it over to Martha.
 Thank you so much. I'm Martha Stronmores, the Director of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services, and Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, I really appreciate you taking the time to make this proclamation and acknowledge this month. I was desperately trying to get a web-based version of my presentation up so that you could see a video. I'm not sure if I did or not, and my charts might be a little bit funny, but you'll forgive me. The video, I feel like, is more important. Okay.
 In the eight years that I've been working exclusively in the domestic violence field, I've come to really appreciate the nuances and the complexities that define the work. The Gateway Center is a powerful collective of providers working together, and we've become a hub for some important collaborations that reach beyond the center's walls, two of which I'm looking forward to having highlighted here today.
 but all of our best efforts will not solve domestic violence and while i'm deeply proud of the work that i will share about today i humbly say we cannot fix this alone for this presentation i'm going to spend a few minutes highlighting the work of the gateway center because it's important in terms of the investment the city makes in this area but i'm going to turn to my partners to share about two community-wide collaborations that are reaching survivors across agencies and entities
 and are both important examples of the power we have when we work together. You'll hear from hopefully two survivors today, one in person, and I hope that their words will inspire your ongoing commitment to survivors of domestic and sexual violence and their children. And finally, I'm going to give you a peek into a new project that I hope will be the beginning of our next event.
 community-wide success. I should also say that Sergeant Martin Padilla is scheduled to join us today. He's caught on 84. He's in touch with me on my phone, which is why this is sitting near me. I'm very hopeful that he will make it. I can change the order a little bit to give him a little bit more time. If not, I'm going to pitch it for him in his absence. So excuse me if I seem slightly distracted while I look around for him.
 Okay, let's talk about the Gateway Center. I know that you're aware of the variety of services that we provide at the center, but I'd like to take a minute to highlight them and thank my partners. Most people come to the Gateway Center for what we think of as safety services. So they come for restraining orders, they come for safety planning and advocacy services. Those services are done by...
 by an amazing team of advocates that come from NAYA Family Center, Bradley Engels Healing Roots Center, the Immigrant Refugee Community Organization, Self-Enhancement Inc.,
 El Program Espano, and the YWCA of Greater Portland, and I thank them for helping ensure that some of the best advocates in the city come to work at the Gateway Center. We're also proud to house a variety of stability services, including therapeutic services for children and adults, three different types of legal services, access to criminal justice services, housing placement and subsidies, economic empowerment, access to OHP and food assistance,
 The Gateway Center would not be the Gateway Center without Impact Northwest, LifeWorks Northwest, the Oregon Department of Human Services, Legal Aid Services of Oregon, the Oregon Crime Victims Law Center, Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services, the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the Disability Awareness Resource Team, Portland Police, Volunteers of America Home Free. It's a village. We really are a village and it takes that. I thank all those partners for the energy and spirit they bring to the work.
 To make the services easier to access, we're conveniently located on public transportation. We also have a drop-in child care. So I want to say some final thanks to VOA's Relief Nursery for the child care we rely on, as well as Ride Connection and Lyft for transportation support, and the Food Bank and Starbucks for helping keep our participant kitchen full. People learn about the Gateway Center in a...
 variety of ways. The biggest is a kind of broad category called service provider. I think what this indicates is that there's a fairly high level of consciousness of domestic violence in our community, but people lack the time or the expertise to know how to help. So they send them to the Gateway Center and we're really happy to get their referrals. The second biggest category comes from community members. So family and friends trust the Gateway Center to help their loved ones when they're dealing with domestic violence.
 And since we've opened, between 20% and 25% of our referrals come from a law enforcement interaction.
 So we are able to enhance the public safety intervention. The Oregonian reported earlier this month that between January 1st and August 30th, they received 3,000 domestic violence calls. And in that same period of time, 494 individuals came into the Gateway Center saying they learned about our services from police. So it's a good partnership and it's working. Just a...
 A few moments on demographics. I'm not going to read all of these numbers. About 17% of the folks who came last year were African-American, 13% were Latina, and another 11% identified as multiracial. Oh, I should say here, though, too, that about 10% of our visits to the center require services in a language other than English. And in this 12-month period, we provided services in more than 30 languages.
 So the age of our participants, the big bulk of folks we see are between 20 and 50 years old. But last year we saw 452 individuals who were over 50. We serve way more women-identified folks than male-identified folks, but we do help men when they seek our services if they are experiencing domestic violence.
 So in terms of how busy we are, we are very busy. We count both visits to the center as well as unique visitors to the center. So the visits you see there on the left and the unique visitors are on the right. How this breaks down into our day-to-day work, we average 36 adult visits.
 survivors seeking services each day. That's an average. If you add the average number of children coming into the center and the people that come for support groups, it goes up to about 45. We don't count the support people that come in the doors with those folks, which we certainly let in, sisters, friends, other people, but we're very, very busy.
 These are the services that our first time visitors indicate that they want in their check-in. These percentages won't add up to 100 because people can check that they want multiple things.
 So you can see that more than half of the people coming in the doors are interested in getting a restraining order. But a similar number and some of the same people say, I don't know what I want to do. I want to explore my options while I'm here. That's why we have that talented expert advocacy staff as our frontline staff is to really help people think about what's available.
 A really important learning that's happened for us over the years at the Gateway Center is that the folks coming in don't always know about the services that are available in the community and don't have words to say them. And so it's really important that we have this space to talk about what the options are, what the criterias are, and how to access the services. Can I ask, and you may have this in a future slide, but what percentage of your visitors need some kind of emergency housing service?
 as a result that you learn about through the first contact um it's it i know about people's housing situations for the folks that sit down with the navigators our best number on that is about 17 percent of folks are looking for a housing change um
 So only a portion of those would say that they were home. I know that's not exactly your question. I'm getting there. No, no, it's helpful. A portion of those identify as homeless. Others are in a version of a shelter or with a family or friend, but it's not a stable situation.
 When you're talking about emergency and sort of for a safety reason, it's difficult, and I don't have a good number for you. Abby is going to be able to share how many times our community-wide, across our domestic violence continuum, we use how many shelter beds we've used in our continuum, as well as how many motel vouchers we've used to get somebody safe. We do frequently...
 put somebody in a motel that day, that night, from the Gateway Center, because that's the only safe option that we have. I'd be happy to get more specific and follow up with you after today. Thank you. Yes, thanks for the question.
 Two more pieces of information before I turn it over to my partners. I thought it would be good to show the kind of broad investments that are made by the two arms of local government. For the city's part, it's me and my team of three that are amazing, by the way. Man,
 Amanda Scott, Karina, if you're listening, I think you're the best. And the frontline advocacy staff comes out of the city investment, as well as immigration legal services and operating expenses. But Multnomah County makes very significant investments to the Gateway Center, too, including the use of an 11,000-square-foot building, our security officer, an adult therapist, and the victim advocate from the district attorney's office.
 Investments are supported by other contributions from partners who maybe have staff in the building, but we don't pay to be there. So it's a great community-wide collaborative project. And...
 This may be a video that we'll play, and it might not be a video. No. This is a video I had that was produced by Domestic Violence Safe Dialogues of a survivor named Audra Reed who gave us permission to use it
 She basically is talking about, in a context away from the Gateway Center, something not about the Gateway Center at all, that the Gateway Center made it possible for her to change her life and that if she'd had access to such resources, she would have left 15 years earlier. But we have Tiffany here as a real person who will share her story shortly. I'm sorry that that didn't work.
 These are the advisory council members, and the last specific slide to the Gateway Center before I turn it over. This is a group that only comes together quarterly now, but they are willing to wrestle with important struggles that we face in the domestic violence world, including one that Officer Padilla was going to talk about, and if he arrives, he will. If not, I will. That we're...
 For many, many years, restraining order respondents, the people that are restrained under a restraining order, were ordered not to possess guns. So there was a court order in place that said you may not possess guns. But there were no protocols or procedures to enforce that order.
 And this advisory council took that on, and we are now one of only five counties in Oregon that has protocols in place to help to ensure that restraining order respondents either surrender their guns or are held accountable for surrendering their guns. And I'm not going to have the exact numbers, but it's very exciting when you hear how many guns we got. So...
 I am going to then turn it over to Abby Gassama from NAYA Family Center. Abby has been part of a collaborative effort to improve our access to coordinated shelter and housing services across the DV continuum, and she's going to tell you more about that.
 Abby. Good morning. Morning. As Martha said, I'm Abby Gassama, and I work at the Native American Youth and Family Center. I've been there for about seven and a half years. And I've been working in the domestic and sexual violence field for 13. Thanks again, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for your proclamation and recognition, both of domestic and sexual violence as a social ill, but also of our continuums, connectedness, and expertise in this area.
 So in 2014, we embarked on a system-wide process to coordinate access to both our shelter and our housing interventions. And the Gateway Center provided both the space to do this and the leadership in this effort. Martha was a very fearless leader for us for this long and difficult process.
 Fortunately, we already had housing-specific resources that were within the domestic violence continuum, which was amazing because that made it possible for us to have the power to make these decisions internally about how we were going to coordinate access.
 I mention this because in many jurisdictions, there aren't housing resources set aside specifically for domestic violence services. And in those places, they're having difficulties even getting to the table to talk about housing resources for domestic violence specific set asides.
 So I'm really grateful for our leaders that came before us and resourced our system in this way. And I don't know, Mayor Wheeler, if you were a part of that previously, but if you were, thank you. Because it really set us up to succeed.
 So the key question that we had to talk about when we were making this new coordinated access system was really what makes one survivor more vulnerable than another? And really, all the existing vulnerability indexes and assessments that we had available to us either didn't take domestic violence into account at all, or it was just one question on an assessment that really didn't dig into what an advocate would ask
 When we're talking about vulnerability for survivors. What makes a single adult vulnerable in the homeless system or a family vulnerable in the homeless family system is a really different kind of vulnerability than what we're talking about when we're talking about domestic violence survivors. It looks really different. So what we landed on was that none of these assessments worked and that we had to create our own. So...
 Prior to doing this work, we all really competed for scarce resources. So there's 14 agencies, and we were all kind of
 battling amongst ourselves to get these really small resources. And oftentimes what was happening was advocates that had been around the longest and had the best connections with folks at other agencies were getting the best resources for their participants because they had those connections with other folks at other agencies that held those housing resources. Okay.
 which really played out in a difficult way, I think, especially for culturally specific organizations because we don't have shelters and we had fewer housing interventions at that time internally. And so I remember when I came on board in 2010 and I was working with participants, I really only had success getting my participants into one of our shelters. And the reason being...
 I had a connection with the folks at that shelter because we ran a support group in that shelter. And prior to coordinated access, I never had success getting any of my participants into either one of the other shelters because I didn't have a relationship with the folks that worked at those shelters. So this was really unfair to our participants and to our staff who were burning out quickly because they didn't feel like they could help people that they were working with, right?
 And so, I'm really proud that we got to this point where we were able to create what we now call the Safety and Stabilization Assessment. This allows us to cooperate across agencies to serve our most vulnerable survivors with some of our most precious resources.
 The most precious of those, I would say, are our long-term housing resources, which are six-month and longer housing interventions that we provide. And for those subsidies, we all come together as a continuum. So we're no longer 14 agencies competing, but we are a team together that meets bimonthly at what we call a resource coordination team meeting to bring folks that we're working with at all of our agencies and discuss who best fits
 this resource that we have available, and we can make a collaborative decision together about that. So, as Martha talked about earlier, and as you can see on this slide, we help a lot of people within our system. And the people who we help truly benefit from our expertise
 They benefit from our expertise in being able to contextualize rental and employment histories to landlords based on domestic violence, our expertise in the impact of trauma on the brain, our expertise in the prevalence of victim blaming and how we can interrupt that even when the survivors that we're working with often blame themselves for what's happened. And having these resources allows survivors to benefit from our expertise and our specialty over time.
 So, I mean, I don't know if I really need to read the numbers. They're up there. But you can see that we sheltered 392 individuals in this last fiscal year. And that is in our domestic violence shelters specifically. On top of that, we motel vouchered 931 individuals. And those are folks that may have eventually...
 Been able to find safety in another way outside of seeking shelter. We often call those diversion resources, so making a plan to live with friends and family. These are folks that we may have eventually been able to help with a rental resource and get them into a new place. These are also folks that sometimes we relocate to different communities for safety reasons. Okay.
 And then we provided 692 individuals with what we call agency-based decisions, which are rent assistance, moving assistance, six months or less. And then 288 individuals received six months or longer housing subsidies through our new continuum program.
 So it's an honor to be a part of Portland's domestic violence continuum. I'm proud to tell you that we are leading the nation when it comes to coordinated access to shelter and housing for domestic violence survivors, and your investments in our services helped us to get there. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. I'll just do several. On the grant agreement to the YWCA, as you pointed out, Ms. Stroll-Morris, you have a lot of partners. Yes. So how was the YWCA selected as the one to do this particular project?
 They were, and I'm going to circle back to this also at the end. Okay. But I can tell you, to tell you just a lot about this little elder abuse expansion. They were, they're already a host to an encore fellow. So they know what administratively it takes. And we're willing to...
 take the money and then have that person as an employee in their agency. Okay, I thought you were done with your presentation, so I'll wait until the end. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, and I will welcome you. Thank you. So I am pleased that Sergeant Martin Padilla of the Portland Police Bureau's Family Services Division is here to join us with more details about our gun dispossession program. I consider Sergeant Padilla a real ally in this work, and I'm grateful that he could be with us today.
 And I'd like to thank Martha and the efforts of the Gateway Center, who we at the Police Bureau have found to be an invaluable resource.
 with our domestic violence survivors that come to us to include their services for helping with obtaining restraining orders and just providing a safe place for them to report their DV-related crimes as their office is right across the parking lot from ours. And just to give you a little context, the police bureau responds to about 11,000 domestic disturbances a year. My unit, the Family Services Division, or Domestic Violence Reduction Unit,
 is only able to assign about 8 to 10% of those cases for follow-up. And our criteria for those assignments weigh lethality, the severity of the offense, presence of children, the history of the offender, and the likelihood of recidivism. For many years, I've...
 However, we've had an absence in one type of domestic violence prevention that was not actively pursued, and that type was the dispossession of firearms from individuals prohibited from possessing them due to court order as mandated by the Family Abuse Prevention Act, or FAPA, which was passed in the 80s, specifically as what we know to be restraining orders.
 In 2014, the Violation of Restraining Order Gun Dispossession Program was developed in collaboration with the Police Bureau, Multnomah County DA's office, the Multnomah County Department of Community Justice, and the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office. And this program was conceived out of recognition of the alarming data that showed that one-third of all women in the U.S. were murdered by current or former intimate partners.
 Domestic violence assaults involving a firearm were 12 times more likely to result in death, and 52% of female homicides were committed with firearms. That's as of data that was published in 2014. So the program's purpose was to establish a procedure for enforcement action against those respondents who did not comply with the FAPA order or restraining order with an emphasis on those who do not comply with the firearms prohibition.
 Simply put, the program's intent is domestic violence homicide prevention. So we accomplish this by review and triage of all FAPA order violations, all FAPA orders served in Multnomah County in which the respondent failed to notify the court of a firearm surrender. Additionally, all other domestic violence incidents involving reported FAPA violations in the city of Portland as well as Multnomah County are reviewed.
 along with those referrals from some of our community partners like Gateway Center. Upon assignment by the domestic violence sergeant, usually me or my partner, investigators will follow up with the victims or survivors and suspects, identify those cases that we find a sufficient probable cause to proceed with an arrest or direct present to the DA's office, and or coordinate with parole and probation authorities.
 In July of 2015, we actually implemented this. It was a part-time assignment for the FAPA order violations. We implemented it full-time to include one sergeant with the police bureau, two police bureau officers, and one county deputy. Since that, from July 2015 over the next 18 months until the end of 2016, the team reviewed and closed 362 firearm dispossession cases.
 removing 110 firearms from individuals. The team reviewed and closed another 168 FAPA order violations, arresting 52 offenders, and referring another 135 cases for direct present to the DA's office for prosecution consideration.
 Additionally, in many of those cases in which survivors did not want to pursue charges, the investigators worked closely with advocates from both Gateway Center or those embedded in our division to support the survivors both during and after the investigations. It just doesn't include criminal investigations. We'll try and support them in whatever needs they have. And I'd just like to thank personally among all the community partners,
 Commissioner Salzman for his support in getting this program started as well as DA Underhill. Can I ask a question on that? Yes. So some of the people you have to go after and physically take their firearms. How do others say, well, I've already turned it in? Is there a place that they have to put all their firearms and how do we know that they don't have more?
 As far as them turning it in, they're required to complete an affidavit. When the FAPA order is completed and signed by the judge, they're required to complete an affidavit if necessary.
 If it's been told to the court by the petitioner, if they have firearms, they have to say where they've disposed of those firearms. With Oregon State law, when they transfer those firearms, if it's to another individual, that other individual has to complete a background check, and that's easily followed up with OSP. If not...
 Otherwise, they have to provide a receipt from a law enforcement agency where they've submitted the firearms for safekeeping. So we don't just trust the affidavit? No, and they can lie on the affidavit. But when we've submitted 18 cases in which we believe they've been lying to us. Okay, great. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Sergeant, our final presenter today is a very courageous, determined, tenacious woman that I admire from the top of my head to the bottom of my shoes. And I'm so pleased she would join us today. Tiffany. Thank you, Martha. Hi, I'm Tiffany Eggleton, and I identify as a domestic violence and sexual violence survivor.
 And that was a little emotional, so I'm going to try to get through this and be time conscious. So just to begin, my story started...
 where my first escape from my first husband was at 22 years old. And it was in a small... I'm 34 now. It was in a small town, a small community, and they did not have the types of resources that we have here with Gateway or the education. And so hindsight, had I maybe got that at 22 years old, maybe I wouldn't have had to go through the next nine-plus years. So...
 I'm very grateful to Gateway. I went to Gateway originally in 2013, and I wanted to just list the services to give you an idea of that. As soon as a survivor...
 or a victim of domestic violence, when they leave and go get a restraining order, it doesn't just end there. It takes a long time, a lot of community support, a lot of services to get healthy, to break the cycle, if they get to that point. And I want to say my case was a high lethality case, and I am grateful to be alive today and to have also...
 walked through everything that I have walked through to be sitting here today. So, yeah.
 I originally went to Gateway. I worked with the administrative staff there, the navigators. I did restraining orders, multiple. I used their court services, the video services there, which was amazing for me because my abuser was at the courthouse more than one time. So I would have had to be in an unsafe... I probably wouldn't have made it into court.
 Gateway Child Care, I have three children. The VOA Home Free, several of their services. The DHS, the DV unit, the Oregon Crime Victim Law Center, DVRU, the police officers that are with the domestic violence, regular police, the divert team, district attorney's office, legal aid,
 The DV shelter, Raphael House, the RCT, I was in that program, the first participant. And that's for long-term domestic violence housing. Also, I used the vouchers for hotels. I also did outpatient drug and alcohol treatment. That is also part of my story as...
 I have found many others who have tried to find a coping mechanism with that. And I almost have three years clean, so I'm very proud of that.
 Counseling for my three children, individual counseling, trauma counseling, the TRIM program, EMDR, parenting counseling, DV support groups, DV spiritual support groups, parenting support groups, domestic violence awareness class, and other education, anything that I could get to try to help me to stop my cycle of...
 of getting into unhealthy relationships. Economic empowerment and other financial issues
 assistance with that. So I would like, you know, this affected all of the entities of my life, emotional, physical, financial, mental, and sexual. So it's been a long journey. And I would just like to say that with all of the support that I have in my life, the domestic violence part of it, my advocates were the most powerful people
 for me to be able to actually live a life today. And the expertise that they have, how they walked beside me, not drug me or tried to control me or told me what to do because that's what I came out of. And so I was empowered by them. They were like my cheerleaders and really helped me. And it was a beautiful relationship, is a beautiful relationship. Um...
 and very unique. Um, and, um, I feel very empowered today. I live a life of service, both in my recovery of, of drugs and alcohol, but also in my domestic violence side. And I
 It's hard for me still to talk about myself this way, but that's what I'm here for today is to represent what all of these services can do and what's possible and the reason we do it. And the main thing is that I cannot believe I'm alive today and able to sit here and do this and to be healthy and thriving and...
 And Gateway was really the start of that for me. And they have wrapped their arms around me, and it was a very scary process. So...
 I, of course, have so many more things to say, but I want to be time conscious and respect that. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here so much. So can I just ask a follow-up question? I mean, that was amazing. Thank you so much. And I think it's amazing that you're able to give back and continue to be thinking about what happened to you and your efforts to save others. Are there any consequences for your abuser? Yeah.
 Well, I do believe that we have a lot of work to do in the systems, in the court systems, and more domestic violence awareness for everyone. I think you guys are doing a great job.
 but there is definitely room for improvement. Absolutely. You don't need to go further. I'm sorry, that was kind of a personal question. Yeah, there was some prosecution for he did violate the restraining order and the DVRU team was able to prosecute him. But he just received like four hours in jail and...
 Yeah, so I mean, it's still an ongoing process for me because I have children with both of my ex-husbands who were abusers and...
 So parts of it are sad stories, but I'm getting through it, and I get to take the experience that I've had and the challenges that I've had to walk through and am able to have that knowledge and help others to hopefully not go through the same thing. I so appreciate that. As you were listing all the services you received, I'm very glad that the services were available. And then I'm thinking what harm...
 to you and to our whole community can come from one or two people who are abusive and it says to me kind of harking back to the prosecuting when people don't turn their guns in, there needs to be more consequences because violence as was noted results in a lot of murders of people and sometimes it's
 dealt with by four hours in jail. So thank you for sharing that too. You're welcome. Thank you.
 I really appreciate those comments. I think as a community, we're trying to work on accountability all the time, and it is difficult. We're still up here. There's still a lot of work to do. I appreciated the nuance of your question of what if the person who turns in a gun has another gun. We don't know.
 But 110 guns are not in those people's hands, and that's true. So it's celebrating and continuing to try. And once they're on a restraining order, do they have to have another background check? Can they go out and buy another one? They should not be able to buy a gun in Oregon if there is a restraining order in place.
 If they've been convicted of a domestic violence crime or they have a restraining order on file, it's unlawful for them to purchase a firearm. And that should show up in a background check. And we, I was just reading about, we don't have a law in Oregon that says if the background checkers don't get back to them in three days, they get to buy the gun anyway. There is no time for the law. I'm talking to the microphone because otherwise the captioners can't hear you. There's no time limit for the background check.
 It's just whenever they complete the background check. So they can't get one without one? They cannot get one if they have any conviction of domestic violence, be it misdemeanor or felony, or they have a restraining order currently on file. I'm partway through reading through Hillary Clinton's book, What Happened? And she talks about gun laws in some states where if they don't get back to them in three days, they get to buy the gun anyway. Oh, yeah, we don't have that in Oregon. Yeah.
 Thank you. I'm glad. Yeah. A study was just published that shows 57% of mass shootings in the United States have a domestic violence connection. Yeah. Before we part today, I just want
 I did want to talk about this effort that you can help support me with, with this amendment to the YWCA grant that we're talking about. There's two different types. There's actually several different types of restraining orders, but the ones most frequently sought at the Gateway Center are what we call the FAPA, which requires a relationship with the other person. It's a marriage. It's a child together. It's a boyfriend-girlfriend situation. But there's people that suffer abuse and people in their lives –
 that don't have that FAPA relationship, that might qualify for what we call an EPDAPA, or the Elderly Persons and Persons with Disability Abuse Prevention Act.
 When an elderly or disabled person comes to the Gateway Center Seeking and FDAPA, and they don't have an intimate partner violence situation going on, we do not have the space or the staff or the capacity to help them currently with that protection order. And I'm really concerned about this population. I'm concerned about these people coming saying, I need the court's protection.
 And I'm wondering what else they would need if we were able to serve them. And I think I figured out a way in the fairly short term that we could do a study around these people and increase my staff capacity enough to let them come in the door. And that is through a partnership with Social Venture Partners Encore Fellows Program.
 The Encore Fellows Program brings on retired, high-level professionals to do 1,000-hour-long projects in community social justice-based endeavors. And I would like to bring an Encore Fellow into the Gateway Center to do EPDAPAs with people seeking them and to study their needs.
 so that I could go to policymakers at the end of maybe a nine-month period of time to say Portland could really benefit, Multnomah County could really benefit from a center that surrounded people seeking up DAPAs with services similar to the kind of robust and holistic services we currently do for IPV at the Gateway Center.
 Because I'm City of Portland, I can't employ an Encore Fellow directly, but one of my partners is willing to act as a host for an Encore Fellow without giving them any direction. So the direction to the Encore Fellow would be in partnership with the Gateway Center. The idea is that, again, they would do some ABDAPAs in the building
 they would go and talk to all of the elder abuse service providers currently in the continuum, Elders in Action, Aging and Disability Services. There's a ton. I don't know them like I know my folks.
 And through interviews with stakeholders, and again, interviews with the actual people seeking services, come up with a vision for maybe what an elder and disabled person's gateway center might look like or what the gateway center could expand into a given space.
 staff, capacity, etc. So that's what I'm asking for help with today. It's very strategic and targeted because, again, we're full to the gills of the Gateway Center. We regularly reach capacity in terms of who we can serve. But through this way, I think I can stop sending these folks downtown. That's good. Thank you. Well, thank you all.
 Thank you. And so why was the YWCHS not of all of the partners that you have? They are the ones that currently host an Encore Fellow, and so we're willing to sort of take it on. They're close to us. Susan Stoltenberg is on the advisory council of the Gateway Center and is a person who's sort of deeply interested in aging and issues for the aging population, and it just seemed a natural partnership. And I noticed that the initial...
 relationship with YWCA was in 2010 when you were set, Commissioner Saltzman was setting things up. Yes. And many amendments over, like nine over time. Yes. Are we going to be in the place where we can say these are going to be our permanent partners or at some point do you have to go out for another request for? I, it's really, I appreciate you asking the question. The amendment to the Gateway Center original relationship was as a navigator agency.
 They, in between times, closed down their shelter and opened the Yolanda Project, which is a housing diversion project that is housed at the Gateway Center.
 That housing project has been an incredible asset to us. And when the housing state of emergency was declared in 2015, the YWCA, with no additional staff, was willing to take on eviction prevention investments that would go straight into making sure that people didn't lose their housing. They were uniquely positioned to do that as the housing provider already at the Gateway Center.
 And so two of those amendments are about housing, and the others are just about increasing the terms of the navigator services. But they were a natural partner with Susan Stoltenberg at the head, already hosting an Encore Fellow to do this partnership. I think your question about navigators though is right.
 that there will be a time. These current ones expire in June 30, 2019, and I think at that time I'd like to go to the wider provider community again and say, do we have everybody who would like to be a navigator at the Gateway Center with us? Currently, SEI is actually not on contract with us. They provide navigation services through a grant, so I already have a partner trying to come in. So I do think it's time to go community-wide again the next time. Thank you very much, Eva.
 So I want to thank you. I'll ask you to stay here for a second. Before we go to testimony or take votes, I'd like to ask Mayor Wheeler to read the proclamation. Great. Thank you. I don't want to forget that. Yeah, it's my honor to read a proclamation on behalf of the Portland City Council in support of Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Whereas domestic violence is a crime that touches the lives of Portlanders of all ages,
 leaving a devastating impact on women, men, and children of every background and circumstance. And whereas domestic violence accounts for a significant number of assaults committed in the city of Portland, and nearly one-third of Oregon women reported experiencing domestic violence, stalking, sexual or physical assault,
 And whereas Portland has demonstrated a long-standing commitment to addressing this problem in partnership with Multnomah County, the District Attorney's Office, and community service providers,
 And whereas eight years ago, the City of Portland, in cooperation with Multnomah County, the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the Multnomah County Circuit Court, and community partners, opened the area's first one-stop center for domestic violence victims, the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services.
 And whereas the Gateway Center Satellite Courtroom files over 50% of all restraining orders in Multnomah County and has upwards of 11,000 visits per year, 3,824 of which are unduplicated. Whereas children who are exposed to domestic violence experience higher levels of adult depression and trauma symptoms and are much more likely...
 than children not exposed to violence to use and or tolerate violence in their adult relationships, and whereas the city promotes the closing of the equity gap for Indigenous peoples through policies, practices, and investments that reflect the experiences of Indigenous peoples, ensuring greater access and opportunity, and honoring our nation's Indigenous history and contributions.
 And whereas the City of Portland recognizes and thanks all the organizations and groups that are committed to address, prevent, and heal from domestic violence, often working directly with survivors, survivors,
 to ensure that they have access to employment opportunities, housing, legal resources, and other services. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 2017 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
 in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month by gaining awareness of this issue and supporting organizations that work to address, prevent, and help those affected heal from domestic violence. Thank you. Thank you. So I just want to thank you all for the great work you do.
 I just want to thank, first of all, Martha Strawn-Morse for doing an outstanding job of leading the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. You're doing a great job. Sergeant Padilla, for all the great work you're doing. Abby, for your continued work at NAA. And Tiffany, thank you for sharing your story today. It really helps to have the human touch. It helps us. Very good. Thank you. Public testimony on the ordinance? I have three people signed up. Take a seat. Thank you.
 They're Star Stauffer, Joe Walsh, and Craig Rogers. Coming up, three minutes. Name for the record, please. Good morning, Star Stauffer. Quite frankly, I don't think $30,000 is enough. I am also a survivor of domestic violence. My own father tried to kill me three times, and I survived a brutal beating and rape where I was almost murdered in my own home at 15. Thank you.
 Unfortunately, there are a couple questions slash criticisms I have for the program. When I was young, I was also sexually assaulted by a police officer. There are many instances where there are women like me who are abused by police officers or for one reason or another, maybe their legal status or fear of being placed back with their abuser like I was with my father.
 where they can't go to the police. They can't file a restraining order. It's not an option. There needs to be more services in place for these women because I know from experience that when you're unwilling to file a restraining order, the justice system just basically wants nothing to do with you if you're not willing to cooperate with the police.
 If you are an illegal immigrant, the chances that you're going to want to talk to the police or take this to court are another issue. They're very low because you're more terrified of being deported and further trauma being put against you and your children by reporting this abuse. I have known mothers who were deported after reporting their abuse to police.
 and their children taken away and placed in foster care. There are not enough services for women that are vulnerable to police violence or women that are vulnerable to their status being in question as far as the legality of them being here.
 there needs to be more services for that. It's disappointing, and it's not a criticism against their work or what they do. There's not enough people like this program. But it's disappointing that there's only a person basically available one day a week for people with immigration status that is questionable by the government.
 There needs to be more. There needs to be a lot more services. There needs to be emergency housing and secret housing placement for people who are suffering or potentially suffering violence at the hands of police officers. There was a woman several years ago killed by her sheriff partner in Clackamas County in the middle of a restaurant with his police issue weapon.
 So this is, I'm going to go about 30 seconds over. This is a very serious issue for me. I was not able to seek justice against my rapist because two months before it happened, I was sexually assaulted by a Portland police officer during a search. So that wasn't an option for me. And unfortunately, there's a lot of women that's not an option for rapists.
 There needs to be services in place and money in place for women who cannot go that route to get them help, counseling services, and some form of justice. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. For the record, again, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of the things that I always find, and let me make this up front very clear, we fully support this, that we think it's a good program.
 We think you should fund it. However, we don't think the $30,000 is enough. One of the things that I find all the time, and I've been doing this with you guys for 10 years, is we fund the minimum. Why don't we fund the maximum? Not the middle. The maximum. They just asked you for more to do another program that perked up my ears because they're not the two of the elderly.
 So I'm interested in that. I'm interested in you funding that. I'm interested in you asking them, okay, what is it that you need to feel successful? Not what you need to get by. That's what we do. We take, well, you know, we have all these things that we have to spend money on, and we have to be careful with the money. My God, to save a life. I mean, I would defend that. Wouldn't you defend that?
 You'd go up to 20%, man. You would. You'd zoom. If you stood there and said, I am going to give you not $30,000, I'm giving you $60,000. You know, when I go out on the street and Street Roots comes up and they say, would you buy a paper? I don't give them a dollar. I give them $5. I say, here, let me have the paper and go get a cup of coffee. Okay?
 You know why I do that? Because it makes them feel good. Makes the vendors feel like someone pays attention to them. When somebody asks you for something, double it. If you can. Sometimes you can't. But if you can, they're asking for 30 grand. Give them 60. And say, do that on the program. That sounds pretty good. You'd be heroes. And then brag about that mayor in an open...
 Press conference, not a closed one. And you would be heroes. You know, we come here and we pound you all the time. But believe it or not, I look for things that I can compliment you on. This is one. Go a little bit further, Amanda. Come on. You're shaking your head that you do it. Do it a little bit more. A little bit more. $30,000 is nothing in this budget. Save a life. Save a life.
 I grew up in domestic violence, too. I was in an Irish Catholic family in Brooklyn, New York, in the 40s. A lot of knock-down, drag-out fights in my family. Give them the $60,000. And then read the proclamation, Mayor, with a smile. Now you can just say, eh, we did okay. Do better. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers.
 I live across from East Portland Community Center, one of my favorite places, and Floyd Light Middle School and East Portland Police Precinct. It's also been called a gamer trail, as the police have informed me. And there's a deeply wooded hillside there.
 And with this hillside, the homeless have gravitated to it because it's a bad actor's dream. I've seen numerous examples of domestic violence take place on this hillside. I've seen a woman take an elbow to the side of the head and go flying through the air, and I yell across the field, I'm calling the police, and then the two of them get in the vehicle and drive off the RV. Okay.
 I saw a woman walking past my house and is yelling going on. And I open up the door and...
 The guy's tracked her down, and he catches up to her, and he's threatening to dump her shopping cart with all her belongings in it. Now, I have called the city numerous times. They even ask me, does this involve the homeless, and they go to non-emergency, and I hang for 20 minutes. You know, it just doesn't work. That's why my area didn't show up on that map in the article in the Oregonian. And then...
 I have so disgusted with what has happened here because there really hasn't been the attention focused on this. So there needs to be improvement and detail focused on these issues. There are people that actually, when I tell them what's happening in my bubble, what I see, because we're all in a bubble, we need to take a look at what it is, maybe we need to go outside of it, they will actually laugh because they think I'm making up what I've seen.
 So talk is cheap. And I think we need to do more. And I really recommend doubling this in the least. Because there needs to be a lot more attention. And right now I'm working close with David Douglas School District. They're the ones that have made a difference. Because I gave up on the city. And they don't cooperate. They don't communicate. It's David Douglas School District. Right?
 So, yes, please, in the least, double this. And I never knew about this, the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence. This is probably very close to where I live. And I never knew about it. I'm really getting my eyes open down here today. So, please, there can't be enough done. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 So my suspicion is people have much to say about the request that's just put on the table as we're taking a vote on the current ordinance. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you very much to everybody who testified today, and particularly to the presenters. Commissioner Saltzman, I don't remember offhand what the total budget of the Gateway Center is. I did notice that the city funds the lion's share of the operations funding for that. So I...
 This is an increase. It's not all that we invest. And it's, in fact, it's in ongoing funding, so we don't have to discuss it every budget. It's a given that we're paying for that. I do remember that I think we passed an ordinance allocating an additional 40,000 to Catholic charities to provide services for people who are undocumented and that there is, I learned, a visa that...
 survivors of domestic violence are entitled to stay here by reporting the abuse. And so that, I think, is a wonderful program. I was concerned about Sergeant, I think he said, that they're only able to follow up on about 10% on the abusers and that that has to be triaged by estimated dangerousness. As I was listening to the very moving and powerful
 list of support needed to help somebody out of this cycle of abuse. It seems to me that we do need to get upstream and to hold those accountable who are causing people's lives to be wrecked and lost. I'm very glad that the council funds the Boys' Strength Programme now in the police department, following on with the Girls' Strength and Women's Strength Programmes to help young
 adolescent boys understand how to be a responsible person when they grow up and and for women too to learn because it's not just as we heard it's um abuse abusers can be um any kind of gender
 So thank you very much for the work that you do. I know that you do it because every day you go to work and you can help somebody, just one person or a lot of people with this huge trauma in their lives. And so we need to mourn those who are lost and very much celebrate the survivors and the services that we're able to provide to them. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, from getting the centre built in the first place to ongoing support for it. You've certainly been a champion for it, and I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Well, I want to thank Martha for the presentation. It seems that every year the services become more enriched and the outcomes are impressive. And I appreciate the care that you take to document those outcomes and to show the public what kind of return they're getting for this investment in such important work. And I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz just said. Dan has been the champion ever since I've been on the council for this work
 It's almost inconceivable to think where the leadership is going to come from in a year and a half from now. And I suppose that's a conversation we're going to have to have sooner rather than later. But, Dan, thank you for your tremendous commitment to this cause. Bye. Sultzman. Well, I want to thank everybody who's helping survivors of domestic violence to take one step at a time to a better life.
 And the money we're spending here with the YWCA to fund the Encore Fellow, I want to first thank the YWCA for stepping up to serve as the fiscal sponsor for this. But this money is $33,000. It's to help us really scope out the situation to figure out what role the Gateway Center can play in better serving elders and people with disabilities who need restraining orders. So once we scope it out...
 You can bet we'll probably be back here asking for increased funding more than we're asking for today. So thank you all and appreciate your services. Hi. Wheeler. Well, I want to thank everybody for their testimony. I want to thank the panelists. It was a very thoughtful and I think thorough and ultimately excellent presentation that shows that on this very weighty issue, progress does get made.
 and that there are good partnerships that exist in this community to make progress against what is a very pervasive issue in our society. I find myself compelled with those who testified who said we should do the most we can do, not the least, but the most we can do.
 And I agree with Commissioner Saltzman. Well, first of all, I just want to put in another plug for the Encore program. I think it's a great program, and it brings in people who are seasoned, who are experienced, who are at the top of their game, who have broad sets of skills. And we all as a community benefit from people stepping forward and being willing to serve in that capacity. Yeah.
 and help us better understand how to improve our community by working together. And I do look forward to seeing the results of this work through the YWCA and through this Encore Fellowship. And my assumption as I vote for this $33,000 or whatever it is,
 is that this is leading to something. This isn't a one-and-done deal, that this is going to lead to a thoughtful expansion of services geared towards a growing population amongst those who are impacted by domestic violence. So I think we're all philosophically on the same page on this one here. So I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everybody who came in today, and thank you especially, Mr.
 for those who are survivors of domestic violence who testified today. Next item. 11-12, amend the Portland Enterprise Zone policy and authorize the submittal of a boundary change request to the State of Oregon to amend and realign the Portland and East Portland Enterprise Zone boundaries. It's in the middle. Okay.
 Colleagues, the E-Zone program has been one of the city's most powerful tools to spur capital investment by companies while leveraging opportunities for employment and skills training for local residents and communities.
 It advances many of our city's objectives, including emphasis on traded sector jobs, maximizing our competitiveness, creating prosperity for all in our community. The values Portland holds as a city gives some context to this proposal. Our planning and smart development demonstrate that we care about how our city is being built
 and that value is shared by our local companies and those whose companies want to locate or expand in our area.
 The new workforce is demanding that companies act differently. It's no longer acceptable simply to come into our community to earn a profit. The benefits to the community must be broader. Prosper Portland, the City of Portland, and others want to ensure that the equitable economy benefits both businesses and the community at large. Public benefits have been built into this E-Zone program, and you're going to hear about that.
 and the proposed policy change marks a very specific action to begin to institutionalize those public benefits. We have many companies here who want to and are already doing good work in the community. Let's be clear about that. This policy change brings that good work into the spotlight to more fully serve our community. We're all in this together together.
 Businesses involved in the program can and will be celebrated for their active engagement and participation in this shift towards greater partnership and stronger relationships to grow an equitable economy.
 Gentlemen, I'll let you take it from here. Andy, I don't know if you're starting. I'll go ahead and start. My name is Bobby Lee. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Bobby Lee. I'm the Director of Economic Development for Prosper Portland. Thanks for allowing us to speak. Next to me is Andy Reid. He's the point person on the Enterprise Zone Program at Prosper Portland.
 We know that you're behind on your schedule, so we're going to condense our presentation in hopes that you can catch up. We also have a couple of speakers here today who have been waiting. I just want to say, I think this is a very important program, so I would encourage you to explain because I'd like people to understand it. Great. No, absolutely. The goal of the Enterprise Zone program, and this program has been around with the state of Oregon for a while, so most municipalities have this program.
 The difference today is we're wanting to modernize this program and address our growing concern, and that's the growing economic inequity. So the goal of the program is to increase economic opportunity and income for all Portland residents and historically disadvantaged Portlanders by linking them with quality jobs created by participating Portland E-Zone businesses. And the word E-Zone is a short term for Enterprise Zone.
 We have two recommendations today. It's going to change in our policy and also amending the enterprise zone boundaries. So that's what we're presenting here today. If I can get to the next screen. Okay, so you'll see on the map where the enterprise zone program boundaries are. It's a five-year tax abatement. It's a property tax abatement only on new capital investment. That includes existing land, buildings, and personal property under tax rules.
 In exchange for the property tax savings, the company is then required to comply with a number of requirements under the state statute and local city law, which we'll talk about more in detail. The next part of this is you can see the amount of investment by existing businesses that are currently in the program. And we broke it down to different industries. And so in totality, it's around $1 billion of new investment to Portland.
 So the type of investments, however, are dictated by state statute. Retail, housing, and general commercial businesses cannot use the program. These are really focused on traded sector companies. You'll notice from the slide that manufacturing is still our biggest user in terms of investment amounts and number of projects. The jobs are located throughout the city. It has to be within the enterprise zone, but they are throughout the city, from northwest to the border of Gresham and east Portland. With that, I'll turn it over to Andy.
 Hi, my name is Andy Reid from Prosper Portland. Thank you, Bobby, and thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for your time. So back to the first thing that Bobby brought up. The goal is to increase economic opportunity and income for all Portland residents and historically disadvantaged Portlanders.
 And that's really one of the things that comes out in this local policy. Companies are required to do a number of things locally in addition to the state statute requirements. And one of the things that they do is they pay a portion of their tax savings into a fund, and this is a chart that you see of how those dollars are being allocated. So we have the direct benefits that are coming out in terms of jobs and investment and so on, but that's not the case.
 other kinds of things where we can start aligning our dollars and our services together to do really unique and creative kinds of programs that otherwise may not have the funding available.
 So you see these are the four kinds of things that we're using it for right now. We fund a la carte services such as credit repair and legal services. We're doing inclusive entrepreneurship work. Workforce training through our partnership with Work Systems, Inc. for incumbent worker training. An example could be Bridgetown Natural Foods is now doing on-site ESL classes for their employees through this program. So some really good stuff coming out of that.
 In terms of kind of where the program's at today, there are about 4,000 current jobs in E-Zone companies in the Portland Enterprise Zones. 2,000 of them are new. Companies have invested a significant amount in the last couple years. The wages are stellar.
 If you split out the $39 an hour, we're looking at about $28 an hour average wages with $11 an hour of benefits on top of that. So when we talk about middle-wage jobs in the manufacturing sector, as we've seen declines in that industry in terms of job growth, E-Zone is one of those programs that is helping to grow the jobs that otherwise are shrinking across the board. Thank you.
 the other thing that's happened over time is as we've amended our policy in this process of coming back today is, um, another iteration of that. Um, we've seen other public benefits start getting, getting infused into the program. For example, Daimler has set up a really amazing transit support network with about seven different ways that their employees can access transit benefits for their, to get to, to or from Swan Island. Jaguar Land Rover has set up a tech incubator. Salt and Straw is, uh, Daimler's,
 Double down on diversity hiring. You'll hear more about that today from Kim on the kinds of things that they're doing as part of the E-Zone program. And instrument marketing has child care incentives for their employees, again, as part of what the E-Zone program did in the 2015 policy amendments. Yes.
 So we're starting to move in this direction over the last few years, and that's really where we're trying to go with this next, is making some policy changes to more directly infuse public benefits into the program.
 So the policy changes specifically that we're looking at in our current E-Zone policy is, one, moving from a minimum wage for 85% of employees. Currently, only 85% of the employees have to earn 150% of Oregon minimum wage, and that's $16.88 an hour. And our hope is to shift to $15 an hour for all employees, and that's for the janitors up through everybody else in a company that's enrolled in the program.
 If that is not tenable for some of the companies we work with, such as a food manufacturer, that typically those wages, it's going to be hard to get to $15 an hour for all companies at that level. We've come up with a strategy to say if the company is paying $14 an hour, then we need to see them pay $6 an hour in additional benefits for the employee.
 And doing our analysis of that, we've seen that there are a number of companies that would not have been able to access the program. These are the kinds of companies that have those entry-level jobs for the immigrant refugee communities, for example, in East Portland. Where if we had a standard at the 1688, we were concerned that those kind of middle-wage job kind of creators would have a hard time using the program in the near future.
 The procurement plan, we're shifting to ask companies to not only buy locally, they've spent $92 million in the city in 2015. We now want to know who they're buying from. We want to encourage them to purchase from communities that are wanting to see more income come into their communities. In East Portland, for example, within communities of color. So that's the shift there.
 we're looking to create an option for us that if a company is not in compliance with one of the seven or ten things that are involved in our policy, that we have an ability to do a corrective action instead of an all-or-none program, which is what it is right now.
 Workforce training, this is more kind of a technical thing. We're seeing a lot of alignment between economic development and workforce development. And so we currently have a policy that splits the funds out of the workforce training business development fund into two different sub-funds. And we'd like to remove that split as we're seeing again this kind of crossover between these two worlds that will create some additional flexibility for us and our partners. And then finally really kind of the bread and butter of what we're trying to do today.
 is really bringing in public benefit agreements into the heart of the program. Whereas every company that would be using the program would be doing additional things that go above and beyond the state law and our local policy. And really kind of looking at it from a jobs, prosperity, neighborhood partnership model where we have companies bring to us and we bring to them, this is what the community wants to see and they say this is what we have in terms of our assets and what we're good at.
 and find ways to start aligning those things together. So this is what we're looking at for our boundary amendment, which is connected to this request here, and that is bringing in the Central East Side and Old Town Chinatown into the enterprise zones and also realigning, you'll see up there in the Columbia Corridor area, shifting some of the land from the Portland E-Zone to the East Portland E-Zone
 The zones were designated in 2008 and 2012. The 2008 zone, the Portland E-Zone, that will be up for renewal in two years. So anything that we're doing today or anything that we do in the near future, that's all up for reassessment in a couple years, and council will need to decide if that's something that we want to continue.
 I can't read the small print. So what's the proposed and what's the existing? So the current proposed Portland E-Zone decreases from 11-point acres to 10.47 acres.
 And the East Portland increases from 8.27 acres to 10.96 acres. What's the difference between the two colors on this? They're just two different designations under the state law. You can't have more than 12 square miles in an enterprise zone. And so we have two separate zones to cover the two areas of the city. So, Bobby, I'll beat the mayor to the punch. When we have a...
 a slide like this and a key, can we make sure that it's legible? Legible. Because no one at home, I can't read it, no one at home can read it. So we'll do that. Thank you. We've engaged in significant community participation and feedback through this process. For the last six months, we've been spending time with our partners in the community to talk about this. Here's a list of the different organizations that we've had
 meetings, for example, with the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity. They're doing really good work around community benefit agreements and things with the city. And so we've leaned on them to give us some advice about, is this the right direction? The Central Eastside Industrial Council is strongly supportive of this. The Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Group and the number of nonprofits and community leaders involved in that
 We got to a point where we were able to get full support from them as well based on the things that we were presenting to them. This is really what they came back to us with. They wanted to see some strong oversight, that if we're looking to do more work around equity and inclusive entrepreneurship, things like that, that we have an oversight committee that helps us to make those decisions over time and that there's strong alignment with the schools and with the work source, Oregon, making sure that we're not...
 doing things on our own, but that we bring those partners into the conversations. And finally, really looking at the East Portland investments. How can we encourage growth of business in East Portland? Using the incentive and using the things that come out of the E-Zone to make that more tenable for businesses as they're looking to site their businesses in the city.
 In terms of equity impact, really kind of we're looking at three levels here. We're starting with the policy where we look at jobs, look at creating economic opportunity for all Portlanders, using career ladder strategies and procurement, leaning on our community to do community-based economic development to inform this process with us, and having our newly raised Council for Racial and Economic Equity to join in that conversation with us.
 And then finally, making sure that our partners are aligned. This is something that we're starting to do a lot more of, is act as a convener in bringing partners together around economic development issues. And really now we're adding public benefits on top of all of that and making sure that as we see corporate social responsibility start to take hold in our community and community have interests and needs that align with what businesses are trying to do, we're excited to be in that place of bringing those worlds together.
 And so we'd be glad to take questions. We also have a panel that is ready to go. If that would be doable, start with them, as you will. Great. We have a great panel. Bring them on up.
 Thank you for your patience with us today. Thank you. Thanks for hanging around. And, folks, we have Kim Mellick, the founder of Salt and Straw, with us today, Oscar Aña, director of community development for NAYA, and, of course, Jenny Glass, who's the ED of the Rosewood Initiative. I don't know if you have a particular order. I wanted to say something to our friend from Salt and Straw. Twenty-something years ago when I lived in New York City on 14th Street, right off of University Place,
 There was a local guy, restaurateur, who needed to get a liquor license for expanding his business. And he had to come to the neighborhood community board. And in New York City, the community board has the first say. And that's where I first met Danny Meyer because he wanted a liquor license for his business. And later went on to become Danny Meyer. And then we read with some pride that armed with all the money he's made off of Shake Shack,
 He's now poised to help you go national, so congratulations. Thank you very much. Yes, it's quite an honor. It's one of my heroes. In no small part, he's one of my heroes because I think he's doing a lot to change what it means to have a job in the hospitality industry in the United States. And fighting for great pay for career opportunities and to just,
 have that respect that that career deserves. And so one of the things I've learned from him over the past years is really central to how we've developed our business model.
 and that's putting employees at the center of your business model, next to your customers, next to the people who you're partnering with to make your products, and then finally at the very end of the line, the investors. And he knows that and is supportive of that. And I guess I share that because we talk a lot at our company about us saying all ships rise, right?
 We're not going to do well if our entire community isn't doing well with us. And central to that is our employees. We're lucky enough to be part of this E-Zone, and I thank you for that. You know, I told a story when I was here before that
 back in the day when it was the PDC, we were $40,000 short to open our first store, and we got a loan from the PDC. My partner Mike had to put his house up for collateral. I paid that off. And so we've had this ongoing relationship where the city has been very supportive of our company, and we appreciate that. You know, what this means for us, we made a lot of commitments when we signed up for this, and we don't consider this a
 thing where we're going through and checking boxes. This is our principles, and we appreciate the support and visibility of our community in bringing these to life. And a couple examples that we wanted to focus on this workforce development today. We think that we provide a really good basis for that because we do pay a nice living wage with tremendous opportunities for growth.
 We offer a very robust benefits program including health insurance for part-time employees. They pay $35 a paycheck and we cover the rest. We offer three months paid maternity and paternity leave. We offer employee assistance programs. The list goes on and on. We've been told it's about double what most benefit packages are for companies our size.
 And then lastly, we offer a pretty important training program, both for our employees who join our frontline, as well as a new career ladder and manager and training program that we just introduced that is a three-month program to give people who work for Salt and Straw currently a way forward to become a manager if they don't have that experience. So we're really proud of that.
 I guess what I would like to focus on are the partnerships that we've already initiated coming out of this agreement. We're partnering with Gateway to College. Casey Milligan, who was our first store manager, is now on their advisory council, and they're working to develop training programs to help students.
 students who are wanting to get their first job, a training program so they can go out and find their first job. Hopefully with salt and straw, but it could be anywhere in the community.
 We've hired our first person who has come out of the federal penal system and we're piloting that to make sure that we're good and can create the right support system to make them successful. We think we're in a unique position for people who are getting their first job, who are trying to reenter the workforce, to support them and make sure they're successful and have hopefully a long career forward.
 We're working with an organization actually in San Francisco that we're going to take the learnings from and bring back to Portland called La Cochina. They incubate primarily immigrant women who want to start a business and help them get that business off the ground. So we're working very closely with several of the women who are in that program to sell their products, buy their products and include them in our ice cream and help them with their businesses.
 And then just one last example. We're about to open our second store in San Francisco, which we're very excited about. We've been working with the Success Center there to hire primarily people who live in that neighborhood, which you may or may not know is really hard in San Francisco. And...
 and give them the training and job opportunities that they need to be employed. So we're bringing those learnings back to Portland as well as we open our new kitchen, hopefully next month in November, which is what this agreement was for. So those are just a few examples that we've been working on. I guess what I'd like to say is, you know, we think that this is the right thing to do. This is how we want to be as a company. But I also want to emphasize that this is...
 Good for business, too. I mean, this is a sustainable way for businesses to help create an economy that's good for our community. I don't think you can be a successful business if you're not part of a successful community. The two go hand in hand. And we need to be at the table with you helping to create those solutions. So I appreciate this opportunity. Great. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Oscar Arana, and I'm the Director of Community Development at the Native American Youth and Family Center. The NAIA Family Center was founded by the community for the community. We work closely with our clients to deliver culturally specific services that guide them in the direction of personal success through cultural empowerment. Our continuum of lifetime services creates a holistic environment that is youth-centered, family-driven, and elder-guided.
 NAIA's Microenterprise Program builds economic resilience by developing entrepreneurship within Portland's native community. We provide free business training, one-on-one coaching, and work to connect business owners with the resources and programs they need to sustain and grow their business. Our program includes an eight-week entrepreneurship class, which uses storytelling to guide entrepreneurs along their small business path.
 During these classes, we bring in experts on a wide range of topics from how to get a loan to what ownership structure best fits their needs. Clients graduate from class with a written business and marketing plan as well as one-on-one coaching. Our staff provides monthly check-ins, review business plans, help resource new capital, ramp up marketing efforts, and more. Our next class starts October 19th, and we already have 20 clients registered.
 Supporting and developing accessible vending opportunities is also a top priority as it's a critical source of income. A longstanding vending opportunity is the annual NEA Pow Wow. This year, more than 20 vendors earned over $1,000 that day, which is the most she has ever made at any vending event. We organized three vendor opportunities at NEA and plan to bring one of them outside of NEA in 2018.
 Financial support from the E-Zone Business Development and Workforce Training Fund has allowed us to enhance our existing infrastructure and reach more clients. We have matched the E-Zone funds with our own philanthropic support to hire a business innovation coordinator this year. This new position is focused on developing key partnerships to support clients who are ready to grow their business.
 One of our new partnerships is with the Oregon Native American Chamber. ONAC's business network complements our microenterprise coaching, allowing our clients to connect with longstanding Native-owned businesses. Both organizations are part of Prosper Portland's inclusive business resource network, a coalition of partners focused on supporting entrepreneurs. This network gives us better access and visibility to other providers.
 One of our clients has already benefited from this network. She used ONX intake services, received a Prosper Portland scholarship to attend the Thai XL Boot Camp, and is now enrolled in our microenterprise program where we will help further refine her business plan. So we support this action as it will create new partnerships between business and community that will enhance economic development in Portland's Native American community. Thank you. Thank you, Oscar. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jenny Glass, the Executive Director of the Rosewood Initiative. So we're a nonprofit based in East Portland on the board of Portland and Gresham. We're grateful to be supported by the City of Portland in many ways through the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative with Prosper Portland, through the Parks Bureau, through our partnership with Portland Police, and many of the other bureaus.
 In many ways, our organization serves as a liaison between our diverse community and the city and other government and public sectors. For too long, Rosewood and East Portland have been neglected, but I think that we're making progress with your leadership and the leadership of dedicated city staff like Bobby and Andy from Prosper Portland. Our mission is really simple in Rosewood. We want to improve the quality of life for the people that live there.
 We want to bring prosperity to our residents that are struggling. And even though that mission is simple, the path to get there is super complex. We need many different creative tools and initiatives to be able to bring prosperity to our community.
 With the proposed change to the E-Zone policy, underinvested neighborhoods like Rosewood will have an institutionalized process to work with the city and with the businesses that are locating in our communities. We know our neighborhoods and what we need, which is why we're working closely with Prosper Portland to develop these tools that will give us real voice in community-driven economic development.
 The new E-Zone policy will give us a seat at the table to negotiate community benefits with businesses that are receiving incentives. We can make sure they're paying well, they're hiring our community members, and they're even investing in a transit system that will ensure our residents will be able to get to work. Employers will benefit from this too as they come to see our communities as an asset to their business and a partner in their success. We're hopeful that this tool will have a positive impact in Rosewood.
 and that it will start a trend for our friends in East County, like Gresham and Troutdale, as more and more companies begin to locate in East County. Prosper Portland is a great supporter and ally of Rosewood, even when we're pushing boundaries of what they've considered traditional economic development. The policy changes presented today, I think, are an example of that shift in direction that Prosper Portland's taking to empower communities like Rosewood.
 We support this action, and we're looking forward to using the E-Zone agreements to benefit Rosewood and East Portland. Thank you. Thank you, Jenny. Very good. So you can cool your heels. Thank you very much. We appreciate your testimony. How many people do we have signed up? Two. Okay. Why don't you call them up and – well, first, why don't you call them up? Okay.
 I believe the first name is Ken, was it? I'm sorry, Molday and Ranfis, Giambalto, Valhalla. All right. Well, while they're deciding whether that was actually their names or not, I just want to acknowledge President Mitsui from Portland Community College. Thank you for being here, and we're going to move your item next right after this. So thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience today. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Reynfis Ginovietoro, and I'm here to testify, I think in general, in support of the e-zones and public benefit agreements.
 If anything, I have a few questions as well as some things to sort of champion in addition to the policy. One, I think, what I recommend, a good oversight committee. I think I strongly encourage the recommendation on that. I know I've discussed with several of your offices in terms of wage theft in the construction field, but I think labor compliance is a really important component. I think I want to echo the statements from the owner from the...
 salt and straw that when all ships rise, our communities benefit. And I think one of the things that I think with a lot of mission-driven businesses is we should definitely have a value on verifying that ensuring that
 our dollars are being spent the best way possible, ensuring that the pay and the salary that's being promised, we're verifying that the workers are being paid those wages. So ensuring that there's some form of a labor compliance component. I don't think this is an issue with any of the manufacturers here present, but...
 construction and manufacturing tops the list in terms of wage theft violations, typically around overtime violations. But I think the city could do a built-in place to ensure that workers are being paid fairly and laws are being complied. And it could be done in a very low-cost manner that's no burden to any of these companies. And I'd be happy to discuss how that could work. But I think ultimately...
 I just want to testify on that. Some questions that I have is whether the public benefit agreements, whether that language would be bound to say work that's contracted out by said company or said business. So if they contract with a
 janitorial service, whether that service is bounded by the public benefits agreement. So if janitorial service workers are paid a certain wage, if it's hired directly from, say, a said company, would the case still be made for contracted-out work? So hopefully that's...
 something that's definitely in consideration. And I think, again, strongly recommend a good oversight committee, ensure that there's a seat for community stakeholders to be on that committee. And, again, I hope that there is at least some level of labor compliance. Thank you very much. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Yes. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Yes.
 One of the concerns I always had about PDC, and again, as I know it's Prosper Portland at this time, is when we're discussing, which I do agree with this, and I do agree with the changes being made, one of the concerns I do have by reading this map, I sure do hope that the United States Post Office is within this zone. And again, my main focus right now is what we're going to do with Amazon. And I want to make sure Prosper Portland is
 provides everything they can and if we're going to ever enter into these type of public benefit agreements. My main focus is that I think that we need to have the city auditor be able to audit these agreements.
 I want to know if the public themselves have access to these type agreements. If not, why not? I want to review every agreement that takes place within Prosper Portland and understand that.
 What's in these agreements? Do I have a right to do that? Do I have a right to ask the auditors to do a full audit on everything on these agreements? At this point, it's my understanding they have an exemption from being able to do that.
 That needs to be looked at very close. I want to understand what's in a target agreement. I want to understand what's in various other type agreements. Again, my main focus today is to make sure the city of Portland works very aggressively on bringing Amazon into the Portland market. And I want to make sure that Prosper Portland has everything...
 laid out properly in the benefits to the companies such as Amazon. And the main thing from my position on these enterprise zones, and I understand you go out five years on the tax rebates, I think that is fine. But my understanding there is no limit on the dollar amount, if I'm correct on this. Maybe I'm incorrect.
 So I'd like to maybe have an understanding of that. And when you said that there was some type of requirement on the total square miles, and you referred to the Portland Enterprise Zone, it's somewhere around the 10 square miles in the East Portland Enterprise Zone, around the 11 square miles. So I understand you can just have the total amount up to $20,000.
 square miles, if I'm correct. And that's fitting within the requirements for this type of a zone. And I'll research that to understand that because I was a little unclear. But again, I think this is a... Absolutely, I do agree with this. I have a little concerns up by North... on Marine Drive on where some of these zones are.
 I'm more familiar with the marinas up there, a lot of the owners up there. So I just want to see them also receive the benefits in the E-Zone on their marinas out on the water on the submersible land leases. Thank you. Thank you. Well, thank you, both of you, for your testimony. Further discussion? Commissioner Saltzman? Question. I just had a question. I just want to follow up on the testimony about whether subcontractors are included in Enterprise by extension.
 Under state statute, no, they're not included. There's a very strict definition of what an employee is or is not, 32 hours a week full-time employed by the business. And so under these public benefit agreement models, this is an opening for us to start looking at things like this, to consider what are different ways that we can lean on businesses and they can tell us what is good for them too as we're starting to work together and collaborate on these kinds of things.
 And my other question was the Council on Racial and Economic Equality. I guess I've never heard of that before. It's a brand-new committee that was established at the Prosper Portland. All right, so this is replacing the any – Is it the Prosper Portland committee then? It is. It is community-based, and so it's a new entity to help us make sure we're hitting our equity goals. Okay. Great. Okay, thank you.
 Very good, colleagues. Any further questions, please call the roll. Carla. Fritz. This is a fabulous program. Thank you for your work on it, and thanks to everybody who testified. Aye. Fish. Yeah, thank you, Bobby, and team, and testimony, and pleased to support it. Aye. Saltzman. Yeah, these amendments and boundary extensions just make the enterprise program
 you know, more in tune with what Portlanders want these days in terms of social responsibility by our companies who are benefiting from these agreements. So great work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Can we please move 1-1-2-6 to the next item, please?
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland Community College and a grant agreement with the Portland Community College Foundation to provide $559,849 to the Future Connect Scholarship Program. Colleagues, this morning we have the opportunity to hear from and support Portland Community College's Future Connect Program.
 Future Connect is a scholarship and support program for students who identify as first generation or low income. The program focuses on eliminating barriers to college and providing students with ongoing support through their time at PCC.
 Through scholarship money, career guidance, and personalized advising, Future Connect helps students build pathways to their futures, and we're seeing very positive outcomes. Today we have with us an esteemed panel to share more about Future Connect and the program's positive outcomes. Thank you.
 We have Mark Mitsui, who's the PCC president. We're very honored to have you here today, sir. And Susie, I always get your name like, is it Lahasni? Lassen. Lassen. I wasn't even close. So you can butcher my name five times in a row.
 PCC College Foundation Board President Josh Lurie, who's the Future Connect Program Manager, and Jessica Gonzalez, who's a Future Connect graduate. Awesome. And a 2014 Future Connect cohort.
 So I will turn this over to President Masui. I assume you're kicking it off today. I am. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. And thank you, Commissioners Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish for the opportunity to be here today. We really appreciate it. I'm going to apologize ahead of time. I may have to slip out for another event, but appreciate you taking time out of your busy schedule today. Thank you.
 So, Amir Wheeler gave my introduction, so I appreciate that. That actually saves time. I wanted to talk, though, a little bit about why FutureConnect is important to Portland.
 And if we take a look at the heat map slide, we can see what's happening in the city of Portland and in our region and our service area. In terms of rising income, I mean, the economic recovery has been robust. As a result, we have seen an increase in employment, which is great.
 However, we're seeing also a greater income inequality, and we are also seeing rising housing prices, which creates some displacement, particularly among first-generation families for whom college is a new experience, low-income communities, and communities of color.
 And so one of the, I think, valuable side effects and intentions of Future Connect is that through education and training, we are growing our own talent, and we are helping that talent access the middle class through Portland Community College.
 And so I think that helps set sort of a context for the program. And we're working to help more families that are at risk of displacement be able to stay here through their education and training at Portland Community College. Okay.
 So Future Connect is an important tool. As you will hear, it's not just the scholarships, but also the success coaching that is key to the success of the program. But it's really, I think, most helpful to hear from the experts. So what I would like to do next is to introduce Susie Lassen, who is the president of the Portland Community College Foundation Board. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. We really appreciate you having us here today, and we'd like to update you on the PCC Foundation's efforts to leverage your investment and grow Future Connect. I believe our partnership is a unique one. With students as our focus, we have been able to identify mutual goals and come together with a solution. And Future Connect is a result of thinking outside the box and creating great impact with limited resources.
 The leverage of both public and private funding has made it clear that we're stronger together. And through our engagement, we are an example to others in our region, state, and even nationally. The financial partnership really lends, your financial partnership lends credibility. Your participation and stamp of approval of this program helps us to raise money to leverage for your investment.
 So the PCC Foundation has worked over the past six years to tell the story of Future Connect and engage with individuals, corporate, and philanthropic donors. To date, we have raised more than $2.9 million to match the contributions from the City of Portland. And as you will hear from the data, that investment is really paying off.
 I'm honored to be the PCC Foundation President. The Foundation supports student access to education and training through scholarships and programs. But for me personally, PCC has given a lot to our family. Our sons now have a solid direction with employment in family wage jobs. And frankly, my husband has excellent employees, some of which have gone through the Future Connect program.
 I contribute to the foundation because I believe it's the best way to directly contribute to the successful outcomes in our community. Both education and training linked to employment opportunities, frankly, transforms lives. Mayor Wheeler, we really appreciated your participation in the gala this past year, helping us with your climbing gear, Climb to New Heights, and
 and we hope to see you all there next year on May 19th at the Hilton. Thank you. At this point, I would like to turn it over and introduce Future Connect manager, Josh Lurie, who will tell you both about how and why your investment in Future Connect is working.
 Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, city commissioners, my name is Joshua Lorry. I'm the program manager of Future Connect, and I want to thank you for your investment in the students of Portland. In 2011, when we started this program, we had a very simple idea, which was scholarship and support. And six years later, we've gone on to do much more than that. As you can see, these are just some of the numbers of students that we've served in the last year.
 And so we actually are conducting outreach visits now to CBOs and K-12 partners each and every day. 270 visits in just one year last year. We presented to over 3,400 students.
 And our intent in presenting to those students is not just to talk to them about FutureConnect, but talk to them about college and how the opportunities of college can exist for them. I want to be clear, this is not a high-achieving, merit-based scholarship. We're focused on students who have access to
 TANF, free and reduced lunch, the homeless youth continuum here in Portland, and former foster care alumni. So a lot of the reasons that students may be moved down on other scholarships are the reasons why they would be moved up in hours. And so the idea is that we're working to identify those students who are probably pre-contemplative in their senior year in high school,
 to get them to contemplative and action stages by the time they exit their senior year. And so they're ready. And this year we had over, well, 879 applicants. It's right there. And unfortunately, we were able to serve about 340 of them. What we did this year, though, to serve those other students who we identified as waitlisters, we conducted what we call the Summer Connect. Summer Connect.
 We didn't necessarily steal that from WSI, but what we did is we said, if you apply to Future Connect, we want you to come out anyway to the campus and meet with our coaches. You might not get the full scholarship, the full bevy of services, if you will, but you will still get someone who you can connect to to a large institution before you exit your high school. So we're trying to do more than just provide scholarships for our now 340 students.
 I want to also point to something that we did this last year, which is pretty inventive. And we had a third-party evaluation from Education Northwest. And some of the salient points that came out of that third-party evaluation are here on this slide. And this is something...
 We're quite proud of. What we notice in students that we serve is that the students, and actually, I should actually start with this a little bit. If you look at this first insert, this shows you the students and the demographics of the individuals we serve. So 72% of our students are students of color, and we're really working to remove the achievement gap.
 And so the idea is that what we found from this Education Northwest eval was that students of color who were in Future Connect were actually surpassing students of color and non-white students who were not in Future Connect.
 And one of the pieces from this chart that really stands out to me is specifically the number of credits that they're receiving in their first year. I just saw that. That's astonishing. So nine credits might not seem like a lot, but if you transpire that over three years, that could mean the difference between graduating from a community college in two years or three years.
 And so we're really trying to speed up and accelerate the opportunity of college. And while all these numbers, and I can yammer on forever about numbers and what Future Connect does for our cohort of students, there's no one who really speaks better about the program than our students themselves. And I've been lucky enough to work alongside Jessica Gonzalez, Madison graduate in 2014.
 who came to us and did our work at Future Connect at the Cascade campus. So I'd like to introduce Jessica, and she'll tell you a little bit about her experience in the program itself. Thank you. Great, thanks. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jessica Gonzalez. I'm a recent 2017 PCC grad. I graduated from the Dental Assisting Program, and I started back with PCC in 2014, right after I graduated from Madison, and then shortly, like a week in, I dropped out.
 And it was due to stuff that were going on at home and then also a lack of thinking that I could actually really do this. And my coach was Kelly, who was at the Cascade campus along with Becca. So I always felt like I knew Kelly was my coach, but I had Becca alongside with her. And when I dropped, I...
 I didn't mention it to anybody. I just went along and dropped out and thought, well, soon fully my scholarship will be taken away too when they notice that my classes are gone. Kelly, he had emailed me a day or so after and was like, hey, I just want to know what's going on. Then another email and I just didn't respond because I didn't really know what to say to her. Then I finally got a text message and was just like, hey, you need to talk to me. What's going on?
 I guess that was enough to get me to reply back. And I came in, and I kind of explained to her what was going on. And I told her it wasn't a good fit, and I don't think I'm going to go to college anymore, and I wasn't going to be able to do it. And she said enough to me to get some hope in knowing that. Let's just try this one term, one class, and then go from there. And I'll support you along the way. And that was enough for me to go back for one class, one term. And from there...
 Little by little, it was a struggle, but there was just so much hope with Kelly and Becca in believing in me, and I didn't feel like I had many who believed in me, and not even myself.
 And along the year and a half that I went to PCC, it was constantly checking in with them. And they'd send me messages or emails and, like, how's it going? And we have an office there that's right next to their office where it's, like, quiet time for us to go and do homework and whatnot. And I was constantly in there. And every time I'd be in there, there was always a poke through the window and saying, hey, come talk to us. How's it going? And...
 When I was in my second term at PCC, I didn't really know what I wanted to do, and Kelly took the time for a good chunk, like an hour, to sit with me and ask me, what is it that you want to do? And I remember telling her, I don't know, just maybe get my associates and go from there. And she's like, well, there has to be something deeper than that.
 and we went down the whole list and I was in a medical program at Madison for four years and I thought I wanted to be a nurse and then I was like oh I didn't want to do that anymore and then she had brought it to my attention like would you still want to be in the medical field and I said yeah but I have no idea anymore and she was like well what about like so she went down like well nursing's out and how about like being a doctor or pediatric and whatnot and then she was like well what about dentistry and I was kind of like oh that
 that's a good idea. And she was like, well, you have a beautiful smile and you seem to care about your oral hygiene, so why not? And I was just like, oh, okay. So, she showed me that there was an assisting program and hygiene program at the school and she was like, how about we start small and we finish what we need as our prereqs and then we go from there. And I was like, okay, we'll try to do that. And,
 I did that, and then she was like, do you want to try going into the hygiene program or assisting? And from there, I was like, well, let's start with assisting. So if I don't like it, I don't have to do it. And this is me still doubting myself, and she was like, well, I think you could still do it either way. And I was like, well, we'll start with assisting. And sure enough, I applied, and I got in. And the first term was really hard. I was taking 21 credits, and I was new to the whole program and knew nothing about hygiene.
 dentistry. So multiple times I reached out and told her that I didn't think I could do it and she constantly told me that yes you can, like you've made it this far, don't give up and we are here to support you. And sure enough, second term came around on the program and it got easier in the sense that I knew more and I felt more confident with what I was doing and not only that but I had the support
 always right behind me. And then graduation came, and I couldn't believe it. And I remember I hadn't seen them the second, or winter and fall, spring term as much. And I had stopped in around spring term, and I sat down with them, and they were like, oh, we miss you. We haven't seen you in so long, because now I was going to Sylvania campus. And
 It got me really emotional because she was like, do you remember back in 2014 when you came to me crying and telling me that you couldn't do this, and I told you you could, and now look at yourself? And I was just like, yeah, you're right. Like, I had so much doubt in myself, and just their hope that they could see in me and I couldn't see at the time meant everything to me. And I know that without Kelly and Becca and all of the Future Connect coaches, that there's no way I could have done it without them.
 So, yeah. Very good. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Can we suspend the rules? Sure. Thank you. I'm still trying to get my kids to floss, so I may need a consultation. Congratulations. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have.
 Two people signed up to testify. Very good. And, Mr. President, if you need to leave, we certainly understand. Otherwise, if you'd like to just cool your heels, we'll hear some public testimony. Thank you. And I want to thank you for being here, for being part of this program. It's wonderful. Absolutely. Thank you for your time. Great results. Excellent results. And your support. Thank you. We have Star Stauffer and Joe Walsh. All right. Thank you, Star. Mr. Walsh, there you go. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. A star had to go to work. That happens when people that work. Doesn't happen to me anymore, but it happens to the star. So she regrets. I think her testimony would have been very positive. And also, our testimony is positive, except we have a question about the...
 Administrative course, when we heard the word mentoring or taking people under their wings, how does that work? We would like to know if the money that you're supplying, what percentage goes to the scholarships and what percentage goes to the administration of whatever the college is offering as far as mentoring the students. Thank you.
 We're very excited about this because I went to City College in San Diego for two years when it was free. And we had to buy our books. And we could buy used books. So it was very inexpensive for us to go. That's not true today. I know the city colleges are really working hard to go back to that because it's very important that we educate students.
 as many people as we can, because we benefit from it. We do. So that's the only reservation that we had. We were wondering, like a nonprofit says, our administrative cost is 13%, and everything else goes to the clients. We would like to know about the scholarships, how much goes to the scholarships, and how much goes to the administration part. And if the college is kicking in any money for the administration part...
 Because we always have a tendency, like we did with TriMed, to criticize the receiver. What are you doing? We want them to do something. We want them to have some skin in game. So that's our concern. So thank you very much for your patience. And again, I'm sorry that I could not testify. But work is work. All right. Thank you, sir. Colleagues, any further discussion? Any further questions? Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Well, right after the Enterprise Zones, now we have Future Connect, another of my favouritest programmes ever. And I always reflect back to when Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman and I joined Mayor Adams in 2010-11. It was really risky at that time. We were still recovering from the recession. And to have the mayor come and say that, you know, we're going to put a few hundred thousand dollars into this –
 seemed like a really steep price tag. And then when you look at the outcomes that we've made together with the number of students who've graduated, who have lives back, like Jessica was telling us,
 It's phenomenal. And Kelly Thorne-Ladd, who was part of the brains behind the idea, now working with Kairos, and it will be great when her Kairos students are old enough to go to PCC, which has become really an educational bastion in our community. More and more high school students take their prerequisites at PCC before either going to Portland State or to other colleges.
 and get the same kind of support, but not the wraparound support. And that, I don't know the specific answer to your question, Mr Walsh. I think that the price of the scholarship is not nearly what we actually give because it's about that wraparound support. It's not administration. It's providing the mentors, providing the people who are going to make those calls, take that text, provide that support.
 make somebody come in and say, well, I'm dropping out, and then have that support afterwards. I appreciate our partnership with Portland Parks and Recreation with some of our student programs there that are then funneled into scholarships. And it's
 It's brilliant. And what's even better is the way that the business community has embraced it, that it's not just Portland City Money right now. It's a lot of private investors in the foundation. Thank you, Susila Sand. Many times over is now donated because of all the students who've gone through and who come and tell us, either at the fundraisers or in city council, during the budget whenever they're...
 This has made a huge difference in my life, and I'm doing something that nobody else in my family has done before. And really, it's priceless. So thank you very much for all you do. Aye. Fish? Everything Commissioner Fritz said, I want to just compliment President Mitsui, who, of course, is not here to hear it, for his early outreach to the city council. I appreciated early in his administration he came and did the circuit and shared with each of us sort of his vision for his leadership.
 We're very lucky to have someone of his caliber at the helm of PCC. And I think the mission of the community colleges has never been more important, particularly because we're seeing these incredible transformations in the economy brought about by technology. And what that's going to mean is people in there who are the first to go to college in their family or from blue-collar families or live in East Portland are going to see their livelihood put under a lot of stress.
 We're seeing it in the long-haul trucking industry. 1.6 million people are going to be, they say, potentially displaced in the next 10 years because of autonomous vehicles. Well, who's thinking out long-term about how to capture that value and how to make sure that people get the training they need for highways jobs? All the jobs we're trying to protect along the working waterfront with Superfund, if it ever happens. The mayor and I are a little concerned about some of the most recent noise out of Washington. But...
 There is this huge opportunity to address the changes in our economy by giving people the skills to pursue these new jobs, and the community colleges are at the heart of that. So I appreciate all the work you've done. I appreciate President Mitsui. My only grievance today is that I never liked the word cohort. I wish we could find another word, and I actually don't know anyone who knows what it means.
 And so I wish we had a more human word for, like, class of, or we know they become alums of. But maybe we can, between now and next year, come up with a better word than cohort. Thank you for your good work. We're proud to partner with you. Aye. Saltzman. Well, one thing I can say about words like cohort, they tend to work themselves out of the dialect after a while. You know, words come and go, and maybe cohort's on its way out. There you go. But I really...
 I appreciate, I'm glad, as Commissioner Fritz said, that the council did step up in 2011, 2010, and make this investment in Future Connect. There certainly was a lot of enthusiasm from PCC at the time, and I remember the chambers being filled with students of PCC, and you've really proven yourselves in those intervening years, and I really appreciate this presentation, and it makes me proud of PCC.
 and it makes me really want to go out and support that bond measure on the ballot in November for enhancing PCC's public safety capabilities. So thank you. All right.
 Wheeler? Well, I'm very happy to have the opportunity to vote on this. It's a great program, and I've watched it from a distance, and I'm very supportive. I do want to answer Mr. Walsh's question because I think it's a good one and it's an important one. For the purposes of this agreement, administrative costs refers to reasonable charges to the program to cover the costs of
 of facilities, insurance, and other indirect administrative costs is outlined in Attachment B, Future Connect Scholarship Program Budget. These costs are capped at 6% of total program costs, which I think is eminently reasonable. So a good program, good results, good objectives, and fiscally prudent to boot. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 Colleagues, next we will do item 1124, and after that I'll pull you on how you're all feeling. 1124, direct the Office of Management and Finance to establish a Build Portland Advisory Committee and develop a funding plan for infrastructure maintenance.
 One moment, one moment, it's here. There it is. Like many municipalities, the City of Portland faces challenges maintaining the infrastructure that provides core city services. This infrastructure gap represents a significant long-term liability for the city and threatens to deprive future residents of the services that make Portland one of the world's most livable cities.
 I proposed bold action over the next 20 years to begin addressing this problem by investing up to $600 million in the roads, bridges, parks, and buildings that our residents use every day. This is Build Portland.
 Nationally, it's been a great year for maintenance. For example, in New York, Governor Cuomo declared a state of emergency for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority as the MTA relied for too long on emergency repairs over preventative maintenance.
 Two recent derailments at Penn Station and the subsequent closure of aging tracks have significantly impacted service levels in the region and represent the high price of neglected maintenance. We're also familiar with the picture of the dam that nearly collapsed in Oroville, California in February.
 The City's asset management professionals note that $288 million more per year is needed each year for the next 10 years to maintain existing assets, compared to $268 million gap last year and a $242 million funding gap the year before.
 The cost for repairing and maintaining increases as their condition deteriorates. Every year we don't resolve the funding gap. This gap will only continue to grow.
 This does not include a $129 million annual capacity gap. That's down $4.2 million from last year due to fixing our streets funding, which is additional funding necessary to address existing inequities and deficiencies in levels of service for current customers and citizens.
 The direct result of this level of sustained underinvestment is that significant portions of our asset base are in poor or very poor condition, which is the most costly for us to address.
 Previous Council did a fantastic job beginning to turn around our long-overlooked deferred maintenance problem, e.g. the parks bonds, the street fee, and other actions. This Council continues that work with recent decisions we've made in water infrastructure.
 Build Portland will add to our ability to invest in long-term maintenance needs. I'm going to turn the discussion over to Mr. Tom Reinhart and his team to provide us with the details of this resolution. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council members. My name is Tom Reinhart. I'm the Chief Administrative Officer. I'm proud to be here today with Jamie Waltz from my team and Shannon Fairchild from the Budget Office.
 As we all know, Portland is a rapidly growing city, largely in part to planning decisions and investments begun decades ago that have shaped our entire region. One of the many challenges we face that the mayor so diligently and thoroughly outlined is keeping pace with the growth and maintaining our existing built infrastructure, particularly with the decline of historic funding levels from both the state and federal governments.
 As the mayor just said, the city has taken multiple steps under the leadership of this council and previous councils to invest more dollars in our parks, housing, roads, and utilities. This is just going to be another tool in that toolbox. On August 29th, we organized a work session to outline Build Portland.
 To review briefly, Build Portland is a vision for a long-term infrastructure investment funded by borrowing against some of the property taxes returning to the city's general fund from our many expiring urban renewal areas. As envisioned, Build Portland would secure an initial investment of $50 million approved by council, followed by planned investments of $100 million in fiscal year 2024-25 and $150 million more every five years thereafter.
 The earliest Build Portland project could begin in spring 2018. The resolution before you today directs the Office of Management and Finance to establish the Build Portland Advisory Committee and develop a funding plan for the entire program for your approval.
 Before we take questions, I want to take this opportunity to thank many people that have put their significant intelligence and limited time into developing this vision. Andrew Scott and Josh Harwood, along with Shannon and others from the Budget Office, the entire Citywide Asset Management Group, Kimberly Branham, Susan Anderson, Leah Treat, and Mike Abate, my formidable colleagues who have all provided their input and guidance. And with that, we will take any questions from Council.
 Colleagues, any questions? So this resolution is to figure out the plan, the funding plan, and it will take into account current capacity and various other things like currently the contracts are going for way over estimates because everybody is busy. Can you talk to me a little more about that? Yes, yes. So what this resolution does is it directs us to actually formalize the committee of multiple bureau directors and asset managers.
 and then come up with a funding plan by March that takes into account all the other tools that this council and the previous council have started to really take forward motion on so that it's a complementary tool and to put forward a package of initial projects that, you know, council under the various bureaus that you oversee have already, along the long list of infrastructure for maintenance, have already developed and to try to put together a diverse set of projects that will meet our needs. Thank you.
 And when does the money actually start flowing from the urban renewal districts that are closing?
 So it's a very, you know, beginning really in 2020, the dollars start to come back, but it's a very small amount and then it kind of hockey sticks up over the next 10 years. I can resend that graph around that we worked on in the work session. But one of the charges to this work group is to actually figure out, is it advantageous to bond against the dollars now before they've come back, or should we use another funding mechanism? And we will present those options to council. Great. Thank you. Tom, we had a hearing this morning yesterday.
 Well, we had some testimony about unreinforced masonry buildings. And one of the issues that I'm going to be focusing on is how do we make our affordable housing inventory safer without imposing exorbitant costs on our nonprofit partners. Has the Housing Bureau flagged that as a potential investment area for this program? No.
 I'm going to defer to my colleagues up here, but I do not know that. So let's – if you don't mind, I'd like to know whether it's a plausible candidate, and if not, why not. But since the goal there is to ensure the long-term viability of a capital asset that we have, in many instances, got a 60- or 90-year covenant with,
 It seems to me we're going to hear a lot of pushback from nonprofit operators that just don't have the resources. And this may be an area where we want to do some front-loading work to make these buildings safer. And it seems to me like this might be a reasonable candidate. I'm not advocating for it, but I'd just like to have it go through the screening process. We will dig into that and get that information. I think there's about 7,000 units that are potentially covered. All right.
 Very good. Any other questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up. Ranfie? Very good. Come on up. You've become a regular. One thing struck me, though. Do you have an affiliation that you need to disclose in terms of your testimony? For this one, yes. I think the last one was more personal. Okay.
 I, in this testimony, will be representing Professional Business Development Group, which is a trade association of women and minority-owned construction firms. Thank you. I do want to include a testimony, a partial testimony for Kelly Haynes with...
 Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity. She just had like three questions, whether someone could follow up after this meeting or answer them here. But I told her I definitely would ask those questions. Some of the questions she had is...
 Since resources are being redirected from the URA, what resources will be pulled from those URA zones, if that makes sense? What are the community benefit considerations with these proposed... Can I ask you a question? Yeah. What do you mean by resources being pulled from urban renewal districts? My understanding, and I could be wrong, is...
 the proposal is to redirect TIF money or URA money? No. So I just don't want us to put premises on questions that are not factual. And if there's something that you need a briefing on or something we need to follow up on, but I don't think we should have the record cluttered with premises that are not factual. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It seems like there may be, if there's a dispute about that, because I share the goal of where you're going in your testimony, let's make sure you get a briefing on that.
 Yeah, happy to. Again, just reading questions sent to me. A couple other questions. Kelly Haynes, correct. So the questions here are, what are the community benefit considerations on the proposed significant infrastructure projects? I can understand that you guys are just building the advisory committee. Who will decide where they address crumbling infrastructure or the definition for infrastructure?
 And then, yeah, what's the timeline for the formation of the advisory committee? Can we read between the lines in your testimony that either you or Kelly or both would be interested in being considered for this oversight body? Yes.
 I can't speak for Kelly, but I know. You just did speak for her, actually. But if there is someone who is interested, I think you should let us know, because the best way to address these questions would be on the oversight body, and it sounds like we would benefit from these tough questions being asked.
 Yeah, great question. I can follow up for Kelly or have Kelly reach out to you guys. But I personally would be interested, again, just to present a diverse set of voices and stakeholders. Again, I think in general, now testifying on support of PBDG, you know, supporting infrastructure improvements, I think it's really vital and important. You know, I think we've benefited from that.
 several decades of work that our forefathers, those before us, have done for us. I think we benefited from those infrastructure, and I think it's time that we improved infrastructure as a case for safety. And I think having good infrastructure is good for the economy in the city of Portland.
 I think last I just want to conclude is, you know, I think it's really always important to provide a displacement lens, ensure that, you know, local businesses and local contractors have access to these jobs, MWESB sort of goals. So as those details come up, those are things I think that I would personally, as representative of PPDG, would love to see rolled out. But thank you very much. Thank you.
 Yeah, excellent questions. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this. I'm glad that this is getting going with the discussions in plenty of time. Aye. Fish. You know, it occurred to me, because I think this gentleman did raise some good questions, that it would be helpful to have an updated FAQ that just describes what we are and aren't doing at this stage. And I know we would benefit in my office because we'll get similar questions. And it is the season of...
 both the CBA plus the CEIP and more generally how we're doing contracting. So as these issues merge, I think we need to be able to explain how it does or does not overlap. Our office would respectfully request an FAQ so we can give that timely and accurate information. Consider it done. Yeah, good idea. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Well, I just want to thank Mayor Wheeler for coming up with the idea of Build Portland to bring much needed more dollars to our infrastructure needs as a city. So I look forward to the work this committee will do, and I look forward to the ultimate investments, additional investments, in critical infrastructure that these dollars will make.
 Wheeler. Well, I don't want to take all the credit for this. You know, Tom and Andrew and many others have been toying with these ideas for quite some time. So thank you for the generosity. I'll consider my contribution making sure that we get it done. All right. The resolution is adopted. Colleagues, we have two more. Keep bowling through them. Let's kill. Good. All right. 1-1-2-5, please.
 The ones that say 20 minutes may or last an hour or five minutes. I know. It's almost a jinx. We have a very elastic definition of 20 minutes. This one should last five minutes. Okay. 1125, amend contract with Convergence Architecture to increase contract amount by $7,545 to add janitor rooms to the 1900 building restroom upgrade project. Excellent. Thank you.
 Good morning, or good afternoon. Good afternoon. Three minutes. That's how much I need. Brandy Stelic, construction project manager with OMF. This is an amendment to a contract with Convergence Architecture. We currently have a contract with them for our ADA improvements for the 1900 building toilet rooms. We added gender-neutral toilet rooms last time. By doing that, I took away some janitor storage closets.
 On the stakeholder committee, kind of came to my attention, while also working on a construction project currently in the building, the building does not have any janitor sinks. So during that construction project, the contractors were using the bathroom sinks to wash up, and as well, they could not wash their paintbrushes in the building. They actually had to walk over to PSU.
 It seems to me this is a good opportunity to remedy the fact that we have no janitor sinks in one of our city buildings. I've recommended that Convergent Architecture look into adding three. We would have an addition on the second floor, third floor, and seventh floor. I found areas that seem to be a good location, also close to existing plumbing facilities.
 So this contract is to have them look into that, which is $7,545 for design services. Any questions? I'm glad you explained that because I was thinking, boy, that's a bargain to get three janitor closets for that much, but it's for the design. Yeah, it's design services, yeah, to add it to our toilet project. It's another plumbing project, so it seemed to make sense. And how much about will it add to the cost of the toilet?
 I don't know that would be part of their design fees to get a cost estimate to see how much it would add to the overall project cost. Very good. Well, you know it's been a long city council session when we get to the bathroom talk. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work and for your brevity. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks, Randy. Great. Thank you so much. You bet. Last item, 1127. Amend vehicles and traffic code to authorize Portland streetcar supervisors and superintendents to tow vehicles. Commissioner Saltzman?
 I will turn it over to Catherine Levine. Thank you. The purpose of the ordinance is to eliminate an old code provision that provided for moving vehicles and clarify that Portland streetcar supervisors call for tows under the same code provision that parking patrol, police officers, and other entities make calls for tows.
 A little bit of history, when streetcar opened before the Pearl was very developed, there was a practice in years past, if a vehicle blocked the train from moving, that a tow could be called and the car would literally be moved to the next available on-street parking space.
 That has not occurred for years. What is occurring in that very well-developed area is that if there is a car or truck, oftentimes it's box delivery trucks blocking the transit movement. The supervisors will look for the owner of the vehicle. If they're not able to find them, they'll call for a tow in order for the transit service to continue. So, yeah.
 Just a bit of perspective, we had 4.7 million riders last year, and the trains went around about 418,000 miles of revenue service on the 16 miles of track in the downtown. You know, it's timely that you're bringing this forward. I was downtown the other day and near the Target store, and someone double parked on the track.
 And I think I might have tried to make a helpful suggestion to this person that the train was coming and my eyesight's getting worse with age, but I think the gesture I got back was not as friendly. But I would hope that people have the common sense not to double park on the actual rails. You know, I can understand if it's too close to the rail because, frankly, there's a question of clearance in some of our systems.
 But it's just plain rude to double park on the rail and to keep a streetcar backed up. And I hope people understand that's not acceptable. Thank you. So, thank you. Very good. Thank you. And thank you for your patience. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. It's a non-emergency. Oh, I'm sorry. You're right. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. There being no further business, we're adjourned until 2 p.m.
 would you like us to definitely you ready carl all right good good afternoon everybody this is the afternoon session october 11 2017 for the portland city council carla if you could please call the roll you daily
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Wheeler. Here. So we have a code of conduct. I will summarize it in one sentence. Treat everybody with respect. All right. We got that done. Read the one and only item for this afternoon, please. Item 1128, accept Portland's housing bond policy framework to guide investment of bond funding based on community needs.
 Thank you, Carla. Colleagues, today I'm very proud to bring to you an exciting milestone and a step in the right direction to addressing Portland's housing crisis. Portland voters made history when they passed the city's first affordable housing bond with an overwhelming 62% of the vote.
 At $258 million, the Portland Housing Bond is the largest general obligation bond ever passed by Portland voters, and it's a first-of-its-kind funding mechanism for our city. These resources will allow the city to create an additional 1,300 units of affordable housing.
 Because this is an historic opportunity to stabilize families and mitigate displacement, we wanted to make sure that we got it right. That's why when I came into office, we pressed pause to develop a strategy to use these funds effectively and maintain the trust of the public. That meant we took the time necessary for a deliberate and thoughtful community process, and the results are better because of it.
 Today I bring you a framework established by dozens of community partners, many of whom are represented here today, and the Portland Housing Bureau to guide us in spending these funds equitably and efficiently. The voters have trusted us with their hard-earned dollars, and we have an absolute responsibility to maintain that trust by ensuring that our actions align with the intent of voters.
 By taking this additional time, I know that we're ensuring the maximum impact of bond dollars and setting ourselves up for a positive outcome to share with the voters.
 This policy framework reflects the diverse perspectives and expertise of an 18-member stakeholder advisory group and the diverse voices of Portlanders from across our community to ensure that the investments made with this resource reflect the values of the community and help those who need the housing the most. Thank you.
 This afternoon we're going to hear from committee members, bureau staff, and community partners on their hard work in getting this framework in place.
 I'll now take the opportunity, colleagues, to turn this over to Andrea Valderrama, Senior Policy Advisor in my office on the bond, Shannon Callahan, the Assistant Director of Policy and Strategy for the Portland Housing Bureau, and Jennifer Cheng, the Senior Policy Coordinator for the Housing Bureau, to provide an overview of the framework and the community engagement process. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. Like the Mayor said, my name is Andrea Ballerama. I'm a Senior Policy Advisor for the bond.
 at the mayor's office and it is it's really a pleasure to be here today and to provide with you the policy framework which will guide the bureau the bond oversight committee and you all as city council to ensure our bond is invested to maximize its impact in places and in ways that are consistent with our community's values and our community's goals
 I and the mayor have been present throughout this detailed process, and we've heard robust, honest, and often challenging questions and conversations from community members, and we explore the opportunity before us to make the greatest impact with the housing bond.
 And I wanted to briefly extend my thanks to members of the Stakeholder Advisory Group and for committing their time, perspectives, and expertise through this process. I'd like to briefly cover the major milestones we've accomplished together. As you know, last November, Portland voters approved the state's first voter-approved funding measure for affordable housing.
 In March, under direction of Mayor Wheeler, an 18-member public advisory body was appointed to develop a policy framework to guide the city and further bond investments. You'll hear from two of those members, Alan Lazo and Frida Christopher, following our overview. Yes, thank you.
 Over the past six months, the advisory group deliberated over opportunities and challenges before us and wrestled with how to identify the priorities that will allow us to be most effective among so many important and sometimes competing needs. Thank you.
 The Housing Bureau, along with community partners, then conducted robust outreach and engagement to gather community feedback on the draft over a five-week period. After compiling all the comments received, the advisory group reviewed those comments at its final meeting on September 27th to finalize the policy framework. And I will turn it over now to Shannon Callahan, who will go into a deeper dive of that policy framework. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Andrea. Mayor and Commissioners, I am Shannon Callahan with the Portland Housing Bureau. The policy framework you have before you today establishes guidelines and goals for Portland's housing bond. And importantly, it establishes seven key guiding principles, which will frame and guide all of our investments and decision-making going forward.
 The first key principle is collaboration, aligning with our private and public partners and our policies and programs to maximize efficiency. We will also work to promote other community benefits with our investments, like prevailing wage jobs, hiring disadvantaged minority women in emerging small business,
 businesses, and utilizing green building practices. We will advance racial equity for communities disproportionately impacted by the shortage of affordable housing options, by housing discrimination, by gentrification, and by involuntary displacement. This bond will support opportunity through citywide investments that offer broad access to public amenities like transportation, schools, food, and grocery stores.
 We will be resourceful by making responsible investments in housing solutions with innovation and creativity. And we will demonstrate exemplary stewardship of public resources, including the oversight of the bond by an independent public oversight committee. And finally, we will be transparent in our decision-making by providing clear and consistent communications with the public and fostering opportunities for public involvement.
 And now I'd like to turn to some of the specific goals of the bond. A key portion of the advisory group's work was to set the bond production goals. This framework reaffirms the goals that were devised when council referred the bond to voters. The bond will produce a minimum of 1,300 new units of housing affordable for households with incomes at or below 60% of the median family income.
 600 of these will be deeply affordable. Half, or 650 of these units, will be able to accommodate families, so they'll be two-bedroom sizes and larger. The framework also establishes an important new target for 300 supportive housing units. And we are already working with the Joint Office of Homeless Services to plan for those units as we develop and acquire new housing.
 And now I'd like to turn it over to Jennifer Chang for the Portland Housing Bureau, who led most of the stakeholder advisory group process very ably. Thank you, Jennifer. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Commissioners. My name is Jennifer Chang. I'm with the Portland Housing Bureau. It's a pleasure to be here this afternoon. Thank you.
 The framework provides priority communities for bond resources to further our community-wide goals of preventing displacement, advancing racial equity, and also making a visible impact on ending homelessness in our community.
 By aligning with our homeless service system, culturally specific and other community partners, we'll create housing for communities that are disproportionately affected by the housing crisis, with a particular focus on communities of color, families, including families with children, immigrants and refugees, and intergenerational households.
 We also want to focus on creating opportunities for households experiencing homelessness or facing imminent displacement. In the process of identifying these communities, the advisory group reviewed and was informed by data from the Housing Bureau's annual State of Housing Report and the point-in-time count of homelessness.
 These reports and others show that Portland's housing crisis disproportionately impacts people of color, low-income families, and individuals and families experiencing homelessness. The data clearly shows that there are large areas in our city where communities of color cannot afford to rent anything larger than a studio apartment. This is also true for low-income families and immigrants.
 In our most recent point in time count, we have more than 4,000 people who are homeless in our community on any given night, more than 40% of whom are persons of color. And also, our current city's housing stock is heavily weighted towards smaller size units, which emphasizes the need for more affordable family size larger units. Thank you.
 On the important question of location, the framework clearly calls out the Housing Bureau will use a racial equity lens and analysis at the forefront of when we assess and make selections around opportunities.
 The projects will be selected with a focus on the following priorities. We want to invest where there is little or no existing current affordable housing or resources. We also want to strive to balance investments throughout the city and consider school catchment areas and areas where there's planned transit or infrastructure projects. Just a quick question, otherwise I might interrupt. Sure.
 When you're saying that InvestWeather's currently little or no affordable housing, in the past that's meant that we've put a lot of money into places like South Waterfront. Yeah. So could you just explain that? Well, maybe it'll come up in the presentation. Yeah. Well, Commissioner, there are large swaths of the city, for instance, inner southeast Portland, and mostly due to the lack of a URA. URAs typically cover only 15% of our city. Okay.
 So there are large portions where we don't actually have a number of affordable housing. I'm thinking particularly of areas like Selwood, the Hawthorne District, other areas. They would not necessarily be referring just to South Waterfront. Also, there's large portions. That was just an example. But the land is more expensive in those areas, so we'd get maybe fewer units. I'm sure you'll go into it as we go. Keep going. I just wanted to flag that piece. Yeah, we will. That is a key issue. While you're paused...
 A couple slides ago, when you talked about the 1,300 units. Yeah, should I? If you did the math below, it only adds up to 1,250 units. Right. So I was wondering, where's the other 50 units? So these aren't, they're not exclusive of each other. So there's, of the 1,300 total units, 600 will be deeply affordable at the zero to 30%.
 And then of the 1,300, also we want to have at least 650 be larger size. So there could very well be many larger size family units that are 0 to 30. Jennifer, since we're doing some preliminary stuff, I think it's helpful for the public to know what we're talking about when we say 0 to 30 percent AMI. Yes.
 So at some point, could you just put the human face on that range? And the second is you use the term households throughout this. And we should be clear that a household could be one person or it could be a family of three or four. So, for example, when we talk about 300 units of permanent supportive housing, that may skew more households.
 one-person housing, just by definition. Right. But household covers one to three, four, whatever. But if at some point you put the human face on zero to 30 and zero to 60, I think it brings more people along. Yeah. Thank you.
 So as we look towards implementation, we will want to use a vulnerability and opportunity analysis to guide decision making. The framework creates a clear preference for acquiring existing buildings in areas at high risk of gentrification, especially where there are high number of residents from communities of color. There's also a preference for both acquiring and building new housing in high opportunity areas.
 Each property we acquire will be run through a lens of racial equity, vulnerability, and opportunity.
 I just wanted to take a few minutes to summarize the community feedback that we conducted as part of this process. Once we compiled with the advisory group and completed the draft framework, the Housing Bureau and community partners conducted a community engagement from mid-August to late September, so about a period of four to five weeks.
 We worked with Metropolitan Alliance for the Common Good, Opal Environmental Justice, and our advisory group members to help identify key groups that we should reach and talk to. We also partnered with the community engagement liaisons through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to reach over 300 community members from 16 linguistically specific immigrant and refugee groups.
 And we also made presentations to stakeholder groups and received detailed comments from many groups and organizations, of which are listed here on the slide. Finally, we collected comments through a community survey.
 And through these cumulative efforts, we reached nearly a thousand community members and a significant amount of comments were collected. As you can imagine, we have over 50 pages worth of comments which are included as an appendix E to the policy framework.
 And overall, there were several key themes that arose. One is that the community wants to see housing spread across the city and prioritizing creating more housing in areas with mixed income environments. Also, that housing should be created close to amenities, transportation, schools, parks, and groceries.
 Also, that tenant eligibility and screening criteria must be clear and must be transparent, low barrier, and also linguistically appropriate. And finally, there's a great desire, there's a great need in our community to know when housing becomes available and for the community to be informed in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner.
 So these key themes and the comments that are reflected in the policy framework that you have before you today. And I want to thank you for the opportunity to present. Very good. Thank you, Andrea, Shannon, and Jennifer, for that information. Next, I'd like to call up Alan Lazo, who is the Executive Director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. And also, thanks to Frida Christopher for stepping in today for the East Project.
 Portland Action Plan. They both participated in the stakeholder advisory group, and it's good to see you both here. We also have Surya Rajzosi, an Ohnoni Community Engagement Liaison, who worked to conduct direct outreach on the bond framework specific to the Nepalese community. Thank you for being here as well. Good afternoon. I'll start. Thank you.
 So good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Alan Lousow with the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. So as we move forward in this process, I first must go back a little and recognize that we would not have reached this historic moment without the many who have come to this very room, to this very table, and passionately implored and passionately urged all of us to get to this moment. People like Justin Murray, who passionately implored you to declare a housing emergency,
 People like Susan Emmons and Bobby Weinstock at Northwest Pilot Project, who over the years have gently and not so gently reminded us of the shortage of affordable housing in our community for those extremely low-income individuals. And people like Jess Larson and the Welcome Home Coalition, who tirelessly advocated for additional local funding for affordable housing. And so now it's our time, and this is that moment that we waited for.
 And this is us as a community, a community that invests in affordable housing equitably, justly, quickly, efficiently, and consistently in times to come for all of its members, especially those who have been most harmed and who are most vulnerable. We need to recognize that this new resource that we have cannot and will not serve all the needs of all of our populations. And also recognize that this is not the only tool that is being implemented to solve our housing affordability crisis.
 But this voter and community-supported resource does represent a unique investment opportunity constrained neither by the geography of urban renewal nor the whims of the free market. It's been a great honor to serve on the stakeholder advisory group with nearly 20 of the best and brightest in housing from throughout the community. And you can only imagine how those conversations went when you get a group like that together in a room.
 So, you know, I believe that there's been great value in taking that time and making that effort to take a pause at the beginning of this historic process, to set in place a community-driven, community-engaged framework that now defines how we move forward with this historic investment. And we need to recognize that the framework plan that the SAG created is just that, a framework for the historic task ahead of us.
 That framework now will guide my colleagues and I on the Bond Oversight Committee and provide a continuity of community accountability and oversight of our bond investment.
 One of the things that we've heard loud and clear through that community engagement process is that the community also recognizes that the framework is not the end of this process, but rather the beginning. And they are also looking forward to continued engagement in the process. They're as anxious as all of us to see these investments become community assets that will house thousands of our neighbors in the years to come. You saw that on the slide there. They're ready for that call to come in, get the keys, and start moving in.
 So ultimately, this community-driven process serves as a call for all of us, you on the council, our partners in the bureau, all the stakeholders, and the countless community members to work together to get it right. I know that the five members of the Bond Oversight Committee, following the lead of the 18 stakeholder advisory group members, and the community members that engaged in this process, have been dedicated to getting this right to this point. And we trust that you are also ready for this historic moment. Thank you.
 You know that I believe housing is not only a human right, but also the underlying pathway to opportunity.
 As an organization that's focused on ending housing discrimination and ensuring equal housing opportunity for all, we approach these affordable housing efforts with a specific focus. And it's been heartening to me and my organization to see the diverse community members of the stakeholder advisory group and the community feedback that was so focused on racial equity and so mindful of the location priorities that came up.
 So I very much appreciated those fair housing aspects of these discussions that have centered on creating inclusive communities and opening access to opportunity in our city. After all, Portland can't be the city that works until Portland is the city that houses all of its residents safely, stably, and affordably. So thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it. Good afternoon, Freda.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. As you can see, I don't have prepared statements. I'm stepping in. But I was a member of the Stakeholder Advisory Group as well as being coached. And, Freda, I'm really sorry, but for the record, could you just state your name? Oh, I'm sorry. Freda Christopher. Thank you. I'm a member of the Stakeholders Advisory Committee as well as co-chair of East Portland Action Plan's Housing Subcommittee. Okay.
 First of all, I'd like to thank the Bureau for allowing East Portland EPAP or East Portland Action Plan to have a person within this committee so we could voice our concerns on what is happening in East Portland.
 As a, really I'm a non-housing person. For over 40 years, my focus has been education. And so the last seven years have been a learning experience in housing. But I felt this stakeholders group was one of the most robust discussions I've ever been in. There was competing ideas of how the money should be spent, where it should be spent. Right.
 And I applaud the Bureau for, as I say, herding cats to get us all together and focus us in and come up with what was truly important. I feel what is summarized in the executive summary on the criteria for our populations as well as locations is very key. It also is important that vulnerability is a key factor.
 I happen to be in East Portland's housing, EPAP's housing subcommittee on Monday, and there was one concern. We still support this framework 100%.
 But opportunity mapping, as it shows, which often is outdated because the information goes back to 15, is showing lack of opportunity area in East Portland for purchasing acquisition of land. We are starting to gentrify, so we feel it's really important that we look at vulnerability areas
 displacement, those items that are in the criteria as key in selection of property as well as buildings.
 I, Douglas, David Douglas alone, which you know I'm on the school board, has experienced in 15, 16, over 400 students who are identified as homeless by the end of the year. Last year it was over 500. We've had a drop in enrollment the last two years. And what we're seeing is what occurred in PPS quite a few years ago as it started to gentrify. Your school enrollment drops. Yes.
 as the gentrification starts to occur. So I just would like to, that was one of the reasons I came today to testify also, was to share that concern, but I strongly feel if the framework is followed and its guidelines, I think selection is going to be great for the whole city and especially for East Portland. Thank you. Thank you, Freda. Thank you.
 Surya, good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Surya Joshi, one of the community engagement liaison who participated in outreaching Nepali and Nepali-speaking Bhutanese community. First of all, I'd like to thank Mayor Wheeler for extension on timeframe for community engagement and feedback, which allowed Portland Housing Bureau to inform and hear from non-English speaker in a meaningful way regarding the bond policy framework.
 And during the survey that I conducted with the community living in eastern fringe of the city, I found them excited and very much willing to work with Citi on this bond. But they are equally concerned about future transparent and equitable allocation of bond funded
 apartment to immigrant and refugee living in those dilapidated apartment complex. If you have visited any of the apartment complex that I did outreach on 112th and 129th Avenue mostly, it's in a dire condition.
 It is very important for city and Portland Housing Bureau to communicate with community even during and after the construction and acquisition of new housing property because when I outage the community, their concern was, okay, you come here, you talk with us about this thing, you take all this data, but then after what? Like after then, how are we going to know?
 where are those apartments being constructed, how do we know about that, and who will tell us. So that was the main concern. And here I would also like to highlight the kind of
 of kind of efficacy of cell program, community engagement, liaison program. We were a couple of liaison who outreach Bhutanese, Nepali, Spanish speaking, and a lot of different community whose language is other than English. So it was really effective outreach as well. And see, most of the immigrant community who are here, they are here not just for themselves.
 they are here for the children and housing being like the first issue for each and every family especially in current environment where rent is so high and people can't afford to live closer to their school district, they are moving here and there. I also work at ERCO and we have a lot of committee members who are having to move to
 like eastern side, even like east of Gresham, just to afford a livable apartment. So I thank you for your prioritization and for all the work on bond, and I hope that community will get informed as the construction and acquisition and renting progress is...
 Thank you. Thank you. Do you have a question? Yes, please, Commissioner Fritz. Well, first of all, thank you all for your service on this committee. I know all of you are very diligent in many different areas, so thank you for all your work for the city. Just a couple of clarifications. When we talk about communities of color, I'm assuming that you include in that people from the former Soviet Socialist Republics who aren't necessarily –
 listed in the targeted groups, but obviously we know that there are a lot of refugees here from Ukraine, Russia, other places. You know, actually I'm not sure. I don't think we had discussions that were that specific, but I think there is actually a definition in the framework. And so I'm actually not sure if that's in the definition, but it would certainly be something that we would need to check into, how it's being defined. Because I don't think we used...
 We define it as we use the words around the table. Okay, if you could find that. But I do remember bringing that up because East Portland has a large population of Russian and Eastern Europeans. But in the criteria immigrants, and many of those are immigrants. Right.
 that fall into that group out in, at least in the East Portland area. Yes, so you had conversations, that was what was generally meant. I'm just trying to put things in the record so that down the line that's clear. And then the other question I have for you, Ms. Christopher, is about when we were doing the comprehensive plan, David Douglas was concerned about increasing the intensity of folks living there because of the school capacity.
 Is this kind of what you just said is the reverse of that, that it's gentrifying and that you are interested in East Portland in having some of these projects there? We have always been interested in some of the projects. We really would like to see some of the rehab out there so that the families that are currently living there stay there.
 We want our families to stay. We consider this a small dip, but we're still at capacity because, unfortunately, we were way over capacity. And it's going to take a few hundred more elementary students coming down before we're even considering. We still have schools that are over 650 students in them.
 So we still have a capacity issue. And our projections with the planning bureau was to, over the next 10 to 20 years, which they anticipate on the low end that we will, because of the zoning, we can potentially have a minimum of about 3,500 new students over the next 10 to 20 years. In my experience, as you know, I've been on the board 26 years and involved in the district for close to 40.
 is those estimates have always been underestimated, and we've always gotten more than what they estimated we would do. But Douglas is planning for any increase also. We're just watching the numbers and trying to work with our populations and the nonprofits that are building affordable housing out there so we can get placement for our families to stay. Thank you. Freda, can I jump in on that for a sec? Because I had the same reaction as Commissioner Fritz did as I was listening to your testimony. Okay.
 Because what we've heard historically is some pushback from some East Portland school districts about their tax base. And it is made manifest when they fall a little short on bond measures and other things. And so what we've heard in the past is we'd like more home ownership, less of the affordable housing. What I think...
 has been problematic about that approach is that there is still a concentration of low-income families attending schools there that have the right to live in safe and decent housing. And so it's been almost a schizophrenic approach. What I hear you say, and please tell me if I'm wrong, is that you fully subscribe to one of the principles that was articulated earlier, which is a balanced approach. So the whole city has an opportunity to participate. Okay.
 And you've specifically referred to upgrading the existing stock. And that, I think, is very important because the truth is we don't get complaints from people because Human Solutions adds a new development to East Portland. We get complaints about the crappy market rate stuff that people are forced to live in because they have no other choice that's falling down and is not fit for human habitation.
 The high-quality, affordable development that we do with trusted partners tends to be a community amenity, at least what I hear. So, again, what I hear you say is there are low-income families going to school in East Portland. They deserve to have a safe and decent place to live. Correct. You subscribe to the idea of a balanced approach so the whole city gets to participate. Correct.
 But you're particularly concerned about upgrading the existing stock so that we have an inventory of really decent housing going forward, and that might play into our investment strategy. Yeah, we have said for some time the stock out in East Portland is inferior, the private sector stock. I strongly support Human Solution and Rose and the others that have developed, as we call it, affordable housing by design.
 When I was on the SAG, because I have that school hat I can wear, and that's why you saw catchment areas mentioned, is that when you get too many affordable housing, whether it's design or not design, it puts additional costs on a school district. Right.
 Because children of lower income don't usually have preschool, et cetera, and they require extra services. And often the family are. Douglas has, we have Sun School in every school. We have food pantries in every school. We're doing more and more of the social services just because our families need it.
 But I also understand, as you said, when gentrification started rolling through, we would want some affordable by design, as we call it. And that's what we're seeing now is the gentrification, and it's rolling fast out there. It used to be on the other side of 82nd. Housing in our area, in David Douglas, I have a friend who just got a quote of $350,000 on a three-bedroom home in my neighborhood.
 Even at the peak of housing, it was never that high. It's just rolling. Like Montevilla. I mean, during my service on the council, entry-level person on my staff bought her first starter home there. Now it would be unthinkable, given what's happened to the market just in Montevilla, right at the border, and now right at the 82nd and now crossing over.
 Yeah, and we're concerned about that. And it seems odd because I am changing my position. I've been watching this since 20 years. I first brought the cry of the increase in concentration of low-income back in 2008.
 Ninety-five? So I started seeing it because the school is a barometer. We see it first with our free and reduced lunch starting to climb. So I think it's important to look at schools for infrastructure, but we're also a barometer of what's happening. And that's why I was saying this dip in enrollment is showing that just as PPS experienced the big dip back there in the 90s, early 2000s,
 because of gentrification. We're starting to feel it out in East Portland, only we're the last place before they're out of the city. So we want to stop it there before it hits, push everyone out. So whether I...
 gotten the support of our school board with these changes and looking at what's happening now, not what happened five years ago, to support not only rehabbing what we have, but increasing the amount of what we have. All we ask is that they look at each catchment area so you don't overburden one school because sometimes because opportunity and land is cheap and
 You might put two, and that's an extra cost on that school as well, and the kids are not as served as well, I think, when it's too concentrated in one school. So I just, you know, it's kind of a catch-22, but I'm seeing this change, and I guess in some ways it's good. I've been around long enough to see the changes and what's happening. Thank you very much.
 Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Surya, Frida, Alan, thank you for your testimony. And last, we'll have the Housing Bureau Director, Kurt Krieger, and Michael Bonacore, who's the Executive Director of Home Forward. That'll be our final panel before we get to public testimony. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mayor, members of Council. Kurt Krieger, your Housing Director. I'd like to...
 Look back to January 6, 2017, which is the first one-on-one I had with Mayor Ted Wheeler in his first week of service. Wasn't that the middle of an ice storm? That was just before the ice storm, actually. It was a Friday. Kurt, I believe that was a private meeting. Let's move on. It was a private meeting. But one takeaway was at that meeting, Mayor Wheeler directed me that community agreement must be obtained before we proceed with expending additional bond resources.
 So we immediately set out, by we I mean the Portland Housing Bureau and the mayor's staff, to launch a robust and inclusive community engagement process. And in order to get community agreement within a community of stakeholders in Portland, it needed to be both traditional and non-traditional partners involved.
 I think it's important to mention that the Housing Bureau didn't want to micromanage or overmanage this process. We wanted to be good stewards of the process. We wanted to make sure that we facilitated but did not direct or control the direction or the outcome. And I must say, with a group of this size, it would have been probably impossible to have done that regardless.
 At the same time, as you made your appointments to the Bond Oversight Committee, we simultaneously onboarded and did some organizational development and leadership, having hired Dr. Stephen Holt as a third party to convene and help launch the Bond Oversight Committee. So as the stakeholder advisory group was devising the framework plan, we were preparing the Bond Oversight Committee to hit the ground running.
 Why is the framework plan so important to us? You might recall that the measure says that there will be audits. And by audits, it's not specific, but in my view, that would include both performance audits and financial audits. And an auditor needs a means by which to gauge progress and success to render an opinion. So we very much need a framework plan to guide not just the bond oversight committee, but the auditors as well.
 Otherwise, we won't know whether or not we enjoy a shared success or not. Next steps would include, with your approval and acceptance of this report, we would open what I call the transaction window for new proposals on Monday, October 23rd. And we're preparing a request for information that will be posted to the PHB website for that purpose.
 We'll continue to work with both internal and external stakeholders as we move forward. And I think it's very important to mention that the internal stakeholders include the Office of
 management and finance, risk management, debt management, the auditor, and our city bond council, Hawkins, Della, Fell and Wood. So that as we originate projects, we include both the external stakeholders, many of whom you will hear from today, but also a very important bench of internal stakeholders who are crucial to our success.
 First and foremost amongst those stakeholders is Home Forward. You might recall that of the 600 extremely low income units contemplated in the bond, that some 400 would be enhanced with project-based rental assistance vouchers. And what that means operationally is that as the Housing Bureau originates projects, we must jointly underwrite those projects because Home Forward will attach the subsidy to the units
 consistent with a subsidy layering protocol that HUD uses for all projects using vouchers. So the Housing Bureau, both on a project development basis and on an asset management basis, will be working hand-in-glove with Home Forward. And here with me today is the Executive Director, Michael Bonacore. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm Michael Bonacore. I'm the Executive Director of Home Forward.
 I spoke this morning at a conference for finance professionals, so obviously I'm just for them. HomeForward's strategic... We're about a year and a half into our most recent strategic plan, and in the plan there is an initiative that says we will work tirelessly to add more affordable housing in our community regardless of our role or ownership stake in alignment with other systems of care. And so...
 We have our own agenda to add more affordable housing in our portfolio to preserve the housing that we have in our stock, but we are also committed to the idea that our experience, our systems, our infrastructure, our data, our resources, our public assets to be leveraged for the greatest good in the community. And that idea...
 that we are obligated to contribute to policies and to the creation of housing resources that serve our cities and county for decades to come, is why we're contributing vouchers and why we're working closely with Kurt and Shannon and Javier to figure out how we can best leverage the capacities between both our public agencies so the bond resources are delivered with maximum long-term benefits for the community. Thank you.
 And speaking of that long-term perspective, I want to add to the thanks. I know that you've taken some hits for letting this process play out, and I think it's really important that
 that the community got to contribute to this framework in the way that it did. I know that your jobs require you to respond to crises and to react to immediate needs. And of course, you know that the most important work that you do will endure long beyond your tenures on council. And you serve a community that expects to be involved in shaping these efforts.
 almost three years ago we announced that we were going to project based hundreds more of our own project based vouchers recognizing that folks who have housing choice vouchers were finding fewer and fewer opportunities to use them in the community and more and more neighborhoods were becoming too expensive to use those vouchers and so
 That effort recognized that if we could create some footholds of affordability in neighborhoods that were becoming more expensive, that we could at least provide some amount of choice that way. And at scale compared to the bond, this is a drop in the bucket. But we did go out to the community and talk about our intention around doing that, and we heard from folks who...
 like Nick Soviet Rose, who's here today, and folks like Livin Cully and Community Alliance of Tenants and Hacienda and APANO.
 who are working deeply in their communities, many of which saw gentrification coming and have laid a groundwork to organize their communities, know what is needed there, and want to create the opportunity for folks to stay, to devise their own solutions to what's happening in their neighborhoods.
 So we recently participated along with the city in some groundbreakings out in Lentz and soon in the Jade District. And I think we're already seeing that what the community is asking for in this framework, that they're ready to help us deliver on. And I think that's one of the most powerful ways we can make this resource really effective in our community. So I want to thank you.
 Again, and thank you for the opportunity to work in partnership with you, and most importantly, for really listening to the voices of our community. Thanks, Michael. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you. Director Krieger, I think Frida's testimony really illustrates how challenging it has been to anticipate the unfolding impact of gentrification and displacement.
 to anticipate increased demand and to also balance needs and wants of existing communities. So I'm wondering if in our screening criteria, in East Portland in particular, if it's possible to include some kind of preference policy like we have discussed
 been or are using in North Portland that would give a little more weight to existing residents of a particular geographic area because I think that would achieve multiple goals. One, it would keep existing residents and their community members in their communities. It would decrease that impact that Frida mentioned on the schools of having an influx of students that may need additional supports
 And it would get those individuals out of unaffordable housing and open that housing up for other people who may be able to better afford it. I'm happy to comment on that. You know, the preference policy at work in north and northeast Portland was to specifically address wrongful actions taken by the city of Portland. Absolutely. And in east Portland, we have...
 economic tectonics rapidly roiling the community and changing things. But that said, there's still quite a lot that the Bureau and Home Forward can do with respect to local preferences. For example, we own a site next to the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence. If there were something to be built there with bond revenues, it ought to be functionally tied to the mission of the Gateway Center.
 i.e. survivors of domestic violence, their children, foster children, foster adults. So we can do project-based.
 preferences for specific populations within the fair housing laws. And we'd be very open to doing that. What we don't have are the sort of the grievances, if you will, that tie specifically to city actions. But what we have are economic conditions that disadvantage certain groups more than others, and we can help ameliorate or address those. Okay.
 So we're open to that, but it probably won't be quite as broad as the North Northeast preference policy. I absolutely understand that. The only thing I would maybe add to that argument is that many of the people who were displaced from inner North Northeast Portland have ended up in East Portland, and they are now trying to create and hold on to community in East Portland. Thank you. Excellent point. Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. So now we're at the public meeting.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Commissioner Saltzman wanted to offer up an amendment. Yes. Thanks, Mayor. So I have an amendment I just want to put on the table since we're going to be taking testimony. And it deals with the definition of priority communities. And I think there's one priority community that I think that is important to me and I think to my colleagues, and that is children in foster care and families who are committed to raising those children. So I've added language to the priority communities.
 Under families, including intergenerational households, I've added including those supporting youth in foster care. And then under households experiencing homelessness or at a risk of becoming homeless, I've added a bullet that says youth ages 18 to 24 from the foster care system. So I think we all know that.
 Cluster kids, they turn 18 and they are basically without any resources and too many of them end up on our streets, on our couches, or even more dire circumstances. And there are a growing community of nonprofits and government, including the city of Portland, that are partnering to create community for these kids.
 and also to create communities where seniors are raising kids or families are raising kids from foster care, which they intend to adopt, and these communities also have older adults who serve as foster grandparents. And I think this is a – for me, it's a priority population. I think if you all agree it is, we should be more explicit about it, because too often the needs of those in foster care fall through the cracks. We all have good intentions, but –
 I'd like some direct reference to helping kids in foster care. I'll second that for discussion. Let's put it on the table. Commissioner Fritz seconds that for the purposes of discussion. So as people testify, if you have thoughts on that. Commissioner Fritz? I'm just wondering whether we really need the 18 to 24, because there are some emancipated minors who might be out on the streets right now at 16. So what if you just said youth up to 24 from the foster care system? Okay.
 A friendly amendment, I hope. That would be fine. All right, good. So we appreciate public feedback on that. So, folks, we have about 20-ish people signed up, three minutes each. When you come to the microphone, if you could just state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. If you are a lobbyist, council rules require us to know that information. If you're here representing an organization, that's helpful as well.
 You may hear opinions differ than your own, so please respect everybody's opinions. We ask you not to verbally express yourself. Just a thumbs up or a thumbs down is good by way of registering your views on something. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. I just want to make one comment. Please. The action before us is to accept a report.
 And I'm guessing a lot of people who are going to be testifying are going to urge us to accept the report. And that's their privilege. I will be particularly looking for testimony that says somehow some part of the report was
 does not reflect their view about what a priority population should be or a sequencing or something. So, I mean, the goal today is to accept a report and to move forward. And we'd be fine if 20 people testified to do that. But I think we're also interested in any of the concerns people have if they don't think the report reflects their view about how we should move forward. So if you have a difference of opinion, by all means, this is the time to express it.
 Very good. And two minutes and 30 seconds in, you'll see a yellow light. Three minutes in, the light turns red. Okay.
 and you'll know that your time is up. There's a tradition when we have a lot of people signed up to testify, people with small children, people with disabilities, others with special needs. Feel free just to let the council clerk over here know, and we will accommodate you forthwith. Mr. Walsh, absolutely, sir. And the next two, please. We'll be Mark Jolin and Sam Chase. Come on up, gentlemen. Mr. Walsh, you want to start us off today? Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. And I am running out of oxygen, so I really need to leave. We take the position you're doing this backwards, and the 20 intelligent people that you had in your committee have it backwards. Salt Lake City, New York, San Diego, Seattle.
 all have come to the conclusion after lots of money they spend, lots of time, that you must get the chronic homeless off the streets first. And here's why. They're the most expensive. They are the people that you lock up.
 They are the people that you spend all your money on sweeps. They are the people that end up in our hospitals, in the emergency rooms. Every statistic coming out of Salt Lake City tells you that. Where do you put the priorities? You put them on the bottom. You go after people of color first. Sounds nice. Wait a minute.
 On the sheet they gave me, the first group that you're going after is people of color. I'm saying to you, the people outside your building or down the street is the group that you must go after. You're going to build something for $258.4 million. I didn't know about the .4. That's $400,000. Not just change. We're fooling around with it here. You're going to fail. I'm telling you.
 This thing is going to blow up in your face because you're doing it backwards. You're going after the easiest people, families. Who's going to argue against putting families in housing? People will argue about putting a drunk in housing. You have to get these people off the street. Low-income people that are struggling on the street have nothing to do with affordable housing. Nothing. Your theory...
 is let's build affordable housing, get the people out of the emergency shelters, and then we can move the people off the street into emergency shelters. Look at what Salt Lake City is telling you. It doesn't work. Go after the most expensive first.
 How many times do I have to tell you this? You failed with the 10 years. You know that, Commissioner Fish. It was a total failure because you did it traditionally. And you're going to do it again and again and again. I mean, how many times does it take to do the same thing, get the same results, and you look in the mirror and say, this is insanity? Thanks, Mr. Walsh.
 Good afternoon. Please, that's annoying. Good afternoon.
 Thank you. Sam Chase with the Coalition of Community Health Clinics and also Metro Council. And I just want to start by saying that Metro Council supports this framework and is really willing and ready to help step up and support legislation in Salem that would help give us more flexibility in implementing these dollars. And then I really want to take a second to thank you for creating a problem.
 And the problem is how are we going to most efficiently spend these dollars to have the biggest bang for our buck in terms of delivering housing for our community? And it's you I'm thanking. It's Welcome Home. It's the voters of Portland for supporting this bond measure. And I really want to...
 especially call out Commissioner Saltzman and Fish, who spent a lot of time... I have two. Commissioner Fritz, two. But spent a lot of time... That's a compliment where I come from. Spent a lot of time on the phone getting...
 creating this problem by getting the support out in the community and raising the resources and getting people on board and getting this passed so that we have this challenge now. I want to just add that I think we have some
 new challenges that we will really need to focus on moving forward. And this is going to be very helpful in terms of setting a precedent for our region. Because the way that we spend these dollars and how we spend our dollars effectively is a model for the rest of our region. Portland is one of 24 local jurisdictions in our region. It is a little over a third of the population of our region. And it has two-thirds of the affordable housing in our region.
 And we need more. We need more. We need you to do more. We need to continue to come in here and advocate for more. But you have two-thirds of the housing in the region, and there's another two-thirds of the region out there that we need to work together to bring on board. I work all over the region. I hear a lot of criticism. Portland's not doing a good enough job managing our region's housing. Well, we've got to get the region on board to manage the region's housing.
 So I hope that you will join and work with us at Metro as we really work to do that. I've shared with you a white paper that we put together that really outlines a broad range of ways that we can very efficiently spend housing dollars on a regional basis, land making, preservation, other strategies, funding strategies. There are a range of resource options that are out there on the table for us to consider. Thank you.
 invite you and everybody here to participate in that process, start having the discussions out in local jurisdictions all over our region and really identify and develop those strategies and get a resource initiative on the ballot where the whole region is participating in solving this challenge. Sam, can I ask you one question? So thank you for framing it as a regional challenge, and I think it dovetails nicely with what Frida said earlier.
 Because Freda said people are being displaced from East Portland as East Portland changes. So the question is, if they move to Troutdale or Rockwood, or if they move to East County beyond the Portland border, or if they switch sides of the river and head out to Beaverton and other places, how do we make sure there is a safe and decent and affordable place for them? So you're just one member of the Metro Council. But if you could be king for a day...
 What's your preferred path forward for bringing the region more dynamically into this conversation? Well, I want to say that the entire Metro Council has supported this strategy to really evaluate resource options moving forward. And that's been a big step that we've been working for for a long time. And it...
 I think we need a resource initiative on the ballot. I'd love to see something as soon as 2018. I don't think there's anything stopping us from doing something as soon as 2018. But I want the community to be part of the solution. Yes, are there many significant resource-generating options? Yes. We need the community, other leaders from other communities,
 counties to participate in identifying and create that menu of options and bring those leaders into the process and have them start putting some pressure on Metro to say, this is the solution we want. And we need Portland and Welcome Home and our other community partners to be putting some of that pressure on the rest of the region and saying, look, we are doing everything we can. And it's not enough. We're going to continue to do a lot more to
 But we've got to have the whole region on board. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Councillor Chase and Commissioner Fish, you and I haven't had our meeting since the last time I went to the Metro Policy Advisory Committee, which the Mayor has graciously allowed me to be on. Councillor Chase, I really appreciate your bringing this subject to the committee, which has representation from all three counties and the 24 cities.
 It's the first time in my memory that people from Washington County have agreed that we have a regional problem and I think it's very much due to your leadership and your guidance of your staff there. So I'm actively excited about going to these meetings now because there's sharing of information and there's a recognition that we are all in this together.
 So I just wanted to thank you for that. And actually at the last meeting, I had the very memorable first-time experience of having the chair of Washington County agree with the suggestion that I made. So I think we're on a good path, and it's in large part due to you, Councillor Chase. Thank you. Thank you. Councillor, if I could add to the commentary. Yesterday I actually started my day at a 7 a.m. breakfast in Western Hillsborough.
 And people may wonder, well, why was the mayor of Portland speaking to a group of people on the far side of Hillsborough? And it's exactly because of this issue. The same trends that are influencing people chasing housing affordability east of Hillsborough.
 from Portland are also taking place to the west of us, where you're seeing a lot of gentrification, new business development, new companies being located, and prices beginning to escalate. You're seeing the same dynamic where people are being moved, of lower income being moved into areas that have less public transit, and therefore it's adding to some of the congestion and other issues that they're having. They're overcrowding in certain school districts and certain encatchments.
 We have to start addressing this as a regional problem, and that's going to require a real shift in the way we think about these social problems. It is very easy for people to look at the city of Portland and say, wow, Portland really struggles with housing issues, homelessness issues, addiction issues, mental health issues, transportation issues, fill-in-the-blank issues. But the reality is...
 We need support from the surrounding region for us to be able to effectively address these issues. And I was actually very heartened that a group of prominent officials, including Mayor Steve Galloway from Hillsborough, they agree that they're seeing this regional imperative on all of these issues now. I don't think Portland's going to continue to be an island with respect to these issues, and I appreciate you and your colleagues.
 leadership on this going forward. We're going to need it, and we're ready to work with you. Thank you. And I do think those leaders around the region are starting to really understand the affordable housing challenge, and now is our opportunity to give them some choices to get behind and really make a difference. You bet. It's good to see you. Mayor, as we welcome Mark Jolin, can we just acknowledge what a terrific job Mark and Heather Lyons did on TV the other night?
 defending the city's position. Fantastic work. Thank you. I thought he did a fantastic job, and I already told him that he was particularly effective because he memorized the polling data
 and was actually able to articulate what the polling data was saying as opposed to the narrative that some people wanted to project. So I thought he did a great job. Welcome. Thank you. Mayor and Commissioners, I'm Mark Joel, and I am the Director of the City-County Joint Office of Homeless Services. And I just wanted to take a moment to start by thanking all of those community members who made this bond possible. To thank you, Mayor, your team, and the team at Portland Housing Bureau for the process that they led to get us to this framework.
 I'm, of course, particularly appreciative of the focus in the framework on people experiencing homelessness and at risk of homelessness, and in particular, people from communities of color who we know are significantly overrepresented in our homeless population.
 We're really enthusiastic about the focus on family-sized units because we see hundreds and hundreds of people and families in our shelters every night. And we know that hundreds more are doubled up in unsafe conditions. We need those larger units in our community. We're also especially excited about the 300 units of permanent supportive housing that are contemplated in this framework.
 You know from our last point in time count that the chronically homeless population was the fastest growing population in our community, a 24% increase over two years. That increase accounted for most of the increase we saw in our community in homelessness overall. For that population, the combination of deeply affordable housing with support services is often the only path off the streets in a sustainable way.
 We also know in our office that the bond is only providing for the housing portion of the costs associated with supportive housing. And that's why, as was mentioned earlier, our office is committed to continuing to work with the Housing Bureau to identify the resources that are needed to provide the ongoing services that will turn that affordable housing into supportive housing. We look forward to being a full partner with the Housing Bureau going forward on the implementation of this framework. Thank you. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it. Next three, please.
 are Ted Gilbert, Sarah Jonitis, and Dan Valeri. Good afternoon. Welcome. Mayor Wheeler and County Commissioner. Excuse me. For the record, my name is Sarah Jonitis, and I'm the Director of Social Responsibility at New Seasons Market.
 I'm here today as a member of the business community and as a member of the Welcome Home Coalition. And first and foremost, I want to thank City Council for your continued support for increasing our supply of safe, stable, and affordable housing.
 New Seasons was a proud supporter of this historic housing bond. Our business model was built on the idea that there's a fundamental link between the health of businesses and the health of our communities. There's an interdependence and a responsibility that we have as businesses to help ensure that our communities can thrive.
 Our current housing affordability crisis threatens the resiliency of our communities and the vibrancy of our city. It's a problem that touches all of us and that we need to solve together. We are very grateful for Council's leadership and for the collaborative efforts of the Bond Stakeholder Advisory Group and the Portland Housing Bureau staff that has enabled our city to set an example for how to address a regional housing crisis. Thank you.
 It's my belief that the Welcome Home Coalition stands ready and committed to continuing to work collaboratively to advance strategies that bring more dollars to our region for affordable housing, especially for communities of color. We believe that the rigorous, deliberate stakeholder approach that you've led will truly leverage fully the bond investments to create housing for our most vulnerable families and individuals, balanced across all sectors of our city,
 while at the same time advancing racial equity and preventing displacement. So we're proud to be here today to celebrate this accomplishment. Thank you again for setting the vision and for shepherding this historic investment in our community. Thank you, and thanks for your support, and thanks for being here. Thanks for your leadership. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Ted Gilbert. Mayor, commissioners, I have put my...
 feedback and suggestions in writing. There is one element that I'd like to emphasize, so if I may, I'll just read you an excerpt. The city and Portland Housing Bureau are already faced with some structural limitations on the execution of this bond, not of their making, these being restrictions in existing state laws which prevent them from fully deploying their capital as the private sector would do in order to maximize impact.
 To me, this makes it even more imperative to do all that is within the bounds of safety and soundness, as well as legality, to maximize results and to use all the tools at your disposal. There is one tool that is alluded to in the framework plan, though not explicitly detailed, that could make a difference in product volume, efficiency, and cost effectiveness. This is the mechanism of turnkey development.
 This approach, in numerous variations, is frequently employed in the private sector. Under the current law, the City of Portland, through the Housing Bureau, must become the fee-simple owner of the finished housing.
 Utilizing for-profit, non-profit, and community development corporations with the needed knowledge, experience, and financial capacity to provide some or all of the facets of development, including land acquisition and its funding, funding of pre-development costs, including entitlements, would be a wise use of public resources, monetary and human."
 PHB staff or an owner's representative could provide oversight during the process. The finished product would be delivered for PHB ownership once completed, free of any liens or encumbrances. There are numerous facets that can be included in a turnkey development agreement, including offloading construction cost risk and interest rate risk onto the turnkey developer.
 All of the construction screens that are desired, for example, minority hiring, prevailing wage, and green building, can be incorporated. In summary, the public can leverage their substantial yet precious bond capital with private sector capital, along with the latter's market knowledge and experience, while at the same time mitigating the public's risk. It can be used for new construction and acquisition rehab,
 In my view, this is good business judgment and good public policy. I sincerely hope that you'll take advantage of this tool. Thank you. Thanks, Ted. Good afternoon. Hello, Mayor Wheeler, council commissioners. For the record, my name is Dan Valliere, CEO at REACH Community Development. REACH is a member of Welcome Home Coalition. We'd like to thank the city council for continued support for increasing our affordable housing stock and for this initiative.
 unprecedented opportunity implementing the bond. And appreciate the stakeholder advisory group a lot for all the time they put into it. And appreciate the clear statement of focus, particularly the advancement of racial equity and promoting greater community benefit.
 This is on target and a hopeful sign. Today I just want to highlight one area of concern in the framework, even though largely obviously supporting it, and that is the section on development, operation, and services. I believe that, and it actually sort of relates, didn't realize what we were testifying on, it kind of relates to the PowerPoint, that it alludes to some things, but there's not a lot of clarity there.
 on the anticipated roles of community partners, whether that be nonprofit developers, whether that be community-oriented for-profit developers. It doesn't matter. I mean, being more clear on what are the anticipated roles of community partners. It could also be service providers. And I think going forward, that's something we should really continue to define. There's going to be opportunity for proposals or for ideas to be submitted.
 But for partners to not have some clarity on examples of those roles, it makes it difficult to know what's being sought. It could be things, you know,
 hiring partners as fee developers to develop a city-owned project. It could be to sell land. It could be to do turnkey development. It could be to hire partners to perform asset management or property management or resident services. There are many different roles we could play. So being more clear about some of those roles, which ones are the highest priority that are needed the most by the city, that would be good clarity. Thank you.
 So I just offer that. And again, I believe this point about clarity of roles is particularly important if we want to achieve the racial equity and community benefit aspect of this, because many community partners have deep experience in the community and can leverage relationships and insight.
 by being engaged directly in the implementation. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. Commissioner Fritz. Well, just to say, Mayor, that at the end of all testimony, I'd like Kurt Krieger's opinion on it. Because from the way I'm reading the guidelines for development, it doesn't preclude turnkey, but certainly something that I hope we'll be looking at. So thank you very much for testifying on it. Very good. Thank you. Next three, please. All right. Nick Sovey, Lightning, and Carrie Lyons. Thank you.
 Hello, Nick. You want to start us off? I will. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for the chance to testify. My name is Nick Sovey. I'm executive director of Rhodes Community Development.
 member of the EPAP Housing Subcommittee, and I've also been on the Welcome Home Steering Committee since its inception. And like a lot of people here, I've knocked on a lot of doors, and it's really exciting to get to this point. So I support the framework. The city and Portland Housing Bureau have really stepped up in a big way to deliver this invaluable resource.
 I want to focus on a few points. One is just to emphasize the geography, that the bond investment should be spread throughout the city. I think folks would like to see that, and East Portland really needs that kind of investment. PHB is making increased investment in East Portland. We'd want to see that continue, and I think there's many opportunities in East Portland
 including relatively affordable land, existing housing stock, and at-risk renters. The second point is scale. I think that not all of the bond investment should be large, 100-plus unit projects. A mix of scale achieves more effective service delivery and makes it possible to serve more neighborhoods.
 I think it's also better to prevent displacement. Then I'd echo some previous points about encouraging PHB to partner with the nonprofit affordable housing community to develop and manage bond projects. CDCs have the capacity to develop and operate these projects.
 We have a long track record in existing relationships in the neighborhoods and with service providers. So thank you for taking the time to get this right, and I really support this framework going forward. Thanks, Nick. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good morning. Sorry, good afternoon. So Mayor Wheeler, city councilors, and friends and colleagues here today, my name is Carrie Lyons, and I am the new director of the Welcome Home Coalition.
 i'm primarily here today to say thank you a year and two days ago my friend and colleague justin burry sat in front of you and said that the city needed to take bold and courageous action to solve this housing crisis and in that year that is exactly what you have done thank you for setting example of innovation taking risk and creating needed solutions to build more housing within our region
 I also want on this historic day to recognize everyone in this audience who took the time to knock on doors, to make phone calls, and dedicate tireless nights and weekends to ensuring that this would happen. We're grateful for their energy. I think it's important during the middle of a housing crisis to celebrate wins. It's a very trauma-informed approach to recognize good moments.
 With that said, I want to also thank the Portland Housing Bureau, specifically Jennifer, Michelle, and Shannon. This process was one that was not purely transactional. We were not there just to provide input as a checkbox. It was transformational. We took words, we took language, and we eliminated it because folks didn't agree with it. And that is a very transformational process when it comes to stakeholder engagement.
 The City of Portland is going in the right direction, maintaining longevity and permanent covenants on communities and affordable housing. As we implement the bond framework, we want to encourage the city to continually consider engaging impacted communities in the decisions about where they would like to live.
 Passing the bond implementation framework in new areas of high opportunity while maintaining geographic diversity throughout the city will decrease the risk of communities being displaced. We also recommend the council consider various housing types when preserving buildings and purchasing land, for example, mobile homes. And we suggest setting aside partial funds for purchasing land for mobile home parks to prevent displacement.
 The coalition is looking forward to hearing periodic updates, continuing our strong partnership with the city of Portland. Mayor Wheeler, I'm happy to hear you use the words regional imperative. The Welcome Home Coalition is now a regional effort, and we're here to work and partner with you to create changes and build more housing within Washington, Clackamas, and Multnomah County. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Appreciate your leadership. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X.
 Now, Commissioner Salzman, I'll say it to you again. You got out of your seat and put this together. I sat in front of you and said, you know, Mayor Ed Lee out of San Francisco is doing these bonds. Why haven't we done that in Portland ever before? You got out of your seat and put it together. It would not have been put together if you didn't do it, period. Now, I'm going to watch this very close on the outcome, and it's going to fall on you, Mayor Wheeler.
 You're in the seat now, and we're going to see what you're going to do. As far as on Portland Housing Bureau, Kurt Krieger, very impressive. Very impressive to have someone sit up here and say, I want these performance audits, I want these financial audits, I want to know what we're going to talk about to the auditors and make sure they go over everything on this. As the public, you couldn't have said it any better.
 That's what we want to hear. Full transparency. Great work. To Mr. Ted Gilbert, I absolutely agree with you. From my position on this bond, I want to see development.
 I want to see jobs created. I want to see the most volume of units possible put together. Everything Mr. Gilbert stated, I absolutely agree with. Again, I have a problem about purchasing seasoned units. I do not want the city competing with the local investors out there for those type of units.
 You need to build new. This needs to be your inventory. Don't compete with the private sector for the seasoned units. That will drive up rents, drive up prices. I sold commercial real estate, was in the business for over 15 years, and trust me, I know every investor in here from Mr. Gilbert from the Envoy and every investor from Jordan Schnitzer in this city. And let me tell you something.
 You do not want to compete against the private sector for seasoned units. Big mistake. Build new. Create jobs. Buy the materials in the area. It's the best thing that will ever happen for this city. Hit a good number. Have good family size units. And again, to you Commissioner Salzman, this is your legacy.
 Congratulations. I don't know why you threw in the towel, because I think you would have easily won. But congratulations and enjoy your retirement when you decide to. Thank you. Thank you. All three of you. Next three, please. Richard Elmeyer, Sumitra Chetri, and Emily Berndt. Good afternoon, Richard. Do you want to go ahead and start while they're... My name is Richard Elmeyer. Ted Wheeler is not a moron, as is Donald Trump.
 Neither is he a sociopath who compulsively lies about facts, policy, everything, like Donald Trump. Nevertheless, Ted Wheeler continues to mislead the public about his policy of targeted, unlimited neighborhood concentration of public housing.
 and denies them access to meaningful, accurate, complete, and timely public housing statistical data, which is what allows Wheeler to load the neighborhoods of his choice with up to 100% public housing clients without being noticed or held accountable. My Portsmouth neighborhood has the highest number of public housing clients in any neighborhood in Portland.
 Nevertheless, Ted Wheeler is loading another 14 public housing units into Portsmouth. When will he stop overloading my neighborhood with public housing clients? At 50%? 75%? 95%? While my Portsmouth neighborhood has greater than 30% public housing clients, Ted Wheeler's neighborhood has 0% public housing clients.
 If Wheeler collected public housing statistical data from the Housing Bureau and the Public Housing Authority of Multnomah County, we would find that the neighborhoods of most city commissioners also have 0% public housing clients. This is known as politically self-interested economic segregation. Without meaningful, accurate, complete, and timely public housing statistical data,
 Ted Wheeler can only make housing policy decisions as his predecessors, Charlie Hales, Sam Adams, Tom Potter, and Vera Katz did, by self-inflicted ignorance, political convenience, and extortion.
 Wheeler is aided and abetted by the City Club of Portland, the Portland Business Alliance, the leadership of every neighborhood association in Multnomah County, the non-profit groups that make a living on public housing taxpayer dollars, and local religious institutions, who all have given silent approval to Wheeler's discredited and abhorrent public housing policy. When it comes to housing policy, Ted Wheeler has chosen the politically easy path
 by following the NIMBY economic segregationists rather than leading his constituency toward a transparent, data-based, defensible road of equitable distribution of public housing. And so it goes. Thank you, Mr. Allmire. Good afternoon. Richard, we missed you. Well, thank you. Welcome back. Thank you, Nick. This is a first for me, I think. The first for you in the mayor. Oh, of course.
 Well, folks, don't forget I had a prior life prior to sitting in this chair. I'm well acquainted with Mr. O'Connor. You were building up to this moment, Ted. You were building to this moment. And please give your partner my regards. It's good to see you, Richard. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Sumitra, and I currently work with the Irko Asian Family Center with a community, a very diverse community, people of color, immigrants and refugee community. And I'm also here representing Welcome Home Kulisen. Thank you.
 As I was writing my testimony, I tried to draw a lot of statistical data and all that, but I figured that I'm not expert in housing policy. So today, I'm going to share the experience that our community is facing, specifically immigrants and refugee community, because of housing shortage.
 One family that we worked, family of five, they were living in two-bedroom apartments, and they couldn't afford to live in the apartment anymore, so they had to move out. So couldn't find any affordable. Both of their parents worked like 12, 13 hours a day.
 And they worked really hard to put food on the table, but they couldn't afford to rent two-bedroom apartments with their three kids. So they had to look for other apartments and they couldn't find it. Eventually, they had to go live with their other family members, and ten family members lived in two-bedroom apartments.
 You can imagine what that is like. And when they were moving in with their parents, other family members, their kids had to move to school. Move to school, they had to figure out new transportation to get to jobs. And this housing shortage is a real thing. When you think about families, when you think about children, when you think about...
 our community members who can't really find affordable housing even though they work a lot and they they're, they're, they're taxpayer, right? They're working a lot to contribute to community but because they can't find a place to stay and where they call home for, for themselves to be home, it's really difficult for
 for like us, like community leaders or someone who works for a non-profit and we feel really helpless because we have no resources.
 for them to help, right? We call like, you know, third-gen apartments. We call so many affordable housing places, but there's no units available for people to be part of it. So having more affordable housing, especially out of Southeast Portland, will be very useful. And then those families who work hard will contribute to this society can actually call, you know, stay in the apartment and their kids can go to school they wanted to do so their kids don't have to move to school every day
 Every couple of months, right? Because there's no, the apartment, the rent is just going up again, like every couple months. And so they have to move out from one apartment to another. And that affects their kids' schools, their jobs, and all aspects of life. So I also want to thank you everyone, mayors and commissioners, for working hard to ensure that we get more affordable housing in the city.
 Thank you for your testimony. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is Emily Berentz, and I'm the Director of Partnerships for 211 Info. And 211 Info, we are a nonprofit agency that serves Oregon and southwest Washington to provide community resources and referrals.
 Last year we had over 700,000 contacts, and that is people calling us, texting us, emailing us, or utilizing...
 different technology platforms to search for services. So I'm here today to talk to you about housing, but as a member of the Welcome Home Coalition, we appreciate what you have done, and I'm here to thank you for that. But also wanting to talk about 2-1-1 info, we partner with many stakeholders statewide to provide data and trends about housing
 who is accessing or who is in need of services by calling us and utilizing our services. So this is a housing report. This is our most recent housing report from Multnomah County. And as you can see, one of the top referrals is housing. And under that is a breakdown of services.
 Top request is rent assistance, then community shelters, transitional housing, so forth and so on, as you can see down. And also on the next couple of pages, you will notice we ask many different demographic questions of our callers. And you can see on page three that we have a lot of questions that are related to the callers.
 36% of those who identified their race as African American or black were in need of rent assistance. And so really here to provide that information for you. Within the next pages you can look at the breakdown of the zip codes. Who's calling us and accessing services and what their needs are.
 2-1-1, we are a point of entry for community services and community members. 75% of our callers are below the federal poverty level. So as you would imagine, we are making many different referrals to community resources. Top needs are housing, energy, food, and shelter.
 With housing, we are hearing more and more from callers who are doubling up, tripling up their families. People who have had unexpected bills, new bills, then in return they cannot pay their rent. And rent has increased. We are hearing that from a lot of callers. But what we are hearing is that...
 people are wanting to stay in the catchment areas where their children are going to schools and having to move out. And I'm just really kind of here to say thank you, and thank you for the board framework, but also here to show you what we are hearing. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thanks, all three of you. Thanks for being so interesting. Next three, please. Our Margaret Backs, Stuart Emin, and Tanya Wolfersberger. Very good. Margaret, do you want to start?
 Mayor, can I just ask a question real quick? Could you tell us about your badge and where I can get one? One of these. I feel left out. You can get one from Monique at the Welcome Home Coalition. Okay. I will. Thanks.
 Good afternoon. My name is Margaret Becks. I'm retired housing policy manager for the City of Portland and former emergency room nurse. I was also a member of the stakeholder advisory committee. I want to thank you for allowing me and other members of the community to provide input on the bond implementation framework. We learned a lot from each other and about the people in our community who are usually left out of decision making, including those who are in desperate need of safe, affordable housing.
 A significant challenge for this stakeholder advisory group was making responsible recommendations regarding the bond without knowing the city's overall housing strategy or plan, you know, what the city's housing priorities are, what resources you have to address them, et cetera. It became clear that there isn't one yet. Okay.
 I believe that we, as a community, need to develop a clear strategic housing plan that sets priorities of what we intend to do over the next three, five, ten years, whatever range you all choose to...
 to address. This should include specific targets and goals for the populations to be housed and include income level and number of units by size. This plan should consider all resources, the money, land, tax credits, vouchers, etc. that are available and a strategy for maximal leveraging of all of the public and private resources.
 It is appropriate for the city to provide the leadership for this effort as you control most of the local housing financial resources and you have the political mandate. However, the city does not need to or should it do this alone. Thank you.
 Please involve real meaningful community input from the people needing the housing and those who actually deliver the housing and the services necessary for them to remain stable in homes.
 Portland has an impressive array of local community-based, non-profit housing providers who have been serving our community for decades. Most have received national recognition for successful, innovative, and cost-effective programs. They are extremely valuable partners with deep connections in our neighborhoods, the business community, and service providers.
 Just yesterday, there were over 800 people attended Ed Blackburn's retirement lunch. They were current and former staff.
 volunteers, board members, neighbors, contractors, business reps, hospital, and other service providers. These people reflect deep partnerships and relationships that have been developed and nurtured over many years. I saw people there who I hadn't seen in years come out to honor and celebrate Ed and Central City Concern's work. Each of our non-profit housing providers has a
 Go ahead, Margaret. You're almost done. Each of these nonprofit CDCs has these broad-based community partnerships, longtime supporters, and they are all working every single day to provide housing and the necessary services to the most vulnerable people in our city.
 In my opinion, the CDCs, along with Home Forward, should be much more involved in the city's planning, building, operating, and managing of the housing developed with the bond and with the other city resources.
 The Policy Council of Oregon on should be used to identify specific strategies to get the most out of the housing bond resources. The SAG group did not take a look at development strategies or those things. We focused on priority communities, location, and that was all very valuable, but we did not...
 get to, our charge was not included, it did not include, and we did not get to talk about some specific strategies for really getting the most out of the resources. So I really want to push you to push your staff to be as flexible and creative as possible to get the most leverage out of these bonds, use these community resources to get the most out of all of our resources and house the most people.
 City can't come close to solving our homeless crisis alone please reach out to and involve the community more the bond stakeholder advisory group was a great effort please do more and we've been the most successful in this community when we have been inclusive and worked together thank you again for allowing me to participate and for your time today and for allowing me to go a little bit over thank you very much thank you it's excellent testimony we appreciate it and
 In fact, we are going through an internal exercise where this is completely germane. So I wanted you to keep going a little bit. Thanks, Margaret. And we'll be calling on you again. Thank you for all of your help thus far. You're welcome.
 Thanks. No, either way. Stuart, would you like to? Oh, sorry. He's going to pass the mic to me first. Very good. Excellent. Gentleman that he is. I'm Tanya Wolfersberger. I am with Housing Oregon, formerly Oregon Opportunity Network. I am here as a member of the Welcome Home Coalition, and just easily I want to just give a little bit of background on what we do.
 share my appreciation for what City Council is doing in support of this framework and supported the bond also PHP's work in moving this process forward particularly in their commitment to using a racial equity lens and making sure that location and community serves are a priority within those decision making frameworks I also wanted to just echo what Margaret was saying and to just
 really encourage you to take advantage of the expertise within our community, within our nonprofit housing developer community. There are a lot of bright, very well-experienced, innovative people working on housing who have been working in housing for decades. So please do not...
 overlook that expertise within your community. I would also say to keep challenging yourselves and pushing yourselves to make sure that you're connecting with the people who are going to be living in that housing because at the end of the day, it's always about the people living in the housing and they should take priority on those choices.
 So, you know, I think you're also in an auspicious place because as a statewide member organization, our members outside of the city of Portland will be looking to what the city does as an example and how you're utilizing this opportunity.
 unique resource that has come at your doorstep and we're all going to be anxiously awaiting the success so other jurisdictions might have an opportunity to replicate that system so thank you um stay strong stay courageous very good and thank you and i i just want to underscore the two points you made because i agree with both of them number one engaging and leveraging what already exists in the community i agree with you there's a lot of expertise and knowledge out there
 and number two, engaging with the community that's directly impacted by these efforts. So on both fronts, I want you to know we're in philosophical alignment.
 Thank you for your leadership. Stuart, you get the last word on this panel. Thank you. And I'll follow up with that and say that our startup community, entrepreneur community, has a lot of ideas about innovation. When we did Khe San Chaco Haas, we were looking at innovation in housing to look at speeding up production and lowering unit costs. And the RFP process from the Housing Bureau didn't really look into ways that we could use innovation
 utilize what we learned on that project and go into second and third projects up to scale. There needs to be a way to do that so we can really work on lowering unit costs. Right now our bond is, I believe, $198,000 per unit. Can we get that down? So the other thing I want to talk about, a couple things, speed.
 The RFP process should be designed to speed production of projects. I think our K-SAN, back to K-SAN, it was about, I don't know, two and a half years, three years to get that project online. We ought to think about getting projects online much faster. At BDS, I think we ought to have a freeway through BDS for these projects. There should be a concierge service. There should be somebody working through planning. And we should just do whatever we can to get them through BDS immediately. Okay.
 and obviously working with state and other funders to streamline the process. So we have 4,000 homeless people, 1,600 unsheltered people. In this bond, we have 600 units of 0 to 30. Can we use innovation to raise that number? There will continue to be hundreds of tents in this city on our streets,
 after this bond is completed. And I have a real problem with that. I think all of us have a real problem with that. So I think alongside this bond, we ought to implement another plan to bring on the other units needed to get everybody off of our streets.
 I wrote an editorial. Some of you probably read it. And some people said, oh, you're crazy. You can't do this in two years. Back to private industry. There are people who do top-down approaches. They sound impossible in the beginning. And they make them happen. And if they don't make them happen, they go out of business. So I think we ought to bring the private sector in. We ought to bring innovators in and take a look at this problem holistically and work to a solution as rapidly as possible. Thank you.
 Let's surprise the voters. Let's impress the voters. Thank you. Stuart, can I ask you a question? Yeah. So my recollection is that the housing development that you referenced in Lentz was assembled over a weekend. Yeah. So when we had all those prefab units that were shipped up from outside of Salem. Yes, yes. It was assembled in a weekend. Yes. And what you said in your testimony is very compelling to me, that we were test driving an idea. Mm-hmm.
 And they were beautiful units. Thanks. I mean, they were – You and I went in them. I – Thanks. We were ready to move in. I mean, they were beautiful. And the finishes were beautiful. But the other part of that story is they were made in Oregon. Yes. So displaced people, people displaced in the timber industry and other kinds of things were involved in making these units. And they were shipped up I-5, assembled in a weekend.
 The point that you just made in your testimony is that we haven't really tested the true benefits of that kind of modular housing because we've never done it to scale. Correct. So let me ask you the mother of all leading questions. Are you suggesting that either in one of our urban renewal districts or as part of our request for proposals on this bond that we frame an opportunity for someone to come to us and show us what to scale would actually look like using modular housing?
 Yes, I am. That's why I said some other ball-beating questions because I agree with you on this. I mean, it doesn't have to be specifically modular, but something that is innovative. And also figuring out what happens in the second and third iteration of that. But we need to think differently about our housing. We need to get more people housed, and we have to bring in more innovation. And so, absolutely, we ought to be doing that. King County is doing it right now. They have an RFP out for modular housing. So we should be doing it here.
 Thank you. Commissioner Udately. I just want to speak to the BDS issue. Yes, sure. Because we really have devoted an extraordinary amount of time and resources to working out some of the issues with the Bureau, from updating the software to working with all the permitting bureaus to uncork those bottlenecks and streamline the price process. We're absolutely prioritizing affordable housing. Thank you.
 We're filling our vacancies at the Bureau because our staff is stretched so thin. And we are adding back at least the small business concierge. So for some of the small-time operators, there will be that kind of assistance that you're talking about. And I'm certainly interested in considering that.
 another level of assistance for affordable housing developers in general. Great. Thank you, Commissioner. One more word on the modular housing because I agree with you. I actually think it's an exciting opportunity. And this is far from the old days of something that looks like it belongs on the back of a truck. Yeah, yeah. There are some really impressive designers and architects who have completely reinvented what that modular housing can be and how it can look. Yeah.
 And we are actually already in conversations with landowners and developers to potentially bring a project like that to scale. There's some big names that are very interested in that here locally. But the more the merrier. As you've heard many, many people testify, this is going to have to be in all hands. All.
 All hands. On DAC effort. That's the theme I'm hearing today, and I couldn't agree more. So, Mayor. Yes, Commissioner Fish. Music to my ears. But the only way we're going to test innovation is if we –
 pick a project, set the parameters, and then challenge the community to come in with the best answers to that. It can't be a boutique thing, because that takes us back to the old days of wanting to do a Frank Gehry project as a showcase. And you actually end up spending a lot of money. I hope the vision is to...
 Set the marker for the kind of volume you want and the kind of quality, and then see what the marketplace responds. Because whether it's a habitat-type housing from Montreal, whether it's a – I mean, there's a zillion ways you could do it. What you demonstrated in the Native American housing in Lent is that you don't have to sacrifice quality. In fact, the quality was extraordinary. You had more choices for things like windows and light and air. But it brought the price down. It did.
 It brought the price down without compromising on any of the values that are baked into this report. And if I could just add, I just got back from Vancouver, B.C. at a modular conference, and they just put up a 40-unit modular project, and they have a goal of 600 units. So they're doing it in Vancouver. Thank you. And I went to visit it. It was really fun. Thank you. Great. Thank you, all three of you. We appreciate it.
 Next three, please. Are Sahan McKelvey, Ron Peterson, and Randy Rappaport. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Council Commissioners. My name is Sahan McKelvey, and I'm a member of the executive team at Self-Enhancement, Inc., SCI, and also here as a member of the Welcome Home Coalition Steering Committee.
 SEI did not participate in the initial stakeholder advisory group that helped to craft this current framework, but as a member of the current, or as a current member of the Welcome Home Coalition, we are committed to continuing to work with the city and with Multnomah County to advance solutions that bring additional revenue for affordable housing, and specifically for communities of color.
 We appreciate the council's commitment to addressing the growing housing crisis, and also appreciate the specific lens of racial equity that has been used to develop the current framework. We understand that this is, has been, and will continue to be a very difficult task. We also understand that addressing the housing crisis through a lens of restorative justice is a complicated and time-consuming task.
 As a participant in the Welcome Home Coalition, SCI is committed to working towards solutions that our community can see working immediately. And we will do our part, everything that we can, to ensure that tangible progress is being made, even within the time-consuming process that will take place through the multi-year facilitation of this bond measure. Additionally,
 As we continue to focus on prioritizing restorative justice and racial equity, SCI will be emphasizing through our role with the Welcome Home Coalition, as well as through our role as a voice for our community, that the African American community needs to be given realistic options to access affordable housing that is acquired or developed through this bond in North and Northeast neighborhoods that so many of our community have been displaced from.
 We understand that this bond is not a vehicle to completely reverse the effects of displacement and gentrification that has taken place in our traditional community neighborhoods, but we do want to do what we can to ensure that displaced African Americans have options to return when possible, and that will be in addition to the stated goals in the bond framework to provide accessible and affordable housing in Portland neighborhoods, such as David Douglas in East County, where many communities of color currently reside.
 So in conclusion, SEI just wants to reiterate our support and the work that lies ahead for all of us as we work together to ensure that we get this right. And we also want to ensure that we express appreciation for the work that's been done to this point. So we want to say thank you to the stakeholder advisory group. We want to say thank you to this body for being able to see this through. And with that said, let's get ready, roll up our sleeves, and work together to get this done. All right, Don. Thanks, John.
 Good afternoon. Hi. You know, I think he's supposed to be next. Sorry. Go ahead. Very good. Would you? No, sorry. Go ahead. You want it? You sure? Yeah. I'm sure. Okay. President. Are you the president of the council? Madam president to you. Madam president. Love that. She's been waiting to say that to someone. That's from like that show, you know, one of the stars lives here. Do you know that?
 Oh, yeah. I'll tell you about it in the future. But my name is Randy Rappaport, and I'm with Fox and Moose Developers. It's been underground in the best of ways because it can gather information in a stealth kind of, so it kind of can make decisions that are maybe misguided.
 more from like a thousand feet in the air. So I wanted to just, I'll read my thing. Okay. It is more likely that if this bond will be successful, if this bond is received well, this bond resource is a drop in the bucket of increasing need. I actually think that in the sense of marginal statistics, as we've seen with the increasing need in homeless services that have
 The need may actually increase as time goes on, as costs, rents go up faster than median family incomes. And that may be even more powerful for those below MFI 80, AMI 80, and probably gains power as you work your way down to 30.
 And then the other, below 30, it's different because of other subsidies, perhaps. For every unit you fund, there's demand for, I estimate, 50 more. And that fits in with my prior comment.
 Therefore, we should make sure that the geographic mix of units is outside of URAs. There have been arguments about, which I think is the approach and goal, because there have been arguments that you don't want to put all of your affordable housing in, say, an area that has received so much of it, which the URAs have been funded to. Is that correct? Yes.
 The way I read this document, Randy, there would be a priority for non-URAs. That's how I read it. We've already made the investment in 15%, and there's lots of areas that don't have affordable housing, so there would be necessarily a priority for those areas. I agree. Oh, okay. I'm almost there. Let's see.
 I think that there should be a two-pronged approach here, as you'll be voting on today. First, you should look at strategic acquisitions of existing housing units purchased with the bond funds. That means being very mindful of cost-benefit analyses around buying existing units versus the –
 building of new units. That's kind of a complex... Can I keep going for a minute? One more? Yeah, go ahead. This is the first time we've met. Mayor, I'm happy to meet you and congratulations. It's my pleasure. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next, turnkey housing units should also be developed, which will actually increase the supply of housing in the area. Purchasing existing units alone does not increase overall supply. Another point of importance regarding the mayor's commitment to ecology, purchasing existing housing units is more expensive to maintain as well, nor is it nearly as ecologically efficient.
 All that said, strategically purchasing existing and developing new housing units together is the best way to go forward. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. My name is Ron Peterson, and I have a question for Commissioner Fish. Is there... Yeah, sorry about that. Is there any possibility, are they still, is City Council working towards the spot over at 3rd and Hoyt? I don't know, sir. We can find out and get you an answer before you leave today. Okay. Okay.
 I agree. A lot of the housing needs to be modular. And it's not going to be easy because there are going to be a lot of zoning laws that will need to be changed. I was with TPI a long time ago. And I saw it was pretty effective in most assets, most ways. But it wasn't necessarily an asset to the city itself. Sustainability, I really believe...
 the best way to go would be either stick houses little tiny houses or modular houses i really it's like when they built the new um center over by the trimat not trimat but the greyhound and the what is it the train station sorry about that um
 I was not thrilled with CCC at that point in time. And so I had to put forth a reminder that Portland had actually kicked out CCC at one point. Trying to think on how... I really don't believe that putting a housing unit with 200 beds in Northwest is going to be...
 because the people that have businesses, small businesses around Northwest Portland, they're really in disagreement. They don't like the idea because they think it's going to be too close and too many people and it's going to be a jumbled mess. As I stated at the other meetings, it's going to be a magnet for all the homeless people, which is going to be a disaster in the Northwest area. I really think that...
 M-A-C-G-E-M-A-G is something that I've been going to from time to time. My pastor is actually in charge of the Milwaukee area, and so I've been going to that. And I think they have some really good ideas there. But I really believe, because they're trying to put together and get the zoning changed, and we've been talking with Congressman Marge Schrader, and she's done a lot of really good work for us, and...
 We're trying to get everything switched around so the zone is correct so we can go ahead and put up the tiny houses. And I think the modular houses here in Portland would be a good thing. A business city or a business government combination is actually going to be the best benefit, I feel, for the city. It's going to work out the best because you'll have the business side and the city.
 government side working hand in hand in order to help coordinate everything that needs to get done. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Ron, Randy, Sahan. Thank you, all three of you, for your testimony. Next three, please. The last two I show signed up are Garrison Creamer and Kelly Haynes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Garrison Creamer here. I am a freelance infrastructural consultant.
 Ten years ago, I graduated from FSU with an international affairs degree. I stayed at an eco-hostel in Peru, right on the coast surrounded by the desert. And they were growing food. And it was a great little tiny home community. I ended up snapping my ACL playing a soccer game, and then I flew to Panama. My tent was on my bag. They stole it at the airport. I was in the airport.
 I was very upset because this tent was the foundation of my lifestyle. I thought about that tent for seven years. All the possibilities of where it could go, I took into account government regulations. I took into account the news. I took into account the design of the tent. I took into account the name of the tent. And seven years later, I knew exactly where that was, my tent, and I found it in Northern California.
 and eventually I connected to a criminal ring, and that tent's right over there. How do you know it's my tent? It still had the chalk from a job that I had done, not to mention the earphones that I never used still in the pocket. Pretty impressive, I think. Anytime you expand your balance sheet with debt, you're putting more workload on the people at the bottom. Now, I don't know if you agree with my definition of inflation, but...
 But I believe that inflation is the expense of the money supply that causes the real prices to rise. And many times we use the numbers as an indicator of inflation when, in fact, what you've actually done is stolen from the inventor who has waited patiently with the solution. Right?
 So the key is not to panic. I do not advise you guys to go through with this. And I am sure that people, there are inventors with better solutions. When it comes to the design, you're talking about zoning. I don't have enough time to get near what I need to say out. I'll say this. You're trying to solve homelessness, and you may agree on this statement.
 proposal, but do you agree on the cause of homelessness? There are so many, the homeless population is one of the most diverse populations there are, and it goes from, it's more the outliers that you're dealing with. Oh my God, it's too much. I want to know why people can't buy hot meals with their EBT because if you know Maslow's hierarchy, you know that shelter comes on the bottom, but I'm going to say that temperature precedes that.
 So when you're trying to put someone in a home, you're trying to take them out of the elements. You're trying to give them lack of stress from the temperature. Now, I appreciate you extending my time. The light rail, for example, when going to Hillsboro, that goes right to those beautiful apartment complexes. If you try and get in those apartment complexes, a one-bedroom is $1,200, very easily manageable for one to two people with a minimum wage. But the requirements are five times more expensive.
 than the rent months. That's $6,000 a month times 12. Six times 12 is what? $36,000 you're requesting for someone to live in a one-bedroom. The issue I have is that that public transportation is going to apartments and excluding the people that need the public transportation the most.
 For instance, the counterfeiters. So I'm going to lose my quorum, and I want to make sure we take a vote. So if you could start wrapping up your thoughts, I'd appreciate it. Okay, thank you. Let me wrap it up in one sentence, if I could do that. The sustainability word, that's a loaded word, and that means more to maintain. I think we need to change the word to regenerative.
 And again, I just want to know if you agree with my definition of inflation, which is the expense of the money supply, which causes the real prices to raise. And I also want to know if you agree on the causes of homelessness. Yes.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Kelly? Thanks. Thank you for your time, Commissioners and the Mayor. My name is Kelly Haynes. I'm here representing the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity today. We're a coalition of trade unions, contractors, contractors,
 training organizations and community-based organizations. So I wanted to just quickly say thank you for moving ahead on the housing bond policy framework. I think the work and the input the community groups and members have provided has helped to really shape an implementation framework that will
 maximize the positive impact of this investment. I do want to touch on a related aspect of the racial equity components of this policy framework and one that I think has relevant and real potential to further contribute to opportunity and stability for marginalized communities.
 I think we have concerns regarding the lack of specific local workforce and contracting equity components and corresponding metrics and goals in the policy framework. We see this as a significant missed opportunity to ensure that this public investment not only helps to house and serve vulnerable populations on the resident side, but also ensures that the way in which the funding is spent creates real and lasting economic opportunity for those same populations.
 By applying a community benefits agreement on these funds, the city could ensure these important projects are structured to enhance city-community partnerships and realize significant and tangible community benefits with this investment. So I quickly want to just go through a math exercise to help illustrate this point.
 So the housing bond is for $258.4 million, and I think in reading the community feedback, there was a desire to balance that with both acquiring new projects and building new construction. So if I just did a quick split of half of that funding going toward new construction activities, that's about $129 million.
 And using estimating methodology in the industry, that's about 636,000 work hours for that amount of funding. And if you use an average wage of $25 an hour and then apply the CBA goals to that for women and people of color, that's over $5 million in wages for marginalized communities locally.
 If you actually apply the performance of the CBA pilots, that's over $8 million in potential wages for women and people of color.
 So I think the CBA could help provide real access to jobs by those very people facing the risk of displacement. Also, for contracting equity, if we applied the 17% CBA goal for minority and women-owned companies, that would equal almost $22 million in business revenue. And again, if we applied the past performance of the CBA pilots, which was 26%, to this funding, that figure would increase to over $33.5 million.
 in business revenue for minority and women-owned companies. According to the last procurement report, annual report, the percent of utilization by these same firms was under 6%. So that would be, if that was the performance of these housing bonds, that would be a loss of $26 million earned by minority and women-owned companies.
 So just in closing, I want to reiterate our support for the housing policy framework and all the hard work that was put into developing it. Actually, a lot of Maui members are allies and were involved in a lot of this work, like Rose CDC and Hacienda. So we are in support of that work. We just encourage the city to consider applying an already effective tool to these dollars to be able to realize multiple benefits. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Kelly, and thank you, Garrison. I just wanted to correct myself. 6,000 times 12 is 72,000, so my numbers were off by two. Very good. Thank you, sir. I'll entertain a motion, colleagues. So let's vote on Dan's amendment. Okay, very good. Please call the roll. You, Daly.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for raising this issue. Aye. Fritz. Good catch, Commissioner Saltzman. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. I'll entertain a motion. I move the report. Could I just have the one question?
 I mean, obviously, a lot of really good testimony today, and you already acknowledged, Mayor, that you're working on Margaret Bax's section. I just wanted a quick answer on the turnkey. Yes, Commissioner Fritz, Madam President. Thank you. This was a question on redirect from Ted Gilbert's testimony, as I recall, about...
 the so-called turnkey development method. Under Oregon revised statutes, that would be considered an alternative contracting method. And we've broached the subject with the city attorney's office about how best to proceed and have met with purchasing several times with OMF senior staff.
 And we would need to come back to council with a pilot for a demonstration of what the sideboards would necessarily be with respect to wage rate and women minority business participation. Could I just summarize what you're saying? You were looking at it, and it might be possible. It is legally possible. But it needs to be constructed as a pilot, and you need to authorize that pilot. And it needs to be dollar-specific, and it needs to be time-limited.
 so that upon completion, we go back and you, when you're considered judgment, deem whether or not that pilot was successful before it becomes a regular part of our toolbox. Thank you very much. Further questions, colleagues? Commissioner Fish moves. Second. Second. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Udaly. Well, this has been a very interesting and insightful hearing. I want to thank everyone who presented and gave their...
 testimony today. I know the community has been anxious for us to start spending these funds, but I want to thank the mayor's office and the Portland Housing Bureau for taking the time and coming up with this framework that is both intentional and meaningful and focusing on goals that address historic housing inequities. Apologies, I'm a little under the weather today, so my voice is sounding a little crackly.
 It's clear that the process the mayor's office engaged in to tap into community expertise across the entire city was necessary to avoid making mistakes that could lead to unintended consequences and leaving out certain vulnerable populations. And we certainly got some great feedback today for further consideration around those issues.
 This is a finite resource that's paid for by our local residents, so anything less wouldn't have been responsible use of these funds. So thank you, Mayor. I particularly want to thank the mayor's staff and the staff from Portland Housing Bureau, as well as ONI staff, our community liaisons who played a role, and of course all our community partners, everyone who served on the committees.
 And last but not least, all our incredible housing justice advocates, activists, and warriors. I really don't think we'd be where we are today if it wasn't for you. Thank you to everyone on the Housing Bond Policy Committee with a special shout-out to our offices, PICC.
 PICs including Frida, Christopher, Andy Miller, and Alan Lazo. And I want to give extra thanks to Alan because he's also going to be serving on the Housing Bond Oversight Committee and continuing his commitment and contribution to this issue. With that, I gladly vote aye.
 Fritz? Well, all of the things the Commissioners Daily just noted. I'm very happy that we've got this resource to spend. I'm also very happy that we have community members who were engaged and are going to continue to be engaged and pushing for different values and principles, and that's how we're going to get to a good product. So I know that the Mayor will keep...
 be very mindful of all of this input and continue to get more community advice because it really does feel like we're all in this together. That last year when we were campaigning for the bond measure and everybody was really happy that we had something we could do to address these major needs within our community and within all the communities of Portland. So it's a good process
 problem to have and it's also it's not a problem, it's a challenge which I know that we can rise together to meet.
 So thank you very much. I do know that when I looked through the report, I was concerned about people experiencing disabilities. That's in there that we're going to do better than the minimum. I was concerned about should we call out women. That's also covered by vulnerable people, as are people who are already outside. Commissioner Saltzman drew attention to foster kids ageing out of that system. We heard this morning on...
 huge need for people experiencing domestic violence and to have the Director Crager coming and say well we could possibly put something right next to the centre is extremely exciting. The other thing that was addressed to my satisfaction was about the Russian communities and others. I mean really even a two bedroom is not all that big when you're cramming ten people into it or two families. So we certainly do need to look out for opportunities to
 make it so that families have a place to stay that's actually livable for the duration. Thank you very much everybody for your involvement. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues have already said because I think they touched on most of the key points and the thank yous. Colleagues, I do think this is one of the most interesting hearings we've had in a long time. I thought the testimony was particularly rich. Here's a couple of takeaways for me that I'll be watching as we unfold. Number one,
 and this is really channeling to the director of the Housing Bureau and to the Oversight Committee, I'd like to see a pilot that puts a premium on modular housing to scale. It's time. This is a resource we can use outside of an urban renewal district to do it, so let's be intentional about it. Let's frame it up, and let's see what the response is. I think Margaret Bax is right. I think we now have potentially three or four different kinds of
 plans which have to be reconciled into what's called a strategic plan. They include the priorities of the Housing Bureau, a home for everyone, this advisory group recommendation. We can go on and on. How we knit those together, I think the challenge we have in a commission-style form of government, one of our most significant challenges, is how the five of us craft a single narrative that the public can follow about the direction and future of our city. Thank you.
 And most of the criticisms I hear from people about local government is they're not sure what the narrative is. And I think that's in part because they hear so many different strands of the narrative. They don't have a clear and unitary narrative.
 And I think around housing, we have to make an effort to reconcile a number of very thoughtful exercises we've gone through and set a clear vision for how we're going to spend money. And it should be the money that's being spent not just at the city but also at the county and with our nonprofits, because, frankly, the public does not distinguish among different players and who's spending what dollar. The color of money issue is important.
 lost on most of us, much less most of the people we serve. So I think we have to have a unitary vision that involves all the resources, and I think we've actually made enormous strides in that direction. But let's see if we can sharpen the narrative. I am extremely proud that this calls out for 300 units minimum of permanent supportive housing. And I should note that next Wednesday at 10.15, Council will be taking up –
 a resolution that has broad community support to set a goal of at least 2,000 units over the next 10 years, a goal which we're hearing from some people is either bold enough or quick enough. So we'll have that conversation next week. But it is at least a recognition that responds to a number of the comments we had today, starting with Joe Walsh and ending with some other folks.
 that if we're really going to get our arms around chronic homelessness, we must have a strategy which addresses people who have faced the biggest barriers. And if we do not spend the money marrying intensive services with housing, we're not going to have successful outcomes. And that, by the way, was actually the hallmark of the 10-year plan. We just ran out of dough. And we're saying let's go back, put old wine in a new bottle, and let's keep at it. I'm very pleased with the racial equity lens.
 I have to say I've waited seven or eight years to have Frida or someone from East Portland come to us and say, we want our fair share of affordable housing, and make the argument that people who are low income and are going to school districts in East Portland deserve the same choices and quality that other people have. And it's not just home ownership. So I think that was something of a breakthrough.
 I also want to offer my thanks to the stakeholder group that obviously went through a thoughtful process. I want to thank the staff that guided that process. I want to thank the five-person oversight body, including my nominee, for taking on that responsibility of reviewing how we spend the money. And, Mayor, I want to thank you and your team for pushing this. I do think it's worth taking a little time to get it right.
 I think we now have the blueprint. The director has said that in short order –
 a call is going to be issued so that people can respond and bring the most creative thinking in our community. I would make this, you know, the most transparent and competitive process to get the best ideas. And, you know, we've heard from people that said preservation is the most cost-effective and environmentally friendly approach. We've heard people say new construction or some combination. We don't know until we solicit the best ideas from the community. But it's exciting. And finally, I want to close on...
 Kind of a sour note we heard from a number of people that somehow this would not solve our housing crisis and that somehow this had been mismarketed. This alone is not going to solve our housing crisis. Any more than 2,000 units of permanent supportive housing is going to solve our homelessness crisis. But I would remind people that you have to go back to David Stockman.
 and Newt Gingrich, who many, many years ago upstream said, if we starve the beast in Washington, we'll create a series of train wrecks down the line in the local government. And right now we're having a conversation about how the city of Portland solves a national problem. And I welcome that conversation, and I think we should do everything plus. Whatever it is, we should double it. But let's not forget it's a national problem.
 And so when we have fewer Section 8 vouchers to invest, when we have fewer dollars that are flexible, dollars for housing development, where we have fewer dollars for HOPWA and we have fewer resources across the board, tax credits and the like, then we can do less. Or we can ask the region to do more.
 And the question is, at what point do we hit the breaking point where we're asking the region to take on what used to be seen as a national problem or a state problem and has now become a local concern? I'm very proud of the fact that locally we're stepping up. But our system was never intended for Portland, Oregon, to solve a national problem. And we should not have the hubris to accept that premise. Thank you.
 We'll do what we can. This is a major step in the right direction, and I'm incredibly grateful that the Portland voters gave us this tool. Seltzman. Well, I want to thank Mayor Wheeler and the stakeholder advisory group for their work in putting together this roadmap, and also to the Bond Oversight Committee who have been busy, but they'll be even busier now that they have this roadmap and now that the window for business will be open on October 23rd. That's really good to hear.
 And I really appreciate the – I just want to thank Portland voters for being – having faith in this bond measure and approving it. Hi. Wheeler. As was said many times over the last several weeks and today, we're in a housing crisis. The time for action is clearly upon us, and this council does have a sense of urgency with regard to the problem.
 Portland families need safe, accessible, and quality housing, and I believe that this strategic framework provides us a direction for accomplishing that.
 My colleagues and I heard testimony from many struggling Portland residents just this week. We heard from tenants who shared that their rent had increased 9.98%, who couldn't afford the increase and couldn't afford to move without relocation assistance, which this council put into place. We heard from members of the immigrant and refugee community,
 that discriminatory practices were preventing them from finding quality, affordable housing. The oversight committee or the advisory committee, the stakeholder advisory committee, has told us they want that to be part of this framework. We heard from elected officials and community leaders that this is the experience of families across the metro area and throughout the state of Oregon.
 The City Council hears you Portlanders. We hear you. This framework is moving us forward towards preventing displacement of our most vulnerable community members. It helps to stabilize families. And it builds the infrastructure that we need to create livable, affordable neighborhoods all across our community.
 complementary to this bond are additional tenant protections, like relocation assistance and inclusionary zoning, that all of us are committed to strengthening, in addition to supportive housing mechanisms that ensure wraparound services are included in housing solutions, as Commissioner Fish just described.
 I want to thank everybody, obviously, who testified today. I want to thank you also to our invited panelists for sharing your stories and your willingness to partner with us on addressing this crisis. Thank you to the Portland voters.
 who stepped forward to be part of the solution and entrusting us with this important resource. I look forward to continuing to work with the Bond Oversight Committee, and I'd like to thank the staff of the Portland Housing Bureau for all their hard work on this. I'd also like to thank the members of the Stakeholder Advisory Group and the Portland Housing Advisory Commission for your hard work.
 with the Bureau, OPAL Environmental Justice, MACG, and a home for everyone for your community engagement efforts, and of course the community engagement liaisons for ensuring this process was accessible and culturally appropriate. I definitely want to thank my staff, Andrea, Cupid, Kyle, Michelle, frankly all of them for their hard work. I vote aye. The report is accepted as amended. Thank you everybody and we are adjourned.