Okay.
 Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the October 12th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Feltzman? Hales? Here. Welcome, everybody. We have some council communications items up front, which we will take first, and then we have a couple of times certain items, and then we'll get to the regular agenda. If you're here to speak on the regular agenda, you can let our clerk know for the items where we are taking testimony, and she'll get you on the list.
 and we don't ask for your address if you're here speaking for the first time. You need only give your name when you testify, but we do need your name for the record. Rules of decorum, I think everybody knows those, but let me reiterate them. This is a deliberative body, so we want to make sure that everyone is heard. When someone is speaking, please don't interrupt, whether they're a fellow citizen or a member of the council.
 If you do interrupt or cause a disruption, you'll be asked to leave, and if you don't leave, you'll be excluded from the chambers. So please, let's make sure that we respect each other's opinions in this room. If you are listening to someone testify and you agree with their point of view, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree with their point of view, feel free to give them a polite hand gesture to the negative, but we ask that we not have applause or disagreement.
 demonstrations in the room so that everyone feels that they can speak. We make exceptions for students and visiting dignitaries, so if you're one or more of those, or if you're an honored citizen in the subject of a proclamation, you might get a round of applause from your fellow Portlanders. The consent calendar is before us. I don't think I have any requests to take items off the consent calendar. Is that right? We've had a request to pull. Pull which one? Yeah, we've got a pull on there. Sorry. 1122.
 1120 which? No, 1128. 1128, okay. So we're pulling item 1128 off the consent calendar for discussion. Anything else? All right. So with that, please, let's take 1118. Okay.
 Request of David Gweither to address council regarding 10th and Southwest Yamhill Parking Garage project. Good morning. Come on up. Mr. Peterson and I are together. Sure. He can come up with you. That'd be fine. We're going to flip-flop and he's going to go first. All right. So why don't you read 1119 and they can do this as a team. 1119, request of Douglas Peterson to address council regarding 10th and Southwest Yamhill Parking Garage project.
 Great. Good morning. Yes, my name is Doug Peterson. I own Peterson's Convenience Stores. We've been there in the 10th and Yamhill parking garage for 32 years, been a very successful business, very popular with customers, over 700 customers per day. We're averaging $3,395 per day in sales. Just as an aside, over $13,000 in lottery sales every month.
 It's at the max stop. It's finally focused on the max stop. It's a location that would be exceedingly hard to duplicate because the focus is the transit customers and that's where we get our business.
 There's a big remodel going on, or going to be going on, $25 million or more they're spending. And they've told all tenants they have to leave sometime next year, and no guarantee that you can come back. And they want to re-tenant the building. We've been there for 32 years and have been successful, and we would like to stay. And if there's a way the city could help us stay in that location, I would appreciate it very much. Thank you.
 We do have the next year. TriMet is going to a card system where people have to have a plastic card, magnetic plastic card that value is added. They have to buy that card. And, you know.
 put money on the card to uh to be able to ride the max or or any other bus we will be selling the cards and we will be have the facilities to add value to the card and we're right there at the max stop i understand the max is going to stay open the max stop will be open during the construction we would like to somehow stay there be there during a good deal of the construction because we're in the middle block where they're not doing a lot of work the major work is on the corners of the building
 And so we'd like to stay and be there to help the customers on this and serve customers, giving change and such. And I appreciate any help we can get. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, my name is David Gwyther. I'm a lobbyist for Mr. Peterson. This has been a very frustrating experience because, for example, just to get a –
 I've been trying to get a meeting with Commissioner Novick since the parking garage is up until recently technically controlled by the PBOT group. There's a master lease, I understand, in the mayor's office that hasn't been signed in, I'm not sure, maybe it has, between the PBOT and Portland Development Commission.
 The plans to change this have been ongoing for quite a long period of time. There's been no input from the tenants. We've been told to move, given lists of people, places to move to. But as we all know in real estate, there's three variables, location, location, and location. And this particular one for a convenience store is ideal.
 Also, they're going to keep the parking garage open, so there's going to be a lot of traffic from that. The construction workers like our store, when they were building the Park West building, we had construction workers. We opened at 5.30 rather than 6 because they all like energy drinks. They burn up a lot of calories every day, and a candy bar for them is nothing. I mean, they can burn that up in an hour. Okay.
 And so now in terms of a precedent, you see in the packet that I had passed out, the first page is an Oregonian article where John O., the fellow who owns Cafe Portlandia, has gotten exactly the concessions that Mr. Peterson wants. Now, it's a very similar type of business, serves a lot of people with small checks every day. I think the average check in his office,
 Mr. Peterson's locations under $5 and Mr. O, they're going to allow to stay while they're doing the Portland building, which is a much bigger project than ours, much more complicated.
 And he also has first right of refusal to come back. So we'd like something similar. I've been trying to be in contact with Fred Miller's office, the chief administrator, but have been referred back to Portland Development Commission, even though they're not actually in charge technically yet.
 Okay, the second page is the architecture firm. Now, notice it's dated October 30, 2015. So to get to this report, it's a fairly long report. There must have been a lot of work done. And they're talking about higher quality tenants for more rent. Well, they've never asked the existing tenants for more rent. They just assume that they either can't or won't pay it.
 The second or third page is an update on the seismic issues. Since the report by the architecture firm that says that there's not a problem there, they think they can get a billing permit, there's been significant increase in the probability of a –
 earthquake in the next 50 years. And the last page is the strategic overview of the Portland Development Commission that mentions job creation. Well, if you destroy 50 to 100 jobs, which is what getting rid of the tenants here will do, and add 50 or 100 jobs, you have a net zero. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Okay, item 1120, please. Request of Frederick Allen Maxwell to address council regarding inviting the USS Zumwalt to Portland. Okay, Mr. Maxwell. Is he here? Mr. Maxwell? Okay, well, we'll see if he can come in later. Let's take 1121. Request of Adam Brunel to address council regarding Lent's strong community action plan. Okay. Brunel? He's here. Come on up. Good morning.
 Okay. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Nathan Jones. I'm a member of the local nonprofit Green Lents and founder of the Livable Lents Program, an outreach program to create a more inclusive and community-based vision for the future of Lents. I'm here to talk to you all about my experience over the last five years and to tell you about Lents Strong, our community action plan. Some of your staff have RSVP'd to our lunch event later today at the Team Events Center on 92nd and Foster.
 For the rest of you, it's not too late to send someone over. It starts at noon. I moved to Lentz in 2011 because I had been invited to help with community engagement for the Foster Green Eco District, 99 years after the city of Lentz was annexed into Portland. I worked on outreach for the Foster Streetscape, the Foster-Lentz Integration Partnership, and the Lentz Five-Year Action Plan. With a population of just over 20,000 and nearly 40% of the households in Lentz speaking a language other than English.
 All you have to do is glance at the number and demographics of people engaged and you will see that none of these efforts did more than scratch the surface. Folks in Lentz who have been around longer than me will tell you that this is nothing new. After over 15 years of being an urban renewal area for the city of Portland, Lentz is still pretty devoid of any public infrastructure. The folks who have been around since the early 80s will tell you about I-205 and what Lentz was like before that freeway was built on top of their main street.
 Some people who have been in Lentz even longer than that will tell you even older tales of broken trust and neglect. There have been too many plans and not enough action. I've come to think of city efforts in Lentz as one might look at rain in the desert. You can see it in the sky, falling towards the ground, but most of it evaporates before it makes impact. I'm thrilled that Green Lentz is now a part of a growing network of community leaders and organizations who are tackling the challenge of including their neighbors and developing a more livable neighborhood for all.
 Our organization has already created a community tool library, a community orchard, a series of pollinator habitats, become stewards of our watershed, and helped add more than 20 little free libraries to our neighborhood. The people of Lent have shown me that it doesn't matter where you are starting or what you start with. When people come together, our commonalities help us connect, and the differences we bring to the table provide us an opportunity to share something unique. Lent Strong is an example of this.
 At this point, Green Lents and its partners have engaged over 1,400 Lents community members in developing a vision for Lents.
 We have surveyed residents in six languages, often for up to an hour each. Each person shared their experiences, hopes, and ideas about steps forward for Lent. Additionally, we engaged over two dozen stakeholder organizations, ranging from city bureaus like the BES, PDC, PBOT, and the Portland Housing Bureau, to community-based organizations like the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, ROWCDC,
 Wisdom of the Elders, the Lentz Neighborhood Association, and Proud Ground. The result is a plan that is already happening, one that is firmly based in the experiences and aspirations of Lentils, as we like to call ourselves.
 as well as connected to a multitude of organizations who are each contributing in their own unique way. I'm here today because it's finally time to invite you to join me in Lens. Your time is up, but I have one question if I could. Yes. Thank you for joining us, and thanks for the handout. And you mentioned that you've been working with a number of city bureaus to work on the plan. Are you getting the participation and cooperation you need to be successful? Yes.
 um it's increasing but we could definitely use more i think that just just a tip so we all are in charge of different bureaus you mentioned sure and it's um thank you for the invitation to the to the luncheon um but if if you run into any headwinds you can just email any one of us and just let us know what your experience has been and and if there's something we can do better or differently
 Okay. Well, I hope you all will consider Lent Strong as a guide for your plans and efforts in Lent's moving forward. I appreciate your leadership. Thank you. And again, I know some of the staff is going to join you at noon today, but also look forward to seeing you for the groundbreaking on the 9101 building on Sunday the 23rd at noon. So in terms of actually having the rain reach the ground and sprout something. It's been a long time. Yeah. So I'm looking forward to that celebration. And thanks for you and other neighborhood leaders who've been keeping the flame all these years. Absolutely. Thank you all. Thank you very much.
 Okay, 1122, please. Request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding safety on the streets. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers. I've got to ask the question. When you first took office, are the streets safer now than then? My answer is no. They're more dangerous, especially if I'm a pedestrian, bicyclist. At least if I'm driving a car, I've got the metal around me. But nonetheless, it's dangerous for everybody. Okay.
 And I'm here in part because Fallon Smart's mother, I heard her say, something larger needs to be done so our children are not harmed. That's dangerous out there. You know, you just go take a walk. Nick, I heard you say about when you went to step off that curb and so forth and your experience there. And, you know, if we're out there moving around, we know what it's like. And whether it's distracted drivers or impaired drivers, when I turn that key of the car, I accept the responsibility to,
 And it's a big one. So I think at this point, you're leading from behind. And I'll tell you why, which it's in my experienced opinion, and you all know how many of these meetings I've been down here. The reason why you're leading from behind, because you spent so much time with that street fee tax, had no vote, no oversight, no sunset. You could raise it any time, spin on anything, go on. Why would anybody even do something like that? It's like something from the Stalin era.
 So I think we need to start making more prudent decisions down here and be fiscally responsible too. And one last thing I'm going to say is that you can't make a good landing out of a bad approach. And I feel that when you came into office, you had five priorities in descending order, developer, developer, developer, developer. And I'm going to give you an example of that. When I went into the rollout of Vision Zero, at the end of it, you didn't have any money. They said, well, you didn't have any money.
 And then down the road, you pay twice the price for the post office. Twice market value. We're talking like, what, it was $13, then you paid $20. What's that about? You know what, at that rollout for Vision Zero, there sat Alistar, who three weeks before had two legs, and now he was down to one and a half. That's all I have to say. Oh, no, you know what? Later on today, there's going to be Vision Zero down here.
 You need to come up with some big bucks. You need to open a piggy bank and support it with more than just words. Yeah, it's 3 o'clock this afternoon, so come back. All day, all night, all day, shut it down for Freddie Gray. 1123, request of Charles Ormsby to address council regarding Twilliger Boulevard sewer project. He called and is not able to make it. Okay, and then 1124.
 Request of Laura Struble and Oksana Onek to address council regarding educational exchange with Portland Sister City in Russia. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm Laura Struble, the Russian teacher at Franklin High School. This is Oksana Olenik. She is an English teacher in Khabarovsk, Russia. We have with us also three of her students and one of mine. We have Nadia Pragina. We have Zurab...
 We have Katya Boychuk and one of my students, Kai Reeves. We also have with us a member of the Portland Habata Sister City Association, Natalia. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you. And I want to say thank you very much for this opportunity to be here and speak with the council and thank the city and the structure of the city over the years for its support.
 Well, hi one more time. I'm Oksana Alenik from Habarovsk. I'm an English teacher again, and this has been my lifelong dream to visit Portland since this exchange is not the first one in the history of this school. I've been a student of first, and
 and then I'm a teacher of right now. So we had a very long exchange between the Khabarovsk School No. 5 and Lincoln High School here in Portland for 11 years with Mr. Alan Ellis while traveling with his students to Russia and inviting us, well, not myself, but the other students, like...
 to be part of the life in Portland. So it has been a very interesting kind of experience, and that is very important for such kind of relations on the level of just common people, I should say.
 So I'm very thankful for that kind of opportunity, like fostering their relationships with Russia and America and the students like that.
 And I would like to add, we are very grateful at Franklin High School to have the exchange. We just restarted the exchange, which had been going on for so long, and then when the federal funding dried up, it eventually ended. We started this exchange program again last year, so this is the second time we are hosting students from Pobotowsk at Franklin High School, and I was able to take students.
 from Portland to Habados last May, and I will be doing that again in the fall. And as Oksana said, it is very good not only in terms of language acquisition for her students to practice their English here, but for my students to practice the Russian there as well.
 and also to meet students from the other... Folks, we have visitors from Russia here and a teacher from Franklin High School. Could we let her finish, please? Go ahead. Thank you. And yes, to meet and learn about other cultures, there are many students from Franklin High School who are happy to...
 meet students from this culture who are also recognized that they're people from other cultures here in Portland, and we recognize what is going on. Excuse me, I'm speaking to you also. Folks. Okay, thank you. Can I actually...
 include you. So we did get to see a bit of the demonstration in front of the building, and I think that is very nice. But if you could let me speak without being interrupted, that would be really nice. Folks, you've been asked by a fellow citizen to let her speak. Are we going to let her speak? Are we going to let her speak? No, we're actually trying to listen to this woman. Go ahead, please.
 And it was a black woman who introduced us and took us around and let us see the demonstration this morning. I'm really sorry that you're having to deal with this. Yes, and I appreciate that. And I'm not against you. You made her wait for hours and hours. I didn't make you wait. You made her wait. Christopher Quanti...
 So we are very happy to be here, and I think it's important to have discussion and exchange on all levels within the city, within the countries. Right now, this is a time when our governments, the U.S. government and the Russian government, are not agreeing very well, and just as it is good for citizens here today,
 to understand each other and talk to each other. It is very good for citizens across countries to learn to get along and to learn more about each other, and that's what this exchange is about. And we are very grateful to the city for supporting this, to the Sister City Association for making this possible. So we are very grateful to be here and see City Hall. And it's good for our visitors, too.
 to see the demonstrations and see what is happening with democracy here too. So thank you very much. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Well, welcome to students. Again, we suspend the rules and say thank you for students and teachers. So thank you very much for being here. Enjoy your time in Portland. So let's move on then, please, to see if Mr. Maxwell is here.
 And he's not. So then time to move on to the consent calendar. We've had one item removed from the consent calendar. None others. Let's take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. No on the contract. No. No. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Nails. Okay. Let's move on to item 1125 then.
 11-25, proclaim October 2016 to be Filipino American Heritage Month in Portland. Mr. Fish. Jamie Lim, would you please come forward? Today we are honored to celebrate Filipino American History Month. The Filipino American community in Portland has enriched our city's culture. There are as many as 30,000 Filipino Americans who live in the region. We're proud to have with us today Mayor Jamie Lim.
 guess folks this is a really important moment in our community I would ask that you show some courtesy to these folks who are here mr. folks please show some respect to our guests
 Okay, I'm going to try to do this one time, folks. You're creating a disruption. If the disruption continues, we'll have to clear the chambers. Please let these folks speak. They're citizens of our city who are here to speak today. This is your warning. We're recessed. Thank you. Thank you.
 Pass a contract against the city's will. Go hide in your secret room. Go hide in your secret room.
 Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down! Shut shit down!
 I'm going to put that up. I'm going to put that up.
 There's quite a bit of cops. Yeah, well, maybe they're going to be, but I'm sure they're just going to run. We're all scared. We're scared. We're scared. Oh, and you said the people didn't have recess. That's all they said. The media is in recess. That's all they said. We wouldn't be quiet if they didn't have recess. Okay, so they'll rule us out.
 Everybody come in and set them back up. Well no one's not back up. I'm just gonna ask you to do that. That'll be for me. I'm gonna go up. Alright, hold on up. Black lives matter! Black lives matter! Black lives matter! Black lives matter! Black lives matter! Black lives matter! Black lives matter!
 You got to teach me again, I forgot. Hey, shit move today. You're going to learn today, Prince Craig. You're going to learn. It's hard to remember. It's hard to remember.
 I have another skill. I have another skill. I have another skill. Black lives matter. Black lives matter. Lives matter. Matter. Matter. Black lives matter. Matter. Matter. Matter. Lives matter.
 Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter! Black Lives Matter!
 I didn't disrupt the meeting. I was locked outside. I came in to be with my people when they were at recess. In a democratic fashion, she can move. No contracts.
 I just want to testify on my seven agenda items, alright? I got seven tickets.
 Anybody willing to go outside? Yeah, we can. Whenever you're ready to go. Yeah. Last time she went, she got it. Somebody can walk in. Okay. What's up? Yeah. I'm here. I'm here.
 Wait, can we go to the... Can you? No.
 They've been blocked off. Is it blocked off? Yeah, I kind of thought so. If we can't even in the middle right there... Well, that was definitely blocked off. Yes, yes. So, use your voices.
 We can use our voices, right? Everybody's here. Everybody's here.
 So what they've done is they don't want to go out and call to hear what we find out today. They want to contract. I didn't know anybody could get a hand-to-hand. I didn't know anybody could get a hand-to-hand.
 yeah yeah yeah
 Thank you.
 I'm here because in here we're just silence. We don't need to trust anyone.
 Thank you.
 and people are walking in the chairs. So now there are opportunities. Mayor Hayles, the presiding officer of the Council. Continuing the direction of the council meeting, the meeting of October 12, 2016 will be reconvened in the ballroom where public access will be available. And ladies and gentlemen,
 video will be available I'd like to thank the council and especially the members Amanda what's she going to say can I grab a cup back
 I remember the first thing I did on the box was to come to the United States back home. They were part of this family in China. When the Sanders people, after a while, they started making money. Boats, wooden boats, they used to make money. I didn't know. I mean, you just knew this. You can't forget it. A little. You can go on.
 That's a long time ago. That's even before the pilgrims came to America. So, with that present, we have 50 years probably since most of the Filipino immigrants come to the 1965 immigration act, and Robert Johnson. But before that, the first batch of Filipinos that came to America
 who are people that were part of the American colonization administration. Many of them were teachers that came to the Philippines and married Filipinos. And the second batch of Filipinos came during the war, actually. Many of these...
 Philippine army people were merged into the U.S. Army and became part of General MacArthur's Army. And most of those qualified to become citizens of the United States, so they all came. And of course, the third... The fourth batch, of course, were people like me who came also because as part of the
 Mutual defense treaty with the United States and the Philippines. They were allowed to recruit people like me. I was one of those. So I came, you know, I was recruited in the Philippines, came here by boat. It was a long trip, by the way. And anyway, I got here and qualified for the GI Bill, went to school here, Portland State University.
 And that's it. I mean, I started my engineering business. After a while, I started my newspaper, which was back in 1986. I started the paper. And we're still here. So I guess, you know, it's not easy, but we're working on it. So anyway, what I was saying was...
 The Filipinos, and you have a lot of them working here in the city. I know because I know a lot of them. Like Linda here, she's one of them. You know, I was writing a few things. You know, as a group, immigrants from the Philippines are better educated. Most of them more likely have strong English language skills. More than likely to be naturalized U.S. citizens.
 less likely to enter the United States than refugees or asylum seekers. And like I said, notable of course are all these employees that we have, personal partners. So, in honor of the observance of the Filipino-American History Month, our chamber is presenting a, what we call, the Philippines Historama. It's the history of the Philippines that
 Basically, it goes from the time that Magellan came to the Philippines in 1521. It goes through all these iterations of Philippine history up to the present, which is 400 years worth of history. And we're trying to encourage everybody to come and see. What just happens is that the best place we could find to show this history show is in Salem. It's called the Historic...
 L.C. North Theater. It's a beautiful theater. I don't know if some of you have seen it. It's really beautiful. And so we're trying to promote it. We have it scheduled to show on August, October 29th in Salem. Starts at 5 o'clock. And we have a few complimentary tickets which I'd like to give to the council. If some of you are able to go, we'd like to invite you.
 Thank you very much. Yeah, let me know and we'll get some tickets that are still available. So, having said that, I'd like to ask several of our folks to say a few words. All of them? Welcome. Whoever would like to go next.
 I'm very proud of my heritage, my culture. Thank you for allowing the city of Portland to acknowledge it today. Also, this month, I believe Filipino lives matter, so that's important to us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Just push the button on the microphone there. There we go. I just want to say a few words, and thank you for giving us the honor and time. I know this is, you had a lot of other important items on your agenda today, but this is very important for the small segment of the community that we are part of, and we're very proud of our heritage. We're very proud of the culture that we have, and we want to bring it and share it with others.
 and hope that it will also build bridges with other communities. Thank you. Thank you. Just slide that whole thing closer if you'd like. It's portable. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Linda Varey. I'm with the Bureau of Transportation. Thank you again for having acknowledgement for Filipino American History Month. The Filipino American City Employees Affinity Group, we're going to be having a celebration event on Friday, October 14th, in the Portland Building Auditorium from 12 to 1.30 p.m. And Jamie will be our guest speaker, and we'll be having some Filipino food, martial arts, and traditional dancing. I hope you guys can join us, and thank you again. Thank you.
 Please have some lunch. There you go. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you always for taking care of us, particularly Nick Fish and your wife, for your kindness to this community. Commissioner Novick, thank you. Welcome aboard. We hope to see you for another 44 years.
 after this election. Yeah. I'm always so grateful to my known Jamie Lim for what he's done for Portland. I think Commissioner Fish mentioned how he'd been a leader, of course, with Filipino-Americans, but more to the point, he has made English the lingua franca of Asian Oregonians.
 And I'm proud to say we did our 1,000th column in the Asian Reporter earlier this year. I've been writing since 1992. I bring this up because in my work with him in Philippines, in Vietnam, in Thailand, some good, some bad, some ugly, we've been able to reinforce the place of Oregon on a world map.
 That is to say, this Filipino pioneer has done what Chinese Oregonians have done, Mexican Oregonians, Cambodian, Vietnamese, Portlanders. And that is that energetic circulation of people, money, and ideas between Portland and their hometowns.
 And none has done it better than Jamie Lim, of course. He mentioned him being an entrepreneur, a philanthropist. But he is one of those icons of the six or eight elders we hold in great esteem of building community, building family, building business here and overseas. It's just been a brilliant entrepreneurial familial sort of network. We are so grateful to him. Go ahead.
 We will always have great respect and reverence for Jamie Lim for our Filipino-American cousins. We should also acknowledge, Mayor, the rest of the Lim family, his partner, his wife,
 Dory, a nurse like Commissioner Fritz and like my mother, and a full partner in all the work. All of his children who are making their way and making a big impact in our community, and all the people that he touches on a regular basis. And, you know, I have trouble getting my son to go with me to some events that I go to, but he loves to go to the Filipino-American picnic at Blue Lake.
 in part because he's become crazy about Filipino food. Anything with chicken or beef that's stewed or strained or whatever, he's crazy about it. So we thank the whole family. We honor the whole family today. Thank you.
 oh thank you all thanks so much for being here today and for many community leaders i just there was one remark i wanted to make i mean to introduce a somber note but i was just reflecting on the fact that it's kind of appropriate that today is yom kippur the day of atonement in the jewish religion and we're celebrating filipino-american history month because i don't think we should forget that the united states was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of
 Filipinos in the colonial war conquest following the Spanish-American war so I just wanted to express my deep regret for the role of my government and to enjoy the way we're able to celebrate here today Thank you History has good and bad in it and it's important that on the Day of Atonement or any other day that we remember that so thank you
 Well, thank you all so much for being here with us today, Jamie. It's my honor to give you this proclamation. Thank you so much. We appreciate your leadership and the Filipino community's contribution to our amazingly diverse city. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for being here today. We appreciate being here. And I've been here for 55 years. Wow. That's great. We haven't left. We're really glad you chose Oregon after your Navy service. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thanks for being here today. Appreciate your indulgence with the interruptions as well. All right. I think we're going to move on after we take some. Do you want to take a photo or two? Go ahead. Let's take a photo. Let's take a photo.
 I like that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Paul. Good things. Good things.
 All right. We'll move on to item 1126. Carla, would you read that item for us, please? Yes. Accept the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Fiscal Year 16-17 Housing Emergency Community Engagement Plan. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor.
 As part of the financial year 17 budget approval in May, Council allocated $350,000 to a housing emergency community engagement plan spearheaded by the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement. Council also directed ONI to work with the Housing Bureau, the Portland Housing Bureau, the City and County Joint Office of Homeless Services and Home for Everyone to return to Council with a collaborative proposal.
 At that time, Commissioner Saltzman and his office directed that Mark Jolin, the Director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services, will serve as the primary representative for developing the programme with the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement staff and community members. This stakeholder group worked throughout the summer to develop a proposal which they will share with you today.
 Before I ask Brian Hoop to begin the presentation, I'm going to pass out the amendment that was in the Tuesday memo, but there's another copy of it.
 that it amends the strategy number four to, it now reads, information coordination and communication. The project grantees will work together with a home for everyone and the City and County Joint Office for Homeless Services to inform the public about the action plan to end homelessness for Portland and McNormand County.
 The Mayor's Homelessness Toolkit, One Points of Contact, Campsite Cleanup Information, and Opportunities to Engage in Efforts to End the Housing Emergency. And secondly, under B, Distribution of Information. Grantee organizations will work closely with staff, coordinator, and the Home for Everyone, and the City and County Joint Office for Homeless Services on a communication strategy. Okay, so if we could just move that and Mr. Fish seconds it, so we have the amendment before us and we're ready for the presentation. Thank you.
 Good morning, Brian. Good morning, Mayor. My name is Brian Hoop with Office Neighborhood Involvement, manager of the Community Neighborhood Involvement Center. I want to thank you, Mayor Hales, Commissioners Fritz, Novick, and Fish, for consideration of this proposal. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her leadership and support for this proposal. I'm going to provide an overview of the plan, followed by Mark Jolin with Home for Everyone and the Joint Office on Homeless Services. Thank you.
 Then we'll have three community neighborhood leaders who've participated in the development of this proposal, including Katrina Holland, the director of Community Alliance of Tenants, Felicia Williams, president of the Downtown Neighborhood Association, and Ibrahim Mubarak with Right to Deem Too and Right to Survive.
 So what is this project? The Housing Emergency Community Engagement Plan will provide resources for community and neighborhood groups to constructively affect the current housing crisis and its impacts on our communities and neighborhoods, particularly with an emphasis on engaging individuals experiencing housing insecurity, low-income tenants, and the houseless. Why this project? Um...
 Those with lived experience with being houseless and low-income residents who are at risk of becoming houseless have historically been underrepresented in government decision-making processes, those issues with a direct impact on their lives. And additionally...
 Many community and neighborhood activists had identified a need for more public information about the city's strategy for addressing the housing crisis, and they wanted to know what opportunities exist for community engagement so they could be constructively involved with solutions to the housing instability in our community.
 These are issues that came up, as Commissioner said, this last winter and spring when community leaders brought these issues to us through our budget advisory committee process last winter. So subsequently, City Council approved this spring $350,000 with a budget note that we would return to Council for approval of a plan.
 So as the commissioner said over the summer, ONI convened seven meetings, including several ONI Bureau or Bureau Advisory Committee meetings. Over 60 people participated in those meetings, helping to develop and flesh out this proposal.
 In addition to representatives from all of ONI's 15 partner grantee groups, other community groups work directly with us. Groups working directly with low-income tenants and houseless participated in those meetings, including representatives from OPAL, Living Coley, APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, Community Alliance of Tenants, Right to Dream, Right to Survive, Bradley Angle House, and Historic Park Rose Alliance.
 I'll get that. That group identified outcomes that we wanted to accomplish working together, that our communities will be more informed about a Home for Everyone's Action Plan. We'll be more informed about the one point of contact and various opportunities, how people can be engaged in constructive efforts to help end the housing crisis.
 Two, community organizations working with individuals and families experiencing housing insecurity and homelessness will have expanded capacity to be able to engage more people and provide broader forums for the community to express their concerns, their needs, and issues that they want to organize around on these issues. Secondly, those organizations will be able to expand their capacity to build power to affect policy change and some of the long-term solutions towards ending the housing crisis.
 And lastly, ONI's partner groups will have expanded capacity to collaborate with each other and other community-based groups and government agencies to better inform their constituencies about what's going on and how they can get involved in long-term solutions.
 So specifically our strategies that we propose in the plan. One, project grantees will work together with the Home for Everyone and the City-County Joint Office for Homeless Services to help inform the public about the council adopted action plan to end homelessness.
 what tools exist in the mayor's office, the homeless toolkit, the one point of contact, how they can get information about what's upcoming campsite cleanup efforts and opportunities to engage in other constructive community initiatives to end the housing crisis. So specifically, there will be one competitive grant for $80,000 that will go to one of ONI's existing partner organizations for FTE and limited program support.
 and they will help coordinate our working relationship with the Home for Everyone to work with the various advisory committees and help disseminate information to project partners and the general public. Two, three...
 Two or three community organizations will be able to build their capacity for sharing information, leadership development, community engagement efforts, and public policy advocacy efforts. So there will be three competitive grants, each $80,000, that will help fund FTE and limited program support, split evenly to organizations working for and with low-income tenants, the houseless, and communities of color, immigrants, and refugees.
 And third, lastly, the project will provide funding for several small grant projects to engage more people in creative community-based projects addressing the crisis. So these will be $12,500 in small competitive grants, likely in the $500, probably $2,000 range maximum, will be targeted primarily to small volunteer-based projects showing promise for engaging community and constructive solutions to ending the crisis.
 And then lastly, just to address concerns that have been raised. So it's been pointed out that the budget note was more focused on information sharing and communication. And yes, it is.
 This proposal came out of our budget process, grew out of frustration over the lack of awareness of city county plans and how people could get involved. But over the summer, working with community groups, working with those most impacted by the issue, they made it clear that there was an equal need to build capacity in communities most impacted by the crisis, low income tenants and the houseless to help them build their capacity to effectively advocate for themselves. And then lastly,
 Why community engagement when some have asked why community engagement when maybe these funds should just go directly to building housing? We face a long-term systemic housing crisis and best public involvement practices for achieving racial equity necessitate engaging those most impacted. The houseless and low-income tenants of which there is a disproportionate representation of people of color. And we just wanted to point out that city council adopted a racial equity goal.
 that we will strengthen outreach, public engagement, and access to city services for communities of color and immigrant and refugee communities, and support or change existing services using racial equity best practices. And City Council also adopted public involvement principles, which recognize Portland City Government works best when community members and government work as partners. The preamble had stated...
 We need to engage community members and community resources as part of the solution. And we need to engage the broader diversity of the community, especially people who have not been engaged in the past. So with that said, I'll turn the mic over to Mark Sullivan. Morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you for having me here this morning. I'm here today in my role as the Director of the City-County Joint Office of Homeless Services. I also have the role of Initiative Director for Home for Everyone.
 Over the past several months, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement has included a Home for Everyone and the Joint Office in conversations with its community partners to craft the proposal that you have before you. The result of that process is a proposal that I believe will strengthen the role of community members, in particular those who are experiencing the housing and homeless crisis most acutely, in shaping our response to the crisis generally and through a Home for Everyone more specifically.
 Among the core commitments of A Home for Everyone and of the Joint Office is that the policies and programs we implement to prevent and end homelessness should be shaped by those with personal experience of housing instability and homelessness. That is why we've prioritized having people with lived experience on our coordinating board, our subcommittees, and why we have a monthly forum that emphasizes soliciting the input of those who are living on our streets, in our shelters, and are using services in our system.
 The leadership development component of Oney's proposal promises to increase the number and diversity of people who are living the housing crisis every day, who have the tools they need to bring their perspectives to the various forums within A Home for Everyone, and to help us shape the best possible responses to the challenges that we face. Those tools will also be transferable to other local, state, and federal forums that also have to be part of any effective solution to our crisis.
 The component of this proposal that focuses on helping community groups work with their members to evaluate and develop policy proposals to respond to the housing and homelessness crisis also aligns well with a home for everyone. Specifically, our commitment to a community-based process for identifying the best possible local policies and strategies for preventing and ending homelessness. We hold monthly meetings of work groups on safety off the streets, housing, health care, employment, and veterans' needs,
 These meetings are where we look to the community members to come forward with their recommendations for policies and programs that would allow us to better meet the needs of people experiencing a housing crisis. My hope is that the community-based policy work envisioned in this proposal will feed new ideas and strategies into these work groups and similar policy setting forums at the local and state level. And in turn, lead to new and effective responses to meet the needs of those who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless in our community.
 Finally, as I understand this proposal, it would create an important bridge between a home for everyone, the joint office, and neighborhood associations. We have had numerous stakeholders around the table at a home for everyone over the past two years, but the role of the neighborhood associations has been relatively limited. That is a function, at least in part, of the fact that neighborhood associations were often not aware of the work happening within a home for everyone and how they could participate in that work. My hope and expectation is that the staff capacity envisioned here...
 We'll help remedy that and increase the role of neighborhood associations in our work to end homelessness. Should you approve this proposal, the Joint Office of Homeless Services looks forward to working with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to realize the potential of these funds to, one, strengthen the voices of people with lived experience of the housing crisis in our community's efforts to address homelessness.
 Two, to bring forward community-based policy innovation that will improve our response to the housing crisis. And three, to improve the community's understanding of the important work that is already happening through a home for everyone partners, including the city of Portland and Multnomah County. Thank you. Thank you. Who would like to go next? And Katrina, if it's easier to speak standing, go do that, but whatever works for both of you. Thanks for accommodating us.
 So, again, my name is Katrina Holland, currently serving as Executive Director at Community Alliance of Tenants. I want to thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner, for the opportunity. And thank you, Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and Mark Joel from Home for Everyone, for the opportunity to participate in this process.
 I first want to say that I'm just really impressed with the way that this process moved forward. When we originally heard about the proposal coming forth out of ONI and the community engagement process that was going to follow the award, we were really excited to know that the community had input in that.
 shaping this proposal and shaping how basically how we were going to address the housing crisis so I first want to say thank you so much for that opportunity and I'm really impressed with the way that community input was taken into consideration and molded into the proposal in a way that really facilitated what we believe at Community Alliance of tenants to be crucial in addressing the housing crisis which is community partners community-based organizations and the city partnering together to address our crisis and
 I think, you know, to talk briefly about the concerns that were raised.
 regarding information sharing from the city to the community. One of the things that was really important to Community Alliance attendance is to ensure that there's a healthy feedback loop, so just as much as the city informs us and community-based organizations can carry information out of the city to the community, it's important for the community to also provide input, as we see downstairs. And so I really think that...
 I really think that the investment of this $350,000 into capacity building and into information sharing equally is extremely crucial. One of the things that CAT has prioritized over the last eight to 10 years out of our 20-year organization is building leadership capacity within communities that are most impacted to participate in policymaking, in decisions,
 that impact policy in the long term and impact their lives in the long term. And so knowing that this housing crisis is significantly huge and knowing that the capacity that currently... It's great to see that this proposal includes investment in that one.
 Oops. It's great to see that this proposal includes investing in that capacity because that's crucial in order to keep going, in order to facilitate healthy communication. And so we support the proposal. We're really excited about it. And we look forward to pushing forward in addressing this housing crisis. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning.
 Oh, sorry. Go ahead. So my name is Felicia Williams. I'm the president of the Neighbors West Neighborhood Coalition and also the president of the Downtown Neighborhood Association. And I do want to thank Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hales and Mark Jolin for their work in getting this together. To put this in context, half of people in Portland rent. In downtown and our neighborhood association, 85%.
 of the residents in downtown are renters. My friend Dean has cerebral palsy. I'm helping him move into the Peter Paulson today. The Peter Paulson is a single residency SRO, single room occupancy. Dean has cerebral palsy. He gets $921 a month. It's income restricted. He's paying $542 a month. You can do the math.
 One of our board members on the Downtown Neighborhood Association lost his job four years ago. He put his name on the housing list to get into the 1200 building and to the Roshnitzer Tower. He hasn't gotten in yet. That's directly impacted his health. He was hospitalized this summer. We haven't seen him since. This directly impacts us.
 There are four people, four types of people in Portland. Those who don't care, we're not worried about them because they don't care. The people who do care because they're directly impacted by this, they need the help. The people who want to help, who have the capacity, they want to help. And the people who are scared, angry and frustrated, the people who want information, that's who this is targeted towards, those three groups of people. The people who need help, the people who want to help and the people who want information. And that's what this has been structured around.
 So what we're trying to do is basically just provide that conduit. There are 95 neighborhood associations in the city of Portland. There are seven district coalitions, and there are six diversity and civic leadership groups. We have quite a spread. The Office of Neighborhood Involvement also has various community partners, Lake Cat, Lake Ibrahim. We have a huge amount of capacity for relaying the information back and forth.
 What we don't have is that person that's actually doing the information gathering. This is a short-term fix that was designed purely because of the needs that we were getting from our constituent populations. They wanted that information.
 This is not a long-term solution. This is only a one-year budget item. But what we do need is more information, more of that conduit, because we do. We have people who need help. We have people who want to help. And we have people who desperately just want that information. And so what we can do with this package is get that information out there. And that's why we hope that you will support it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I love that construct. Very simple but very clear about the four different groups. Thank you.
 Good morning. I thank everyone for being here in the lieu of distractions. I think, Ani, Oni, I don't know, I guess my accent, I was saying Ani, but I said Oni. For having us here, for having this proposal, what we have is a fragile situation where it's a rip that's destroying our society and creating confusion between the half and the half-not.
 And it's steady growing and growing impact because there's nothing wrong with progress or doing better for yourself. And I think that's where Portland want to do, want to do better for not just itself, but want to be an example to other cities where the communities, all communities are starting to work together. Our communities are starting to hear from one another and hear each other's concerns and,
 and they're not success. And so what this proposal do, we give the people that live inside a chance to meet with the people that's outside and hear that all houseless people are not drug addicts, are not ladies of the night, are not gang bangers, but because of the housing crisis that's happening all over this country, that people are living on the streets.
 111 people move here daily. So if 111 people move here daily, 111 people are going to the streets daily. So in combining that,
 And I like what the Cully District is doing. The neighbors are talking to the houseless community, seeing what they can do to better that neighborhood. And I think that's what needs to be done with this grant, with this proposal, that you need to combine and have real faces meet real people and say, hey, I'm houseless.
 but I'm not what you think I am. And that's what you're saying, information. We feed them information. They are no better. They know how to approach people. They know how to better their community and know how to better life situation. It's like the situation where the police
 We need information to help each other out and to form a better city and combine and sew that grip or that gap us that's separating us because you live in a house don't mean you're better than a person that live on the streets. We just have diverse situations.
 You all know right to dream, too, right to survive history, how successful we have become. And we don't know how many people know that. So if you've got these successful houseless people outreaching and letting people know they're successful and what it took for them to get successful, I think, you know, I believe I know this will be a better city. Thank you. Questions for this great panel? I have some questions, Mayor. Okay.
 And I appreciate the briefing that I got from Commissioner Fritz yesterday in detail. And I was the third vote to carry this when it first came to council. So I appreciated the opportunity to learn more about the work that's been done in the community, get to this point, and then what our expectations are. So I'm just going to be very clear. One of the challenges we had when this came to council originally is that two of my colleagues, who I respect greatly, had a principal disagreement about this issue.
 that is the housing commissioner and the commissioner in charge of owning, had a disagreement, maybe not so much about ends, but probably about means. And there is a tradition in our council. It's broken all the time. We're honored in the breach of the observance. But that's what traditions. There's a so-called tradition of deferring to the commissioner in charge on an issue where there is that kind of conflict. I made a different judgment.
 and I kind of made a leap of faith because Commissioner Fritz was so passionate about this idea of engaging the community in our work. And the argument she made then and the argument she makes now is that we have a plan, and we have streamlined the leadership tree. We have a home for everyone. We have a joint office. And now our challenge is to make sure that as many people as possible are engaged together
 in that plan, and that means understanding it. It means providing constructive inputs about how to improve it, and it actually means being ambassadors for the values in that plan. If I got a dollar for every time someone comes to council and says, what's your plan? And I say, well, actually, we have a plan, and a lot of thoughtful people sat around the table and hammered it out. Now, can it be better? We'd like to hear from you, but we have a plan. So that was the guiding principle.
 When I hear capacity building, there's one cautionary flag I'm going to put out there, which is we normally think of capacity building as a multi-year exercise. We are, as a council, loathe to invest in positions and capacity building if it's a one-year deal. But as everyone has acknowledged, this is a one-year pilot. There's no guarantee this pilot continues. And, in fact, I would argue that when we get the report from this pilot –
 One of the things we may learn is that there are things we can do better on every issue that comes before council in engaging people because we're sort of identifying housing. But frankly, the same lessons could make us more effective on police accountability, on where we place parks, on how we engage the public on a myriad of issues. So we're not just picking on housing. We're saying housing is our most urgent problem right now. But we may learn some things that help us engage the public better.
 But I just want to acknowledge there was a principal disagreement, and it is somewhat unusual to go against that. But Commissioner Fritz has made a case here, and I respect the fact that she is deeply committed to providing bridges and giving people voices in their government. And when people have a voice, and a respectful voice, a voice where we all hear and listen, not a voice that prevents us from engaging, but a voice where people are meaningfully heard, we actually sometimes do better work.
 So that's the vision. So here are my questions. Mark, as the representative of the Home for Everyone and as the person who does a lot of the diplomacy between the county and the city, will you be fully engaged in all the work over the next year under this pilot, including will you be at the table helping to make decisions about grants?
 I think that is the expectation and the plan, and it will either be me or somebody from our team in the Joint Office who remains engaged in all aspects of this. We may have to clone you, but you do have other people you work with, but you are the leader. Yes. And so will you or your representative be involved? And Commissioner Fritz, is that your understanding? Yes. And...
 Amanda and I have had a follow-up conversation about the difference between sharing information, encouraging people to participate, and having a process to redo a plan outside of the framework. And so everyone's been clear, but I think it's worth just pointing out that we have a plan and we have a process for revising that plan, and what we're talking about is encouraging as many people as possible to become part of that process. Does that correctly state the proposition? That is right. I think that is the intent of this project, yes.
 We will get a report at the end of the pilot, so we'll get to see what the judgment of Oney is about how this has worked. Is that correct? We'll commit to that. And I will just say what Amanda says at these moments. In other cases, this is one-time money. We don't know what the economy is going to do next year. We are hopeful that it continues with blue skies. We don't know.
 Amanda and I have spent more time on this council cutting budgets than investing in budgets. So with that understanding, it's one year, and that, I hope, will guide the grantmaking, understanding that it's a one year, not a one year with a plus, because that's not guaranteed. Again, I appreciate the briefings that I've received and recognizing that there's a certain awkwardness in having a conflict within the family
 We also make our best judgments, and I'm going to, based on what I've been told by Mark, by the county chair, by Commissioner Fritz, and what I've heard this morning, I'm going to support this. I'm going to accept the report, and I thank you. Really appreciate the presentation. I appreciate the report. I appreciate all the work that people have been doing to make sure that this pilot is a success. So thank you very, very much. And, yes, I also will vote to accept the report.
 So, of course, when we scheduled this presentation, Commissioner Saltzman had not filed an absence. I should have realized it was Jean-Pierre. That wasn't on his schedule until after we had publicized this meeting. But my understanding is that Commissioner Saltzman continues to put great faith in Mark and the Joint Office, and he's okay with what he's about to say. Yeah, and I can also say that...
 He has not offered an opinion one way or another with me, which is normally the sign that he expects us to make our best judgments on this. And he would be here other if it were not a religious holiday. So that's dangerous. Ibrahim, is there anything else you'd like to add? We're taking friendly amendments if there's something you'd like to add. The executive order sign. That's right. Mr. President, about the amendment there.
 The mayor is back. We'll let the mayor lead the proceeding. You missed your chance. So I think what I would like to do, if there's not objection from any of my colleagues, is I'd like to – we're going to continue this item for later in the calendar for today so that people can testify on it later. But we're going to actually take up one of our regular agenda items. So I think we want to make sure we've had our discussion with the panel –
 uh... and and thank you and not hold you here to have other business people sign up for the people signed up for this item and i want to give them a chance to speak but it's important that we get some other work done today as well so there's no objection allah will close the presentation continue this item to later on our calendar today uh... i just wanna say if you if you're not sure in case you might not be here then that uh...
 This is a little tangential, but stick with me. Two Saturdays ago, I was at Mercy Corps, and there were 150 people in the room, and they were advocates and homeless folks and architects and big thinkers about housing. And there were a whole bunch of new people in the discussion, a lot of young architects who I hadn't met before. And it was this amazing mix of people.
 mixture of ideas and energy and commitment.
 that I think this effort is going to tap into. And so it was one more affirmation to me that not only, you know, when we opened a new shelter in the Sears building, you know, people in the neighborhood organized themselves and started bringing food to the folks that were staying there. You know, there's a lot of that kind of good-hearted interest in Portlanders' part to do something and help. But there was also this intellectual ferment about the bigger picture and how to solve the problem or at least a piece of the problem, in that case with tiny houses, right?
 And so it's just one more affirmation to me that this kind of structured engagement of people that care and want to do something is really a good idea. And we'll learn something. We'll learn new things. We'll come up with strategies that even the biggest and most focused effort the city and the county have ever had on housing and homelessness will be improved effectively.
 by the fact that those kinds of ideas and innovations will come to us. So it was just, you know, I believed in this before, but frankly being in that room with those folks is like, oh, yeah, this is going to work. And so I just really appreciate, Commissioner, you and this team putting this, making this real, putting it together in a way that I think is going to produce that kind of uplift.
 upwelling of good ideas and commitment and cooperation and understanding that we might not have otherwise had. Thank you all very much. So, again, without objection, I'm going to continue this item until later in our calendar and then go to the regular agenda and bring up Item 1142, which is a second reading. That's the police contract.
 1142, ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the city and the Portland Police Association relating to the terms and conditions of employment of represented employees in the Portland Police Association bargaining unit. So I know some of my colleagues may have statements to make. Any questions before we take a vote? Okay, roll call please. Novick.
 I recognize that we have a police staffing problem and that we have a problem relating to competitive compensation, especially for people in the first six months of their service in the police bureau. And I appreciate all the effort that has gone into crafting this contract. Thank you.
 My concern is that this commits us to a significant ongoing expense when we do not know that we will have the ongoing funding to address it.
 The city discretionary budget goes almost entirely to police, fire, parks, and housing. So if we make a commitment that we're not able to pay for in one area, that means we'll either have cuts in the other areas or we'll need to raise additional revenue.
 And this year, in terms of ongoing money, we've spent every dollar that we have. This would set up an ongoing commitment, what's fully phased in, of about $7 million, is my understanding. Okay.
 And at this point, we actually are already overextended in terms of our ongoing commitments because this year we're spending $11.5 million of ongoing money on homeless services, and we've made a commitment to spend $15 million a year on homeless services. So we're $3.5 million in the hole.
 So this proposal, in the absence of a very favorable revenue forecast, would put us further in the hole. Sometimes it may not be practical to know exactly how you're going to pay for a new commitment, but in those cases at least I'd want to be in a position to tell the public how difficult it might be to pay for that new commitment. Here, one problem we have is that we haven't seen the revenue forecast for the next year yet. That comes later in the year.
 We don't know whether the proposed marijuana tax is going to pass. We would have a much better idea of our fiscal position in several weeks than we do now. There's one...
 Non-financial issue that I wanted to touch on which is we heard a lot of concerns raised about Body cameras and whether police officers but not other citizens would be able to review body camera footage before making statements The mayor of the city attorney's office have made it quite clear that this contract does not commit us to any particular body camera policy although does commit us to bargaining over body camera policies and
 A commitment that I want to make is that if at some point through bargaining or otherwise the city adopts a policy of allowing police officers to review body camera footage before making statements, then that...
 that same privilege be extended to other people involved in the incident, whether they be suspects or witnesses or other witnesses who might be asked to make statements. Because I think it would be a very unfortunate dynamic if the officers were able to review footage before making statements and the other citizens involved are not. Because.
 Although there's always problems in eyewitness testimony, people's memories, particularly in stressful situations, are not perfect. And if you set up a situation where one party is able to review footage and the other is not, then in subsequent proceedings, one party will look more credible than the other, even if there is no intent on the part of the person who looks less credible to deceive.
 So that's a commitment I want to make on any future policy discussion we have on this issue. Finally, I did want to note that the mayor did propose a way to pay for this contract in the budget process last May, proposing a tax increase to do so. And although I did not think we laid sufficient groundwork to be able to support that tax increase at that time, I do appreciate the fact that,
 The mayor did make an effort to ensure that we would be able to pay for this, and I just wanted to acknowledge that. So, in light of the foregoing, I respectfully vote no. This is one of the most important votes I've cast in nearly eight years on the City Council.
 After my husband was killed in a car crash two years and three weeks ago, the most crucial issue that prompted me to seek re-election was the knowledge that our work to solve conflicts between the Portland Police Bureau and the communities the officers are sworn to protect and serve was far from over. It is still far from over. I want to state into the record my reasoning for my vote, and a lot of reason has gone into this.
 Eleanor Roosevelt said, it takes courage to stand up and speak, and it takes courage to sit down and listen. Now, we have done a lot of sitting down and listening to the community over the past month and more, so I invite everybody to please sit and listen to my long speech. The City of Portland has not made the progress that we should have made in police reform and accountability since the Department of Justice settlement agreement was adopted.
 I am sorry for my part in failing to achieve more of the reforms set in the settlement agreement. I apologise for not succeeding in improving community trust in the police bureau, which is one of the goals I stated in my 2012 election campaign. I worked hard for the past four years, but we haven't yet reached those goals. I apologise to every Portlander who has experienced disparate treatment from police officers since the settlement agreement was approved.
 I'm grateful that Portland Voters re-elected me this past May. I pledge to work even harder to collaborate with people of color, people experiencing mental illness or other disabilities, and everyone who cares about this problem to implement changes that will make us all safer.
 Surely we can all agree that what we want at the end of each day is for everyone to be safe and warm in their home, whether we're talking about individuals in daily activities in our communities or about our police officers returning to their families at the end of each shift. This week, a person living outside in Seattle was killed by a police officer in the midst of a knife fight with another tent resident.
 And also this week, a police officer who had recently returned to work after maternity leave to nurture her first child was killed during a welfare check in Palm Springs. Surely we can all agree that these deaths are tragic. Surely we can all agree that killing a human being, whether a community member or a public safety officer, is wrong. We must keep striving for change.
 For me and I know for many of our community partners, there is no alternative. We will not stop working for justice until there is justice for all. I am grateful to the hundreds of Portlanders who have attended countless meetings of the Community Oversight Advisory Board, the Citizen Review Committee, discussions on independent police review and other similar gatherings. Thank you to everyone who has attended a Black Lives Matter or Don't Shoot Portland rally. Thank you to the people who are protesting here today.
 I thank everyone who took time to come to City Hall and the other places we've held meetings to share your concerns and advice. Thank you also to everyone who has called, written letters, sent personal emails or even signed petitions. Thank you especially to the leaders of the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform. Dr. Bethel, Dr. Haynes, Joanne Hardesty, Dan Handelman and others have been working for change in police policies for decades.
 Racism runs deep in our city's history and in our present. The Albina Ministerial Alliance has shown dignified leadership, continuously advocating for justice over decades and generations. The past has modeled how to disagree without being disagreed with. Disagreeable. Ms. Hardesty, as the chair of the NAACP in Portland, has been a leader throughout our state, in the legislature and locally.
 You speak your truth and you hold me and other elected officials accountable for results. Thank you. I also thank Debbie Iona of the League of Women Voters Portland and Darlene Lemley, Carol Cushman and other League members who have attended countless meetings and sent numerous thoughtful letters on police accountability.
 TJ Browning, Rochelle Silver and many others join the ranks of white allies who have volunteered on boards in commission and in community processes as advocates for accountability. I have read all your memoranda. I respect your integrity. I thank you for educating me. I must also acknowledge Theresa Rayford. I first met Theresa when she was running for my seat on the City Council in 2012.
 Portland has failed Teresa and her family over and over. But Teresa has not given up on Portland. In 1981, which is not that long for somebody my age, not that long ago, Portland police officers threw dead possums on the steps of the burger bar in her grandfather's business. The officers who did that vile act were reinstated by an arbitrator after Commissioner Charles Jordan fired them.
 Teresa's nephew and cousin died by gunfire on Portland Street. I'll say this again. Portland has failed Teresa over and over, but Teresa has not given up on Portland. She was arrested and went to trial for disorderly contract as a don't-shoot Portland Valley, and she was vindicated. She won one back. She doesn't abide by the rules for community engagement
 It doesn't just sorry, this sentence that I wrote at three o'clock this morning does not make sense, so I'll skip it. Teresa, I will forever remember your testimony on the council agenda item reviewing the purchase of a bridge crane. You conveyed the sorrows and hopes of many Black women in the few minutes you were given to speak on that topic, tying in public process with community advocacy.
 You are a warrior for justice, a leader for our community, especially for younger Portlanders and communities of color. Thank you for continuing to insist on the pursuit of justice. Obviously, the easiest path for me today would be to vote no. I received dozens of emails, letters, and phone calls urging me to wait to let the new mayor address the contract. Many of the people who I respect most in the entire world, as well as in Portland, have contacted me urging me not to ratify the contract.
 I agree. Way too many Portlanders have died in incidents involving the police bureau. Both white people, including James Chassie, and people of color such as Keep Notice, Kendrick James, Jose Mayor Poot and others. Every life ending in gunfire is tragic and many are avoidable. This is something some of what I've heard in hearings and what I've read in written testimony.
 Many people are concerned about the draft policy on body camera use by officers, which was posted with the union contract. Let's be very clear. The union contract is silent on the issue of body cameras. There is nothing in the contract on body cameras.
 The Council has not yet voted to purchase any body cameras. We directed the Police Bureau to research the issue and to return to a full Council hearing before proceeding to purchase any cameras. Mayor Hales's amendment to this ordinance is crystal clear that the draft body camera policy will be reviewed and amended by a stakeholder committee. Then it will return to Council for a full public hearing where amendments will be considered.
 Mayor Hale's amendment states that the City Council will decide on the body camera policy, not the Chief of Police, Portland Police Association or the Mayor alone. What is on the table is the Portland Police Association's agreement not to open the entire contract to bargain on the body camera policy. That is a huge win if we ratify the proposed contract today.
 Obviously, the most crucial issue in this debate is the use of deadly force policy. The Union has agreed that revisions to this policy will be determined by the United States Department of Justice. And at last, the 48-hour waiting period before an officer may be interviewed in connection with a community member being killed by a police officer is deleted from the contract.
 This policy has been condemned since the turn of the century. Countless groups and individuals have railed against it, and it's obvious she needs to go. This contract deletes it. I commend Mayor Hales for achieving what other mayors have tried and failed to win in union bargaining agreements.
 Some community members have said that the deletion of the 48-hour rule is meaningless if other protections for officers remain in place. Nothing in the ordinance before us today deletes the authority to interview officers involved in deadly force incidents immediately if warranted.
 Some community advocates have voiced concern that an officer could delay giving a statement until he or she reviews the body camera evidence. That is simply not true. And again, the body camera policy will come back to Council per the Mayor's amendment. The rules on reviewing data, including audio and video evidence, is subject to Department of Justice review under the settlement agreement.
 Another concern I heard is that there are no standards for which officers are allowed to come back to work part-time as retirees. Contracts state that the chief has absolute discretion on who to hire back and who should not be allowed to re-enter the workforce. I find it unbelievable that any chief appointed by the mayor as the commissioner in charge of the bureau would invite criticism by hiring back officers who are not trusted by the community. Re-hiring of retirees should be at the discretion of the chief, and it is.
 I've met with police chiefs regularly since I took office in 2009. Community members may consider both the council and the police bureau out of touch with community concerns, but I can't believe that any mayor would allow the police chief to rehire officers known to be despised by the community. In Yorkshire, England, where I grew up, there is a saying, why borrow trouble?
 Bureau directors, including police chiefs, are hired for their connection to all of our communities in Portland. While I understand community concerns about retiring of retirees, I don't believe that concern is enough to compel me to vote against the package. Another concern I recognize is the assertion that the contract doesn't go far enough to mandate disciplinary action when officers act contrary to city policy.
 The union has agreed to withdraw 11 grievances that have been filed and are pending decisions. Withdrawing those grievances means the union is accepting the Bureau's clear and objective discipline guide, which mandates actions in relation to offensive. The use of the discipline guide has resulted in stiffer penalties for infractions than the previous benchmark of past practice.
 Since Mayor Hales took office, 12 officers have been terminated or resigned in lieu of termination. Officers who resign under pressure of discipline or who are fired in response to their actions lose their accreditation. They can't work as police officers anywhere in Oregon. And in the cases where the arbitrator has ruled that the city must continue to employ an officer who the chief and the mayor have filed, those officers are now assigned to work where they will never interact with the community on the streets. Thanks.
 The acceptance of the discipline guide by the union is a significant win for our community and the police commissioner, Mayor Hales. And the discipline guide is not part of the contract. If the police chief, mayor, council or community members want to change it, that can be done administratively rather than being bargained in contract negotiations.
 Arbitrators have ruled in favour of the Portland Police Association's contract multiple times on multiple issues. Many community members recognise this and would like to see the contract changed to send conflicts to the Civil Service Board rather than the arbitration process. I share that desire. This is one issue on which I agree we didn't get everything that we wanted. Should we reject the whole package due to not prevailing on that issue?
 In union negotiations, the final decisions are never all on one side or the other. The final package before the Council today reflects that reality. The agreement recognizes that changes to the independent police review process and Citizens Review Committee's hearings to consider appeals to the IPR are pending. It recognizes the role of the U.S. Department of Justice on those processes. It continues to recognize that IPR...
 I agree with community concerns about this section of the contract, and I will continue to advocate to address those concerns when the independently elected city auditor decides to move forward with her reform package. I don't see a compelling argument to delay contract ratification on that issue.
 So in summary, there are several sections of the contract in which I share community concerns. There are several sections of the tentative agreement on which I believe community concerns are misinformed. And there are some where I believe the contract addresses the concerns and give the council and the community long-held wins.
 So the question I've asked myself over the past month is, why do this now? Why not support the position of community advocates who unite in asking the council to delay their decision on the contract until Mayor Wheeler takes the leadership helm of our city?
 So the core question is, what is the cost of voting to approve this contract or not? And I'm not talking about the cost in dollars. Council was clear this spring when Mayor Hales proposed the third charge on the business income tax to pay for the 4% raises for all officers. And along with other commissioners, I assessed the monetary bill of over $9 million in ongoing resources too high, when we weren't also buying changes to the contract.
 Now, the bill is around $6 million, with significant concessions from the police union on crucial issues such as I've just described. We are buying the elimination of the 48-hour rule, agreement that the body camera policy and other Department of Justice mandated reforms are not subject to bargaining, and dismissal of 11 grievances, some of which could cost the city millions if arbitration rules in the union's favor. But this is about more than the dollars and the contract and the ordinance language.
 Local activists have seized on the contract as an issue that relates to the broader community concern about justice in relation to police officers' actions in our city. The fundamental question is, what are the costs for our community in either accepting or rejecting this package? Not the dollar costs, but the people costs. Who will suffer if this contract is not ratified today?
 The answer I see is that people who suffer will be the same communities that good-hearted, earnest advocates seek to protect, low-income communities and communities of color. The cost of delay will be impacts to neighborhoods struggling to reduce gang violence and human trafficking, neighborhoods desperate for community policing with officers on walking beats to forge connections with people living outside.
 and with young adult panhandlers, people wrestling with drug and alcohol addictions, and residents and employers just trying to get through each day with the safety net of police officers responding to 911 calls within minutes of the report being called in.
 For every report about officer-community interaction gone bad, there are hundreds or thousands of responses where police officers provide vital services to Portlanders who are crime victims, to people experiencing mental illnesses, including people threatening to kill themselves and or others due to suicidal thoughts. We need Portland police officers to have capacity to report to traffic cashier
 Traffic caches, domestic violence calls, human trafficking and many routine calls. The contract addresses those needs by providing the incentives for recruitment.
 This is a we issue, a we opportunity, rather than an us and them framing. What should we agree on as issues and goals that we all unite in caring about? This is an opportunity for collective ownership of reform in the police bureau and in our city. We must listen to the collective voices of our community and seek to find common ground, common goals, common agreements on strategies that will promote reform within our police. Oh, oh my God.
 Oh, man, turn the audio off! What the fuck? I just wanted to introduce you to... There, baby! No! What the fuck? Hey, can you pull or something? Oh, hold on. Oh, my God. Shut your... This is a fucking public... Wow. We can't even hear this. Wow. That seems to be working. Turn off the audio. Turn it off.
 We need to have incentives for new recruits to come to the Bureau, for new idealistic young people who share all values driven Portlanders' desire to support a police bureau that reflects both the vision and the demographics of our communities.
 The Albina Ministerial Alliance, the NAACP, mental health care advocates, the League of Women Voters, and many individuals and groups share a long history of advocating on police reform. I have listened to the collective and individual voices from the community advising me on this vote, and I agree, Portland City Government does need to put our own house in order.
 And still, I refuse to stay stuck in an adversarial position. I was elected with public campaign financing. I was a community activist for 15 years before I began to aspire to elected office. As a city commissioner, I own the responsibility to acknowledge the problems and find solutions.
 Police services should be about we and not us and them. We all own our own part in making that value the new reality in Portland. So considering all of that, today I'm voting based on the cost of delay and the cost of ratification. The people cost, the community safety costs, the long-term public good costs. Of the two choices, approve or reject, in my assessment the cost of delay is more compelling and daunting.
 We already have 65 vacancies in the police bureau, with 21 more officers due to retire just this month. If we don't ratify the contract with its agreement on recruitment incentives, we will likely be short 150 officers by the end of the fiscal year next June.
 It is a sad fact that we are not allowed to give recruitment and entry-level benefits without the consent of the union in opening the contract and agreeing to the package of pay raises for all officers. I am a proud, dues-paying union member of the Oregon Nurses Association still. I understand why union contracts matter and why workers deserve due process when bargaining on contracts.
 In return for the investments we were making in the Portland Police Association Union contract, we are buying very significant concessions, deleting the 48-hour rule, dismissing 11 grievances, and setting parameters for compliance with the Department of Justice settlement agreement. Thank you to the Bargaining Skills and Human Resources Director, Anna Canwitt, with the support of Mayor Hales, for achieving these improvements.
 I've visited 30 of Portland's 95 neighborhoods in the past couple of months, giving information about how the ballot measures we'll vote on in November affect Portlanders. Everywhere I go, community members are asking why their neighborhood doesn't get needed police attention. In Selwood last week, a woman walked with me after the meeting to tell me that her son-in-law is working so many overtimes in the police bureau, he barely sees his family.
 It is not safe for police officers to continue to work so many hours. The chance that officers will make a terrible decision in the use of deadly force increases when they're exhausted from working too many hours. I know I was a registered nurse before I got an election to the county. I know I was less safe in my work environment when I was sleep deprived and stressed out. That reality is one of the true costs of the question on whether to delay or implement this contract.
 I want every neighbour in Portland to receive prompt attention when they call 911 requesting intervention by a police officer. I want every officer working in our community to promote community safety and to eliminate all disparate actions related to people of colour, people experiencing mental health illnesses, people who can't find shelter and all the others who are disadvantaged due to the City of Portland's past and present actions.
 I recognise that on this vote I'm saying no to almost everyone who has contacted me on this issue and people that I love and value as my core supporters. Eleanor Roosevelt also said, do what you believe in your heart is right, for you will be criticised anyway. Having considered all input, I believe in my hope, in my heart, that this vote is right. I fish.
 Mayor Hales, at a moment like this, politicians usually say something like, that's a tough act to follow. I'll simply say it's an honor to follow Commissioner Fritz and to state my comments for the record. And because of the circumstances in which we find ourselves today, I have posted my statement on my website for those that would like to read along. And I will read it because I took time to craft these words and I want to get it right.
 Colleagues, let's start with something we can all agree on this morning. One of our core responsibilities is to provide adequate funding for fire and police. The community expects nothing less. And let me be clear about my values. The important work of police reform and accountability is essential to maintaining public trust and is a core responsibility of this council. The people we serve expect us to invest in public safety. What does that mean?
 It means a prompt response to a 911 call, a firefighter and an ambulance when needed, and a personal relationship with a cop, which is the heart of community policing. And that explains why, during good times and bad, this council has worked hard to protect public safety from budget cuts. The debate over this proposed police contract has been charged. And I've spent a lot of time listening to testimony,
 reading emails, and getting input from trusted friends and community leaders like Aval Gordly, Dr. T. Allen Bethel, and Speaker Tina Kotek. They remind me that there is history in our community to be accounted for, there are lingering trust issues, and there are unfulfilled promises of justice and reform. During my service on this Council, I have been proud to support important reforms and accountability measures. This includes the Department of Justice settlement,
 the discipline of officers who've engaged in misconduct, a new police training facility, and proposals to reform the independent police review process. Not long ago, I spent the night on patrol with officers from the gang enforcement unit. I saw firsthand their professionalism and dedication. They did the right thing under very difficult circumstances. But they can't do their job if we don't support them.
 The challenge before us is a staffing shortage that is reaching crisis proportions. 9-1-1 response times are now six minutes or longer, putting all Portlanders at risk. Chief Marshman reports that officers cannot follow up on some 9-1-1 calls, such as thefts with no suspects, because they are responding to 35% more calls than four years ago. We have a shortage of 65 officers and 20 more vacancies to come this month,
 And the trend only gets worse. Over the next five years, the police bureau anticipates nearly 400 retirements. To address this problem, there are proposals on the table to cannibalize specialty units like gang enforcement and domestic violence reduction unit to get more officers on the streets. This would do violence to the spirit and the letter of community policing. It's unacceptable to me and to the people who depend on these important services.
 The proposed contract isn't perfect, but as Commissioner Fritz notes, it makes progress in a number of key areas. Addressing the acute staffing shortage. Making Portland police salaries more competitive to help us recruit and retain qualified officers. Advancing our reform agenda by removing the 48-hour rule. Affirming the city's right to discipline officers who engage in misconduct. The proposed agreement is also significant for what is not in it.
 As the Mayor's amendment makes clear, it does not establish a policy on body cameras, which must be negotiated separately and then brought back to Council for a public hearing and vote. Three final observations. First, I have reviewed Ted Wheeler's 10-point plan for police reform. This contract addresses a number of the concerns he raises, while other issues can be addressed through Council or executive action. Second,
 If we are to make this investment in new officers and retaining experienced officers, we must seize this moment to advance our equity and diversity goals. At my request, the mayor has pledged to hold a work session in November to outline his plan and Chief Marshman's plan for making our police force more representative of the people they serve. And finally, some have questioned the cost of this agreement. I am more concerned about the cost of doing nothing.
 The alternative to approving this contract is unacceptable to me. It could be years before we get a new contract. The 48-hour rule would still be in effect, and there's no guarantee that we'll get a better deal in the future. I know that my vote today will disappoint some in our community. However, leaders are called upon to make the best decisions consistent with their values. This proposed contract supports two of my top priorities, supporting police reform and investing in public safety.
 I vote aye. Hayles? I have only a little to add to these eloquent statements that we've just heard from Commissioners Fritz and Fish about this contract. So I won't spend a lot of time on the substance of this. But first on the larger agenda.
 We have work to do in police reform in our city. We have made progress, and I am very proud of that progress. But we still have work to do. And as we've heard from my colleagues today, there's a commitment by the leadership of this city, by the Portland Police Bureau, and by the community to carry on that work. Secondly, we've seen real gains in the police bureau's understanding of and dealing with
 very difficult situations on the street. Our use of force is down significantly. And as I say all the time, I get reports every night of our police officers de-escalating situations that perhaps in the past would have involved force, and tragically in other cities today is involving force in appalling and unacceptable ways.
 with loss of life that should never happen. And I'm really proud of those reports I get day after day, week after week, of de-escalation, of crisis in our community.
 Don't take my word for it. A neighbor of mine, Mary Nichols, went on a ride-along recently. And being particularly adept at social media, she posted an account of that ride-along and even some video of the experience, including de-escalating a situation involving domestic violence that, frankly, I was amazed that they managed to de-escalate.
 And some 50,000 people have already seen Mary's post, and I hope everybody in Portland sees it. So that account affirms what I'm seeing as the police commissioner in the progress that we're making. There's much more to do, and I remain committed. I know this council remains committed to the Department of Justice settlement, the spirit and the letter, and doing better than the letter in how we actually operate as a police bureau.
 Finally, I want to thank my colleagues because, as we all know, but I think not everyone understands in the community, we have a series of executive sessions in which the council gives direction to our bargaining team when we're doing union contracts. And this council was clear about...
 how much we could afford to do and no more, and our goals in terms of things like the 48-hour rule that had to be included in this package. So I know that put our bargaining team and ultimately me, when I went to the Portland Police Association Executive Board and said, take this contract because this is as good as it will get in terms of what your goals are and includes everything that we must have in terms of ours. And to their credit, they did accept that proposition, and they've ratified this agreement.
 So finally, I just want to, again, thank some people. Anna Canwit is away, but she and her team at the Bureau of Human Resources have worked really hard to get us to this day, and I appreciate that good work. Our city attorney's office, Mark Amberg, is here. They have worked really hard to get us to that point. Our professionals in the police bureau and those two agencies have served the city council very well in getting to an agreement that is good for Portland. Aye. Aye.
 Let's take a brief recess for comfort's sake and come back at 1130. Thank you. Good job. Thank you, Amanda. Thank you.
 I'm going to go ahead and get a drink.
 I've got a goal here. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal. I've got a goal.
 Take up item number 1127, which is the approval of findings.
 1127, appeal of Portsmouth Neighborhood Association against hearing officer's decision to approve the application of Bridge Meadows for a conditional use and adjustment with conditions for New Meadows, a proposed group living facility at 8710 North Dana Avenue, LU15273480CUAD. Thank you.
 Good morning. There's a button on the base of that microphone. There you go. Good morning, Mayor Hales, Council Members. Thank you. So you should have before you the revised findings for the New Meadows Group Living Facility. Just a quick reminder, we first heard this on September 14th. Council did take a tentative vote.
 to basically deny the appeal from the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association and uphold the hearings officer's decision with a couple of minor modifications to conditions of approval related to the parking lot and the good neighbor agreement.
 And Council instructed Bureau of Development Services staff to basically incorporate that into the findings and bring that back to you. So the findings you have are those do incorporate Council's deliberation findings.
 And basically we're looking for a motion to accept those findings and to accept the final decision of approval on this case. So moved. Okay. Any discussion? I assume the parties are fine with the findings as you've proposed them? They are, yes. Okay. Then a roll call vote to accept the findings, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your work on this item. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, let's move to perhaps you want to do the pulled consent item first and then move on to the... Yes, we can do that. Item 1128, the pulled item. Yeah, so let's do 1128. I think someone asked that this be pulled. Mr. Lightning did. Okay, let's take that item then, please.
 reappoint George Fetzer to the River Community Advisory Committee for a term to expire May 21 2019 okay so we'll just pause for a minute so mr. lightning can be brought up to the chamber waiting for him probably will take a break at 1230 maybe see how it goes we do we do we have the vision zero
 action plan this afternoon. Yeah, yeah. So both times certain. It's 2 o'clock for the scheduling item and 3 o'clock for Vision Zero. So it would be a good idea to try to get the morning calendar done if we can this morning. We'll see if we manage that. Maybe we can come back. Yeah, coming back at 2 might... Or we could come back at 1.30. It's a long time to get the hour. Yeah.
 We could do the time certain first and then the rest of the morning calendar too. That's the other option. Well, we probably should take the test journey for people who signed up on the only plan. Right. Well, are there people here that you think are... That's what Carla said. So there are 20. 20 people signed up on that? Yeah.
 Mayor, excuse me. It's my understanding Mr. Lightning is not available or they cannot find him. Okay. Then we'll go ahead and take a motion, please, on the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call on 1128. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye.
 Okay, I understand we have some invited testimony, or at least neighborhood activist testimony that you want to make sure we hear. Is that right? So let's return at least momentarily to Item 1126. I think it's the first person signed up? Yes, Joanne Reese Lukens. Okay, so we'll pause and let her come upstairs. She might just be right outside. Yeah. Thank you. That's good, too.
 yes okay good morning welcome come have a seat and there's a button on the base of that microphone that you just need to push to make it active and thanks for your patience and we appreciate you being here
 My name is Joanne Reese-Lukini. Our family lives in Lentz, and we are taxpayers and voters. I have some concerns about ONI's housing emergency community engagement plan, and I'm trying to be proactive.
 My first concern is how much of the $350,000 will be used to alleviate the sufferings of those most impacted by the housing crisis, versus how much will be spent on overhead among the participating agencies? Why is ONI undertaking this, despite the city budget office analysis advising that there are already established outreach and public engagement efforts, primarily facilitated through the Housing Bureau?
 My second concern is, will the community engagement be meaningful, inclusive, and equitable? I see no mention of neighbor engagement in the plan, yet the neighbors are the ones who will be expected to coexist peaceably and equitably. Neighbors are everyone who contribute to the fabric of the community. In Lentz, our neighbors are housed and unhoused. Renters, homeowners, and campers. Poor, working poor, and working class.
 Lentz is a diverse community where everyone coexists, yet the city consistently and consciously failed to acknowledge this the past year. The city chose to see the struggle of the diverse housed and the diverse unhoused as separate struggles.
 Policies seem to be directed at divide and conquer, where the diverse poor, working poor, and working class housed will pivot against the diverse poor and working poor unhoused to everyone's detriment. My third concern is, will the community be respectfully listened to and heard, or will the engagement remain lip service and participation remain tokenized?
 Lent's experience this past year has been that, whether housed or unhoused, concerns were ignored or dismissed if they didn't match the city's agenda. No matter who protested, housed or unhoused, or about what, human rights, health, safety, safe space, quiet enjoyment, the message was clear. They don't really care about us.
 When a Lentz resident dared to suggest that wealthier neighborhoods should also bear the responsibility for caring for the unhoused, a city employee used a misogynistic, oppressive epithet to describe him on social media, and the city has yet to issue an apology.
 In closing, in the spirit of participatory democracy, since the neighborhood associations were asked by the mayor's office for the neighbor's opinion, I would also like to remind that adding more police does not negate the need for police accountability. And we also respectfully request that city council delay the approval of the Portland police contract until Mayor Wheeler takes office. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next slide.
 Thank you very much for your testimony. If you'd like to step into the office of neighborhood involvement, Brian Hoop is the person who's worked on this, and I think he can answer most of your questions. Yeah, but I thought it was very ironic that as a community member, I had to wait to speak, but yet the agencies were allowed to speak ahead of me.
 And that's very indicative of what I was sort of saying in my statement as well, too, that the agencies, some of which, I hate to say it, are poverty pimps, are actually more important than myself. I was here at 8.30 this morning.
 froze my patootie outside for half an hour before the doors were opened. I've been waiting patiently to testify, and yet the agencies got in ahead of me. I did it all on my own nickel and my own clock. Everybody else was getting paid a salary in order to show up, and I find it incredibly disrespectful. Appreciate that. I apologize for that, and thank you for your engagement. Thank you very much.
 Okay, I think Ms. Fritz will want to continue that item a week and take the rest of the testimony then. Given the number of items that we have left to do, some of which are going to require votes today, I'd prefer to carry it over to next week. I'm sorry, put that microphone back on. We'll carry that item over until next week, and anyone who signed up to speak on that item can do so then.
 Okay, let's move on then to the regular agenda. All right, take 1140. Authorized purchase of replacement police patrol vehicles at $3,243,864. Without objection, I'm going to return that item to my office until next week. Thank you. Okay, 1141. Oh, sorry.
 Authorize water revenue bonds to finance water system additions and improvements and to refund water revenue bonds. Good morning.
 Just push the button on the base of the...
 Secondly, the ordinance authorizes refinancing of outstanding water revenue bonds for the purpose of realizing debt service savings. We currently expect that we'll refund approximately $85 million of outstanding bonds, and we'll realize about $9 million in present value debt service savings. This is subject to the market conditions, so it could be up or down from that, but that's where we think it is right now.
 Lastly, the ordinance authorizes certain amendments to our first lien water revenue bond ordinance to provide greater flexibility with respect to the funding of debt service reserves and the treatment of operating expenses. With the issuance of these bonds, we'll have sufficient bondholder consents to proceed with those amendments and we expect they'll take effect upon the closing of the 2016 bonds.
 Our expectation is that we will sell the bond through competitive bidding in early December or with closing in mid-December. We'll be requesting a rating on the issue from Moody's. The Bureau's first lien bonds are currently rated AAA by Moody's. Questions? Mr. Johansen, one of the benchmarks set by the Independent Budget Office for the Water Bureau is to maintain its AAA credit rating.
 and it is one of a handful of public utilities in the country that has a AAA credit rating. This is the second presentation we've had in about a month where we've talked about refinancing bonds and realizing savings for taxpayers. We had a conversation involving the Bureau of Environmental Services, and now the Water Bureau.
 Now, you've identified about $9 million in savings from the refinancing. What is the impact of a AAA credit rating on those savings? Certainly results in greater amount of savings. The higher the rating, the lower interest rate investors will be willing to take. In rough terms, for every $100 million of bonds that we issue,
 having a AAA rating versus, say, a AA2 rating is worth about $3.2 million over 20 years. So that's kind of a standard way of measuring the benefit of the AAA rating relative to a more typical rating on a revenue bond.
 I think it's important because we talk at budget time about maintaining a AAA credit rating and what does that mean when rating agencies give us a AAA credit rating. Here's an example where we're taking advantage of historically low interest rates and the city's credit rating allows us to get the most favorable rates and that means we can borrow money at lower rates and save rate payers the cost that would otherwise be there. So I think that's something worth noting. Yep, definitely.
 Thank you very much. Do you want to sign up to speak on this item? I'll see what the sign-up sheets are in one moment. Okay. So are you guys good with soldiering on for another half hour or so here? Steve, is the first item for the afternoon a presentation in support of a recommendation to go into our legislative agenda? No.
 No, actually, it's short of that. It's a resolution calling on employers to evaluate their own scheduling practices and see if there are ways that we can deal with the other issue later. Yeah, and we'll make a statement. I do hope that the legislature will take action, but we'll be able to take action ourselves. I've been here before. Okay. Okay.
 Actually, let's, oh no, Carl's not here. I was going to say we could do the second meeting items, get them out of the way, but we'll do that later. Okay, but you called the names in chambers? Okay. Okay. Do at least two or three, I'll call the three names and hold them at the door.
 Okay, the first three people to testify on item 1141, the water revenue bonds, are David Davis, Robert West, and Cecile Evans. Okay. They'll be followed by, I believe it's Angela Warner, maybe, Ashley Langsdorf, and Gregory McKelvey. Okay, thank you. Find anybody? Okay. Okay.
 Well, I think if it's called in council chambers, then they'll have a chance to come up here. And if they're not in council chambers, then we'll have to hear from them another time. So I think you've called the first three names. I called. Let's call the second three names, please. Second three were Angela Luan or Warren, Ashley Langsdorf, and Gregory McKelvey. Okay. And they're followed by Amelia Young, Catherine Moore, and Frank Martinez. Okay. Thank you. See if any of those folks are here. Okay. Let's call the next three, please. Okay.
 The artists Vanderlyn, Stu Stewart, and Jesse Sponberg. Okay. Okay, so let's call the next three, please. Joseph Gordon, Ashanti Hall, and Anisha Furman-Peace.
 I think the council's had a long morning, and I think we should take a recess for lunch break, and we'll continue with the morning agenda at 1 p.m. So we're going to take a one-hour recess. Thank you all very much.
 Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 All right, we'll see you later. Thanks, take care. Uh-huh. Well, I'm about to step out because we're closed on both sides. Closed for lunch? Yeah. It's been like a while. I might be late. I'll be back in the building. I'm starving. Yeah. Maltese cockfight.
 I apologize. Last of the fucks, shut up. Ha ha ha. It needs to be locked, though. Yes, I apologize. Yes, I apologize. It looks like it looks like maybe Lucas wanted to create a zombie character. Yeah, that would be a good idea. But, what do you mean by serious? Pretty... I think it would be a good idea.
 we just in order and let me just uh reiterate where we are in the regular agenda and what we're going to attempt to do this afternoon i've moved item 1140 to next week we we had a hearing on 1141 and it now has moved to second reading we've completed our action on 1142 in a few minutes we're going to take up 1143
 The second reading items on page 4 of our agenda, items 1144, 1148, and 1149, will be taking action on today. The other three items, 1145, 1146, and 1147, are going to be moved to next week. That will then enable us to get to a part of the afternoon agenda, namely item 1150, and I understand we're going to be returning item 1151 to Commissioner Novick's office until some later date.
 that make sense thank you so yeah thanks steve appreciate your uh flexibility by the way this is the second time that your agenda items don't take it personally i'm not taking it personally all right okay so then let's take up 11 43 please uh roll call first oh sorry yeah let's take roll call first novick here right here fish here salt's been hails here charlie
 Yes, we do. So 1143, they are here on that item. So come on up. 1143, authorize a contract with Labyrinth Solutions, Inc. for implementation services for SAP Enterprise Asset Management at a not-to-exceed amount of $1,850,000. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Commissioners.
 My name is Satish Nath, and I am the Enterprise Business Solutions and SAP Support Manager. With me is Celia Heron from OMF Policy Unit. The action we are asking the Council to take today is to authorize Chief Procurement Officer to enter into a contract with Levering Solutions, Inc., also known as LSI,
 to implement SAP Enterprise Asset Management functionality for the city's enterprise system. EBS has presented the Enterprise Asset Management project to the Technology Executive Steering Committee and Technology Oversight Committee, and we will continue to provide regular updates to both TESC and TOC. I would like to talk about a few business drivers for this project, and then we will answer any questions you have.
 Citi purchased SAP software in 2006. While Citi is still paying license for the full business suite, we have implemented and currently use about 71% of the software. This project will increase Citi's use from 71% to 87%. The enterprise asset management project will replace multiple share of systems in Citi bureaus.
 which will meet IT recommendations of consolidation of applications. The enterprise asset management project will also consolidate current business processes related to collection and reporting of data for city-owned real estate properties. And finally, the enterprise asset management solution responds to a couple of audit findings of 2015. So we are here to answer any questions you have.
 Questions for Satish or Celia? Thank you both very much. Appreciate you waiting for this item. We'll see if there's anyone signed up to speak on it. Substitute, you want to move that? Oh, is there a substitute? It went out with the Tuesday memo yesterday. Sorry, yes, there is. Okay, is there a motion to adopt the substitute? So moved. Would you like to explain to us what it is? Thank you.
 The substitution of the ordinance and the impact statement was after some discussion. This item had been on council agenda last week and was pulled for discussion with Water Bureau and Bureau of Environmental Services to address some of their questions.
 And so part of their feedback was they thought that the language of the ordinance could have been clearer in terms of the citywide benefit, because a component of the larger module will be citywide implementation of the flexible real estate module, whereas other components will be a pilot for one bureau. Presumably then other bureaus will have the option to add on to that as well. So the request was that the language be clarified on that point.
 Thank you. Helpful. Is there a second on the motion to further discussion? So let's take a vote on the motion to accept the substitute, and then we'll see if we have any testimony. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. I'm going to vote aye, and I also want to thank the team for those conversations. They were very fruitful, and the bureaus that I lead were grateful to be able to sit down at the table and work out some concerns. It was a good conversation. Thank you. Aye. Thank you.
 and is there anyone standing by to speak on this item we've had 16 people signed up they've asked me to read all the names and then this is for 11 item 1143 David Davis Robert West Cecile Evans to Teresa Redford thank you for Gregory McKelvey McKelvey
 Ashley Lansdorf, I know she is here, and Alicia Young, Lernie Moore, Frank Martinez, the artist Vanderlyn, Steve or Sten Sherman, maybe, or Stevenson, Jesse Sponberg, Joseph Gordon, Ashanti Hasu.
 Charles Johnson and Kelly Frank ois Any of those folks here? And then just to clarify for people at home the People may be in the Portland building right now They would give them a chance to come across the street and we'll find out if they're over there and let us know please And then they are make sure they get a chance to come speak on this item So I'm Ashley Langsdorf and I
 I'm here for truth about Labyrinth Solutions, no matter who tells it. I'm for justice about Labyrinth Solutions, no matter who it is for or against. My name is Ashley Langsdorff. I am here as a longtime Portland resident, as a product of the Oregon public school system, and as someone who cares deeply about the people of our city. I am here because I am an engaged and concerned citizen, but mostly I am here to speak, to share my words, to lend my voice because I can, because others can't.
 There are people who want to be here, who wish to have their voices heard. Please know what you do here matters a great deal. And there are people who want to be part of the conversation. The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. And the opposite of life is not death, it's indifference. Your people want to talk with you, to work together to make Portland safe and just and well.
 Your people are passionate, frustrated, committed. They want to participate in this dialogue about their city, their safety, their labyrinth solutions. Now is not the time to stop the conversation. These are hard, challenging conversations. Tempers can flare, emotions are high, but I have faith that we can figure it out together. Please don't stop listening. This is a maze, an enigma, a puzzle, a tangled web. Let us together find a labyrinth solution.
 thank you very much okay did we determine if there's anyone over in the portland building waiting for this item i'm not sure i'm far over in the portland building somebody can just text me if there's people over there we might want to make sure that we don't exclude anyone but also not wait for people that have not stuck around
 Here, can we pick up some second readings while we're waiting? Yeah, let's do that. We'll set this item aside for a minute, and let's go to second reading items on the calendar, which start next, I believe, with 1144. 1144, vacate a portion of an unnamed alley between North Midway Avenue and North Columbia Boulevard subject to certain conditions and reservations. We'll call, please. Novick. Aye. Aye.
 Rich. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hale. Aye. 48. Approve application.
 under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for Cause 16th and Marshall, located at 1015 and 1033 and 1039 Northwest 16th Avenue. Roll call vote, please. No think? Aye. Fritz? This is really an exciting project with 28 units to be rented to low- and moderate-income households and a mixture with 127 mixed-use housing developments. So it's a very good project. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1149. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for cause 2211 Southwest 4th, located at 2211 Southwest 4th Avenue. Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. And similar, this has 22 low-income units in 108 unit development. So, again, good project. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 Okay. Did we determine whether there's anyone waiting over in the Fort One building to testify? Okay. I'm going to leave that item aside, and we're going to go ahead and we can take action on it at the end of the day today. Let's move on then to our time-certain item 1150.
 Sorry, 1150. Recognize that irregular, unpredictable work schedules negatively affect businesses, employees, and the families of employees, and encourage employers to review their worker scheduling practices and consider changes that ensure workers have predictability and the chance to work the hours necessary to earn a full, livable paycheck. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 Colleagues, in Portland and in Oregon, we've set an example when it comes to progressive, worker-friendly labor policies.
 Portland led with paid sick leave and paid family leave policies, putting pressure on the legislature to prioritize similar policies at the state level. Oregon passed a much-needed increase in the minimum wage. Labor advocates and community groups are proud of their efforts in these recent victories. The momentum and urgency built around efforts led by community advocates have successfully improved the lives of many workers across the state. So thank you to groups like the Working Families Party, UFCW, and the Fair Shot Coalition for bringing these issues front and center.
 I first started reading about the terrible impact of unpredictable scheduling for retail and food service employees a couple of years ago. The practice of scheduling people for random shifts without any input from the worker makes it impossible for people to organize their lives or to have any flexibility to arrange for child care or commit to college classes. That is not what a fair work week looks like. I'm also convinced that as we increase the minimum wage, we must also ensure workers have access to a full paycheck.
 To be really clear, what I'm interested in ultimately is some common sense predictability so workers don't get a schedule on Saturday for a week that begins the next day. I'm not talking about forcing employers to give employees set schedules that are the exact same from week to week and month to month or about capping the number of part-time employees.
 The Oregon legislature has prohibited, preempted all cities, including Portland, from adopting any laws related to employee scheduling until July of 2017. The legislature adopted this preemption in 2015. The legislators indicated they didn't want cities to adopt policy in this area until they had a chance to convene a work group and consider a statewide bill during the 2017 session. The preemption will sunset in July 2017 when the legislature adjourns.
 In the meantime, I wanted to partner with UFCW and the Working Families Party to look at how Portlanders are affected by unfair scheduling practices. Earlier this year, we hosted a roundtable discussion and heard some powerful stories, one of which you will all get to hear in a bit from worker who participated, Jeff Doolittle. As I continue to hear about the impact unpredictable scheduling has on Portland workers, I wanted to bring this resolution to Council today with three goals. First, to highlight the real impact unpredictable scheduling has on some of our lowest paid workers.
 Second, to lift up and thank local businesses that are already using predictable and fair scheduling practices. We're lucky to have many great local businesses here in Portland that have incorporated predictability into how they set schedules for employees. We'll hear later from New Seasons, which has built scheduling predictability into the core of their business models.
 And my staff has met with other local business owners about this topic, many of whom told us how they use best practices to, for example, try to ensure that employees know which days they're going to work a week or two in advance and make sure that no single employee bears the burden of recovering when an employee calls in sick. Third, I wanted to encourage all employers in Portland to consider their employee scheduling practices and make changes as appropriate to improve predictability for their employees. Thank you.
 Fair Work Week policies considered by jurisdictions nationally have focused on retail and food services, which research shows are among the most likely sectors to have radical unpredictability for employees. Often these employees are the same people who are low paid, earning at or just above the minimum wage. But this resolution calls on all employers to look at our practices to consider what we can do better. Work-life balance is real struggle for many of us no matter what our job is.
 As to Portland itself as an employer, I think that as a whole in our collective bargaining agreements, we strive to give employees advanced notice of schedules and compensate employees when there isn't predictability. But I'm sure there is room for improvement, and I look forward to hearing from workers on this topic. Today's resolution is non-binding, but I hope employers do take it seriously to consider how they can use scheduling that works for their employees. Thank you.
 in closing before i hand this off to invited speakers i want to say a few words about the need for a collaborative process that we do get to the point of considering a regulatory ordinance here in portland as many of you know seattle just last month adopted a binding ordinance that will go into effect next year i've read about the seattle ordinance and my staff has talked with staff in seattle about their process while the vote was unanimous in the city council the community discussion wasn't without controversy my staff and i have heard some of the same concerns from local business owners here
 I understand these concerns, and that's why it's so important to have all stakeholders at the table and why I'm so glad New Seasons has joined us today. If the legislature doesn't act next year on this topic, I will be interested in asking council to consider an ordinance, and I'm committed to a strong process that involves all stakeholders in developing a policy targeted to address the problem with consideration of business practices.
 With that, I would like to ask the first panel of invited guests to come forward, Dr. Mary King from PSU, Carly Edwards from the Working Families Party, and Jeff Doolittle, I don't know, and one worker that I believe is also with them. Come on up, please. And if you need another chair, we can just slide up a fourth chair to accommodate everybody. Steve, while they're getting settled, can I ask a question of the sponsor? Sure.
 Yes. You said that the legislature has preempted the right of cities like Portland to weigh in on this. How is that preemption structured? I think it was pretty sweeping. It was something they passed in 2015. It was actually part of an internal wheeling and dealing to get paid sick leave passed at the state level, and they passed something that language is basically local governments are prohibited from taking any action to address employer scheduling practices. Mm-hmm.
 Thank you. Welcome. For the worker, Jessica Rickey, who was invited, I have her testimony to read. She, unfortunately, had to leave. Sorry about that. Welcome. Who would like to start? I could. I have a PowerPoint. I don't know if we have. We need to get Carla to help with that. Why don't you go ahead and read the worker's statement while Carla is setting up the PowerPoint, if you don't mind. This is Jessica Rickey's statement.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to tell my story. My name is Jessica Rickey, and I work for Coast to Coast Events. I am a 33-year-old mother of three and a parental figure for two teenage sisters. My kids and I are currently trying to rebuild our lives after living in a domestic violence situation.
 That domestic abuse situation lies at the heart of my story regarding scheduling. You see, many victims of domestic violence never leave the situation. They stay and endure the slowly escalating fits of rage, outbursts, and onslaughts of pain and bruises and blood until some unfortunately pay with their lives. There are psychological reasons why people stay, but many don't leave because they have nowhere else to go. This was exactly the case with me, but for my own life and the safety of my kids, I left all the same.
 Because I had to leave the home to escape him, I was immediately homeless and had no means of providing for us. The best solution available to me for the first problem was to seek out space in a shelter. It's far from ideal to raise kids in a place like that, and the Colombian newspaper actually published an article with my family as the central example about the difficulties of simply getting them to school and managing homework when you have no home. The second problem I faced was fixed by finding work.
 I went to work for Coast to Coast Event Services, a contractor with the city, in September 2012, and was elated to have found work. I believed that I could pull myself up from my troubles and build my own model of the American dream if I worked hard. Coast to Coast was going to be my toolbox. I realized in only my first few days working that I might be wrong thinking. First among the issues I faced was that I had to use public transit
 to get to and from the event sites that I was scheduled for.
 Sometimes the Rose Gardner Convention Center, sometimes Clark County Fairgrounds, or the Gorge Amphitheater, and often a Moda Center where the offices are located. How do I get my kids to school when I need to catch a bus at 5 a.m.? How do I feed them or help with homework when they scheduled me for an event that officially ended at 9 p.m.? Although 9 was the official close, we had to wrap up, close down, and at times babysit touring singers or
 while they frittered the night away and my kids missed the night with their mother. Kelly Clarkson has a thing for midnight croquet and can't understand why it's not the safest for her to buy her own Starbucks, in case you ever wondered.
 The schedule never reflected these late-night adventures, and so we obviously couldn't plan for them. But we were still required to work through to the end of them. The managers were normally long gone by that time. How was I expected to get home when I relied on public transit, but my shift actually ended at 3 a.m.? And this wasn't the worst of it.
 One of the rules of shelter living is that children can't stay there without a guardian. That meant that any event I was scheduled for ran the risk of going past check-in time, and I had to get a hotel night. I often didn't make enough in a shift to cover that hotel stay. That means I would sometimes go to work only so I could keep my job and fix the broken life I was stuck in.
 I worked for them a little over six months and just wasn't scheduled for events anymore after the third time I called in because I couldn't afford the hotel that day. That half year was one of the worst of my life. After three months at that job, I suffered from Bell's palsy, a sort of stress-induced stroke that left half of my face immobile for a period. At that time, I was more stressed about the job than my ex-partner tracking me down or living in a shelter or the obvious trauma my kids needed help in recovering from.
 All of these problems were avoidable if only they'd had adequate number of staff and scheduled people for the event they could actually work, rather than the event some manager decided on with no thought to their family situation. Instead, the schedules for the event appeared whenever. In the end, the job was supposed to be the thing that lifted me out of my troubles. In reality, it was the largest source of my trouble during that period. Wow, thank you very much.
 So I think we're ready to move to your presentation with the PowerPoint. Great. Carla will activate that for us. Excellent. Thank you. I'm Mary King. I very much appreciate the opportunity to be here, and I'm very thankful that you're taking up this important topic. I'm a professor of economics emerita at Portland State University and a labor economist. I've...
 I'll be presenting the highlights of a report, which is the impact on Oregonians of the rise of irregular scheduling. I'll quickly provide you the highlights. You've got a link, and I just passed out a hard copy. It reflects the work of a lot of people, as well as myself, and is the first part of a larger project with University of Oregon colleagues, which is due out in January.
 I expect that by now you're familiar with the worst aspects of irregular scheduling. What we're learning from national research is that many more people than ever are facing very short notice of work schedules, frequent changes in their work schedules, extremely variable shifts and numbers of total hours scheduled, no guarantee of a minimum number of hours, on-call scheduling.
 Requiring people to be available to work on days that they may not work and certainly then would not be paid or asked to work at the last minute. Being sent home early from a scheduled shift. Being scheduled for shifts that allow very little time for rest, such as a closing shift in the evening followed by an early morning shift the next day. And a requirement of open availability for work at any time.
 There are clearly very large negative impacts on workers and families who are scheduled in this way. Uncertainty over how much they'll be paid, difficulty arranging stable child care, elder care or sick care.
 It's very hard for them to attend school or pursue any kind of training. Health effects, stress, lack of sleep, very challenging to obtain a second job. It's hard on family life, friendships in the community, and people discuss an inability to plan medical care and even basic family gatherings.
 It's a significant policy concern. It's affecting a growing segment of the labor force. It's derailing education, training, and career development for young people. It's particularly harmful, of course, for people with responsibility for the care of others and for those care recipients.
 And it's prevalent in the very occupations projected to add the most jobs to the Oregon economy over the next eight years. Retail, food service, hospitality, and some other service positions. These are the top five occupations in terms of numbers we are projected to be added to.
 Now, we lack data for what's going on in Oregon, and it was in response to that that I and my colleagues started this project. The big national surveys, the kind of things like the census, don't have the questions that would reveal these scheduling issues because they were written with the assumption of standard schedules. Right.
 They're not even there. The second level of national surveys that have a question that can address it are too small for a decent Oregon sample to be pulled out as a state. So our research project is to fill that gap, and my own part of this project is an analysis of two sets of data that
 The first is the Working Families Party's Fair Workweek Survey. This is a very well-done survey, done all, actually, it's a lot done in Portland, but there are people surveyed who come from towns all over the state. Canvassers engaged people for one-hour face-to-face interviews, gaining their confidence. I was really quite amazed at the things that people shared, especially as I know a lot of these interviews were happening on the bus.
 750 interviews provide substantial documentation that all the issues that are emerging nationally are very present here. I won't go through all the kinds of numbers with you, you've got them, but these are exactly what you would imagine and then a level of lack of ability to plan and see other family members that was really, I found very moving having to read those answers.
 The second bit of data that I looked at was to look at the American Community Survey data, that census data, annual data, wanting to get a representative portrait of Oregonians who are in the occupations that are most affected by
 Compared with the labor force as a whole, they're a bit younger. So they are right in this moment of time trying to go to school, many of them, in higher proportions than the labor force as a whole, and to build a career and a stable earnings trajectory. Despite the fact that on average they're a little bit younger, they have as many kids at home as the labor force as a whole. So they have significant care responsibilities there.
 As well as broad occupations, I looked at some narrow occupations that are particularly affected. Cashiers, fast food, maids, and housekeeping. And what those occupations reveal is what a poverty trap irregular scheduling is. People are working for very low wages. They're primarily at the minimum wage, but they're part-time and few hours, so low annual earnings.
 Relatively high SNAP receipt levels, relatively low health insurance coverage, and no way to get out through either a second job or pursuing schooling.
 So people are raising their kids in poverty, which I don't know if you're aware is the most significant prediction of being in poverty as an adult is spending time in poverty as a child. And it's based on what are your educational outcomes from stability in housing, child care, and this kind of thing. So...
 That's the research. I'm happy to answer any questions at any time if you have any, and I urge you to pass this resolution for the good of our city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Did you have some more that you wanted to present as well? I have testimony. I think I can't tell what the system of people in the other room. I have some testimony if they aren't able to make it over here that I can hand off to folks. Some of them are coming over, so...
 Can I find out if Monique is here? She's the invited testimony. Oh, Monique's here. Okay, great. I have your paper. I'll let her tell her story for herself. That's my biggest concern. You may or may not know that today we had about 50 people who were able to come, and some of them are still next door. Some of them have had to leave, but
 There's much support for this issue and many people did come to try and join us today And I'm sure would have liked for you to be able to seen them Thank you Thank you all for your time to come and speak to you about scheduling issues in our community and in particular Thanks to Commissioner Novick for his leadership starting this very important community conversation for looking into solutions
 I'd like to take this opportunity to share some background of the Oregon Working Families Party and our work. We're working people, school parents, small business owners, family farmers, representatives of community groups, and labor unions who are determined to get our government focused again on the things that can make our jobs better, our families more secure, and our communities more prosperous.
 We recently worked in collaboration with other organizations and groups to advocate for an increase in Oregon's minimum wage and for paid sick leave for workers, which this city council helped pave that way. While these efforts might seem piecemeal, they're part of a strategy around workers' rights, and scheduling practices are an essential piece.
 For example, the recent victory on an increased minimum wage won't mean much without a predictable schedule to rely on for that wage increase. We're at the next and most essential phase of these organizing efforts because scheduling practices are an essential part of any job. In addition to extensive field surveys, we've also had several small worker meetings at our office to understand workers' issues more carefully and to begin to consider potential policy solutions.
 These workers come from a variety of industries, and as Dr. King points out, many of the worst practices we see are in food service and retail. Most importantly, we have been developing a broad-based coalition of organizations, including labor unions that represent city workers, such as at BOEC and Parks and Rec, to support our cause.
 Our coalition includes UFCW Local 555, the Oregon AFL-CIO, Family Forward Oregon, Oregon Education Association, SCIU, Oregon AFSCME, APANO, PACOON, Oregon Nurses Association, Unite Here Local 8, the Oregon Trials Lawyers Association, Main Street Alliance, and the Laborers. Many of our partners were here with us today.
 And although we've had limited responses, we have also outreached to our local neighborhood coalitions and look forward to more conversations with them. Additionally, we've been coordinating with the Center for Popular Democracy, which leads the National Fair Workweek Initiative, and who have worked with local efforts in both Seattle and San Francisco.
 When talking about the impacts of unpredictable scheduling and the effects of working without enough hours or too many hours, it's imperative that our discussion first and foremost be based in a racial and gendered analysis. We know empirically that those with the power to make schedules are overwhelmingly white and male, and that those who experience the impacts of erratic scheduling are disproportionately women, people of color, and parents.
 This information can be found in the data brief on retail jobs today produced by the Center for Popular Democracy in January 2016 and is available on their website. We also know that erratic scheduling does work for some workers, usually younger and whiter, but we can't ignore this issue because the system works for a few.
 This is why the Oregon Working Families Party is working in Salem to create common-sense policy solutions to alleviate some of the burden placed on women and people of color and are urging the city to engage in this conversation and to take action in every way possible, including passing this resolution.
 One thing that the city can take action on right now is their relationship with city contractors, and I encourage you all to consider that as you hear the stories from current employees of city contractors, including Coast to Coast Events and Janus Youth. Their stories are compelling, and while the state has preempted regulation on this issue as a whole, looking at your own practices as an employer and looking at the practices of companies you contract with could provide some relief for workers now.
 In closing, I would say the heart of this issue is ultimately about power, the power to control someone else's life. When they wake up, when they go to sleep, when and how long they may see their children for is all based on their schedule. Employers might tell you if they don't like it, they can get another job.
 But if this issue is about the power dynamic experienced by whole industries in the economy, we can't put the solution to a systemic problem on individuals.
 I thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Questions? Just a comment, and I was really glad that you mentioned BOEC, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, and parks, because I think certainly in parks I'm taking responsibility to look at how our seasonal work is scheduled, how much advance notice they get. And in BOEC we've got the AFSCME contract, which in some cases is –
 makes it difficult to get sensible scheduling, and certainly with mandatory overtime. So I think it's not just a big corporation evil boss. It's our own workers, and indeed it's our city union partners too, that we all need to recognize that this kind of scheduling is bad for everybody, and for the customers and for the people who are working. So I'm assuming that's something you're going to be doing, Commissioner, looking into that?
 We are having those discussions at BOEC. Good. Well, since we had a kind of contentious discussion this morning, I hope that you are talking with Anna Canrett from Human Resources to make sure that we do make progress on that issue when we get to an agreement. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Thank you.
 Thanks, and I understand some of our invited speakers are here as well, so come on up. Yes, Mayor, I'd like to invite Sarah Jonitas, Tia Rayner, and Monique Monroe. Welcome. Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Who would ever like to start? Go ahead. Thank you.
 Okay. Hi, everybody. Good afternoon, Mary Hales, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish. For the record, my name is Sarah Jonitas, and I'm the Director of Social Responsibility for New Seasons Market. Thank you for inviting me here today to participate in this important conversation about providing predictability and fairness in worker schedules.
 At New Seasons Market, we know that our staff who work for us are our greatest asset. The amazing people that stock our shelves, that run our registers, that bake delicious pies and pastries, they are at the heart of our competitive advantage. They're the reason our customers shop with us and remain loyal to us year after year.
 We deeply value our staff and their countless contributions to our business, and we've always believed that they deserve to have predictable, regular schedules so that they can care for their families, spend time with loved ones, take care of business at home, and rest and recover for their next day at work. Our lifestyle scheduling policy reflects these values. We prioritize advanced scheduling, predictable and regular schedules, and the right to rest between shifts.
 Staff members are scheduled to work no more than five days in a row, with at least two days off in a row, and at least 12 hours of rest between shifts. In addition, all shifts are minimally four hours long. Although schedules sometimes do fluctuate due to business needs or staff needs, we make every effort to maintain consistent schedules that balance each individual's employees' needs with the needs of our business.
 Providing our employees with predictable schedules is the right thing to do, not only for their well-being, but also for our business.
 Thanks to our lifestyle scheduling policy and other policies aimed at supporting our staff, our attention at New Seasons Market is very high and turnover is very low. I'm proud to say that 25% of the staff members we have with us now have been with us for over six years, and our rolling 12-month turnover at New Seasons is 29%, and that compares to 56% nationwide for retailers.
 Lower turnover and higher retention means lower cost to recruit and train employees, and is also an indicator of their engagement at work.
 We're happy to see the city taking up the issue of fair scheduling with this resolution, and we thank Commissioner Novick for his leadership on this. We're supportive of efforts to provide advanced scheduling, predictability, and the right to rest for more workers in Portland, and we look forward to being part of any future conversations about specific policy recommendations regarding fair scheduling. Thank you again for your leadership on this critical issue. Keith, can I ask a question? Please.
 Thank you for being here. And at some point, I'd like you to explain to me why the bagel unlocks at New Seasons. It's so great. We'll take that one offline. Why it's so great. But here's my question. You've stated, you've made a powerful case, and you've highlighted that you have better retention, lower turnover. Right.
 which means a more stable workforce, which I hope means a workforce that feels good about their work, and you've said it results in lower costs to you. So flip that around for us for a second and give us a sense. You're competing for talent in a marketplace, in a very competitive marketplace. One thing I've noticed about the city is wherever you go now, once you find the new seasons, within about half a mile, you're likely to find three or four of your competitors kind of clustered. So you're competing for talent,
 What advantage does it give you as an employer that you have these policies in place? And how do you measure that when you're competing for talent? Sure, sure. Thank you for your question. I think a good indicator of that for us recently was when we opened our newest store, which is in the University Park neighborhood over near St. John's, and we held a job fair for that. We hire about 150 to 200 staff members every time we open a store. And in that particular case, when we held the job fair, we had over 1,000 people show up.
 We've seen those numbers increasing over time as we've continued to add to our progressive workplace benefits and compensation. We see this as part of our benefits. It's part of the culture that we create at New Seasons in trying to take care of our staff. And we think that it's very clear that we're able to attract and retain talent differently when we take really good care of our people. So I think it's as simple as that.
 Does that answer your question? It makes sense, doesn't it? It's good for the employer and good for the employee. When you hit that sweet spot, there's a certain sense to it. So thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Welcome. Hi. Thank you for having me, Mayor Hills and Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Novak, for reaching out to workers like myself. My name is Tia Rayner.
 I used to work for a coffee shop at the airport, but I had to quit. I could no longer afford to work there. Like many service industry workers, it takes two jobs in order to stay afloat, not prosper and do amazing things, but just to stay afloat, to stay off of the social services radar. Yeah.
 When I was hired at the coffee shop, they promised me a set schedule and I knew what days I was going to have off, which meshed perfectly with my other job, which is an on-call banquet server at a hotel. And I was super excited because this is exactly the job I needed. And once I got through training, I was handed a completely different schedule.
 that didn't even reflect what I had been told I would be working, which meant that I was not able to schedule enough shifts with my other employer to be able to actually make it.
 Over the next seven months, my set schedule was changed eight times. One time I was asked, do you want to maintain this schedule with these off days, or do you want to go to this schedule with these off days? And I said, I wanted to stay. And they're like, too bad. You're now on this schedule. That's the type of power the employer has, and you don't have many options there.
 And what kept me in this job, part of it was I had been a victim of domestic violence. And my head went through a window as a result of that violence. And so I was now trying to maintain an $800 a month apartment on my income alone instead of two. Yeah.
 the way it affected was sometimes I got extended. Like, they wouldn't even tell me. They just wouldn't pull my till. And it's like, I'm stuck there. I'm held prisoner because they won't pull my till. And I can't walk out without pulling my till if I want to keep my job. But at the same time, I don't have time to get to my other job anymore. And it went on like this. And the problem is, is I know that fair scheduling can work.
 Back in the early 2000s, I worked for Arby's. Arby's has to know exactly what they need because it takes 48 hours to defrost one of those roasts. It takes four hours to cook that roast. And if you run out of roast beef in your Arby's, wow.
 And if they can do that months in advance, know how much beef they need, they can do it for the workers. Any place can. And the amazing thing is I now work for, I no longer work at the airport, but I work for another company here in Portland. It is another on-call server position for a local company that does on-site catering. And I actually know most of my shifts one to two months in advance.
 As soon as the event is booked, they're filling it with people, and you know that, hey, I have work this day. I don't have to worry anymore.
 And if they're able to do that, why can't other employers, especially when on call, well, just banquet work period is so volatile. Like, if they can manage it, why can't somebody who knows, hey, we need people every day at this exact time for this shift, you know, on a storefront. It doesn't fluctuate that bad day to day. They can figure it out. Wow. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for having me here to share my story My name is Monique Monroe and I work for Janus youth a city contracted program as a relief coordinator for runaway and homeless youth and commercially sexually exploited children I have been in the position of relief coordinator for over a year and I average over 50 hours a week and on dozens of occasions up to 60 to 70 hours a week and
 I receive my schedule via email, text, or call, and my hours change daily as I am on call five days a week, 24 hours a day. Even on my set days off, I am shamed into coming to work. If I do not come in, I run the risk of putting my coworkers in the position of being exploited. For example, my coworker on one occasion had to work almost a full 24-hour shift because I was not able to come in. This happens often. This happened to me.
 We are regularly guilted into coming in for the sake of the youth. I was once advised that if I refused to come in at 2 a.m., youth could run the risk of not being properly served at the crisis office due to a supervisor's declaration that they are too inexperienced to do the work. This line is repeated to us often. There was one occasion where I had no choice but to decline to work when I was called in at 1 a.m. This was less than six hours after I clocked out of a 21-hour shift.
 I was then yelled at and asked what my purpose was. On another occasion, when I failed to answer my phone between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. while I was sleeping, before a nine-hour shift coming up at 7 a.m. that same day, I was later openly accused of being on drugs for not picking up the phone. As a relief coordinator, one of two spread between six programs, we are considered on-call.
 We do not have set schedules. We are expected to work when people are on vacation, call out sick, or quit. We have no written guidelines as to when we get to sleep, make appointments, or live our lives outside of two days off a week. And those two days are never consistent. They may start the evening before or the day of and end the evening of or the day after, depending on program needs. Thank you. Thanks very much. I'm learning a lot.
 Excellent. Questions for these three women? Thank you so much for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you very, very much. And thanks for waiting until we can get started this afternoon. We're used to it. We can cut the irony with a knife. All right. Steve, do you have some other folks that you had signed? No, Mayor. I think that's the end of our invited testimony. Okay. There are others who want to speak on this item? Katie, am I wrong? No.
 I've got a list. Do you want to go to the list? Okay. I show Kurt Huffman, Greg Astley, and Valerie Stinson. Are you still here? I'm still here. It's like some are. Yes. Okay. Please, come on up. Yeah. Come join those folks. Paul Rayner was going to speak also. Okay. Hank, stand by, folks. We'll get you up in a minute. We'll take these two first. Welcome. Hi. Thanks for having me. My name is Donna Zeeb, and I work for Fred Meyers.
 Beaverton and I know that my story isn't so severe as theirs, but it's tell want to hear I work in the nutrition department and I'm here today about my scheduling and concerns my manager has been off for three months and I
 They are not hiring anybody, getting anybody to help us. There's only two of us that are working. And our hours are increased and erotic, and we need hours that are more scheduled and complex to each other. As a breast cancer survivor, when I got this job with Fred Myers, I was told that...
 For health reasons, I needed a schedule that would work and wouldn't be all over the board. Sometimes I only get five hours of sleep between shifts. As, for example, on Friday I work at...
 From two days from now, I work at 11 o'clock at night, and then I have to be back at 5 o'clock in the morning the next day. That means I only have four hours of sleep. It's not safe, and it's not healthy for my body.
 And for being a breast cancer survivor, I think that's just going to make my body and just going to set everything off that I'm going to get sick. And I went to HR and I went to the managers and asked them if they could get me a set schedule. And they said that I have to deal with what they have to deal with.
 And my manager's sick and hasn't been able to come back to work for a while. So I'm doing manager's job and not getting paid for a manager's position. So I feel that...
 I think that, you know, they should change things, and I would like to have a set schedule. And also, they were giving me two-day split shifts off. Like, I would work one day and then work three days and then have another day off. Your body can't rest, and it's very, you know, unhealthy. Right.
 And, you know, we're lifting big, heavy things. And it's easy to, you know, get yourself off balance when you don't have enough rest. So, you know, I'm here today for me and my coworkers. If they would just have a set schedule, if I'm here to 5 o'clock and get here at 5 o'clock in the morning all week and have two days off.
 So that's what I'm here for, and thank you for listening. Thank you very much. Appreciate you being here. Good afternoon. Good morning. Afternoon. Jeff Anderson, Secretary and Treasurer of Food and Commercial Workers 555. I just wanted to add that the grocery industry and the retail industry in general, if you look at the whole retail industry in the United States, it's only 5% unionized.
 Only 5%. So 95% of the market weight is drawing down in an environment where I grew up in this industry when it was 40-hour jobs in the 60s and the 70s. Went and started merging to part-time, went to a Cronus computerized scheduling system, and it's creating a just-in-time, what I call an indentured workforce.
 It's a workforce that they ask government then to pick up the self-sufficiency deficiencies, whether it's WIC or other government assistance. This workforce needs to have a stabilization for quality of life. If there's one issue that affects workers at the very low economic strata,
 It's the retail and hospitality industry. And I've been told to me across the table from employers over many, many years, if everybody had to do something, there's not a competitive disadvantage. So we're saying lift the competitive disadvantage and the quality and bring rise, have people rise rather than everybody keep going to the lowest denominator. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Just ask a question. You are in the union, right, in United Food and Commercial Workers. So have you not been able to get any agreements at all in the contracts about this issue? We have been unsuccessful in negotiating. As I mentioned, 5% of the retail industry is unionized. So it's very difficult to leverage in bargaining these standards.
 It was very similar, if you recall, in the first day, as earned sick day, that we received it on the third day contractually, not on the first day.
 So there's a lot of standards that over the last 25, 30 years we've seen a rollback to where the private sector workforce today is only 6.7% unionized. And so it's very difficult to use that inability to leverage the marketplace to make the gains that we would like. So if you hear that, well, you know, the union's only doing this because we can't get it at the bargaining table,
 it's really a it's a canard they're really saying we have 95 of the market we're going to dominate we're going to go to the lowest denominator and then we're going to socialize the risk and give it to the taxpayer to pay but aren't all all the workers at fred meyer in ufcw most of them yes
 Because that's one of the reasons I shop there is because I know it is. I will say that I believe Fred Myers is a very good employer. Why we have somebody that's representing a problem, it permeates throughout the entire retail industry.
 it's much more difficult to get people to come and testify if they're non-union because they don't have any protections in the workplace. So I think it's very brave, and I appreciate her testimony. Indeed so. Thank you very much. I just wanted to emphasize that.
 normally you would think of having a union helps you have more clout, and even with the clouts of UFCW. It's still an uphill fight. Exactly, yes. So thank you for being here, and we'll see what we can do about it. I have a low-wage contingent service worker in my household right now, and it's been interesting to have conversations with my daughter about her experience in the workplace. And one of the concerns she has is about predictable scheduling.
 One of her concerns is about being told after a regular shift that she needs to work a number of hours extra, and on and on. So when I hear this very compelling testimony, it resonates because, again, I have a young, contingent, low-wage service worker in my household. The question I have for you, though, is as you look to a reform agenda and perhaps the legislature weighing in on this, what's the hierarchy of concerns you have?
 So if you could be king for a day, would you address first predictability so that you know over the next two weeks what your schedule is? Would you look at this question of employers' ability to extend your workday and therefore put other things around? Do you have a hierarchy of things that you're concerned about? If I had utopia, I'd have more than two weeks' advance knowledge because people need to have appointments for their doctors, for their kids,
 And it's very difficult to get short-term appointments. And so in Utopia world, I would, like in Europe, they have a month, two months, six months advanced knowledge in much of the retail industry. I would have predictable pay. I would have right to rest, more hours separating, saying if you do come in within only five-hour slip,
 that you should be able to get time and a half for, let's say, within a band of 12 hours. If you're called back in eight hours after you've concluded a shift, you would get four hours of that as time and a half. So that's a right-to-rest provision. There's many things. The idea that a lot of these employers are –
 cutting hours and yet hiring more employees, and they're keeping more people part-time, and then they use the Kronos computer schedule to maximize, if you would, the cost. In essence, they're creating a higher turnover because they can see a profit in that.
 And the other thing I wanted to ask you, when you look, you survey the workforce and you think about who is it that has the most compelling claim on relief in this area of scheduling. Describe that person for us.
 Describe the person in the workforce who is the most impacted by what you think is the worst abuse. I think the person that's most affected is likely to be female, likely to be somebody who's of minority, likely to be minimum wage. I think they're at the very bottom. They're not always what we think is people moving up, students working while they're going to college.
 Many of them don't have the social economic ladders to the middle class. Many of them feel hopeless that there is a ladder or even a way. So I really think there's a profile of a worker out there that really needs to see help from government to create a minimum standard of what kind of society we want to create. Well said. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you. Good afternoon. Come on up, folks. Welcome. Thank you. Who would like to start? Take it away.
 Hi, my name is Kurt Huffman. I've met some of you before. I have a small company here in Portland called Chef Stable where we partner with chefs and help essentially open whatever restaurant they dream of. And we've done that now 20 times here in Portland. We now have about 550 employees across all 20 of those.
 And I want to say that I'm enormously empathetic to the concerns that a lot of people have and are expressing here at the hearing. But I also feel like
 I should take the opportunity to speak for restaurants and businesses like ours that make it a priority to have business practices that are anathema to this kind of manipulative scheduling, because it's truly not a part of what I would consider the Portland independent restaurant ethos. Thank you.
 We're businesses, and I safely was speaking to the owner of Poc Poc, Andy Ricker, right before the meeting. We have restaurants such as Ox, St. Jack, Lardo, Grasa, Cooper's Hall,
 We have a whole number of them. And we're restaurants that decide not because of the bottom line, but because of philosophical beliefs that we should purchase locally, that we should purchase responsibly and sustainably. And so I think across the board, our business practices are aligned with doing things in a way that I think promotes the kind of –
 uh philosophical approach to business that this kind of scheduling law would would would want to support or promote um that said um some of the uh the scheduling practices that we've heard detailed in this are completely anathema to how we schedule um i met
 earlier this week with Commissioner Novick's office, and since then have gone out to all my general managers to ask about staffing practices and just asked them to try to detail for me over the last two weeks what percentage of scheduling changes were the result of us changing schedules and what were the result of employees asking for schedule changes.
 95% of schedule requests came from employees, and 5% came from us, and those 5% were exclusively as a result of weather changes and changes in cancellations by guests of reservations. So from us, ideally, we should never have a schedule change.
 But it's incredibly difficult to manage certain things with two weeks optics, such as weather, such as cancellation of a big client or a last second reservation.
 These kind of rules put an enormous amount of burden specifically on restaurants like ours that I would feel remiss if I didn't take the opportunity to at least say there are those of us who are trying to do the right thing. And this really hits us in a soft spot. It jeopardizes our relationship with our employees because it's precisely the kind of employee who wants scheduling flexibility that works for us.
 The number one reason for employee requested change of schedules is child care, because suddenly they lose a babysitter and they need to leave. The second biggest is there are health-related issues. So we're...
 it seemed apt and appropriate for me to at least come and say, hey, there's those of us who work very hard at running our business the right way, and this thing, the proposal that you're considering, makes it enormously difficult for us and jeopardizes the relationship we have with our existing employees. So thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hello. Thank you. My name is Valerie Stinson, and I'm the Director of Human Resources for the Old Spaghetti Factory Restaurants.
 The Old Spaghetti Factory has operated for more than 45 years, and currently we have over 100 employees in Portland, 400 in Oregon, and 3,500 nationwide. A large percentage of our employees are students, single mothers, married mothers, and other people who want and need flexibility in their schedules. That's why they've chosen to work in the restaurant business, because we can offer that to them. We already post schedules two to three weeks in advance.
 We ask employees about their availability so that we can work with them to determine what their schedules are. We're not just dictating them. We base it on what their needs are. We work with employees to modify their schedules when they need time off for medical reasons or school classes. But as Kurt said, there are business reasons which may require us to make changes with less than 24 hours notice. That's the biggest issue I have with the resolution.
 As a restaurant, our mission is to offer an exceptional dining experience to our guests. This means that our schedules are based on how many guests are expected. So we try our best to predict how many guests we will serve each shift, but guests don't always plan ahead, and sometimes they change their minds at the last minute.
 Imagine that it's Thursday night and a party of 50 is scheduled. We've scheduled three servers, two bussers, and a kitchen team member to focus solely on this party. We've asked those six employees to come to work 15 to 30 minutes prior so that we can get prepared, and then the party doesn't show up at all. What are we supposed to do with those six team members? A lot of times they want to go home. They're like, oh, great, I can have the night off.
 In order to avoid a penalty then, are we going to be required to keep them at work? And if we keep them at work, then we're taking work away from some of the other servers that were already scheduled. If we cut them, then we're incurring more penalty costs. And those 16 members aren't going to feel good about standing around doing very little or possibly taking tips from some of their peers because they're having to share more than they thought.
 I feel that it's impractical and financially burdensome to expect restaurants to incur additional payroll expenses in addition to losing sales revenue. The other thing that concerns me is that this resolution would add yet another layer of administrative requirements to the already burdensome task of coordinating the existing laws which we currently follow. Pam, can I interrupt you for one second? Yes. Because we have the luxury of having...
 You're, I think, going to be our last panel, and we want to get deeper into this subject, but I just want to make sure we're not operating under a misunderstanding because there's nothing before us which mandates anything, and we are preempted from telling you what to do. And my understanding is that Commissioner Novick is essentially beginning a conversation by flagging the issue
 And there is a very gentle encouragement in the one resolved, which we have no legal authority to enforce other than to simply say that as a values proposition, we encourage you to consider it. So, Commissioner Novick, I mean, I don't want to – you'll get all your time back, ma'am, but I just want to make sure that we're not missing each other in terms of what is before us. Steve? Commissioner Fish has accurately stated what is in fact before us. Okay.
 And so is what you're saying is there is no mandate about the penalty pay? And I'm going to shut up so you can testify, but one of the things I'm going to ask you after the panel's finished is, since we're not mandating anything here and Commissioner Novick is simply ventilating this issue, and since it's apparently something the legislature might take up,
 To the extent you want us to understand the unique characteristics of your industry, maybe Loyal Legion or I think that's one of yours, right? Yes, sir. Tom Briggs is a friend. And, you know, Spaghetti Factory where I think all of us have taken our kids for birthday parties at one time or another, whatever you're here to see. I encourage you to follow up after this hearing with –
 an email or a letter to us letting us know about the unique characteristics of your business or industry, because we need to know that. But we're not mandating anything. All Commissioner Novick is doing is mandating.
 framing an issue of concern. Okay. And in my, I don't think you were here for my introductory remarks, but I said at the begin, outset that if the legislature doesn't take action itself in the next session, I would be interested in asking counsel to consider some sort of ordinance, but be committed to a strong process that involves all stakeholders developing a policy that works.
 So certainly I would expect you to participate and for us to hear what you have to say if we get to the point of developing an actual legal policy. Okay. Thank you. Well, perhaps what we're doing is just framing our concern about a framing of a policy. But I thought I heard a concern about a mandate. I just want to be clear. We're not – we're not –
 I think we understood, yes, sir. Okay, okay. So anyway, that would be my biggest concern, if there is some sort of penalty pay, because many of the situations that cause us to change schedules, we have no control over, and it's a business need.
 And if we have to then, again, I know this isn't on the table, but just to understand, if we were then going to have to monitor what time did we call this person to call them off and is somebody's clock a little different than somebody else's. And I know those things sound silly, but they happen in the real world, just like with the paid sick leave. Employees, unfortunately, do, some of them try to take advantage of it.
 and there's not a lot we can do. So that's my concern, that it adds more burden and more expense. I'm totally supportive of predictive scheduling, and we do that, and we do work with our employees. And how far in advance of a work, how much notice do they have of what their schedule is going to be? Is it next week, next? We post them two to three weeks in advance. Okay. Yes. And that's for a week's worth or two weeks' worth?
 For the next two to three weeks. Yeah. So when you post it, it would be maybe for two weeks. Then you post it again. I think any responsible restaurant here in Portland has always two weeks of schedules up at any one time. People always know way ahead of time what's happening. So that's just part and parcel of being this. I mean, one circumstance also to remember is that in our industry here in Portland,
 We are not fully staffed at any of our restaurants, and we haven't been for two years. We have constantly a posting out, especially for kitchen labor. We simply cannot hire enough people.
 And so the idea of us even being in a circumstance where we can mistreat people or change people's schedules is crazy because we can't hire enough qualified people to work in the kitchens. So I kind of know that, actually, because what's the website? What are the websites that you post job openings at? Poached, or we do a lot on Craigslist, or Poached. Poached. Yes, sir. Yeah, so I was looking at Poached with a certain member of my household recently, and what struck me was –
 the number of jobs like front of the house and waitstaff jobs in restaurants I had heard of that were on that website. So it occurred to me that there were a number of openings.
 Yeah, and I think the reason that you've never heard any kind of complaints, for instance, for minimum wage raises from independent Portland restaurants is because we're three to four years ahead of the state as far as what we're paying. We can't be paying anybody $9.75 an hour. We wouldn't have anybody working in the kitchen. I mean, we're at $13.50 an hour in our kitchens. You can't find anybody even reasonably competent or motivated below that. So the idea that we're pursuing some –
 We're four to five years ahead of what legislation is in terms of minimum wage. I mean, those are the conditions that independent Portland restaurants have to work in.
 Thank you. Valerie, I wanted to ask you a question that I asked Kurt the other day. Maybe I'll get the same answer. I've heard of some restaurants in some places that have adopted a practice of when you make a reservation, you have to, in effect, put a down payment so if you miss the reservation, the restaurant gets some compensation.
 And it seems to me that if everybody went to that system, then the restaurants would have some revenue that they could use to offer sort of that penalty pay to employees. We don't currently do that. Do you take reservations? We do take reservations, yes. The old spaghetti factory takes reservations, but we don't charge any kind of a penalty if they cancel. Okay.
 Steve, there was an old story about Roy Cohn, one of our least favorite people, the notorious red-baiting lawyer who once had to wait an hour in a restaurant in New York. And he ended up sending one of his billing statements to the owner of the restaurant. And the owner got it, and he got a bill for $400. So he called Roy Cohn and said, why are you sending me this bill? He said, well, that's my hourly rate. You wasted an hour of my time, so I'm expecting you to pay for me.
 Interesting approach. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 and thank you for allowing us to come here and speak to this resolution today. Commissioner Novick, I'm sorry we missed your earlier comments, but clearly there was a little disturbance earlier today that we weren't able to get into the building and hear that. So we're glad that that's over with, and we appreciate the time that you've given us here today. Really, what I'm here is to just communicate from the Restaurant and Lodging Association and our 2,800 members
 that we are here as a resource for you. We want to be a part of the ongoing discussion. We want to be a part of the discussion at the beginning and not after things have been decided.
 We recognize the serious nature of this issue. Clearly, again, we have a lot of members, folks like Kurt and Valerie, who do good practices. They have to or they won't be able to stay in business. And we want to make sure that those folks are available to speak with you regarding this issue or any others that come up in the future.
 Any options that come up, we would like to be a part of that conversation. We want to be partners with you to make sure that Portland continues to be the great livable city that it is, a destination for people to come and visit. We have a tremendous brand both in the state of Oregon and in the city of Portland. It's evidenced by the people that come here every day, every week, every month and bring their hard-earned dollars to spend in our restaurants and our hotels.
 We just want to make sure that you're aware that we're here. We'd like to have that discussion and be a part of the conversation. And thank you again. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Anyone else that would like to speak on this item? Is there a Paul Rayner? Apparently not. Okay. Then I believe we're ready to take a vote on the resolution. So let's do that, please. No, thank you.
 Sometimes there are big issues that are all around you that you don't know about until you read about them in the New York Times. And that was the case for me here. I had no idea how many people lived their lives never knowing when the next shift was going to be until the New York Times started writing about it a couple of years ago. And I called up my friends at UFCW and the Working Families Party and said, do these things happen to workers in Portland? And they said, you bet they do.
 So it has been a great honor to work with Jeff at UFCW and Carly at the Working Families Party on this issue and thinking about this issue and raising awareness of this issue. I also really, really appreciate the work of Andrea Valderrama and Katie Schreiber and my staff who have dedicated countless hours to this issue. And I also want to thank the business representatives, owners, and other management folks who have been willing to engage in discussions about these issues with us.
 And I really appreciate the workers that came here today and were able to wait quite some time in order to speak to us.
 I am committed to working on this issue by closely monitoring next year's state legislative action. I do think that we should have a discussion about whether this issue should be part of our legislative agenda. If the legislature does not adopt a strong statewide policy, I definitely want to explore the idea of taking action here in Portland when the preemption is expired. But again, we'll have a robust public process and we'll...
 have a lot of input from stakeholders as we develop such a policy. So thank you, members of the council, for hearing about this issue. Thanks to everybody who's been involved. And I vote aye.
 I was interested in the testimony from the Working Families Party and from Dr. King about it's more prevalently a challenge for women and for people of colour. Because I've had multiple experiences in the jobs that I had had growing up. My daughter also has been working in retail. In fact, earlier in the year when Commissioner Novick was thinking about could we get something done in Portland before the legislature pre-empted us,
 I would take some of the suggestions back to my daughter and she would say no, no, no because she was doing double backs from the clopenings and she would not want that changed unless there was some guaranteed work hours so it cannot be just the scheduling it has to go along with set work hours enough hours in a week to make it worth actually going to the job in the first place
 And we also had this discussion early, I think in 2009 or before that, with the service master workers in the contract at Memorial Coliseum.
 So it is something that actually we probably do have some workers in our city government who are having scheduling challenges, and we should look into that. I was very concerned to hear the testimony from the lady who works at Janus Youth Services, and I know that that is very prevalent in foster care and in youth care facilities, having helped on the picket line at Trillium Services once when they eventually settled for a
 15 cent an hour raise or something you know really very challenging when they're working with children and families in really chaotic situations and yet the staff are not paid properly so I very much appreciate this coming forward and for your kind of starting the conversation Commissioner Novick and yes indeed we shall all be paying attention in the legislative session and hopefully we will get something done there as well thank you This has been a day with a lot of drama
 I think this is our last item, Mayor? It is. So let me just say, Commissioner Novick, thank you for putting this on our agenda, and thank you for raising the visibility around this issue. You said something very powerful about sometimes there's an issue that's around you, but it takes an event or leadership to actually elevate it. Years ago in another life, I represented health care workers, and health care workers in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut organized and formed a union
 primarily because they weren't receiving health care in their jobs, low-wage workers in hospitals and nursing homes, and they weren't eligible for health care benefits. Well, there was a time when obviously that was the norm or acceptable, but when we think back in time, it's ridiculous that someone could work in a hospital and not have health benefits. We just would think that's – how could that possibly be? Well –
 but that in turn sparked a major organizing drive and a fight to get fair wages and benefits in a health care setting so we make progress but we do it not necessarily in a linear line we do it when issues are flagged and then we we come together i am was very struck by the testimony today and i thank the folks who came out and who braved this day and were willing to stick around and this is something that i hope we seriously consider for our legislative agenda
 And as to the concerns that have been raised by some folks who came today,
 talking about their unique industry. I'm reminded that when Commissioner Fritz led an effort around earned sick leave, a lot of that, a lot of the time she spent was actually trying to understand different workplaces and the different cultures and expectations of workplaces. And we had some very vigorous discussions, I remember, both with private employers and even some of our labor friends about how earned sick leave would work.
 If we ever get to the day where this council is involved in any kind of sausage making, I think we can assure our friends, particularly in the business community, that we will engage people and talk about and we'll be interested, not just engaged, we'll be very interested in learning the unique characteristics of each workplace so that we strike the right balance. That's not what Steve is proposing now. Steve has done this to raise visibility around an issue that a lot of people care about. For that, I'm grateful. Thanks to everyone who testified and thanks to our friends at,
 UFCW 555, and the working family parties and others who, not surprisingly, are in the forefront of this movement. Bye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick, for shining a light on this issue and bringing a really helpful coalition of people here today to teach us a bit about it and start the conversation that needs to lead to policy. Appreciate Professor King living up to the PSU motto of letting knowledge serve the city. Very, very illuminating and complete information about this issue. So thank you.
 USCW Local 555, as usual, paying attention to people and their needs in our community, and responsible employers who are here to be participants in that discussion. So it's heartening to see that. And, you know, I understand the concern from employers about regulation. Right.
 But, of course, we don't regulate any industry because of the responsible people. Hammurabi created the first building code in 1700 B.C.,
 I went to work in my very first seasonal job as a 16-year-old working for a painting contractor. Before OSHA even required that they upgrade their ventilators to deal with the epoxy paint that we were spraying in high school auditoriums and restrooms that were being built in northern Virginia, the Heim Company was issuing the proper kind of charcoal filter respirator to our workers so they would be protected.
 They were a responsible employer. But, of course, OSHA did need to require that every contractor do that because some didn't. And that's why we have to adopt regulations. It's not because of the responsible ones, but because of irresponsible ones or ones that are lagging. So, and to the subject of preemption, this is one of those issues where, in my opinion, the legislature should act first because it would be better to do this statewide.
 There are some issues where it's probably better for us to lead, but this would be a great issue for the legislature to lead on first. And I think maybe the discussion about preemption of the legislature has evolved a little bit to the legislature has the first right of refusal, but they shouldn't stop us from enacting progressive public policy if they want to give it a pass, rather than saying no one do anything, which is where we've been on some state preemptions for too long.
 So, again, I think this is a good discussion to start. Often cities have led these issues and I'm proud of the leadership that we have shown over time in this city in the last four years and far before that. I think when I was a relatively new city commissioner we were adopting domestic partners policy that now we talk about in terms of marriage equality.
 So having cities take progressive public policy positions and think about the people that we serve in new ways like this is great. And it's sick leave, it's $15 an hour, it's pay on the box. It's a lot of cases where the city has done the right thing and that ultimately, in many cases, has paid dividends beyond the city limits. And in environmental policy as well. I really appreciated that she's left, but I really appreciated Tia raising the point about housing.
 Because we're in a housing crisis in this city. Our housing prices went up faster than any city in the country. A statistic that, as a mayor and chief tub thumper, I shouldn't keep bringing up because it's not a good statistic that we went up by 11% year over year, but we did. And so, therefore, our workers are really under pressure now.
 And so if they can't make a living wage, if they can't have the hours they need to pay the rent, as she was describing so clearly, then that's a big problem, and it's a problem that, once again, gets exported to everyone else to help solve. So this is a really important discussion, Steve. I'm really glad that you started it. I look forward to having it become real public policy real soon. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you all very much, and we're recessed until tomorrow. We need to vote on the substitute 1143. 1143? Did I miss something? Sorry. I think we were waiting for someone. Oh, right. We were waiting for people to come over, and they were not. Okay. So we've adopted the substitute, and now we need to adopt. No one wished to testify. Okay. So now we approved the substitute, didn't we? Yes. Okay. So now we'll take a vote on the underlying ordinance, please. Novick. Aye. Riggs. Aye. Aye.
 All right. And now we're recessed until tomorrow. Thank you.