Good morning. Good morning, Carla. Good morning. All right, good morning everybody. This is the Wednesday, October 16th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning Carla, please call the roll. Good morning, Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on council rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Thank you, good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and needs to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless exiting or entering. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome comfortable, respected and safe. Very good colleagues and before we get to communications today, I'd like to make a motion to hold an evening City Council session on Thursday, November 7th, 2019 from 6pm to 8pm at Portland Community College Southeast Campus for the remaining Portland Clean Energy Fund appointees accepting a grant for the Bloomberg Climate Challenge and to hear a report from PBOT on the Rose Lanes Initiative. Second. We have a motion and we have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any discussion? Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you, colleagues. The motion passes. Communications is first up, Carla. Item 953, a request of Stan Herman to address counsel regarding your constituents' question. Good morning. Good morning. You know, I want to start with, I'm not trying to pick a fight with you guys, but I'm not going away. Next month will be three years trying to get an answer from this Portland City Council. You probably ask me, why am I coming down here? The basic reason is I can't get any answers from anybody in any of the bureaus. They just kick the can down the road. Mr. Mayor, we didn't meet, as you said in the past. Your assistant, Michelle, was ordered to help me, but that went nowhere. Thank you. Robert King met with me almost three months ago. I emailed him back on some questions, and I confirmed that he received the email, and I got no answer as of today. Last month when I was speaking, I believe, Amanda, you tried to respond to me, but I didn't hear you. And, Mr. Mayor, I think you leaned over and told her it fell on deaf ears, and you're probably right for that insult. I am wearing hearing aids, and the battery was dead. Amanda, thank you for your response. Thank you. But your response was you didn't know the facts about a case or the applicable law? I'm not. Just answer the question as it is. I'm not. It's not nothing to do with any case. It's not asking for any legal opinion. You stated to me probably a year ago that you couldn't help me with my problem. And I said, I don't have any problems. I just need you to answer your constituents' questions. Hardesty, you're new at this. You don't know how long I've been there, but I emailed you the question on the response to the email last week. Fish, I liked you on TV. You looked good on your boat, but again, I don't get much response on my question from you. All I want to know now, I think I will email you all, request on a meeting personally, and I'd like to know a show of hands if you will respond and have a meeting with me. Anybody? Thank you. It seems like I'm the only person who has one yet. I meet with anybody and anybody who contacts my office and asks for a meeting. So you're not unique. If you call and ask for a meeting, you'll get one. I've already met with you, as have members of my staff, and we've communicated with you. As have my staff. I'm sure I can hear you. Repeatedly. You will or will not be with me? I've already met with you, sir. I'm asking again. Will you meet with me again? If there's something new that you have to contribute to the conversation, I would entertain an email first. So let's start there. I just need a yes or no, sir. No. Okay. You daily? Nope.
 Fish?
 No. And, Mr. Herman, let me just say you've been before us now dozens of times. And there are other issues here than simply this. question that you're posing. This is not the appropriate place for to hash these out. I wish you well, sir, in your life. I wish you well in in in in whatever is going on in your life. This is, you've exhausted this process. You're not going to get any relief here. You've been told that repeatedly by people. I have a sweet spot for you because of your persistence in coming, but this has now gone beyond a constituent request. There are other issues here. We wish we could be helpful. We can't. And I just think, sir, you're taking up the time of some other person that could come before us and raise a concern and you have been told repeatedly, you have been given answers that you don't accept and that's fine. But there's nothing we can do for you. There's no further relief we can give you. And this doesn't serve any useful purpose with you coming here. If there's other issues you'd like us to address in your life, I think we would be happy to do that. But this doesn't serve any purpose. Well, it does. And, yes, there is more to it. One of them is to provide a city park for the Portland area for canoes and kayaks for kids. And the other is a piece of property I have that I've been holding back. to provide for low-income housing for about 120 units. I'm not going to step in those boundaries until we can get some communication going. But I thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Carla, I can't tell if the next individuals want to come up together or separately. They do want to come up together. Very good. Go ahead and call them up. Item 954, request of Amy Wilson to address council regarding 3.96 code change. 955, request of John Tepley to address council regarding neighborhood associations. And 956, request of Avery Picard to address council regarding 3.96 code change. And 957, request of Claire Coleman Evans to address council regarding the proposed changes to 3.96. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Who's going first? I'll go first. Very good. Thank you. My name is John Tepley and I'm with the Elizabeth Jones Art Center. I wish to thank Commissioner Eudaly for coming to the Elizabeth Jones Art Center during the Neighborhood Association's rock exhibit and meeting with us. I will admit that I was totally charmed. when we talked and anytime you would like to come back to the Arts Center, it would be my pleasure to give you a personal tour. And I wish to thank Mayor Wheeler who also came to the Arts Center with his wife and family and thank you for the encouragement about putting up the two foot by one mile mural project. We finally found a city site to exhibit and we put up five city blocks of the project and it was amazing. Thank you. A few years back, I had the privilege to give testimony to the City Council. This was for the vacation of a traffic island in St. John's called Ivy Island. I was against a vacation and then neighborhood association was for it. Through the process, I submitted a petition with 1,700 signatures and we had a postcard campaign about the subject. It was the most pleasurable sight to walk into Amanda Fritz's office and see piles of postcards on her desk concerning Ivy Island. And yes, I also started the postcard campaign about the code change, you know, kind of my MO. And I would like to thank Commissioner Fish for actually seeing our group and listening to an Ivy Island presentation. This was the most amazing experience for me. I was just this guy in the neighborhood who had an objection to an official neighborhood association position. And here I was meeting with the city commissioners and their staff were returning my phone calls. Though I wasn't part of the official neighborhood association, my stature and my voice was elevated because of the neighborhood association. I lost that fight for Ivy Island. What is important is that even though I was outside the neighborhood association, we were playing by the same rules. These rules were published and you could go to them, go to what was then ONI, read the rules, and find the staff to help you understand them. There was a thick booklet that contained the official guidelines, that was public, and that everyone had access to. It created a safe and transparent place with structure that allowed any person the opportunity to engage in local issues through the neighborhood association. Much of this was troublesome and hard to do, but it was all above board and amazing to see in motion. It kept everybody honest. Democracy in its purest form. A safe place for civic engagement for everyone. Strong support of coalitions is a belief in democracy is the best system and that every voice in our community should be valued and respected. And that's what I would like to see is strong support of our coalitions. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Claire Coleman-Evans. A major concern of neighborhood associations and residents of Portland is feeling like they have not been properly informed about this code change process in a timely manner. Going forward, I would hope that everyone is willing to work together and be well informed far in advance of the process of a realistic schedule to be set for everyone. Along those lines, there is still much confusion as to what the immediate and long-term end processes will be in the future. All of this uncertainty and divisiveness is challenge at best for coalitions and neighborhood associates. Which have been a model of strength naturally recognized for providing communication and transparency between the city and the people of Portland. Rather than destroy the current neighborhood association, we should work together to strengthen and make sure it continues to work for all of Portlanders while also being open to other models of engaging residents. What would really help ease the tensions and adversarial process that has occurred is to renew the coalition's contract for another five years. I would also like to know what will the November 14th council session be about. Will this be a first reading? Will this be a vote requested? In an email to the disbanded code committee on November 7th, but was not shared with the public indicated that an ordinance, an administrative rule and a resolution would be presented to council. A resolution to convey a multi-bureau work group to review cross-sectional functions in the city code and work a diverse range of stakeholders to make recommendations to council for modernizing practices to equally provide services to Moore Portland. But I noticed on Commissioner Udailey's Facebook post and the city website a few weeks ago that she said she wanted to slow the process down, listen to other voices, and maybe revise the proposed language. Her October 7th email, however, does not seem to reflect slowing things down. NEs do want to slow the process down so they can give input on how 3.69 code should be revised and not just have Civic Life try to sell us something that we did not have a chance involved in drafting. NEs think that they should be consulted and the Commissioner should revise a proposal based on their input as well. Convene focus groups with neighborhood associations, listen to how they think the code should be updated, and the standards should be revised and not just eliminated. Will there be a new process to take input from stakeholders groups such as neighborhood associations and coalitions? Will there be a public involvement plan and project management plan put together that stakeholders can comment on before the process starts? And what will all this timeline look like? Thank you. Thank you. Hi. Hi. Amy Wilson. Thank you. So as Claire mentioned, our district coalitions are in a state of chaos right now due to the funding. 40 plus years ago, the city worked hard to set up an engagement system for the citizens. As Gretchen Kofori was known to say, the city funded NA's to argue with them, which is great. Like anything important, ongoing dedicated funding was established to support it, and a bureau was put in charge of ensuring its success. Coalitions were the intermediary layer that then hired staff committed to leasing building space and manage their costs to provide the on the ground support. And because of these committed expenses, coalitions have to rely on reasonably predictable funding. However, OCCL has upended this model in favor of a competitive bidding process, where instead of being seen as partners and collaborators, coalitions are now applicants being pitted against each other as well as community groups. In the past, as Claire mentioned, five-year contracts were the norm. Now coalitions are being told they will only be offered 12-month contracts with no dollar figure attached. How can you plan? At its root, the Neighborhood Association system functions as a citizen's check on government to address the mistakes caused by top-down policies that ignore citizen input. But instead of empowering grassroots citizens to fearlessly engage in important decision-making, groups of politically unpopular ideas could now surely be rejected. An irritating coalition could just be starved into folding. It reminds me of the Reagan administration, when they wanted to get the government's eyes down so small you could drown it in a bathtub. We should not be upending our funding model until a code revision is adopted. This competitive bidding model is in direct contradiction to current code, which clearly requires OCCL to support coalitions. But support staff have been fired, and the funding process is in chaos right now. There is a real possibility that if this incredibly divisive process continues, it could cause great harm to our community's ability to come together to work on solving problems in the future. This process already is ripping at the social fabric of our community. There's already a growing resentful division happening between civic volunteers who used to be natural allies. Mistrust and disparagement are beginning to take root, and that is really frightening to those of us that are in the trenches right now. My two requests from you would be, restore the five-year contracts with the coalitions so that they can stabilize, we can reduce the tensions, and hopefully all move forward together to make improvements in the system. The other is we really need to engage in independent public involvement and citizen engagement professional or professionals to be a neutral party to help guide us and move us forward beyond the growing mistrust and bring us back together. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I just wanted to thank each of you for coming and say I think I can speak for my colleagues to say all of us have spent a lot of time with neighborhood associations over the last few months. Let me say that I think there's a reawakening and acknowledgement that neighborhood associations are not all created equally. They have not as traditionally represented all the voices and communities. So there will be changes coming. I hope you've heard that it has been slowed down so nothing will be voted on before another process has been created to supplement the work that's already been done. I think the very good news is that every neighborhood association, all 91 of them. are awake and aware that they need to look around the community and figure out who's not at the table and get them to the table. And so I look forward to working with my colleagues and all the neighborhood associations to make sure that we live our values, which is we represent everyone, not a specific demographic group, but everyone. And I would love to hear neighborhood associations come here and tell us how they're going to achieve that goal. That's the question. The question is, if you will exist for another 45 years, how do you represent the community that you represent? So thank you all for being here. Thank you for being willing to be part of the solution. But I got to tell you, if I never have another meeting with another neighborhood association, at least in the next six months, right? Because I've talked to a lot of people and everybody has the same message, right? Yes, we're not working the way we're supposed to. Yes, we're not totally representative of our community. Yes, we know we need to change, right? So let's just do the work and make it so. I would love to invite you to a King Neighborhood Association meeting. I'd come to all of them. I'd be happy. You just contact my office. Please do. No, we'd love it. I'm at meetings every night. So just invite me. We appreciate your willingness. Thank you. Appreciate you coming. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Is there one more person? Carla, is there one more person signed up? It was Avery Picard. He may not be here. Is Avery Picard here? Can I show you daily? Yeah, thanks. Well, I want to thank you all for coming here today. Mr. Tupley, I'm going to politely decline your invitation to come back for the time being. If my experience at your gallery was any indication of the safe space you provide for everyone to participate, I wouldn't want to come back. there is clearly still a lot of misunderstanding in the community about the process and the proposal. So I want to invite all of you to visit Winta Yohannes in my office. She's my liaison to Civic Life. She has been working closely on this issue. since the beginning, and hopefully she can clear up some of the confusion that you have. We have a busy agenda today. I'm not going to have a conversation from the dais with you, but that's the first step would be you talking to Winta. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? We've had no requests. Call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please, 958. Accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Colleagues, the Technology Oversight Committee, or TOC, was established in 2011 for the purpose of providing citizen oversight on city technology projects that have a substantial impact on city operations. Especially projects that are either high risk or high cost. TOC members provide oversight and advise project staff throughout the project's implementation. Their purpose is to increase both transparency and accountability for the technological aspects of significant city projects. And to identify any potential issues as early in the process as possible. The TOC reports monthly to the Chief Administrative Officer, who then submits reports to the City Council on a quarterly basis. So today we're receiving a status update on projects that are currently under TOC oversight, as well as a summary of the quality assurance assessments. The TOC is comprised of individuals who possess impressive technology backgrounds and extensive experience with project implementation. On that note, I'm very pleased to see that our last Our original member is here with us today, Wilf Pinfold represents my office and has been serving the TOC for eight and a half years. Wilf, welcome and thank you for your many years of service to the city. Senior management analyst and TOC staff liaison Heather Hafer is also here to help present this quarter's report. Good morning everyone. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Nice to see you, Commissioners. I, too, am very pleased that WILF is joining us here today. WILF provides the TOC with extensive experience and professional oversight into managing complex technology projects, and I think that benefits our entire organization. So we are incredibly thankful for your time. I am equally pleased to be joined by a familiar face, Jeff Baer, who serves as your Chief Technology Officer. Jeff provides the city's managerial oversight of TOC projects and, in my humble opinion, does a fantastic job of doing so. Thank you. As the Mayor said, TOC members represent each elected official. In addition to Wolf, Diana Garcia represents Commissioner Fritz. Victoria Trapp represents Commissioner Hardesty. Jimmy Goddard represents Commissioner Udaile. And Leland Mill is our newest member who represents Commissioner Fish, and I hope to introduce him to you in January. The TOC oversaw two projects during this last reporting period, which was from July through September. Those two projects were the Portland Online Permitting System and Open and Accountable Elections. We'll be presenting the project's dashboard so you can see an overall rating of these projects from both the TOC and the quality assurance perspectives. But both Wilf and Jeff are here to provide you with additional product information and answer any questions that you might have. Heather, we have that amendment we need to do before that PowerPoint. Yes. There's an amended Exhibit A that was in the Tuesday memo. Can I read that? I'm sorry, there is an amendment? Okay. To exhibit A, it was in the Tuesday memo, page four. So on the dashboard, you're seeing the POPs reading sheet. Unfortunately, there's a tremendous amount of copying and pasting that goes along with this reporting. And you originally saw the TOC's assessment in July for POPs as yellow, yellow, green, and green. It actually is yellow, green, and green. So do we need a motion to substitute the exhibit? That would work, yes. All right. I so move. Second. We have a motion. Second from Udaly. Any further discussion? All in favor vote. I'm sorry. Call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Substitutes on the table. Aye. Thank you. I did. Aye. Thank you, Heather, and thank you, Mayor Wheeler and members of City Council. I'm Jeff Barrow, the Director of the Bureau of Technology Services, and as was introduced, we're here with our TOC member, Dr. Will Finfold, here to provide some updates to the report since it only covers the July through September timeframe, and there have been a lot of different activities that have occurred since the project reporting period ended. We're also here to answer any questions or concerns you may have regarding any of these projects. Just to focus a little bit on POPs, or the Portland Online Permitting System, it continues to move forward towards a Q1 2020 go-live for the main permitting system. Both the QA and the TOC members are assessing the project in both yellow and green status. The project team has been actively hosting Amanda Roadshows, really to highlight the system features. We've got foundational courses and the learning labs are now available for employees to start taking advantage of for the testing and training that will occur over here over the next few Bureau of Development Services Director Esau and I meet weekly with the project team to review project status, risk, and different issues as they occur to make sure we are addressing those as they pop up as they occur each week. The user acceptance testing, UAT as it's known, is a real significant phase and that will also be beginning soon. I'm sorry, could I interrupt for just one moment? Commissioner Hardesty. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Two questions. One, Amanda is an acronym, right? We're not talking about Commissioner Amanda Fritz, right? That is correct. All right. And would you actually tell us what the acronym stands for so that the listening public? I have tried for probably the last year. No, I found it last time. It's something like automated mechanics. The first letter is automated. Okay. I'll repeat that again. Well, let the record reflect we're not talking about Commissioner Fritz. I think we should remember it's my project. I like the fact that you're on his roadshow, right? To clarify that. Can you tell me what change between July and August that gave you less confidence in the POPs project as it relates to the budget? Yeah, so the budget was, the overall project budget itself did not change, but there are questions about some of the line items expenses that were attributed to different expenses that we had to go back and reconcile. So bottom line, the number didn't change. It was just reconciling those different expenses. Thank you. That's helpful. Thank you. Just a report on the development hub PDX or Dev Hub. As noted in the report, we went live on July 1st. We retired the system in August, and customers are now applying for permits through this online permitting website. Reports indicate this is very well received, so that is going very well. Excuse me. I beg to differ on that. I tried last night to get a street tree pruning permit, which previously I had been able to do with absolutely no difficulty, and I could not – I couldn't do it. Okay. We'll follow up on that. If you could please. Was that a tree permitting? Yeah. A street tree pruning permit, which previously was very easy to do through the parks website. When I clicked on the parks website, sends me to this development hub, I clicked on every single link and couldn't find a way to do it. We'll get back to you. Thank you. Find out what happened on that. I did send an inquiry, so I'll update my colleagues on them. I'm sure development services and technology services will make sure that customers are given training if we're not using it correctly. Thank you for that. I just want to also follow up on these different activities that I noted about. These are really more internal facing to talk about how do we train staff to be able to use the system, but also BDS has been working directly with the Development Review Advisory Committee, which is also known as the DRAC, and as well as their Customer Advisory Committee to keep them apprised of the different activities that are occurring with the POPs implementation. So overall, we're I think the team and I and Director Issa and I are feeling really good about the progress we're making and heading towards a launch period in February next year. And I – Wilf, do you have anything to add? Yeah, I would actually like to add something. I think both these projects represent a shift that's going on in the way that the city looks at software, and I think it's in line with where the rest of the industry is moving, and that's moving away from thinking of software really as an item, as a product that you buy and you purchase and then you have it for a period of time and then it's out of date. Yeah. A good way to think about this is, in the old days we would go out and buy Windows and it was a package and it stayed stable for a long period of time. But today on your smartphones, typically there are updates coming for all of your apps on an ongoing basis. To think about software more as a service than as a thing, it's really there to help members of the bureaus get their job done in an efficient way and it should align with the processes that they are using to get their job done, which of course is a moving target. We're improving those processes and changing those processes on a regular basis. And both of these projects have taken a step in the right direction of moving towards that ongoing support. POPs, I think we have now reached a point where we are quite well aligned with the provider in delivering technology, and many of the challenges that we have in the next step are challenges that they have across their whole user base. So we're actually on the leading edge of their delivery, which I think is a good achievement to have reached. And the work that's been done on the open and accountable elections, You know, one of the things you will see is that we have marked down the completion as uncertain. That's not actually necessarily a negative in our view. We would expect as we develop processes, as we understand what the potential weaknesses are, and as the process is used, we expect that package to advance. And the relationship that has been developed with Civic recognizes that and will continue to move it forward. So I would ask the Commission to think more about... ongoing software efforts as purchasing a service rather than just purchasing an item and think about it in that way. I think it will help us all as we go forward to think about these procurements that way and recognize that completion is not quite as crystal clear as it has been in the past. Excellent. Great. Thank you. I will give a quick update on the open accountable elections. The report you see before you indicated they had civic software foundation had delivered all components for implementation of what we are calling plan B. I learned yesterday from director Susan that they have now delivered 100% for all of plan A with one exception and that is for the auto notification process. It's coming together and I think it's really progressing well. That's good to hear. We've got it and it's working. Yes. No, I think I covered them both. And I would agree. I think that ongoing improvement to this, and I think there will be, and part of this is certification process, which is, you know, do we know how it is that the tool is being used? And if there are any things that we're concerned about in ways that the process is being managed, we should have the option to add those as we go. In the same way as you would add, patches to an application on your phone to ensure that security is maintained. I would expect us to continue to do that with open and accountable elections on an ongoing basis. I appreciate that clarification. And I had a question just about the way we're reporting out information. And I realize it's a quarterly report, and it's my understanding that there was a deadline for this report that was approximately, what was it, September 19th? Yes, you mean the completion of the various issues? Right, so we have red reflected here in our official report here close to the end of October, but we're hearing a verbal confirmation from you that a lot of the issues that led this to be red are now either yellow or green. Is that a fair assessment? Yes, let me add a little bit to that as well. I think that's a correct understanding, but let me add a little context to that because I think it would help. Sure. At the beginning of this project, we realized the time schedule was very tight and the objectives that were being laid out were quite stringent. In other words, if we met the full completion of the project, that would be fairly remarkable in the time that was available. And so as a group, we said, if you want this completion, we think it's read. and you've seen that throughout. However, we all strongly supported doing the project because the alternative is a manual process, and the manual process would be very burdensome. And even fairly early on in the project, it was fairly clear that we could do a fairly significant percentage of that manual work automatically, and that would be an enormous benefit. And I think the deadline that you're talking about, we had about 80% of that manual work covered by this process, which for us... knowing where we started we felt was actually quite good. We still marked it negatively because we didn't want to set expectations that it was going to be complete. We never believed that it would be complete on time. We believed that it would be a significant benefit over the alternative of manual. But at least the trend lines are good. Yes. And it's working. I mean it's so exciting and I need to give a shout out to Civic Software Foundation and their volunteers. I mean we've got The automated system for permits, which has been going as long as I've been on the council, I think, or nearly that long, and is still not quite ready to implement. And this system, which is somewhat complex, has been done largely by volunteers and got done so that it was ready to use the day that they applied. programs start open for candidates. Yes, I think that's true and I think something else that I think is very attractive about this, because it is open and because there are volunteers who are able to work on this, things like some of the visualizations will happen through community activity. Yeah. And they will be very beneficial. I know that some of our press who would like to be able to monitor the process will be very delighted that when they start to raise questions, that we can create visualizations that let them take a look at what is happening within the election. And I think that's very healthy for our democracy, an ability to be able to say, okay, something's going on here. Can we visualize it in some way and have a civically conscious group come up with a visualization that lets them look at it better without, you know, burdening cost on the city and the taxpayer, which I think is an excellent place to be in. Thank you. And I did find that Amanda stands for Application Management and Data Automation. So there we are. Amanda sounds so much more exciting. Not saying like a robot, but there we are. This is the first time you're going to hear me speak in favor of the acronym. That's right. I need to hear that again. Thank you very much. I just want to just really appreciate the volunteers on the TOC. The resources that you provide to the city are priceless. Your expertise that you're willing to bring on a volunteer basis over and over and over again really has helped us to actually, for those of us who are not tech, and I say this kindly, tech geeks, right, those who are not tech geeks, right? you help us understand, right, actually what we're investing in and what we should expect the outcomes to be. And I love your cautious nature because when I watch the red go to yellow and then go to green, I know that we've accomplished something. So thank you, thank you, thank you. I am greatly appreciative. Thank you all. Does that complete your presentation? Yes. Any further questions? I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion to accept the report from Commissioner Fish. A second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Thank you, Bailey. Thank you for the report and for your work. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for being here, Mr. Pimfolden, for your comments. You've been so supportive throughout this experience. And thank you to Cliff Smith, who provides quality assurance oversight for the open and accountable elections technology and technology. Civic Software, as we say, thank you to the whole Technology Oversight Committee, and particularly thank you to Open and Accountable Elections Director Susan Mote, who has worked incredibly hard to get this program going in record time, and I'm really excited that it is. Fish? Well, thank you for the presentation, and I also appreciate the perspective that you shared with us about software and thinking about it a little differently, thinking of it as a service. I think that's... something that we need to ponder as we go forward. But this exercise that we go through quarterly, where we get these reports that are easy to understand, that are color-coded, I think is the model for how we should do a lot of oversight in this city. And I thank you for your service. Aye. Hardesty. I just want to say that you reported today on two projects that cost the most angst with the public. The permitting process and who has the privilege of running and serving in public office. Neither of those tasks are easy and you have brought us along every step of the way. I am honored to vote aye in favor of your report, and I want to thank you once again for your work. Wheeler. This is a process that works really well. I really appreciate everybody's service. I vote aye. The report's accepted. We'll see you next quarter. Thank you again. Unless something weird happens and you need to come around. Like I said, we'll see you next quarter. Next item, please, 959. Prize 59, authorize a grant agreement with United Way of the Columbia Willamette in an amount not to exceed $600,000 for Portland-directed activities within a coordinated statewide hard-to-count campaign for the 2020 Census. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, I'm pleased to introduce this next item. Today we will be... Excuse me, Commissioner. I noticed that this is a time-certain item, and it's not quite 10.15. That clock's slow. It's 10.12. It's 10.12. Okay. All right, let's go to a... Do we have a second reading? Hang on. Of course we don't. We'll take a three-minute recess. All right, okay. We are back in session. It is now 10.16 according to the large novelty clock in the back of the room. Commissioner Udaly. Colleagues, I'm pleased to introduce this next item. Today we will be voting to authorize a $600,000 grant agreement with United Way to support the 2020 Census preparation efforts. Before we begin, I'd like to thank my colleagues for their support of the Census budget requests. This work is vitally important and I'm proud of the City of Portland's contribution to the effort. I'll have more to say about that after the presentation. Joining us today to share more about how Portland fits into the We Count Oregon campaign are Director Sukhree, who I actually just saw walk into my office, not council chambers. Here she is. From the Office of Community and Civic Life, Amanda Whalen from United Way and Esperanza Turbulon-Garrett of Dancing Hearts Consulting. Please come forward to the table. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks. Just want to say good morning our elected officials, our colleagues, and our community members, including a spirit of Portland honoree last night. Angela Harris. My name is Sukri, and I serve as director for the Office of Community Civic Life. This presentation is to provide you the context and the update that you need to authorize a transfer of $600,000 to the United Way as our fiscal sponsor for this Census 2020 work. I'm just going to give you a quick update. There is a slide deck that they are arranging to load with the council clerk. but my remarks do not need a PowerPoint presentation. So last year, council allowed for three investments in the 2020 census. The first was a $225,000 grant award in the fall 18-19 fall bump and then council allows Civic Life to redirect $125,000 in general fund resources in the spring bump and then in the fiscal 19-20 budget council committed an additional $250,000 for a total investment of $600,000. And the first $20,000 of city funds were pledged to hire a statewide census equity coordinator with the Census Equity Funders Committee of Oregon, sometimes referred to them as SEFCO. And the SEFCO is comprised of the region's philanthropic private funders. So SEFCO then chose a community-led proposal to work with Dancing Hearts Consulting in January, who then worked with multiple entities to develop a campaign plan from February to June. At the same time, in that same period, SEFCO and Dancing Hearts used this plan to secure an additional $7.5 million from the state of Oregon, now toward a total $10 million investment in Heart to Count. in a Heart Count campaign statewide. I'm gonna pause for a moment there because this is actually the first time this has actually happened in our state's history. And council's first investment through the fall bump last year was the critical step that enabled all of us to leverage early and limited dollars toward a $10 million outcome. And so thank you for that. Today, we request your support for transferring the city $600,000 to the fiscal agent for SEFCO. And Amanda Whalen from the line away of the Columbia Willamette will share information about the Census Equity Fund and the SEFCO partnership. And then Esperanza Tervalon-Garrett of Dancing Hearts Consulting will talk about the We Count campaign implementation plan. So if we are ready to load, thank you for your help. Thank you so much. Wonderful. So, Amanda, we'll... So, thank you very much for having us here this morning. I'm Amanda Whalen, Chief Impact Officer at United Way, and I'm here representing SEFCO and the Census Equity Fund. So, the Census Equity Funders Committee of Oregon is a collaborative of philanthropic organizations that have been working together for almost two years now to address the hard-to-count issue here in Portland. And we are looking at a $10 million overall statewide campaign that's part of a larger $14 million campaign that's trying to make sure that all of the Oregonians are counted in the census. Thank you for that. Thank you. So the Census Equity Fund, what you have in front of you in this slide is our operating sort of thoughts on how we move forward. A couple of things I want to point out. What we've done is we've created an aligned pooled fund which is able to remove barriers for community-based organizations and have one place where they're applying for funding in order to do field and community-based work to ensure that our hardest to count populations are reached. Second, as far as we know, this is the only private and public pooled fund in the country. So a number of states are running private funds and public funds in order to reach hard to count. But as far as we know, this is the only place where we are doing that sort of aligned work where CBOs can apply to one single place. Finally, a part of our work is also going to be the evaluation and the gear up for 2030. So one of the things that we found was that a number of states, Minnesota in particular, had started much earlier than we had. Two years ago seems like a long time in preparation for this, but what we now know is by gathering this aligned group and doing this work, we're able to get ready again and be more prepared for 2030, which is an exciting thought. Let's hope we'll have federal help in 2030. Agreed. So in November of 2018, we put out an RFP for a statewide equity coordinator, and we're lucky enough to have a group of organizations from around the state who applied to run the campaign. They nominated Dancing Hearts Consulting to be the lead applicant for that coalition, and in May they developed a hard to count campaign that I believe has been shared with you already. So I just wanted to update you on where we are around these funds raised for the campaign. Suket said, we are looking at a $10 million hard to count campaign fund. SEFCO had an early $1 million pledge and as you can see we are almost to that $1 million pledge and that's from private philanthropy. We have another $8.1 million that is so far committed from public funds and so our total pledge is almost $9 million. Total committed is almost $9 million and then it's almost $9.4 in terms of pledged. So we're anticipating we have approximately about $600,000 more to raise in order to reach our hard-to-count campaign goal. So have no other jurisdiction, local jurisdictions, or count cities or counties contributed apart from the City of Portland? Not have contributed to the fund directly. We have other jurisdictions that have set aside dollars, but have yet to contribute directly to the fund. Can I mention that in the 19-20 budget, the Moonglena County matched the city's commitment of $250,000 as well. So that's included in the pledges on this? Is it included in the pledges? Yes. Thank you. So United Way, as mentioned, is we are providing backbone support to SEFCO and to the Census Equity Fund. Currently what we're doing is continuing to provide that support to Dancing Hearts Consulting. We're funding and contracting with those 13 partner organizations that are leading the field campaign. We're also supporting Portland State University at the Population Research Center, and they're doing a ton of data work that's preparing for the campaign. And we're also preparing for the Census Assistance Center at RFP. So those will be census assistance centers in all 36 counties of the state that will be providing support to communities. And now I'll turn it over to you. Thanks. Hello, my name is Esperanza Ter-Vuan Garrett and I am the CEO of Dancing Hearts Consulting. I am the first woman, woman of color, and black woman in the country to run a C3, C4 PAC focused on turning out voters of color. And I live in Ashland. I'm a mother, a wife, and a horsewoman. It's a real honor to be here, so thanks for having me. Thanks for being here. Thank you. I want to talk a little bit about the We Count Oregon mission and campaign. We're a really different kind of campaign for a different era. This campaign is being run by black, indigenous, and women of color. We are a campaign that is putting race and culture first. It's centered in the campaign. It is not secondary or ancillary. We believe that using trusted messengers with tailored messages are how we're going to move about 1 million hard to count communities to understand, be educated around, and compelled to take the census. So I think you all know this, but just a quick refresher. A hard to count community is a community that has a less than 76% self-response rate in the first few weeks of the census. Generally speaking, those are people of color, renters, immigrants, children under five, and people with limited English proficiency. I should just tell you in Oregon, for example, some of those communities, 38% of Oregonians are renters, for example. 6% we think of children, 6% of Oregon's population are children under five. We think about 25% of the state population are people of color. So we know that they're pretty large demographics. Commissioner Harstie. I just have a quick question. I'm fascinated by children under five being hard to count. Mm-hmm. Why would they be hard to count? Yeah, thank you so much for asking. So for a couple of reasons. Often newborn babies are sometimes not thought of as yet part of the family. And so we see kids under one often being undercounted or just left off, just not considered. not sort of counted. The other piece that's been a big one that's come up for us is around co-parenting. So if a person is co-parenting with a partner, what we're telling folks is that if you have that child on April 1st, then you count them. And so sometimes in the shared family and rearing of children, children cannot be claimed because nobody knows who's supposed to claim them. Yeah. Thank you. And the impact of not counting children zero to five means that those children up to the time they're 15 or 20, we won't receive the resources we need to make sure they're educated and supported. So the impact is huge, and it's a long-lasting impact, a decade of impact. I want to talk a little bit about the partner organizations and how this came to be. We are so fortunate to partner with these 13 organizations. And recently, I think people have been asking, well, how did you apply for this? And I said, well, I didn't apply for this. I got a call over the winter break from some really amazing organizers who said, listen, we absolutely believe that we're already working in hard-to-count communities. We think that these communities should continue to be in communication with us about this really important democratic process. And we are interested in trying some new things. We know we want to use field-focused strategies. I had worked with them and, you know, we said we'd like to try a new, like, hit at this. And so I said, well, okay, sure. They said, don't worry, it'll be totally easy. And here we are, really excited to see you for the second time. And so it has not been easy, but I will say that when we look at this plan, I'm so fortunate to be able to be the person who represents us as the lead consultant. And I'm happy to carry some of this work alongside of them. And none of this is possible without their leadership, their contribution. Their fingerprints are all over this plan, and we created this together. So I just want to acknowledge that. We do have partners, I just want to let you know that You know, as Amanda was saying, our campaign really is different, and it's being lifted up in a lot of different spaces for being so different. We are one of the few black indigenous women of color-led consultants on a campaign across the country. In fact, we don't know of any other that have an all-women shop or all-women-of-color shop. And we decided that we wanted to partner with the best of the best. So we work with PSU, the Population Research Center, and that team to make sure that all of our information is correct. So they do all of our fact checking and then we do deep dive like data nerd stuff that you don't want to know about to prepare us for when we actually do the count and how to report that. We work with SCAN, the State Count Action Network, which is made up of Asian American Pacific Islander Advancement Project and the leadership, sorry, the leadership council and state voices. And we're basically a part of a national network that is doing, has done a ton of polling around what messages work, what's moving folks. And then the funder census initiative is where we're learning from other consultants around the country about what they're working on, what other consultants are working on and how they're moving census in their places. So our campaign goals are lofty, 200,000 hard to count contacts. A contact is not a knock. How many of you like no knocks? You use knock and yeah, we're not doing knocks. That's about how much energy you put out. We're curious about how many people you talk to. We're going to partner with 100 organizations. We're going to train 10,000 people and we're going to have 50,000 people participate in a text account program. Don't worry, I'm going to pitch it to you later since we're on television and I have There are four main parts to the campaign. Campaign infrastructure, which we've been building since July. And that's really about our data and sort of campaign space and all the trainings and technologies that we need to move this campaign forward. We're doing a ton of education and training. In fact, yesterday we had our first webinar for Census 101. We had 156 people register and 128 people show up. So the conversion rate, the actual percentage at which people are participating is extremely high. We're developing pretty strong communications. Our communications are persuasive. They are in multiple language and they're targeted for constituencies. So the language for children under five, for example, will be different than the language for black immigrants. And then we're focusing on field. I was asked to talk mostly about field, so that's what I'm going to pinpoint here. If you want to ask other things, happy to do that during question and answer. We're in a preparation period right now where we are all learning about the census and we are you know, doing our work to put in place our field plans. January to April will be an education phase. Mostly you'll see trainings and opportunities for people to sort of learn about the census. We call April to August activation, and that's where we'll be running a 100-day campaign to reach 200,000 people. And then what impact will be after we have agreed to do a ton of evaluation because there's not a lot of information or knowledge known in this state about census, we want to make sure that we do a good job like really being critical about what worked and what didn't. What's an example of some of the egregious misinformation about the 2020 census? Sure, so recently actually, I think just last week, a mailer came out, uh, from the RNC asking people to donate, but it had the census information all over it. So it said census 2020, um, is, is one example. And so we put out a mail. It was, uh, Oregon is probably the 15th state to receive, to be targeted for this. It's actually, um, there's a federal law prohibiting anyone from sending mail through the U S postal service that says census that is not census related. Um, And so we put out a mailer to let people know that this was not in fact a census form, that they did not have to fill this out. It had a number that you were supposed to go and put into a website. And so that information is on our website. We sent out a mailer, so we got the information. We sent out an email within 24 hours to let people know this is not a real thing. And to try and make sure that we are giving people the right information so that they can make, well-informed choices and frankly aren't fearful, right? Fear is a huge issue that we're combating with a lot of the communities that we're working with. How did you determine that the RNC was behind that flyer? Oh, it has their name on it. In, in, in. And who were they coordinating with in the state of Oregon? You know, it was unclear. The person who got it was a Democrat, and so we don't think that it was – it's not necessarily partisan. But it is – they've been flooding. And they started in New York, I would say. We saw this and tracked it through our partners at SCAN. We tracked it last – I guess maybe in May. We saw the first one fall in New York. And so we knew it was coming, and we're prepared to respond. So the Republican National Committee is sending out illegal mailings. Is the Oregon State Attorney General going to sue them? You know, I don't know what the plan is around pushing back against this. Again, it's a national push. I think that the envelope and the framing and the messaging on it talks about the census as an entry point, and then it becomes clear that it's actually a fundraising email. So have your organization complained to the Attorney General? We have not. I would like you to do that, please. Sure. I appreciate the recommendation. Thank you. Thank you. So, I want to talk a little bit about Portland, because I know that you all love Portland just like I do. So, you know, I had a request, so I just want to acknowledge that Silk made an amazing request for me to get some real deep dive data on Portland. Who and where and what languages and how many and, you know, what would be the percentage and I talked to Jason, we talked for about an hour. And I am sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but to tell you that it would take us about a year to put that kind of disaggregated data together for you. And the process through which we would do that would be to look at 2017 data. And we are actually six months away from just doing the census. So we want to ask that you all offer some grace to us in not being able to provide that level of data, which will both be out of date and is exactly what we're here to talk with you about today. We are sort of starting at a baseline. The data that we're using is a little old, and 2020 is the time for us to count new people. And we have some projection. We have some ideas about what the demographics will look like and where we should target. But we will, you know, we conduct this process every 10 years so that we can be sure. And that's where we are. Here's what I can tell you about our campaign in Portland. Ten of the 13 organizations will be focused here. We, each organization will be hiring a paid team. We projected about 150 short-term temporary jobs will be done. we will have that many jobs here in Portland, about 150. They pay $17 per hour and folks will work for 100 days. We also know that we have targeted trainings for communities happening mostly in Portland, although in the metro area for, you know, the tri-county for sure. And two of our staff are based here in Portland. Both our field director and our community engagement staff person are here in Portland. And our final piece was that we will have an office here. So we're deeply committed to making sure that... this city is counted. We think there's a lot here, a lot of communities, a lot of connections, and our trusted messengers with the right messages can move those folks. Before you move off that map, as is often the case with city staff, my neighborhood's not on the map. It's too far south, and maybe the demographics of that census tract are not such that it shows up as a hard to count, but there are significant... immigrant and refugee population. So it's West Portland Park and it's the intersection of I-5 Barber and Capitol Highway. And as I say, if we're looking at defined hard-to-count populations, it's going to be in some cases the populations which are concentrated but swamped by not hard to count populations. I'm so glad that you raised that. This is not the map that we will use to go out and talk to folks in Portland. These are the hard to count tracks from 2010 that show the degree to which they were, they required additional in person engagement. We know that there are hard to track counts, so we will be in these areas, but we know that they're hard to count people. all over. We're not going to get one million people out of these little neighborhoods. And frankly, if you pull back the map, we aren't going to get one million out of that either. So we are doing an overlay between geography and demographics to fuse together this statewide campaign. We think that our target universe, the total number of people that we'll reach out to is right around 860,000 people through phones, doors, and cell phone information. Are you looking at schools, particularly elementary schools, and the demographics served by those schools? So traditionally and historically, yes and no, traditionally and historically, the Oregon Complete Count, whatever the Complete Count is for a state, is responsible for working with government entities and all of the agencies funded by the state. So schools, a lot, libraries, all of these things would fall under the Complete Count. They're still developing their plan, and we're really excited to partner with them when we have more clarity. We are putting together and working with, I think, So, you know, organizations that work with children and families would be more our shtick. But we are happy to fill whatever gaps need to be filled so that children are counted. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much for the information. Who is going to be counting people who are houseless in our community? Thank you so much for asking. So actually, you know, there are some communities that we do not provide forms for, and houseless folks would be in that demographic. Indigenous people, Native people, tribal people will also be enumerated in person. And so the U.S. Census Bureau will send someone out, to places where they understand houseless people to be and they will count them in person there. Let me just say that they're not going to have a lot of success because people who are houseless don't talk to people who say I'm from the government and I'm here to help. It would really be important to partner with organizations who already have a relationship with folks who are houseless. So I, and quite frankly, you will find in the population of people who are houseless, the hard to count population that we say that we're targeting. So I would hope that you would add one or two organizations that actually have a relationship with folks who are houseless as part of the team. And then, you know, whatever the federal government does, when and if they show up, hopefully adds value. Thank you. You're welcome. And as we mentioned a little bit earlier, there is an opportunity for those organizations to apply to be a Census Assistance Center as well. So, I mean, one thing is that as people are coming to get services, setting up those computers in the lobbies in order to help people complete forms if possible, if they're coming in, which I know is a whole other issue as well. So it's also going out to where people are. I was going to say, ma'am, they're not going to come to you right now. Which is why it's really important to, and when you say have them apply, I mean, you know, I think it's the responsibility of the complete county committee to actually identify those organizations, work with them to develop an application, and then help them do the hardest job that there is in census, which is counting folks who don't have a house, right? So I think that we have to do something different if we're really intent on counting folks who today don't have a roof over their head. That's right. Commissioner Eudaly. Esplanzer, could you explain? explain what you meant by not having forms for the houseless population? Sure. So the process for the census is that people will get a mail, a mailing from the federal government. It will have your web address because we are taking an online census form this year, or 2020, and he'll have a URL basically that you go to. And you'll get six mailings with an opportunity to respond to that before an enumerator comes to your home. And In the case where people do not have homes, the federal government has decided to enumerate them, which was the process until about the 60s when you have the first mail-in census. And that process is where people would come in. It's problematic. It's a process through which the federal government sends a paid staff person called an enumerator to come and count you. And so they might say there are one, two, three, four, five people here. and they'll say they live there under this intersection, under this bridge, in this park, etc. They will write that on the form and that will count for those people. So this isn't a case of us not treating people equally or wanting to count this population, but the process is somewhat prescribed by the federal government. It is. And, you know, a little bit unjust and not equal and unfair. Okay. But it is the process that the federal government has set forth to date. But that doesn't preclude us from... from doing outreach to that population, correct? You're right. And we, for example, are partnering with the Oregon Food Bank and other sort of service agencies and adjunct. I don't think that that gets to Commissioner Hardesty's question, which I think is a good one and I'm happy to revisit it. Okay. I'm also really interested in this subject, but I understand that list that we saw of hard to count populations doesn't include every hard to count population. It's the most significant populations that we're targeting to try to get to the most complete count possible. Right. Houseless people are not included in the hard to count traditional bucket at all because they would not have homes. It's based on the 76% response rate. And again, that's not our definition. It is not. That is the federal government. That's correct. Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish. So... Before you're finished with your excellent presentation, can someone for the benefit of the public, just take a moment to explain why this is important? Sure. Because I think sometimes people don't connect the dots. I mean, we know for example, that if we get a good count this time, we may get an extra congressional seat. So that adds to clout in Washington, D.C. We know that there are a lot of programs the federal government funds based on a formula. So your population determines how much you get of an entitlement. But I think it's helpful to use this form just to remind people of what's really at stake here and what is the big win for our community if we get an honest count. May I? You did a great job, by the way. So thank you so much. I just did the ones I knew off the top of my head. Those are all the ones. You did all the things. You know, one example, I think one important thing to remember is that for each person that we count, the state of Oregon will receive $3,200 in federal funding for each person. them. You know, in 2016, federal funding made up $13 billion of Oregon's state general fund. That is a huge amount. And so we know that these federal dollars are coming in because people in Oregon rely on federal services like Medicaid and SNAP, public transportation dollars. And so the There's a direct connection between participating in the census and literally the tax dollars, the money that gets to be in our own pockets. And so leaving anyone out has a fiscal impact on all of our lives. I think the other piece is around apportionment. We expect to count about 450,000 new Oregonians in this state. And it is not only a clout in DC, it's actually a constitutional right to have representation. When we have more population, we are deserving of a seat in Congress to make sure that everyone's needs are reflected in the debates that happen and shape all of our lives. I know that in my home, my birth state of New York, they're bracing for the loss of some congressional districts. So we have a chance to pick up another congressional seat which would be huge for Oregon. I think that $3,200 per person number is easy to understand and really compelling. We should probably allocate some additional money so that we'll offer people up to $3,100 to do this census. Because we're supposed to get 100 bucks out of it, but that's a very compelling number, and I think. I think that's easy for people to understand and that those dollars then flow to programs they care about. So I thank you for reducing it to something that's by I think that's part of the messaging we should help you with. Before I get to Commissioner Hardesty, can I get a time check? How far through your presentation are you? I can be done. Very good, Commissioner. I want to make sure that I talk about census assistance centers. If you have questions- It's a great conversation. I don't want to cut it off. I'm here to do whatever is helpful. You bet. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. So it occurred to me. So people, is the census based on your physical street address? So there are 50 questions that have been standard on the census since it was initiated in 1790. And the questions include your name, your address, a phone number, your relationship to the head of household, and your social security number. we know that in this climate of fear, uh, these questions feel scary. Um, whether you're a citizen or non-citizen, um, I feel afraid, uh, about what is possible by providing this information. I do want to offer that title 13, uh, does protect, uh, us under federal code that that information shall not be used in court cases, by the government, or for any purpose that individuates you. So it should not be able to see your individual information and anyone who violates that law is subject to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine or both. So I asked that question because to register someone to vote, they don't actually have to have a physical street address. You can register someone to vote who's in a county jail. You can register people to vote using community services as their address for them to pick up their ballot. And so what I'm trying to understand is, What case would you make to someone who is houseless? Why is it important for them to fill out the census material? Well, again, they won't fill out the census material, but they will be counted by someone who's identifying them and doing a number count and identifying them to a location, maybe under a bridge or in a park. Are they also doing demographic information? So are they looking at you and me and saying, oh, they're both African Americans who live under this bridge? I do not know that information, but I'm happy to talk to the census folks and know more. I would love to know more about that. Yes, I'm sorry. My original question was, so what happens with no address? So they are marked as living under the bridge some number of people. That becomes the physical location. Whatever the coordinates are for that location. It could be a park, it could be whatever, and that is what gets submitted. So, you know, there are kind of two ways that this is happening. One is called self-response, and that's the form that you're going to get, where you tell them, hey, this is my information, this is who I am. And then there's enumeration, where they come, and it is true that in the past, you know, the history was very racist and terrible, where someone would show up and say that you were, for a while, black, white, or mulatto, and those were the options. And so, you know, that leaves some questions about how we will get race data and other important demographic about gender and sexuality from that. I'm sorry, not sexuality, but gender and sex from that form. But I don't actually know their process. And, again, our campaign is really about the community-led effort to connect trusted messengers with communities that they're working in. But these are important questions that I think need to be answered. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. If someone's mailing address is a post office box or or sisters of the road do they get the form delivered there? Where is your form delivered? That's a really good question. It is supposed to go to your home address. It's a little bit problematic, for example, for renters, right, who might get a piece of mail coming and it will say the name of the homeowner instead of the folks who live there. It is supposed to go to your home, to the mailbox address, not the PO box. Okay. And then I think I heard this at... when a similar presentation at Metro Policy Advisory Committee that you don't have to fill out every question. That is true. So are there any mandatory questions? It's a good question. We have been trying to get a clear answer from that right now. I think it's unclear still. I will say this about the census. I have been working on the census now. This is my second round, so I'm at least 10 years in. And after 10 years and 20 years in my field, I definitely am an expert, but I am no authority. is making it very challenging to get clear answers on, to get clear answers. And so I can tell you what I know, but not what I don't. The goal of the census is to get a count of the people, regardless of whether they're documented or undocumented. Is that correct? Yes. So you wouldn't have to put a social security number, for example, if you didn't have one. Right. You would think. Okay. Got that. Thank you. Can I just make a comment about that? The discipline that Esperanza just showed about what we can and what we should and should not say and also what we're legally held to is part of the ambassador's training. Everyone, volunteers, community leaders alike that are talking about the census in the hard to count campaign will go through census education and training because it is not good to have inconsistent responses to very difficult questions. questions and we want to make sure our campaign is completely legal and completely consistent because that helps create a somewhat lessened state of fear in response. And we're going to ask for that discipline from all our community partners. Very good. Any Commissioner Udaly? Well, I just wanted to thank all of my colleagues for these questions. Who would have thunk something as boring sounding as the census, which is just data collection. It's vital statistics. But it is so profoundly important and we, you know, this particular census is so fraught. I'm very interested in this issue around the homeless count because we struggle as a city to get an accurate count of our own homeless population. I think we can help, and I'm wondering if there's any way to connect with or collaborate with the federal government, the enumerators. And Commissioner Fish's questions about what this means, I think, is so important to convey, because there are people who, whether they distrust the government, whether they face barriers to participating, whether they're just really... busy and this is one more task and burden for them to deal with in the course of their day, that's a lot to overcome. And I know from personal experience, when you feel like the system is not serving you and you will not get your needs met by this person who's coming and asking to take your time and energy, yeah. A lot of people are not likely to want to give that time. And, you know, Oregon has a booming economy, yet we are almost dead last in mental health services, in addiction services. We have high food insecurity. We have low high school graduation. We have a statewide housing crisis. And it's just vitally important that we count. every single person that we can to increase that funding and hopefully, hopefully alleviate some of these So thank you. Very good. Commissioner Fritz, and then we'll get to public testimony. Director, I was just wondering, are you engaging the neighborhood associations and the district coalitions in encouraging them to sign up to be ambassadors? Yes, we're engaging everyone. We need everyone's help on this. Yeah, so it seems like you could combine some of the comments we had earlier. You know, if neighborhoods volunteers would not only get paid $17 an hour, but also be knocking on doors and saying, by the way, come to the meeting next week or whatever. If that's allowed. May I say one last thing? We will ask you for not just your vote today, but on November 12th, the Population Research Center and SEFCO are holding a census symposium at PSU, and one of the target audiences are elected officials. So we would like for you to join us there and also get your other colleagues there to have this important conversation in the state. Do you know what time that is, Sue? I think it's all day then, 8 to 4 p.m., and the most important time for you to join is in the morning. All right. Do you want to say anything else about that? That was perfect. Okay. Very good. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Very helpful. Carla, please call the first three. Three minutes each, name for the record. I show only two people signed up, Lightning and Maggie. Very good. Come on up. Good morning. Maggie, would you like to start, please? You know, someone a long time ago said to me, do something right or don't do it at all. And these women collectively in conjunction with these agencies are putting out a tremendous amount of effort. And I totally get the whole idea is to get those federal dollars, but for me it's about what you're going to do with the federal dollars once you get them. And I see indigenous peoples in shelters and on the street. I see people of color in the shelters and on the street. I see immigrants in the shelters and on the street. I see aging people who have lived here all their lives and are disabled and they are on the street. Why are they not in housing if they have lived here all their lives? I see Cascadia, who apparently will admit to the fact that they use 65% of their budget to administrative costs. And then on top of that, then they use the shelters to shelter lifelong disabled people and aging people in with people who have addiction issues of meth and heroin and incarceration. You know, have had incarceration and violent issues. Why are they in the shelter together? Right. I want to know, you know, United Way, they're doing a horrible job with 211. Everyone who's houseless hates 211. It doesn't do, it's completely useless. It's an abysmal service. It doesn't hook them up with housing or social services. And I'm talking about people who have been kicked out of shelter and have died or have been kicked out and they ended up getting pneumonia from exposure. They were in a wheelchair. Or they... They were kicked out because they went to county council to talk about unfair treatment because the staff that they hire for these places are untrained. Maggie? Yeah. Good morning. How are you? I know we're talking about the census. Yes. And we're talking about what money you can get. As you know, right, we are taking testimony on whether or not we should be investing in hard to count people. I know where your passion is. However, what is on the table at the moment is the census. Do you think that this is a good investment or not? In 20 seconds. You know, if we could get away from some of these bad-acting contractors that the government looks away from. Maggie, we are not talking about contractors today. We are talking about counting people so that we can get the resources. I would say hire houseless people to count the houseless. I think that's a great idea. Boom. Thank you, Maggie. Okay. You talked to the topic. Thank you. Appreciate that. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superdata. One of the biggest concerns I have on the census is Commissioner Hardesty and I believe Commissioner Fish brought up some really good points. They said on that list of five, you would have thought the hard to count would have definitely been the homeless community without any doubt. We're in a state of emergency. And the main thing from the city, the county, the state is to focus on the homelessness and the homeless themselves on making sure they step up and they do the census survey. Now it was quoted that there was 3,200 per person. I've heard another number of 1,200 per person and we need to really narrow these numbers down to get a clear understanding what the real number is. And you know on the federal assistance distributed using the Census Bureau data To me, that's the most important issue here. When you're looking at the Section 8, when you're looking at housing for seniors, when you're looking at housing all across the board. If you don't get the numbers in, we lose that money. And then we have to go back to the general fund at the city and start pulling money and then start worrying about providing services. This to me is about the most important issue we've had in the city. that I've ever seen because that number has to be met. We need to get the people that are not being counted to understand. And I'm proposing that what we do for the homeless community is that if we can do this by law and that'll need to be checked, we offer to pay them $20. You step forward and you do this, you receive $20 for participating. Now look at what Commissioner Fish stated. We need to check on that if there's... It's illegal to pay people to fill out a census document. Okay, that's something to check, and I'll check on that too with attorneys. Now, my point is, what is the incentive for them to step forward and do this? You can say, we're going to lose $3,200, and they're going to say, well, I'm not going to appear. And that's a big deal here on how we could do that. Could we even work something out on that? Because, I mean, let's face it, the state put up... what, $7 million toward this. And there's other money being put up on the table too. We need to look at something to really incentivize that hard-to-count population. I mean, we're in the digital community, the digital time, the technology is very advanced on using different software, Roam, Tiger, and different things on this issue. But the reality is we need to get people to be incentivized to do this. If we don't, the city loses big, big money on this. Huge money in the billions of dollars. When you start calculating and you look down at the numbers that are distributed, If we don't take this serious, probably the most serious thing we should, the amount of money we can lose to this city is tremendous. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for your testimony. Any further business? Commissioner Daly? Mayor, before we move on to the vote, I do have a couple clarifying questions, and I'm not sure which one of our panels could answer it. Thanks, Light. Appreciate it. I just wanted to add one more thing to Commissioner Fish, not to cut anyone off. If you could check on that monetary incentive to see what the legalities are on that. I'd like to finish my conversation. Thank you. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you for your time, Commissioner Udaily. Maybe we could just have the panel come back quickly. Commissioner Udaily. So you've heard a strong interest from the council and from public testimony in this issue around counting our homeless population. And as you explained, it's somewhat prescribed by the federal government. But I'm very interested in any way we can support or facilitate that process. So let's follow up on that. It's rare that Mr. Whitening and I agree on anything. And so when we do... I have a sense that it's vitally important. So let's keep... The U.S. Census Federal, the Federal Bureau is actually hiring for enumerators. So I'm happy to connect you with Sarah, who is the lead person in the Bureau here in our region, to talk about what that might look like and how to distribute those job applications or processes. Great. So folks can apply. That... Sounds like a great opportunity. Do any of you know what the estimated undercount was for the state of Oregon in the last census? So we are not, we do not, we are not doing that. What I can tell you is what an undercount of 1% would have cost Oregon. Okay. It would have cost approximately $44.8 million starting in fiscal year 2015 and every year thereafter. Okay. So it's extensive. And I wanted to speak to the gentleman's question. You're right, the numbers did change. In 2020 the federal amount for each person counted was right around $1,200. It was around there. And we are projecting for 2020 that the new number will be 3,200. So thank you for giving me an opportunity to clarify that. That was my second question, but you said 2020. So in 2010 it was 1,200. Correct. And now it's being estimated at 32. That's correct. Okay. Any final... Just for clarity, I mean, one thing about the 2010 census is that was the most well-funded census in history. And so, and there was still an undercount. So, I mean, we can anticipate that this with the very underfunded census, our challenges are... And just to make sure the subtlety of your answer wasn't missed, you cannot tell me what the estimated undercount is. I don't know the estimated undercount. There are many reports with differing numbers. What we feel is the most important thing for everyone to walk away with is that the census has already been clouded and in a shroud of controversy and miscommunication. There's huge misinformation coming in and we only want to put out information that we feel 100% certain about. out. There's no reason to money the waters. And so where we are unclear or there isn't alignment in the sector, we would ask that we just not, unless it's critical. But I think these questions about the past are sort of in the past right now as we look to 2020. Because Rebecca, we missed the last slide. I'm looking at it. There's a, you can text Oregon to, what's the number? Put it up. I would appreciate it. Yeah. So we would love to get everyone to participate in our campaign. If you have a cell phone and you want to pull it out, you can text the word Oregon to 33339. You'll follow it to our WeCountOregon.com page. Go ahead and sign up on the link. It'll give you an opportunity to pledge to take the census. We will not over text you. You can hit stop to stop receiving any time. But it will give you opportunities to get updates on the census, participate in events. And let you know when the webinars are too. Let you know when the webinars are. Great. Done. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much for your presentation. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Carla, please call the roll. E Bailey? Well, I don't know if I feel better or worse about the fact that the federal government worse at counting renters or engaging renters than the City of Portland, but I'm not going to forget that little detail. Thank you to Suk, Amanda, and Esperanza for that fantastic presentation. The census is an exciting opportunity because it's about affirming that our democracy gives every single person the right to be counted. Similar to the right to vote, the right to be counted is a basic right, and it is absolutely fundamental to our democracy, and it's vitally important to our state. both in federal funding and in political representation. We're fairly certain that the 2020 census will bring us an additional seat in Congress. But that depends on our ability to make sure that all community members know and believe this. This is why our limited financial resources must go towards reaching hard to count communities. All of us in this room, I think, understand the very real barriers to participation and the blatant attempts by the Trump administration to instill fear and confusion around the census. And it is absolutely reprehensible. This is why the coordinated campaign across multiple sectors is so critically important. Before I close, I want to highlight Director Rhee's observation about the impact of Portland's early commitment. As elected city officials, we have an obligation to exercise fiscal responsibility over our limited funds. And yet we know that many of our most pressing issues are not neatly confined to the borders of our jurisdictions. Our communities expect that we will work together across jurisdictions, and this effort proves that leadership and sharing responsibility leads to better outcomes. So thank you, Suk. In closing, I'd like to thank all of our presenters today, Lauren and Esperanza. Thank you for taking on such an important role in this work. It's a huge undertaking, but I have the utmost confidence in you and your teams to get this right. I also want to thank the Civic Life team, Shook, Marco, Perla, and Diane for getting us to this point and continuing to lead the work to coordinate through our bureau. And finally, I feel like I should also thank Commissioner Steadman from Multnomah County who was our county partner in the complete count. And finally, thank you, Suk, for your early identification of the census as a top priority. I honestly don't know if I would have identified it without your guidance or at least identified it as early and as urgently important as you did. I want to acknowledge that. $125,000 of these funds actually came from scraping together savings from Civic Life's already tight budget when we couldn't get the full funding in the budget. And that type of commitment in your leadership and coordinating the city's efforts is to be commended. I am very pleased to vote aye. Fritz. Fascinating and important discussion. Thank you for coming from Ashland and thank you for your leadership statewide. It's really great that we've got this public-private partnership. I. Fish. Well, this presentation brought back a flood of memories because in 2010, then Commissioner Deborah Kofori and I co-chaired the Complete Count. And it does seem like we've really advanced the conversation and we have a much more sophisticated and comprehensive approach to getting a good count. I think the concern that we've all identified today is there's a lot of headwinds. It isn't just the misinformation coming out of Washington. It isn't just the climate of fear. I mean, we're asking people to fill out a form and in some cases these are people that still choose not to vote. These are people that do not necessarily participate in civic activities. And civic literacy generally in our community is at an all time low. Some of these statewide surveys we've had recently had as many as one half of Oregonians surprised to learn we have two United States senators. I think if we present this exercise as an abstract good government exercise, we're going to lose. which is why I was very pleased to hear the tangible benefits to our community. I think for some people they can understand that another congressional district means cloud in Washington. Other people will understand that $3,200 means a hungry child will get a meal in school or whatever. But I think our goal should be to come up with talking points that really put the human face on what the benefit is. Because if we present this as an exercise in good government or as an obligation or whatever, we're going to lose people. And the headwinds are pretty stiff. So I'm comforted by the presentation because I think we have an excellent team. And I think the plan makes a lot of sense that obviously the time constraints are rough. And the fact that you're having difficulty getting clear answers from Washington is obviously disconcerting, but not surprising. But I want to thank our presenters for an excellent presentation. I want to thank Commissioner Udaly for the leadership that she has shown in tackling this issue. This is a really... This is one of those below the radar issues that has huge ramifications for our community. And we all have a collective interest in getting it right. So I want to thank you. Aye. Hardesty. I agree. I want to also thank Director Su. I want to thank Commissioner Udalli. And in 2000, when I worked with then Commissioner Serena Cruz to ensure that there was a full count in Multnomah County. Here you go. See? See, see, see? Got me beat? Yeah, right. It was a community effort, right? Because the community knew what was at stake. This year, there's even more at, next year, in 2020, there's even more at stake because we know that we have a federal government that would rather not count most of us. So the reality is that it is vital that we hire people who are deeply connected in the communities that we're attempting to reach. There's nothing like community advocates who absolutely know the community that they're serving. And I look forward to doing all I can to support this effort. Yes, I appreciate the entire council supporting this investment of dollars, but I think we have to use our voices in ways that actually encourage people to fully participate in this effort. Fear notwithstanding, I think we as the elected leadership of this city have an obligation to make sure that we talk about this everywhere we go. So I vote aye. Wheeler. I agree with... All of the sentiment expressed by my colleagues, this was a great panel presentation. Thank you for being so organized, so provocative, and so interesting. Excellent conversation, colleagues, for a very important cause. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to reshuffle the order a bit. We're going to go to next item is 963, which is the first item on the regular agenda. We have a lot of city employees who have been sitting here very patiently. And selfishly, I want them to all get back to work as soon as possible. So we'll take 963 first. Then I'm going to move the fall bump into the second place. That will be 965, emergency ordinance, followed by 964, which is the JAG grants. Yes. So we'll start with 963 please. Authorize the Bureau of Human Resources to establish processes and procedures necessary to support affinity group work and membership city wide. Colleagues, Diversion Empowered Employees of Portland also known as DEEP, are dedicated to enhancing the work environment that's inclusive and supportive. The work of DEEP is fostered through affinity groups. The affinity groups, of course, voluntary, employee-driven groups, organized around a particular shared interest or dimension. Generally, affinity groups will be organized around protected classes such as race, disability, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation. The City of Portland supports the valuable contributions affinity groups create to honor a diverse employee culture at the City of Portland. To more formally recognize these groups and to provide the time necessary for them to achieve success, it's now also appropriate to look at establishing more formal process to protect the time commitment that group leaders and members need to make this important contribution to our city. Here to walk us through the process and what it looks like is Interim Chief Human Resources Officer, Kathy Bless. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. Thank you so much for having the opportunity to come before you today with this resolution. I am so pleased today to be able to advocate on behalf of the important work of affinity groups within the city of Portland. having a process by which they have protected time to do this important work and participate in events and plan those events is critical to being an inclusive and diverse organization. I'll keep my comments brief because I know we're running a little behind. I want to turn it over to Debbie Castleton so she can offer some comments as well. Thanks, Kathy. I'm Debbie Castleton. I am the chair of the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland. By day, I work while I'm on management leave this morning because this is a volunteer position, but I work for Environmental Services proudly for 17 years now. I've been the chair of DEEP as a volunteer position for 12 years now. I've been through several mayors and have received much support from Commissioner Fritz all these years. Thank you very much for all of your support, and I'm going to miss you. And happy belated birthday, Commissioner Hardesty. We have, at this time, nine affinity groups that are very active. We have the City African American Network, the Filipino American Network, city employees, HAPI, which is the HAPA Asian Pacific Islanders. We have City Mamas, PDX City Mamas, the Women's Empowerment Team, the Veterans Empowerment Team, LGBTQ and Friends Affinity Group, Slavic Empowerment Team, and Latinx PDX. With these nine affinity groups, we have over 1,000 city employees that have signed up to be included in these groups. Great. We have over 30 leaders of these affinity groups that volunteer their time to be leading these and share that workload as volunteers. I myself, as a leader of DEEP, volunteer at least approximately, I calculated, 40 hours a week. Wow. Incredible. It's a little, like I said at the beginning. diversity conference the other day. People asked why I continue to do this and I am a workaholic and it is a passion of mine, and I love working at the city and the great joy it brings me to see employees so happy after being involved with an affinity group, going to an event and seeing other employees, seeing different employees come together at meetings that they haven't met each other before and they're like, I didn't know that there was someone like me at a different bureau. And then hearing and then having this come to council after 12 years and I feel emotional right now so I apologize if my voice cracks a little bit. There are so many field employees in remote locations, employees that have not been able to attend a meeting because they don't have the support or the time or ability to come downtown where the average meeting is at lunch. We have parks employees. We have field operators. We have so many different locations for environmental services, the Water Bureau, emergency communications. We have police officers. We have firefighters. We have so many different employees. At this time, we have an average of 5 to 20 employees that are downtown that can attend a meeting. And we have that many people putting on the monthly cultural celebrations and volunteering their time. And then people get burnt out. And this is not just about having fun or just networking. This is also about employee retention. This is about being an employer of choice. And this does, I have people from all over the country asking my advice on how to start affinity groups and how we have such a successful program. That's why you spend 40 hours a week on it. Exactly. Exactly. And I have to tell them, and a lot of people thought that DEEP was my paid job, and when I explained that, no, I actually do community relations for environmental services proudly, and that's what I do full time, and they're like, well, how do you do all this? you know, after hours. Did you ever notice when my emails come out, you know, at lunchtime or after work, you know? So, I do have, you know, definitely my bureau support, my commissioner, Commissioner Fish has been very supportive and Director Mike Jordan has been amazingly supportive and my boss Aaron Abrams has been amazing. He says, I know you make up the time if I have to do something like this during the day. I know you make up the time. Don't worry, your workload, you make up for it. I see there's definitely an increased need for people to get together. It's not, like I said, not just networking among bureaus and offices. It's finding other employees that are like yourself. It's an increased number of employees that are retiring, an increased number of employees coming in, and then... accessing that knowledge from those retired employees. We have also a policy within DEEP that if you're a retired employee, you can come back to affinity group meetings because we don't want to lose that knowledge. And there's also a camaraderie. We want to keep that knowledge. Also, if you have left the city due to a layoff and you don't have another job yet, you can still come to an affinity group meeting. You may not vote or you just have to follow city guidelines. But that's also how you can learn of new jobs coming up, etc. And retain that knowledge. Most of the meetings that we have for affinity groups we work on events for cultural celebrations, potential policy work. A lot of it is again gaining knowledge from other employees and getting questions answered about city policies and then In addition to the affinity group meetings, we also have affinity group leadership councils quarterly. And that's where all of the leaders get together with the deep executive committee who meets once a month. And then on that quarterly meeting, we have asked, we asked Sarilda at the time, who was the HR director, if we could have an HR representative attend those meetings. Okay. And Kathy volunteered, and we were so lucky. It was before she was promoted, and she still wanted to continue, which is awesome. And Karen Brooks, who is one of the affinity group leaders, volunteered with myself to work on this policy. So thank you. And so we worked with Kathy on this. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fretz. And let's just be clear, we're not proposing that we're going to be paying Debbie 40 hours, an extra 40 hours a week for doing her work with the diverse, empowered employees of Portland. What we have been able to do with Zerilda Summers-McGee and with Kathy Blass's assistance is set up a code in the pay-per-view. payroll system so that one hour of regularly scheduled work time monthly will be paid, which as was referenced, the parks employee who works at Charles Jordan would be able to take their lunch hour and Make it to the meeting and back again. Travel time, yes. Travel time, yeah. And then employees who have established leadership have two hours per month, and employees with established membership can use up to 12 hours of regularly scheduled work time to host or plan special events, which actually are really open to the public and are really great community events too. Yes, and educational. So it's still modest, but it is something, and we really appreciate Human Resources' partnership on this. We'll be able to track some data and be able to report. Yes. We've already started doing that even though it hasn't started yet. Great. Thank you. Excellent. Any further questions? Thank you both. Public testimony, Carla? We have one person signed up, Maggie. All right. Thank you both. Excellent work. Is Maggie here? I don't see her. Maggie, I'm speaking. She's passing. Okay. Very good. Please call the roll. E-Daily. E-Daily. Debbie, before I dive into my remarks, I just want to specifically thank you and say that you've possibly done more for the morale of the city of Portland than any other individual. You were also probably working longer hours than I am, which I'm a little concerned about. So let's talk about self-care later. So the City of Portland's Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland gave its first official annual report to City Council in 2007. And in those 12 years, it has grown into an incredible network of coworkers and colleagues focused on equity, inclusion, and connection. Not only a way to provide fellowship amongst colleagues, DEEP is also an important mechanism for professional development and advocacy. But DEEP is not just inward facing many DEEP affinity groups like the City African American Network, the HAPA Asian and Pacific Islander Affinity Group, and Latinx PDX create public programming, often using City Hall as a venue to invite community in to connect and celebrate their communities. Their mission is simple but meaningful. DEEP is dedicated to enhancing a work environment that is inclusive and supportive of the City of Portland's diverse workforce that is committed to quality public service. In my three years as a Portland City Commissioner, I have seen and heard this mission fulfilled firsthand. And I want to thank all of the members of DEEP, city employees, but especially, once again, Debbie Castleton for pushing this important policy change forward. Aye vote aye. Fritz? Well I'm very happy to co-sponsor this resolution. The Diverse Empowered Employees of Portland has been housed in the Office of Equity and Human Rights since its inception and we're very happy with that partnership. Debbie you've been the heart and soul of this group of affinity groups and congratulations on your recent Robert Phillips Diversity Award. Well, well deserved. Thank you, Cathy Blass and your predecessor, Sir Robert Summers-McGee, for working on this. This has been a great partnership between the Office of Equity, the Diverse Empowered Employees of Portland and the Bureau of Human Resources and we're happy to see all of those connections strengthened. And as was mentioned, we are striving to be an employee of choice. This is one way that it does it. For the eight years that I was the only woman on the council, I had to form my own group of elected leaders, women, to get some support. So I'm really... Happy that that is no longer the case and also glad that there are these specific groups that were mentioned. Cynthia Castro and Christina Nieves on my staff were actually involved in the formation of the Latinx PDX affinity group five years ago. And Cynthia continues to participate. And thank you for your work, Cynthia Castro, on getting this policy to fruition. Really happy that we all embrace this amazing program. Fish. Well, I'm still trying to figure out how Debbie manages 40 hours on top of her day job. For those of you that don't know, she is not only the public face of the Bureau of Environmental Services on many of our capital construction projects, but Debbie pioneered. a new way of connecting with the community, that is businesses and homeowners that are impacted by our work, which is we put a cover letter on top of the flyer that they get, and the cover letter is a personal note from Debbie that also has her phone number and her email address. So it's a demanding enough job as it is, but to be that accessible at all the time to answer people's questions, but what we have found is that just putting that letter on the cover of a document, having a single point of contact, and someone who was willing to share their contact information, meant that a lot of things that used to come to us or maybe the Bureau now filter through the lead community outreach person. So when Debbie said that she's pleased that the Bureau of Environmental Services and Leadership supports her work, let me just say thank you for saying that, but we're proud to support your work. It's an honor to support your work. And if we didn't, there'd be something wrong with us. So thank you for all of your work. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your leadership in moving this thing forward. And I love what Debbie said about being an employer of choice, because really when you boil it down, that is what we're talking about, making sure that everyone feels welcome and supported. And it's part of the employer of choice philosophy, which we've adopted, and we have a lot of work to do. But this is a step in the right direction, so I'm very pleased to support this. Hardesty? I also am very pleased to put my support behind this particular issue. It is absolutely key that employees feel welcome here, and not just welcome, but able to bring their entire selves to work. There are too many environments where people are restricted based on the perception of how other people will interpret them and their needs. And I am honored to know that the city of Portland is moving in the right direction to make sure that all employees feel that they have a place where they can be themselves 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and they don't have to change to accommodate the city of Portland. But in fact, the city of Portland needs to embrace the differences that they bring. It's what makes this city vitally important. a place that people want to move to, which is why people are moving here on a daily basis. And so I am thrilled to be able to vote aye for this measure. Well, this is a great day. I think for City Hall, I feel like we are showing that we are a city that works and we are a city that has made it very clear from the perspective of this council that we will be open, welcoming, and inclusive. to people from wherever they are, whatever their circumstances or lived experiences or histories or traditions are. And that same set of values has to hold true for our workforce as well. I just have to call out one statistic that I thought was really interesting that Debbie and Kathy brought up, which is nearly a thousand people employees participate in one of our affinity group programs. That means one out of every five or one out of every six employees at the City of Portland are actively participating in this program. And I think that goes a long way towards demonstrating the values that we all talk about. Debbie, you're amazing. I don't know you all that well. But I know what you're doing now. You're working pretty much all the time. So thank you for your leadership on a whole host of fronts. Kathy, thank you for stepping in when we really needed you and for doing such a fantastic job in your position. And to all the folks who work so hard and volunteer so hard to make sure that that our affinity groups are successful here at the City of Portland so that we not only attract a great workforce, but maintain a fantastic workplace as an employer of choice. Commissioner Fritz, I have to acknowledge... your long-standing leadership on this issue. You really helped lay the foundation for us to have a strong affinity group program. And I know you know based on the presentation we heard today and now everybody knows, we really have one of the strongest affinity group programs of any employer here in the City of Portland and probably in the region. And you are largely to thank for that based on your work here on the council. along with the Debbie's of the world and others who've worked so hard from the employee side. So thank you for that leadership. I'm very happy to vote aye. The resolution is adopted. And we look forward to the continued work. Thank you. Thank you. And now, as Commissioner Fritz likes to say, now for something completely different. So we'll move to 965, please, the fall bump. Adopt the fiscal year 2019-20 fall supplemental budget and make other budget-related changes. Colleagues before us, of course, we have the fall supplemental budget, also known as the fall bump. The fall bump is primarily meant to address technical adjustments to true-up budgets between fiscal years. Bureaus, of course, may also appropriate new resources or request general fund contingency for urgent and unforeseen needs that cannot be accommodated within the current budget year. And we have a number of those. City Budget Director Jessica Kennard will walk us through the current ordinance. We'll then hear and second some amendments to the ordinance. I have two that I believe that the council is well aware of. And after that, we'll provide opportunity for public testimony before the final deliberations and voting. So now I will turn it over to Director Kennard. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, and good morning, you, Mayor, and members of council. I'm Jessica Kennard, City Budget Director, and I'm here with Jane Marie Ford, who is our Budget Monitoring Process Coordinator. You'll recall we held a work session on October 3rd where we reviewed the details of the requested supplemental budget changes. I know that council has a very full agenda today. Given that we did just hold a detailed work session on the topic, I intend to be brief and focus my presentation on key decision points primarily impacting the general fund. However, the entire supplemental budget ordinance is open for discussion. I'm happy to answer questions on any aspect of the proposed bump. For the benefit of folks watching in the audience at home, I want to briefly provide contextual information related to the budget monitoring process or as we call it the bump. The fall bump is the first of three budget monitoring processes we undertake each year. The fall bump is primarily meant to provide prior year reporting, make current year budget adjustments. and true up costs between fiscal years. Specifically in the fall bump, we true up the general fund ending balance from the prior year to account for various types of carryovers and other technical adjustments across the fiscal years. Once these adjustments are accounted for, we deposit any excess fund balance into contingency for one time expenditures in the current year. This fall, we are recognizing a total of $11.1 million in excess general fund fund balance. This amount is consistent with what we would expect given city financial policies of forecasting conservatively and with a continued strong economy. Per city financial policy, half of this excess balance is dedicated to major maintenance and infrastructure costs. Thus, approximately $5.5 million are being budgeted in general fund contingency policy set aside, which will be allocated through the capital set aside process during the fiscal year 2021 budget development. In total, allocations in the proposed supplemental budget in front of you will yield a balance of $3.5 million in unrestricted contingency to address any unanticipated needs through the remainder of the current fiscal year or to address one-time needs in next year's budget process. So you should have in front of you Exhibit 4, which details, it's an alternatively shaded document that details requests impacting current year general fund. Again, in the interest of time, I'm only going to highlight allocations of general fund contingency that are included in the mayor's proposed supplemental budget. However, council should feel free to ask questions or interject about any of these requests. So to start off, the current mayor's proposed supplemental budget has $174,876 to fund a limited term elections coordinator in the auditor's office. Following the court ruling that upheld new campaign finance regulations. Includes $392,000 to support overtime training required to implement the new integrated priority dispatch system in the Bureau of Emergency Communications. Skipping down now, it includes $1,984,400 to fund currently estimated general fund obligations related to the Portland Harbor remedy design work, including payments to the trust. It includes $250,000 in the Portland Housing Bureau to start work on procuring an expanded rental registration system. Skipping down a couple rows, that includes $6,800 in the Bureau of Human Resources for a Western State Center training for city commissioners and bureau directors in alignment with Council Resolution 37414, which condemned white supremacists and alt-right hate groups. Skipping a row, it includes 194,000 in Portland Parks and Recreation for vehicle purchases associated with operations and maintenance work that was funded. The O&M work which was funded through budget development. It includes $31,000 in Portland Parks and Recreation for Pioneer Square restroom services. $50,000 in Portland Police Bureau for safety barriers, which costs were incurred during the August 17th protest in downtown Portland. It includes $120,000 in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for additional work related to the Anti-Displacement Action Plan. Includes just over $1.2 million to fund the city's commitment pursuant to the intergovernmental agreement for the Columbia River Levy System through fiscal year 2025-26. Includes $131,528 in special appropriations for experience PDX. It includes 30,000 in special appropriations for immigration legal services at the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence, which is a one-time allocation that does not change the city's ongoing funding baseline. Includes 500,000 in special appropriations for the DePaul Treatment Center, and finally 66,000 to fund a public right of way cost study related to small wireless facilities in the Portland Bureau of Transportation. As stated earlier, these allocations yield a balance of approximately $3.5 million in general fund unrestricted contingency to address future urgent current year needs or one-time costs during next year's budget development. Are there any questions on any of those items? Next, I'd like to turn Council's attention to current appropriation level target adjustments that are included in this proposed supplemental budget. So in the fall supplemental budget, council may direct the city budget office to make adjustments to next year's current appropriation level target, which we refer to as the CAL target. And that's for the future ongoing allocated resources for bureaus. So this proposed bump includes one adjustment to CAL, which increases the CAL target by a currently estimated total of 1.8 million in the Office of Management and Finance Revenue Division for the integrated tax system. And this was also signaled through a budget note that was passed by council during the development of the current year budget. It's worth noting that this amount assumes the project is able to recover cost sharing from affected funds and entities. Finally, I'd like to highlight some position changes because we didn't have sufficient time to fully discuss those changes during the work session. So you have with your Exhibit 5, there's a summary document that details all the position changes that are included in the proposed budget. These position changes are all funded with internal bureau resources with the exception of a limited term position in the auditor's office that's connected to the request for resources related to the new campaign finance regulations. Most notably, you'll see that the Bureau of Transportation is adding 27 FTE. Eight of these positions were previously authorized but did not get processed in time to be included in the current year budget. And the other positions seek to meet increased workload demands in maintenance, development, permitting and transit, engineering, parking, business services, and policy planning and projects. And then another, there's 4.5 FTE in parks, which are positions associated with the new operations and maintenance funding that also was approved through the 2019-20 budget development. So again, no new resources required there. Are there any other questions around the positions? So you have a copy of the full proposed supplemental budget in front of you. I'm happy to walk through any of the exhibits or answer any questions before we move to amendments and public testimony. Commissioner Udaly, did you have a question? No. I guess I just want to make a statement on behalf of PBOT. I appreciate CBO's recommendation and the mayor's inclusion of $66,000 for completion of the right-of-way study. The study is related to the collection of resources from small wireless facilities. I'd also appreciate if the hammering outside would stop for the duration of council. However, PBOT also invested $186,691 to update engineering standards and pole designs to allow for the attachment of small cell equipment on our street light and signal poles. These investments were necessary to advance the citywide priority of the city. of bringing 5G capabilities to our community and resulted in $950,000 of new ongoing general fund resources. PBOT is not receiving any of these resources for the work that was completed on the City's behalf. If funding is not awarded in the fall bump to reimburse PBOT for these efforts, I'd like to put a marker down that if contingency funding is still available at the time of the spring bump, that PBOT should be reimbursed for the cost incurred in this effort. I believe the resources collected as a result of this work should pay for the work that was completed, and I hope that my colleagues will support that. Thank you. And Commissioner Udeli, I just got a note from my office saying they are going to track down the hammering and see if they can get it suspended for the remainder of session. Thank you. It's not such a illicit work. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. I also want to compliment the budget office, Director Jessica. You do a fabulous job of both making this understandable and being collaborative with our officers. And I just want to publicly say what a difference a year makes. I feel so much more knowledgeable now about the budget, and it's because of your office work. ability to just go through and discuss anything that needs to be discussed. I also want to appreciate the forward thinking that allows us to put almost $2 million into a trust for the Portland Harbor cleanup. Because we will have an obligation to do that, and though it's distasteful to think that we are spending city money to make that happen, we know it must happen. right? And we're still hopeful that we will get the polluters to pay their own way, but we have an obligation to make sure that our community is not inhaling those toxics. And the last kind thing I'll say about you today, Jessica, but maybe there'll be more, but at least for the moment, is that I am also grateful. There was one other one that I wanted to really highlight. And it was another appropriation. Do you remember what it was? It was something that we have to do, but we didn't have to do it now? The Columbia River levee. The Columbia River, yes. How could I forget the Columbia River? Again, I think that we are making really smart decisions because we're thinking about what's going to be coming down the road that we are responsible for. And you are helping us quite a bit. You and your staff have just been phenomenal in helping us understand that. So thank you. Okay. That was my question. So are we going to move to amendments now? Yes. All right. Very good. I'd like to propose, too. I make a motion. For the following adjustment to the supplemental budget as proposed, increase general fund contingency policy set aside by $250,000 to be available for outside legal counsel for labor negotiations. And we would reduce general fund unrestricted contingency by $250,000 to fund this change. We'd update exhibits one through five as needed to reflect this change. Can I get a second? We have a motion for myself, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. That is now on the table. We'll keep it open pending public testimony. The second motion I'd like to make as an adjustment to the supplemental budget agenda proposed as follows. Increased general fund bureau program expenses by $25,000 in the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management and $25,000 in the Bureau of Development Services for partnering to mitigate fossil fuel risk. Reduce general fund unrestricted contingency by $50,000 to fund this change. And then again, update exhibits one through five as needed to reflect this change. Second. Motion in the second, Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz, I understand you have an amendment. Thank you. I move to increase general fund bureau program expenses in the Office of Equity and Human Rights by $25,000 to fund unanticipated personnel costs in the current year, reduce general fund contingency by $25,000 to fund this change, and update Exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. Second. Thank you. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udailey, and then Commissioner Fish. Yes, I have a – so did you say earlier that someone in your office is going to ask them to cease? Yes. Are we having a protracted negotiation over that, or can we just ask someone to stop? Can we have someone follow up on that? Because it really – I can't hear my colleagues. I think we all just need to tell the person to stop. Here, take this with you. Okay. We got a lot of enforcement in here. Maybe they can go out and just look at it. We got a big building. They can move to another park just for an hour or so. Kirsten Dennis is on it. Thank you, Kristen. So my amendment is to increase Bureau program expenses for Portland Parks and Recreation by $31,344 in the golf fund. which is fund 603 and $27,656 in the Portland International Raceway Fund, fund 604. Those are both enterprise funds for a net increase of $59,000 in Bureau Enterprise Fund resources to fund an operating shortfall in the Peninsula 1, Penn 1 drainage district. This would reduce contingency in Fund 603 and Fund 604 by $31,344 and $27,656, respectively, to fund this change. Update exhibits one through five as needed to reflect this change. This amendment provides one-time funding for Peninsula One expenses attributed to the 640 acres of drainage district that fall within the boundaries of the Portland International Raceway and the Heron Lakes Golf Course. Update exhibits one through five as needed. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further amendments? I believe no. No. Call the roll on the amendments. Are we ready to go? I'd like to go to public testimony before we call the roll on the amendments. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. Public testimony. We're eating. Have you completed your presentation? Yes. Okay. Very good. Is there any public testimony on the amendments, Carla? Yes. We have six people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Karen Kushner, Koi Vu, and Adam McBride-Smith. Excuse me, I don't have a power. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you very much for giving me the time today, Mr. Mayor and commissioners and members of the city council. I'm a board member for Metropolitan Family Services, and I'm here delighted to explain to you why I feel like we need to review the deficit that's currently in the budget. So again, thank you for your time. As you know, PDX experience score is a very strong intergenerational program. It's showing very strong results. And in one site alone, 93% of the children met or exceeded fluency. There are 75% of the children- Excuse me one second. Ma'am, could you stand for one second? Yes. We have about two inches of paperwork in front of us. Right. So can I just make a suggestion, and this won't be used against your time. Yes. Could you each begin by saying whether you are here to support an existing budget ask or whether you're seeking an amendment? Because it would be helpful to us to understand, are we talking something that's in the mayor's proposed or an amendment? And then give us your best argument, but it would just be helpful to frame this up in terms of what are we talking about? Yeah, and this can also get a little complicated because it was not in the bureau. proposed, but it is in the mayor's proposed for experience PDX 131. Amy, did you want to speak to that? Could you identify yourself please? So it's in the mayor's proposed and are you, so I just want to be clear. Are you here to support something that's in the mayor's proposed? Yes I am. Okay, and all right, thank you. That's very helpful. Could you give us your name please? Yes, my name is Karen Kushner and I'm a board member. And this is a wonderful program. It is currently serving five schools. We have 1,450 students that are in the classrooms, and we have 108 students that have a one-on-one relationship. We have ongoing partnership with SEI, NAYA, Latina Network, and ERCO so that we can recruit mentors. and we can introduce these children to immigrants and refugee elders. The current program is serving 75% of children who are children of color. And as a board member, I want you to ask your support. for this program. We have a lot of mentors in the room currently, a lot of staff, the ED, and the program manager. So thank you so much. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Um, You started your presentation by saying there was a shortfall, and that's why this is in the mayor's proposed budget. Yes, Commissioner Hardesty. So we are actually running at a deficit. We currently have 1.5 full-time employee as opposed to the 2.5 full-time employee it takes to run the program. And so my question is, what are you going to do to make sure you're not coming back to the city next time because you have a budget shortfall? Is this just a temporary thing or are you expecting this to be ongoing funding? I believe it was an accidental issue that happened in the budgeting. That's my understanding of it. I think that something happened when we proposed the original budget that covered the 2.5, and I think there was a mishap there. I think there's someone back there that wants to come up forward and explain that. And I just want to say it has nothing to do with whether I like or dislike the program. It's just as an elected official who has a city budget that we have to balance, I just want to understand why we're doing this and to make sure that it is a – real emergency and it's not something that becomes ongoing. My name is Judy Strand. I'm the Chief Executive Officer for Metropolitan Family Service. Experience PDX was a project that started in partnership with the city the last budget cycle. That was an allocation that we all had invested in together. We had proposed for that investment to be renewed as we had understood we should, that got overlooked by the city inadvertently and so we were asked to come back to apply for the fault bump because our proposal did not get noticed and it was just an oversight. So we are just here to speak to the fact that the program needs are still present. We had to cut because we didn't have the ongoing funds that we anticipated. Does that make sense? It does. Perhaps a offline conversation would actually illuminate the questions that I have. Again, nothing away from the quality of the program, but I'm always concerned when... Someone says, oh, there was a shortfall, so here we are. Well, I want to be, wait, wait, wait. Can I just be really clear? Because we're in the fall bump process right now. So there's no commitment at this point for ongoing. And this is a conversation where we need to have a more thoughtful conversation in the upcoming full budget process. Because my understanding was it was a pilot project. It was not authorized as an ongoing allocation. Okay. Yes, and at the same time we were encouraged to apply again for this time period. That's all I'm saying. The challenge is we didn't have any extra money this year, so I'm supportive of the Mayor's proposal to fund it for this year, but we may not have any extra money next year. I understand. We have some other ideas. It's not a yes or a no, but I'm just saying the conversation about ongoing will continue under the regular budget process. Okay. I was going to say, and we encourage a lot of people to apply, but we don't have all the money we'd like to have to actually fund all the things that people apply for. So thank you very much. That's been very helpful for this conversation. I appreciate your being here as always. Thank you. Hi, if you don't mind, I'd like to go next.
 Sure. Because we are talking about the same thing. Yeah, please, go ahead. Go for it. I can't tell if the microphone is on or not. It's off. Hold on. Okay, there you go. Hi there. There you go. Good. Perfect. Perfect. So hi, I'm Koi Vulum, the director of Asian Family Center with the Immigrant Refugee Community Organization. I'm also here in support of Metropolitan Family Services to talk about the fall bump in regards to the mentoring program that we partner with MFS with. So for those of us who don't know, and I will be brief, ERCO is a culturally specific nonprofit organization in the Portland area that provides direct holistic wraparound social services, education legal services, advocacy to immigrants and refugees. and our larger community in Oregon, primarily in the Portland Tri-County area, but also we have a presence in Ontario to serve our Africans, Syrian, and Iraqi refugees over there in Ontario. We serve a multi-ethnic intergenerational population from prenatal through our parent-child development services. to end of life in their senior services programs. I've been here to testify before wearing different hats. The last time I was here was with my aging colleagues. My, well, I guess we're all aging, but. Our aging services colleagues. Wait a second. Ouch. Ouch. Aging and services colleagues and peers from Metro Family Services. We highlighted the importance, I highlighted the importance of oral history and storytelling in ethnic communities because that is the way that our ancestors have been doing it from the beginning of time. And through these mentorship programs that MFS and ERCO has been partnering with together, we are able to do this with our communities. Truth is that many of our newly arrival immigrants and refugees are still trying to survive, learn, and integrate in a new world and way of life. However, as they live here longer, they realize that we're no longer going back to our own countries, and that we have to integrate into this new system. And oftentimes it's very isolating in a very individualistic country that we are a part of. And so many retirees and adults actually do want to give back and lift back their communities and don't know how, other than the larger community engagement, civic engagement. But at an individualistic level or at a more interpersonal level, sometimes it's not as available. Thank you. And so we want to, and they want to build the relationships to preserve their cultures and languages for the next generation. So that's why we're so excited to be partnering with MFS and partner, to partner with the Experience Core PDX a few years ago to support the intergenerational mentoring program. And using an equity lens for culturally responsive programming and matching of mentors and mentees. At the beginning of the work, earlier iteration, ERCO, along with other culturally specific organizations, NIA, Latino Network, SEI, including ERCO, provided coaching and training to MFS staff and leadership. on working with diverse communities, specifically at IRCOS, the immigrant and refugee communities. And then now we are working very closely together to identify culturally specific mentors to work with the students. Thank you. So we're here to continue to support the work that MFS is doing, and we ask for your assistance in supporting that work. Thank you very much. Good morning. Hi. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Adam McBride-Smith. I'm here speaking for Real Choice Initiative, and I'd like to speak in favor of the expanded rental registry and to ask also that it be fully funded at the requested amount. This registry would include basic accessibility features and price ranges so that renters can actually use the registry to find housing that works best for them. This is a pressing need for renters with disabilities, older renters, and low-income renters, people of color, and many others. Right now, in this city, it's nearly impossible to find accessible, affordable housing, but an inclusive rental registry could change that for the better. The disability community needs this to keep us out of medical facilities, institutions, and off the streets, because that's where people with disabilities end up when they can't find appropriate housing. I appreciate that the fall supplemental budget funds a percentage of the cost of an expanded rental registry, but we'd like to urge you to please provide the needed funding to get the expanded rental registry done as soon as possible. I'd also like to say on a personal note, my wife was diagnosed with MS several years ago and I can say that keeping health insurance and maintaining care are a burden enough. We're lucky to have stable housing but many people in our community with MS, with other conditions, who use powerchairs, who have mobility issues, who have low vision and other disabilities, struggle to find appropriate housing. Having an expanded rental registry which includes information related to accessibility and price ranges is vitally important for this community. And if you are sincere about ending houselessness in this city, if you want to be leaders in disability rights as you should want to be, we would urge you to support the expanded rental registry. Very good. Could I just briefly comment on that? So I want you to know that it has my 100% commitment and What I have requested in the mayor's supplemental is what I believe we can actually deploy between now and the end of the year, given what I've heard from the Bureau of Housing. So we are moving forward. Next year's full budget will include more funding for the additional resources, both for the product that we're going to need as well as the personnel and the systems, to go to the unit-by-unit data collection, which I think is where we all want to ultimately get. So we're – Not being stingy here, if I felt realistically that by the end of the fiscal year we could do it, I'd put the whole amount in today. But it's just been made very clear to me and my colleagues that the resources that we have included in the supplemental budget is what they can realistically deploy by the end of the fiscal year. But I personally have an ongoing commitment beyond that into the next budget cycle as well, and I just wanted you to know that. Okay. I'm very glad to hear that. Thank you for speaking to me. Yeah, thank you for your testimony. Thank you both. Thank you. The last three who signed up are Laura Heller, Alan Hines, and Nico Serra. Welcome. Good morning for one more minute. One more minute. Go ahead, ma'am. Okay. Good morning. Good morning. Almost good afternoon. My name is Laura Heller. I'm the program manager of older adult and intergenerational programming at Metropolitan Family Service. So can I just tell you something that's very encouraging? There's no one in this council that has indicated they're going to take this out of the mayor's proposed. Okay. So we welcome testimony, but no one has signaled this is coming out. So it looks like you've got five votes and anything you want to share with us just to reinforce would be welcome. But I think you've won the day. Well, thank you. Out of respect for your time, I'll return my time to you then. Thank you. I'd like to hear something of what you have to say. I mean, you came all this way. Thank you. I was trying to reassure you. I wasn't trying to cut you off. Okay. Thank you. Trying to read things. I wanted to share a story, but first I wanted to acknowledge we have several of our volunteers in the room who've taken time out of their service today to be here because they recognize how important it is. Wave so we know who you are. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it. She would have missed that if you had just left. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I'm already tearing up because I'm going to share a story with you that Carol, one of our volunteers here, shared with me at a team meeting. We have monthly team meetings at our schools. And Carol's story, I think, really articulates the power of an intergenerational connection between an older adult. who really is there to support a child in both their learning, their academic success, but also in their development and their growth. And also there to hear when things aren't going well. So... The following story provides a compelling illustration of the impact of the training that we offer, support and growth provided by ECPDX for students, mentors and schools. Carol met in early May with one of her third grade student matches, Enrique. Enrique had recently returned to Portland from Guatemala. his home country, but Carol learned that his father had been deported and was unable to return to Portland with his family. In their meeting, Carol observed that Enrique was not able to focus enough to read together, so they talked. The student told Carol that his family did not have a lot of quote stuff. in the house. His mother was looking for work, but they were hungry most of the time and, quote, running out of money fast. Enrique showed Carol stitches where he had fallen and hit his head while they were in Guatemala. He did not know if he was checked for a concussion, and he said that he'd been having headaches frequently since he fell. Carol shared this information with the student's teacher and the school nurse. The teacher immediately emailed the SunSite manager, the after-school manager, programming manager, and school social worker. By the end of the day, the SunSite manager had spoken with Enrique's mother, helped schedule a medical appointment for Enrique, and provided the family with a food box. Additionally, a school employee had scheduled to meet with Enrique's mother to purchase additional food and hygiene items, and the family was provided with vouchers to purchase shoes, information regarding the district clothing closet, and other resources. Lastly, the family was approved through Self-Enhancement Incorporated to pay an overdue electricity bill. By listening and leading with relationship, this mentor was able to activate a community of support around the student steps she had not felt empowered to take previously. Carol attributed this outcome in part to the additional training and knowledge she had received through ERCO, our partner. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good afternoon. Thank you very much for listening. I'm Harry, I'm the director of the Real Costs Ministry. I serve on the Real Cost Services Promotion. I have several companies, companies and systems for all the art, art business, and I'm an important and essential part of housing. So, Jesus, people. I know we as a disability community, we don't usually know where the accessible units are. So we do have a very difficult process of finding that information at all. in the case that it's a fine and sensible housing for our community. So I appreciate that you have allocated $250,000 for the same registry. to do everything in your power to make sure that registry is fully funded so that our community can find how to win the election. Thank you very much and In response to the prior gentleman, I said that this is a commitment, and I believe it's a commitment on the part of the entire council to make sure that we get that registry at a unit by unit data basis. So in particular, the people with disabilities know where the units are and can be connected to those units. It's really important, and I appreciate the fact that you've testified in front of this council many times to make that case. Thank you again for doing it. Thanks for being here again Alan and I just want to personally attest to the challenges of finding accessible housing. My son is 18 now. I am moving out. He is staying in the accessible rental property that we have. I can afford almost any rent in the city and I'm struggling to find a place that he could visit and let alone live. So this isn't just an issue for low-income renters or people living on restricted incomes. This is an issue that is affecting all families, and it's very expensive to convert or adopt houses to be accessible, and when you're a renter, you don't necessarily have full ability to to do that at all. So I want to thank you for your support but I do just want to kind of underscore the urgency of being able to match people who need accessible housing with the very limited accessible housing that that is available. Thanks Ellen.
 Hello. Good afternoon. My name is Nico Zara. I am a white, passing, mixed race, queer and transgender person with disabilities. And I am here to speak in favor of the expanded rental registry. I'll reiterate what my colleagues have said, just that the inclusive rental registry will make life so much easier for so many people. It's really something that we need and I'm not sure how many of you are familiar with Fairview. Okay, yeah, so Fairview was a place where basically instead of making the world accessible, people with disabilities that were using wheelchairs and had other very severe disabilities were just sent off to a place. The place was Fairview. It was near Salem and it was a really difficult place. It was a large institution where people were kept basically because the world's not wheelchair-accessible. So we've moved from that model into more like smaller houses, group homes and things like that, 24-hour residential facilities. But people who are in these places really, they want to get out of those places too. And we have between having care workers through our DHS and our Social Security where we really could have more independence than a lot of us do just because we can't find the housing we need. So, I just really want to reiterate that we want you to fund this and if we come in and say, you're probably going to be the ones telling us that we need more funding for the software. Please do everything you can to make this happen. And also, please include us when you start asking about the accessibility features because we can really help make that process easier about our base Our basics, are there stairs? Can we get in and out of the bathroom? Stuff like that so that we can just make this process be as smooth as possible. That's great. Thank you. Thank you for your suggestion. Thank you all for your deep appreciation. Carla, were there more? That's all signed up. All right, very good. So why don't we go through the amendments in the order that they were presented. First... With regard to the, my first amendment with regard to the $250,000 set aside for legal counsel for labor negotiations, could you, did you have more testimony? No, just in case there were questions for us. Were there any other questions before I call the roll on the amendments? Very good. So please call the roll on the mayor's amendment one. New Daily. Mayor, I want to thank you for funding this request. I think it's vitally important, and I vote aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The amendment's on the table. Mayor, Amendment 2, which was the $50,000 for the Bureau of Development Services for partnering to mitigate fossil fuel risk. Any further questions? Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Amendments on the table. Commissioner Fritz, number one with regard to the Office of Equity and Human Rights, $25,000. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. I appreciate my colleague's support. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hurtesty. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for bringing this to our attention. In my conversation with the mayor, I suspect that there will be more of these, and I look forward to supporting those as well. I vote aye. Thank you. Wheeler. Thank you Commissioner Fritz. I vote aye. The amendment is on the table and that gets us to One more. Oh I'm sorry Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish's amendment and that was a series of increase to program expenses in parks and recreation, the golf fund, PIR, And PEN1. And Mayor, just to be clear, this does not involve the general fund. Correct. This is two enterprise funds setting aside some resources for PEN1. You got it. Please call the roll. Udaly. Thank you for that clarification. Commissioner Fish, I vote aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Fish.
 Aye.
 Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Yes. I also appreciate the clarification and I vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendments on the table. To the main motion to the supplemental budget as amended, any further discussion? Anything else from the budget office? Please call the roll. Udaly? Well, thank you, everyone, who came here to testify today. Who knew that fall bump could be such an emotional item? But between the story shared about the Sun School, I'm sorry, I've forgotten the name of the program, but experience PDX story and... In fair view, I feel like we're doing some really important work in a relatively boring seeming moment. I vote aye. Fritz? I appreciate that this budget adjustment includes something that is important to each member of the council. That's partly what we do in the budget process is making sure that we listen to each other and work together to be wise stewards of the taxpayers' money. Aye. Bish? Aye. Just a couple of comments. First, because Ted Wheeler is the mayor, he generally gets blamed for everything that doesn't work in our community, including, he's very gracious. He takes the flack for a lot of us with our deficiencies. So let's acknowledge that the mayor under our charter, which grants the mayor very few powers, has three unique powers. And one is the mayor is supposed to lead the budget process. So if the budget process is a smooth ride, if it is collaborative, if we're able to reach a soft landing based on consensus and conversations as we are today, I think the mayor deserves the credit. Lord knows he gets enough blame for other things. So first of all, thank you, Mayor. I've been involved now in, I think, 40 different budget modification processes. There have been some fireworks at some. There have been some sticking points. There have been issues that really provoked a lot of passion. This is a relatively soft landing, and you've brought the council together around what I think is a prudent set of choices. So I thank you for that. Thank you. Director Kennard, who is now in her which month of full-time employment? Permanent. She's in her third month of being the permanent director, is doing a terrific job. I want to echo what Commissioner Hardesty said. She's a great person. She is very accessible and she spends a lot of time with commissioners in their office explaining things and getting feedback. And I think she's doing a great job. So thank you, Director Kinnard, to you and your staff. There are a number of things that I really deeply care about in this bump. I'm pleased that the money set aside for the Portland Harbor Trust was identified. By the way, the trust idea is so great that the polluter's favorite lawyer in town is suing us over its implementation. But that's par for the course in government. But I'm pleased that we're setting money aside. I'm actually very pleased that we're making real progress on the cleanup. But pleased that the council is showing this foresight to put the money aside. On behalf of the Rangers and my bureau, Parks Bureau, thank you for funding some additional vehicles that will allow them to actually get around the city as they are required to. And while we haven't really talked about it much, I'm pleased the mayor has brought forth an ask for the DePaul Treatment Center. One thing we know about the current crisis on our streets is that a lot of people are suffering from addiction. The worst place in the world to treat addiction is on our sidewalks. We need more beds. We have some very dubious statistics in the state of Oregon in terms of the level of services we provide to people who have addiction. We have an opioid crisis and other things that are exacerbating the situation. So DePaul does a terrific job and gets great outcomes, also serves a lot of very vulnerable low-income people and helps them deal with their addiction. So, Mayor, I'm pleased as part of our overall response to this homeless crisis that we're investing. in the new DePaul Treatment Center, which will be located in Gateway. Thank you to my colleagues for the conversations we've had. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Hardestine. I also am very grateful that this bump process has been a very inclusive process. It's been one where we've had hard conversations and had to, of course, make some hard choices because we don't have all the money we need. would like to have to do all the things we would like to do. I am very grateful and appreciative that the mayor has taken a very collaborative approach and actually has had really deep conversations. I actually feel like the city council is in a place that I I wished we were long before I got here, which is that we, I think, respect that each other comes from a different worldview. We've had different life experiences. But at the end of the day, we're all here for the same reason, which is to serve the people of the city of Portland to the best of our ability. And so I am honored to put my support behind this budget, this bulk process, and I vote aye. Wheeler. Well, I want to thank my colleagues. and the bureaus for their commitment to fiscal responsibility throughout this fall bump process. I want to second the thanks for Director Kinard and her entire team. They've done an outstanding job. And I want to thank my team, especially Kristen Dennis, who's worked very hard on this process. There's a few items I'm particularly pleased about that I just want to quickly highlight. First of all, the $120,000 for a joint effort between city bureaus and community organizations in the advancement of our anti-displacement action plan. And as we all know, community organizations have a proven track record when it comes to researching anti-displacement policies to the city's benefit. And there's some really good coalition work already underway through the city's comprehensive plan, the Southwest Corridors Equitable Development Strategy, and East Portland Action Plan. And it's my belief that we must support these cities, city and community partnerships on displacement so that Portland gets it right. If we create anti-displacement action plan with insight both from the bureaus and those who are the most impacted, we can obviously create better and more durable solutions. can become that city we want to become where people don't fear investments and services as precursors for displacement. The 500,000 that Commissioner Fish just mentioned for the DePaul Treatment Center, we know that the addiction crisis here is a serious one. Some recent statistics that I've heard include that Oregon is the fourth most addicted state in the United States. And depending upon whose statistics you believe, we are either the 47th or the 49th in terms of providing treatment services. And so that does help explain some of what we see in terms of the crisis that's been unfolding on our streets. So with this investment and investments from many other supporters, DePaul will be providing new space and new services to provide critical treatment to those who are in need in our community. The $50,000 for joint funding between BDS and the Portland Bureau of Development Services and the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management for a PSU study on mitigating fossil fuel risk. I'm proud to be working with Commissioner Hardesty on this. I'm so proud of the fact that the entire city council is behind this. And we're glad to seek a foundational piece to the city's strategy to transition to a clean, secure, and safe energy future. We can't wait on action around climate change. We have to make the necessary investments to make the transition. And I want to thank the many Portlanders, environmental organizations, and neighborhood coalition offices who contacted my office in support of these efforts. And finally, this is the smallest item that made it into the fall supplemental budget, but it's not an insignificant one. It was $6,800 for a city employee training pilot in partnership with the Western State Center. In February, the City Council unanimously passed a resolution condemning white supremacy and alt-right hate groups. That resolution directed the City to develop training for City employees about the history of white supremacy and white nationalism in the Portland area. The funding is for the development of a pilot training that will be first offered to city commissioners and bureau directors and then expand from there. And I look forward to being part of the first group to receive this training under this particular grant. Just a couple of quick footnotes here. During the budget process, as Commissioner Hardesty mentioned, we had significantly more demand for general fund dollars than we actually had. in terms of resources to support those requests. So I'm pleased to announce that we've landed on a strategy to support both the division transit and the James Beard market study from existing funds. I directed Prosper Portland to allocate general fund dollars to support small business outreach as part of the division transit project. And through its partnership with OMSI in the Central East Side, they'll work to fund the James Beard Market pre-development work through the Central East Side TIF investment, the tax increment financing. And I've asked that they bring back to us by 2020 a report on whether there is or is not a feasible path forward for the James Beard Market. So with that, I vote aye. False Supplemental Budget Ordinance is adopted as amended. And the crowd goes wild. And now for something completely different. Item number 964 is up next. Authorize a $391,694 U.S. Department of Justice Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Community Grant Agreement. and appropriate $300,000 in law enforcement and criminal justice funds for fiscal year 2019-20. So, colleagues, in the interest of time, I'm going to forego my lengthy introduction. I think we're all very familiar with this proposal, and I apologize that I have to leave at about a quarter till. So I won't speak, and I'll just turn it over to our ABLE Bureau folks to answer any questions that we may have on this. Thank you. For the record, my name is Bob Delgazee, Business Operations Manager with Portland Police Bureau. I'm here with a short presentation on the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant. This is for the program fiscal year 2018 application. On August 22nd of 2018, the city submitted an application to the United States Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Fiscal Year 2018 local solicitation. The 2018 solicitation still requires a minimum 30-day review by the governing body of the unit of local government, although the Office of Justice Programs decreased the application window from six to four weeks this year. Upon advice from the city attorney, the bureau is proceeding with the application ordinance to fulfill the review requirement. The grant program instituted by the Department of Justice in 2005 is named after Edward R. Byrne, a New York City Police Department officer who was killed in the line of duty in 1988. The Department of Justice directs funding to the local enforcement agencies to assist in their efforts to prevent or reduce crime and violence. The 2018 JAG funds will be made under the disparate certification to the City of Portland, Multnomah County, and the City of Gresham. The solicitation requires the city to submit a joint application for the disparate municipalities and to act as the fiscal agent for the grant. Formula award amount is allocated to the three entities based on a statutory formula provided by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Police Bureau will receive $189,585, Multnomah County $148,960, and Gresham Police Department $53,149 for a total of $391,694 in federal funding. Although the federal grant award period is four years per federal statute, local agencies spend their awards within two years. Police Bureau will utilize JAG funding for the following item. It's to support the first of the three-year bicycle registration program designated for the Bureau's Bicycle Theft Task Force. This is modeled after the successful Vancouver British Columbia program. Grant funding will provide for personnel and event expenses for participation in bicycle events to encourage on-the-spot registration and registration kits for low-income community members. Bike thieves target about 10,000 bicycles each year in Portland, and this equates to about $10 million worth of property loss for the community. If a bicycle is not registered, there's less than a 10% chance that it will be returned to its owner. Multnomah County will fund a portion of the personnel expenses for the north neighborhood. deputy district attorney position, and the Gresham Police Department is asking for grant funds for their education program called Every 15 Minutes, which is designed to dramatically instill teenagers with the potentially dangerous consequences of drinking alcohol and texting while driving, which I refer to as distracted and impaired driving behaviors. The Department of Justice states that the 2018 grant will be awarded after September 30th of 2018. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank you because when we met, you talked about the fact that you would not have taken the grant. had you been required to do some of the things that they wanted done around us being a sanctuary city. I think that that is huge. I think that's important and that's why I want to put that on the record. We'll see how successful the bike project is. It sounds like a good project. I'm glad that it's been funded by this grant. But I just wanted to put on the back end that I think it's a great thing that we can draw a line in the sand and all money, as I've said before, is in good money. And so I'm glad that it was cleaned up before we got it. So thank you very much. Appreciate that work. Very good. Any further questions? Yeah, just a similar but slightly different twist on that observation. After we declared that we were a sanctuary city. The Trump administration said that there would be steps taken to retaliate and punish cities that did that. And one of the things that they highlighted was withholding any kind of discretionary or formula money through law enforcement. This city joined a lawsuit challenging that. The courts rejected it, looking at both the 10th Amendment and other parts of the Constitution. I want to acknowledge that our system of checks and balances works, that it is well established under federal law that you cannot coerce a jurisdiction to do something and use funding as the threat. And the Trump administration lost that in the courts. And today we're getting a grant that was in jeopardy. in response to our designation. So I want to just acknowledge the fact that we do have, A, a functioning constitution, and, B, a set of checks and balances where we can test these theories. And this idea that funds could be withheld, which was – when Jeff Sessions was the head of the Justice Department, he and Trump made that proposal, has been rejected, and we are getting the funds. So I think that's a good day for people who believe in checks and balances. So thank you. That's a good point. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one else signed up. Very good. Call the roll. Udaili? Yes. Well, I'd just like to share the 529 Shield information. It takes five minutes to register your bike through the 529 Garage app. It's available on iTunes or Google Play Store. And if you don't have a smartphone, you can go to project529.com. I plan on doing this today. I don't think I've ever registered my bike, and I've had multiple bikes stolen, so thank you. And I am pleased to vote aye. Fritz. Thank you for getting this. Thank you to our city attorneys for working on making sure that the federal government did what they're supposed to do. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Good work. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, I'm going to move the last two around 967, please, the Housing Bureau. And I think we can get through this one relatively quickly. 967, amend subrecipient contracts with Community Energy Project by $290,000. Not a problem. And Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives Inc. by $70,000 to support home repair services. All right, colleagues, good morning again. Actually, it's good afternoon. The Portland Housing Bureau's Neighborhood Housing Prevention Team works to stabilize communities at risk of displacement through a variety of home ownership retention actions. Emergency home repair funds are critical to help low income homeowners stay in their homes. This year the Portland Housing Bureau issued a competitive request for proposals in both the Lents Urban Renewal Area and the Interstate Urban Renewal Area for home repair grant services. Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives was selected to provide these grants in the Interstate URA, and the Community Energy Project was selected for both the LENCE URA and the Interstate URA. This action allows us to add these funds through existing contracts. These are culturally responsive service providers who provide to Portland's low income homeowners, helping to prevent displacement, stabilize neighborhoods and preserve intergenerational wealth. I want to thank the community members that donated their time to reviewing these applications and the great insights that they provided. I'll now turn it over to the Portland Housing Bureau staff, Dana Ingram and Emma Deba, to talk about talk in more detail about the programs. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. Again, my name is Dana Ingram-Shepard, and I'm the Neighborhood Housing Manager at the Housing Bureau. And I'm Emma Duff. I'm the Housing Program Coordinator at the Housing Bureau. It moves. All right. Did you guys catch that? I'll go ahead and move forward then. All right, home repair grants. The Housing Bureau has the Home Repair Grant Program to stabilize communities at risk of displacement through our home retention efforts. And we do target households at or below the 50% area median income, which is $43,950 for a family of four. And it prioritizes seniors and people with disabilities. I do want to just add here that of the folks that have received home repair services through the funding from the Housing Bureau, over half of them represent communities of color. And on top of that, over 85% have reported as being households over the age of 55. Excuse me. Yes. A quick question. $43,950, is that 60% of the area median income? That is 50% of the area median. It's 50%? Yes. Thank you. So we did submit a request for proposals for a total of $360,000, $200,000 in Lentz, and the Lentz URA, by the way, and $160,000 in interstate URA. Okay. And the requirements of that application was it had to be a non-profit organization, experienced, serving low-income homeowners, culturally responsive, and have the ability to perform outreach in the targeted areas. I also want to just add that the interstate TIF funds are a direct advocacy and initiative from the North Northeast Neighborhood Strategy. Thank you. The funding awards. So LENF, the $200,000 awarded to Community Energy Project. This will be added to an existing contract that that organization has with the Bureau through the master ordinance passed earlier this year. And the interstate funds, $70,000 awarded to Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, also known as PCRI. An additional $90,000 awarded to Community Energy Project, CEP. Can I just ask a question? Sure. $70,000 seems like a fairly modest amount of money. And you have to administer the program. There's staff costs, overhead costs. What are we buying for $70,000 with PCRI? We are buying $50,000. Seven additional households to be served with these funds. However, I do want to just add that PCRI does already provide these services, home repair services, so they're already serving this community. And because of the time frame allowed, they did not fully apply for all of the funds. So about seven households. So they have the existing infrastructure. We're not funding that. These are dollars that will be going out the door? No. These are not 100% going out the door. There is a certain amount of administrative costs. There is a partnership with this particular proposal, and it actually is with NAMAC. Help me out with that acronym. The National Association of Minority Contractors. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Yes. So the amendments to add RFP funding awards to the existing contracts will provide critical repairs to 49 additional households. Good. That's it. You have questions? Very good presentation. Thank you for your hard work. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one else signed up. All right. Very good. Then we'll call the roll. Udaly? Thank you. Aye. Fritz? Great work. Aye. Thank you. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Very happy to support this. Thank you for your work. The ordinance is adopted. Last but not least, 966. This is a first reading. Authorize $30 million of revenue bonds for North McAdam Urban Renewal Area. Colleagues, this proposed ordinance authorizes the issuance of up to $30 million in revenue bonds to finance infrastructure and economic development projects within the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area. The financing authorization will allow Prosper Portland to execute projects under the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area plan as opportunities avail themselves. And we have staff here who can address this. Hello. You're not the staff on my list. That's why I'm just. Oh, you know what? Here I do. I have a stick. I'm standby. Update. Matt garage is here. Hello. Yeah. Matt. You're not. You're not. How are you doing today? Thanks. Debt manager. Yeah. I wasn't anticipating being able to join, but I was able to join last minute. And I'm accompanied by... Tony Barnes, finance manager at Prosper Portland. Hey, Tony. It's good to see you. So, yeah, just to summarize the authorization, the proposed revenue bonds will initially be structured as one or more lines of credit, which will be refinanced with long-term tax increment revenue bonds at a later date or potentially repaid by future tax increment revenues. Okay. The initial line of credit will be secured by tax increment revenues of the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area. However, the city's full faith in credit may be offered as security on the interim financing of the infrastructure projects in order to decrease interest costs. Projects within the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area will focus on economic development consistent with the Urban Renewal Area Plan. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Excuse me. Yes. What basis do you say issuing the bonds will decrease interest costs? What is that based on? Well, issuing the line of credit initially will decrease interest costs rather than issuing the long-term bonds initially. So with the line of credit, we're able to draw down the principal amount over time. So the interest calculation is essentially going to be on a smaller scale basis for what you're paying interest on versus with the bonds, you're essentially borrowing all the money up front and those monies will be reinvested in our investment fund. So typically, short-term rates that we invest at are lower than what the borrowing rate is, which are long-term rates. So typically, it makes sense for when you have project uncertainty issues. to use a line of credit. So I appreciate... You attempting to answer my questions before this hearing, I'm still not clear as to why we would allow the $30 million line of credit when you don't have projects specifically that you have identified that that funding will be used for. I see. So I still haven't been able to connect those dots based on the information that you've provided. Okay. So the debt will not actually exist? No. until we draw it, and we won't be able to draw on the line of credit until those projects are actually approved within the budget process. And does that limit our ability to do bonding in other areas of the city of Portland if you have tied up the $30 million for projects that you don't know yet what they look like? I mean, so if I wanted to do a bond, is that going to be a problem because we're at our maximum indebtedness amount? No, that's specific just to that urban renewal area. So that really won't affect any of the other types of borrowings that we do. I tell you, this is fascinating to me, and I really appreciate your patience in actually unpacking this for me because, you know, I don't just give away $30 million every day, so I have to know what's going on with it. So thank you. Please continue. I mentioned that the projects, we won't be able to draw on the line of credit until those projects have been budgeted for as part of the annual budget process or one of the fall or spring supplemental budget processes. And then also within that $30 million, a portion of that will actually be dedicated to a debt service reserve fund on a future long-term bond issue. So $30 million won't be technically being used 100% for the projects. It will be used to fund a debt service reserve fund that helps the marketability of the long-term bond issue when we sell those in the open market. I feel like I need a bond 101 class, right? Yeah, it's not the more straightforward stuff. Maybe bonding for idiots or something. It's really important for us to be able to see a big picture of this, right? Yeah. Because, you know, Prosper comes in and they want $30 million and then transportation comes in and they're talking about something else, right? So I would love the opportunity to schedule something like that for my office because I think it's really critical that we understand the big picture and not just the narrow focus that we have today. Thank you. Absolutely. Absolutely. So yeah, and also, so we currently are, so we already have existing lines of credit for these urban renewal areas, and those are up for expiration, so we typically will roll those over and renew them. So this authorization will be utilized as part of that rollover process, which is scheduled to occur in December, this December. Did you have another question?
 Commissioner? Very good. Any public testimony? No. No one else signed up. All right. Well, then I'll just end on this note. First of all, I'm actually really pleased that Commissioner Hardesty just asked to learn more about bonding because I happen to think that bonding is one of the most exciting things ever. And there's a tremendous, as they say, there's gold in them thar hills. Right, right, right. And understanding it, the nuances of it is really important, and very few people actually take the time to do it. So I appreciate your proactive attitude. Thank you, gentlemen, for a good presentation. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. We're adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you. The Portland City Council on October 16th, 2019. Good afternoon, Carla. Please call the roll. Good afternoon. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much art is 968 a land use appeal Appeal of the Southwest Hills Residential League against the hearings officers decision to approve with conditions a one-lot partition with concurrent environmental and planned development review adjacent to 1315 Southwest Broadway Drive lu 18-1 1 9 0 5 6 LDP en PD All right, first the city attorney will make some announcements about today's hearing. Good afternoon. Yes, good afternoon again. This is an evidentiary hearing. This means that you may submit new evidence to counsel in support of your arguments. Order of testimony. For an evidentiary appeal hearing, we will begin with the staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes to speak to counsel. The principal applicant will have 15 minutes to address the counsel and rebut the appellant's presentation. If there is no principal opponent, the counsel will move directly to testimony from persons who oppose the appeal after supporters of the appeal conclude their testimony. After the principal opponent the council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal again each person will have three minutes Finally the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents to the appeal the council may then close the hearing Deliberate and take a vote on the appeal if the vote is ten it is a tentative vote the council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal if the council takes a final vote today that will conclude the matter before the council I would like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing the City Council today. Submitting evidence into the record. Any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record should be given to the Council Clerk after you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to Council during your testimony, including PowerPoint presentations, should be given to the Council Clerk to make sure they become part of the record. Testimony must be directed to the approval criteria. Any testimony, arguments or evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria for this land use review or other criteria in the City's comprehensive plan or zoning code that you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as a part of their staff report to Council. Issues must be raised with specificity. You must raise an issue clearly enough to give the council and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluded from appealing the issue to the land use Board of Appeals based on that issue. An applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow the council to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing in action for damages in circuit court. Very good. So, colleagues, just a housekeeping item. I want you to be aware that I have a hard out tonight at 4.45 p.m., and I don't know what other people's schedules are. I notice after the land use item, we have a number of emergency items that I'm hoping we can get to prior to my departure. Mayor, I had intended to put an absence in. I don't want to have the council lose a quorum, so we'll play it by ear. But... 4 30 may be the outer limit of what i can do as well okay so i have a question of legal counsel um i i took a sneak peek and it looks like there's about 50-ish people signed up to testify on this land use matter if we give them all three minutes we're going to be way over that so the question is can i limit that to two minutes staff do you know how much time you noticed in the you didn't notice how much time people would have what is it three Yeah. So the notice did indicate that people would get three minutes today. Okay. So I just want people to be on notice then that if it's three minutes each and we have 150 minutes of testimony after what will probably be at least a half an hour of presentations, there is a chance we will not get through the testimony or the hearing today. And I just want people who are signed up to be aware of that. Alternatively, what I would encourage, it's been my experience and I'm speaking, you know, painting with a broad brush, that testimony on these land use items tends to get very repetitive. And so if you hear testimony that you agree with, just give a big thumbs up or maybe come to the microphone when your name is called and say, all my points have been made, but I wanna be very clear. I'm either for the appeal or I'm against the appeal. and maybe summarize your comments. Not everybody has to speak for the full three minutes. And that would just be my personal admonition and request. Commissioner Fritz. There is an hour and 20 minutes of additional hearings that have been asked for this afternoon. So if we were to get through them all, it would likely to get to 5.20. And hearing that you can't stay. I must leave at 4.45. Commissioner Fish needs to walk. Commissioner Hardesty. So we can do the emergencies perhaps first. Can I make a suggestion? Yes, please. If the council, sorry, Commissioner Hardesty, I didn't mean to interrupt. Go ahead. Oh, if the council decides to continue the hearing and leave the record open to provide additional written testimony, we can continue. Consolidate the oral testimony. Okay, so we'll worry about that when we get there. Commissioner Hardesty? I tell you we have fabulous legal counsel because she anticipated those were the words coming out of my mouth. I interrupted, I'm sorry. And answered them before I asked. Thank you. All right, very good. So first off, do any members of the City Council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No members of the Council have a conflict of interest to declare? Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? Other than a staff briefing, I have no ex parte contacts to disclose. Have any members of the council made any visits to the sites involved in this matter? I have traveled along Broadway Drive in my time, 30 years here, but not specifically related to this hearing. Yeah, ditto. Do any council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing? Very good, we'll start with the staff report. 10 minutes, come on up. Good afternoon. I appreciate the ties. We like it when people put ties on. If you're tireless, you're also welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Sean Burgett. I'm a city planner with BDS who worked on this land use review being presented to the council today. My colleague, Stacey Castleberry, a senior planner with BDS, is behind me. This will be an evidentiary hearing. New information can be submitted. As background, the hearings officer approved the applicant's proposal on the 4.6 acre site, which included a plan development review, environmental review, and land division review. The hearings officer approved a 1.33 acre parcel that will accommodate 20 new dwelling units, 10 sets of attached units via the plan development review. Access to the site is proposed from Southwest Tangent Street and the environmental review approved a 3.27 acre environmental resource tract that will provide environmental protection at the site. The hearings officer also approved a new public pedestrian path, built the trail standards connecting Southwest Tangent Street to Southwest Broadway Drive, and minor improvements along the south side of Broadway Drive opposite the subject site. This slide shows the applicable approval criteria in the zoning code, which the hearings officer based his decision on. The appellant, the Southwest Hills Residential League, has based their appeal on transportation impacts, rights of ways, and Title 17 as indicated in the slide. The appellant's primary concerns are related to lack of improvements required along the north side of Southwest Broadway Drive adjacent to the subject site. The zoning map here depicts the site area. The site is zoned single-family residential R10 with an environmental conservation zoning overlay. Southwest Tangent Street abuts the site's northwest corner, and southwest Broadway Drive abuts the site's southern property boundary. Here's an aerial view of the site showing kind of the forested canopy that exists there today. Here's the proposed lot layout overview. The yellow highlights parcel 1 where new development is proposed. The green represents the environmental resource tract around parcel 1. And the light green represents the location of the pedestrian path connection between Southwest Tangent and Southwest Broadway Drive. I also want to quickly show some slides related to the development proposed on lot 1 as approved via the planned development review. which allowed the applicant to cluster the development proposed on one lot in order to lessen the impacts to the environmental zone. This is opposed to having detached dwelling units on individual lots. The private driveway proposed includes guest parking, a turnaround that meets fire bureau requirements, and pedestrian improvements along the private drive. Here's some conceptual renderings of the new units proposed on the site. Southwest Broadway Drive is partially visible in the slide. Here's some conceptual renderings of the new units from west of the site. And this is a conceptual rendering of the new private driveway entering the site from Southwest Tangent Street. Here's a photo of Southwest Broadway Drive looking west. You can see the arrow pointing to the subject site. Here's another photo of Southwest Broadway Drive facing northwest. So here are the city council alternatives today based on the appeal. And I also wanted to note some new information that was submitted, it was basically put on the record following the hearings officer's decision and the appeal. The applicant initiated a public works review process in correlation with PBOT and BES in order to explore additional pedestrian improvements along the south side of Southwest Broadway Drive, which have received concept approval. Therefore, I want to allow PBOT staff that's here today to step in and to discuss the requirements regarding this proposal. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Kurt Kruger with the City Department of Transportation. I'm an engineer with the City of Portland. Sean can walk through some slides, but to speed this up, I'll let him walk through those slides as I walk through my comments. I don't typically put these comments in writing, but I want to make it very clear. You're going to hear about legal matters, constitutionality, and some other issues today. And I want my comments as a transportation representative to be focused on this particular site and not as it may apply to other issues. development actions throughout the city. So that's why I wanna make sure I got these comments down. I wanna first start out by familiarizing yourself with the project and more specifically on the existing conditions of Southwest Broadway Drive along the project's 740 feet of street frontage along this roadway. You're going to hear significant testimony from both the applicant and appellant regarding the condition, constraints, safety, and level of appropriate improvements that should or shouldn't be required along this corridor with the proposed development. As I said a couple minutes ago, I'm an engineer. I'm not a land use attorney. But it has become vitally important to my team and I that we become very familiar with case law surrounding property takings and exactions. I want to take a minute to give you a short excerpt from the U.S. Supreme Court decision Dolan v. Cydia-Tigard. It states if the court finds that a nexus exists then the court must determine whether the city has shown a rough Proportionality between the exactions and the projected impact of the proposed development that is while no precise mathematical calculation is required the city must make some sort of individualized determination that the permit conditions are related both in nature and extent to the impact of the proposed development and I just want to reiterate the court did not give us a formula, a book, a calculation of how we determine this. It's an individualized determination on a site by site basis. It is important for city council to understand that not only does a development application need to comply with locally adopted zoning codes, which the hearings officer has found to be the case, but development conditions and exactions that the city imposes must pass this constitutional taking test of rough proportionality. PBOT, in coordination with the Bureau of Environmental Service, has struggled from day one on finding the appropriate requirements for improvements along Southwest Broadway Drive, balancing our city standards and the lawful requirements that will pass the court tests. Our Public Works Appeals Committee met and discussed three public works alternatives before we landed on the requirements that were included in the hearings officer's decision. Peabody originally required standard half street improvements including bike lanes and sidewalks. It didn't take long to realize that significant retaining walls, offsite sewer extensions, conflicts with the environmental zone were going to preclude standard street improvements. The required improvements to Broadway Drive are currently under engineering review and are less than what the Bureau would like to see on a street that is intended to serve pedestrians, bicycles, and motor vehicles. but is a set of requirements that do not step over the line that would trigger much larger scale infrastructure development that would likely not satisfy the constitutionality standards. The conditions surrounding Broadway Drive are not unique to Broadway Drive. Nearly all 25 neighborhood collectors in southwest Portland are asked to serve the needs of pedestrians, bicycles, and motorists, but are some of the most costly streets to improve and are very difficult to engineer and construct one development at a time. Unlike an infill lot on a quiet residential street or street with better sight lines found in flatter areas of the city, isolated improvements on a street like Broadway Drive are difficult to permit and construct as utility and bike and ped infrastructure needs to connect on either end to provide a functional facility. Capital Highway, for example, currently under design has been discussed and desired to be improved for nearly 20 years, currently at a cost of over 20 million dollars. Broadway Drive has more significant topographical constraints and a greater length that would result in an even higher price tag to deliver. The improvements that the City has imposed include right-of-way dedication to allow for more complete improvements in the future, along with improvements to the existing conditions that will somewhat improve the pedestrian experience along the distance of the site's frontage. In closing, both the City staff report to the hearings officer and the hearings officer's decision found that the development application met the approval criteria of the Portland Zoning Code Well, also not resulting in conditions that would not meet constitutional standards. I'm available now and throughout the hearing to answer any of your questions. Could I ask you a common sense question here? This issue of proportionality, just so I understand it in layman's terms, the concern you're expressing based on case law, based on the constitutionality is if the conditions of development are out of proportion. economically with the value of the project or the cost of the project that constitutes potentially a land taking is that your concern explain it to me in simple layman's terms so I get it there are three primary court cases that set the table for this conversation the first I don't think anybody's going to disagree is met it's the Nexus test we have a legitimate interest of having a Broadway Drive developed to a larger standard The next is the Dolan case where we have to find some way of saying if we're going to take somebody's property for a governmental interest, we have to show that what the impacts of the project are going to put into the system are proportional to what we're asking of their property. And by when you say asking of their property, you mean in a financial sense? So the first sense would be we're physically going to require them to dedicate some of their land to become public right of way. The way we have typically done that in transportation and jurisdictions around the country have struggled with this is we measure vehicle trips to and from the site and compare that to how many vehicles are on Broadway Drive, for example, and we come up with a percentage of impact. and then we compare the percentage of their land and how much we might be exacting. So the courts didn't set that table for us, but absent a formula or a book or some table, that's a quantifiable method of calculation for us. The third test, and City of Catering can always interrupt me if I misstate this, went one step further and said, financial exactions from an applicant are now part of the takings test and this was a case that came out about two and a half years ago. So to answer your question, when we're asking for improvements, those improvements come with a monetary value and they have to be proportional to what the development is proposing. With 20 units that is also building a new street to serve those units and the extreme constraints of building standard improvements on Broadway Drive, Absent a formula, I think it's, in your words, a layman's look at it's not going to be proportional to ask for, and I don't want to put numbers into the record because they're not cooked or baked or figured out yet. It is going to be a very, very costly street to build, and having the burden placed on the development for 20 units probably isn't going to pass that test. And the consequence of not passing the test is this would be Potentially appealed to Luba so his Board of Appeals What's before you today is did this meet the zoning code which the hearings officer recommended it did or decided it did if the council were to disagree with staff and disagree with the hearings officer and say more improvement should be required and The concern would be we ask too much and it goes to LUBA and then it could go to the Court of Appeals and then on to the Supreme Court. That makes sense, thank you. I appreciate that. This one. And Mr. Creeder. And then Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. You said that you didn't want to enter numbers into the record because they may not be completely baked. I am curious if you could share the impact of those 20, the estimated impact of those 20 units on the roadway or is that one of those numbers that we can't share? Let me make sure I understand the question. Is there a dollar amount that we can assign to the impacts of the development? No, not a dollar amount. Okay. The percentage of increase of traffic. Okay. That I can do. Broadway Drive again is unique. You don't just drive up Broadway Drive and turn into a street and end up in the subdivision There are a couple access points depending on where you're coming from. So if you're coming from downtown, you would access a street at the lower end of the hill. If you were coming from the west side, Beaverton, you would probably take another street. It's very difficult to figure out how many cars are actually going to be traversing across Broadway Drive in front of this property. Our best calculation is about 60 new vehicle trips per day. There's about 4,000 and some currently on Broadway Drive today. So it's... LESS THAN A PERCENT. THANK YOU. COMMISSIONER HARDESTY. I WANT TO TAKE THE MAYOR'S QUESTION TO A CONCLUSION. IF LUBER GOT THIS CASE AND THEY RULED AGAINST US, THEN IT WOULD It would trigger a state law that would basically say that we've taken this developer's land. Is that an accurate statement? I'll let the city attorney correct me if I'm wrong here. But what likely happened is Lubo, if they found that we overreached and didn't agree with your decision, if you were to uphold the appeal, would likely remand it back to the city to correct it. THE MISTAKE THEY WOULD HAVE IDENTIFIED US MAKING. WE WOULD PROBABLY BE BACK HERE AGAIN REDOING THIS. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. WAS THERE MORE TO YOUR PRESENTATION? NO. VERY GOOD. NEXT WE'LL HAVE THE APPEALENT FOR 10 MINUTES. GOOD AFTERNOON. THANKS FOR BEING HERE. CAN A TECHNICAL PERSON HELP ME MOVE OFF OF THE CITY? THANK YOU. KARLA TO THE RESCUE. AND IF YOU COULD ALSO JUST WHEN YOU SPEAK, IF YOU COULD JUST ENTER YOUR NAMES FOR THE RECORD, PLEASE. MY NAME IS CARLA. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Lisa Caballero and I am the Transportation League for the Southwest Hills Residential League. Thank you. We are appealing the hearings officer decision on the grounds that it accepted a mitigation plan which fails to provide pedestrians with a safer walkway and releases the applicant from code-required frontage improvements. This summer, PPOP presented to Council PED PDX and Vision Zero plans, and we learned a lot about walking in Portland. I think we all agree to the aspirations and goals in these plans. We all want Portland to be a safer place to walk. But it is in this type of hearing with a real street, a real developer, and a real set of neighbors that plans and aspirations can become a reality. In this hearing, you all have the authority to take a concrete step today towards making Portland a safer place to walk. Let's keep it there for now. The PedPDX report states, per city charter and city code, property owners are responsible for constructing, maintaining, and repairing the sidewalks upon near property. Traditionally, the requirement to construct sidewalks is triggered when a development is proposed. As part of the development, property owners must construct or improve the sidewalks fronting their property. This is how the vast majority of sidewalks have historically been built in Portland. That's a clear layman's statement of Portland sidewalk policy and code. It's not something that PedPDX made up. It's not new. This is common knowledge and understanding of city code that is repeated regularly by city employees. If every new development improves their frontage, then eventually a street gets a continuous sidewalk. In theory, this policy can work, but only if the city consistently enforces its code and makes developers provide these frontage improvements parcel by parcel. The grounds for our appeal are narrow. Please understand that there is a significant qualitative legal difference between a frontage requirement and an off-site mitigation. A requirement is strict and defined. A mitigation has no bottom. It is a slippery slope to nothing. You can see the frontage improvements bounce down this slope in the City's responses to the applicant's three alternative requests for relief from frontage improvements. Here's PBOT's March 2018 response to the early assistant request. The proposed subdivision will also trigger standard frontage improvement. A 12-foot dedication will be required, curb located 16 feet from the center line, an 8-foot swale, and a 6-foot sidewalk. I agree with Mr. Kruger we can't do that. Next, the applicant requests relief from the frontage requirements in an alternative review and in July 2018, the committee responds, the committee is supportive of reducing the standard sidewalk requirements to a minimum of a six-foot wide paved shoulder for the length of the property. The applicant comes back a second time requesting relief from frontage requirements. And in December 2018, the committee responds, the committee is not able to support the applicant's request to eliminate the six foot wide paved shoulder. PBOT has already reduced our standard sidewalk improvements along this frontage. Broadway is a neighborhood collector and a city walkway and the required shoulder widening will provide a minimum of stable surface for pedestrian circulation. Finally, in a third review in 2019, the City relieves the applicant of the frontage improvements and in their place recommends a mitigation which would have no effect on pedestrian or cyclist safety and only requires improvements, quote, where feasible. The applicant will also be required to provide gravel shoulder improvements to the south side of Broadway where feasible given the existing constraints of driveways, mechanical equipment and guardrail locations. constraints which make the shoulder as narrow as three feet in places. This is the first slide. Okay. That is what three feet of shoulder looks like. And this is towards, getting towards the end of their west, west end frontage. You'll see that this shoulder is already partially paved. So, um, The danger to the pedestrian is not from the surface that they're walking on. I don't care if it's dirt or asphalt. The danger comes from the cars that are whizzing by. And these are constraints. We have a guardrail. We have a utility cabinet. We have a telephone pole. At the bottom, you'll see an old cement plug from a guardrail from the 60s. And on the left, this is actually a good picture of... one of the wider shoulders. This is about five feet right here and you'll see that the asphalt pulls over about halfway. The proposed mitigation that's being presented to you today is to pull that asphalt further to the right so that's covering more of the gravel. That is the improvement that they're proposing for 20 luxury townhouse units Okay, it's not an improvement. It's it's just spending money And then I want you to notice up on the top corner. There's a little e Scooter parked in back of that car. We have people's commuting by e scooter up Broadway now Thank you very much in improving this project the hearings officer sets a precedent of not requiring Frontage improvements or effectively mitigating for them. This is a standard which can be applied anywhere in the city I return my remaining time over to our council. Mr. Daniel Kearns. I Thank you. Good morning. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Daniel Cairns. I'm a land use lawyer. I represent the Southwest Hills Residential League in this case. I submitted a memo twice. The one that has some of my points says corrected on the beginning of it. But let me begin with, as you saw staff's presentation, this was a very complicated project with e-zoning and it evolved over many years. And it's a huge credit to the developer and to staff that it boils down to this one issue today. There were, believe me, a thousand points of light going through this whole process. But the issue that this presents to you today is a very common one with infill projects that come in on the city's existing infrastructure system, street system, that has inadequacies and problems. You have adopted recently and over a long period of time a large number of these bicycle pedestrian safety policies. It is a huge priority for you. You have said so and your citizens have devoted thousands of hours volunteering on the Planning Sustainability Commission and various other advisory boards to help you promulgate these policies. And what we're asking for you to do today is enforce them. You have codified these policies, in this case, in your code, in this development vested under a prior version of the code, and the standard I quoted in the appeal notice, it's 33.641.020, The transportation system must be capable of safely supporting the proposed development in addition to the existing uses in the area. Then you have a list of factors to consider. It concludes with safety for all modes. And I think that really characterizes your policies that you've adopted. And the next section of the code provides for mitigation, to impose mitigation so that a development can achieve these standards. And this isn't the first time you've faced this kind of a case. You did not too long ago in McAdam Ridge where you interpreted that code provision to say all the relevant approval criteria must be met. There's nothing in the language of the section I quoted or the purpose statement that allows for making an on balance finding that or that failure of one or more of the evaluation factors is not a basis for denial. They all have to be met. And in that case, if you recall, it was access to a TriMet stop across the street. And the developer said, you know, the improvements required to make this safe are disproportional to the impact of this project. Staff and the council and the applicant couldn't come to an agreement on a range of mitigating conditions, so you denied it. It didn't meet that approval standard, so you denied it. And so the present case, the hearings officer found, similar to you, that it's not safe. The hearings officer finds, this is his language, that the transportation system, except for Southwest Broadway Drive, is capable and does currently provide safe pedestrian bicycle access. The hearings officer agrees that the section of Broadway Drive adjacent to the site is nearly impassable, at least not safely, by pedestrians and bicycles. So there's the basis for the mitigation or a denial. which is what you need. The applicant has suggested a couple cases that control here. The first one is Brown versus the City of Medford. And these, that plus the city, Hill versus City of Portland are both nexus cases, not disproportionality. So in the Medford case, the court said, the issue is whether the exactions substantially advance the same interest that the land use authorities assert would allow them to deny the permit altogether. for the hearings officer skipped over that part when he found it wasn't safe and approved it without the mitigation that would be required to make it safe and so we're asking that there'd be mitigation to make it safe the hill case that you lost in that case you found that it was safe for all modes so it doesn't really that's why you lost it uh in this one in this particular instance We're not asking for the full smorgasbord of right-of-way improvements, and that's what the hearings officer analyzed. He said full standard improvements are disproportionate. That's 12 foot shoulder, a giant retaining wall. What we have suggested is much cheaper. Six feet of shoulder, a much shorter retaining wall, and some kind of barrier to make it safe. I'm sorry, can I interrupt for one moment? So you're at the 10 minutes, but here's what we do in the interest of fairness. I don't really want to cut you off. How much more time do you think you need to finish your remarks? 30 seconds. Okay. We'll let you finish and then we'll add that same amount to the principal opponent's time just in the interest of fairness. Thank you. Go ahead and continue. So I guess kind of to respond to Commissioner Hardesty's question, what would LUVA do with this? It depends what you do with it. So you could affirm the hearings officer, approve this project when it's documented not safe for bikes and pedestrians contrary to your policies. You could require full street improvements. That would be, I think, disproportionate. Or require the narrower standards that we've suggested. The applicant, the only evidence in the record about the cost is $700,000. That's less than the purchase price of one of these units, one of these houses, and the, like, for example, the street into the project. they have to provide streets into their project anyway that's that doesn't really count they have to provide water to their own houses so the narrower standard is definitely in the rough proportionality range and would pass muster under dolan but more importantly under nolan your final option Is to deny the project. Let me ask you something, Council. Does it make any difference to your argument that the development is not, strictly speaking, adjacent to Southwest Broadway or that the vehicle usage impact on Southwest Broadway is negligible? Vehicles aren't the issue. These aren't vehicle trip generation and... Mr. Krueger talked about how engineers calculate this. These are pedestrians and bicycles, and you don't have any model for calculating impact based on bicycles and pedestrians. That's the issue here. It's not a car traffic safety issue. But in terms of contribution of trips to here, I think the applicant's engineer estimated that 1.7% of the trips on Broadway would be attributable to this project. That's small. 3% to 5% of the site trips would be by walking trips, It's small, but it's there. And the applicant says, well, there's virtually no pedestrian traffic on Broadway now. That's because it's too dangerous. But they're building a pedestrian path from the top that would drain this development, as well as the neighborhood, down to Broadway Drive. That's a big issue. And even the hearings officer said the pedestrian path changes how this develops. Project impacts Broadway Drive and its safety deficiencies. It contributes pedestrian trips to Broadway Drive. Even in the hearings, officers said, I don't understand why anyone would want to cross Broadway Drive. Maybe that's because he tried. It's a very dangerous street to cross. But your policies say make it safe. Make developers improve their own frontages. He does a butt. This project does a butt, this road. Commissioner Fritz? So if I'm hearing you correctly, your preferred outcome is not that we deny the application. The preferred outcome is to change the conditions of approval to apply to provide more pedestrian and bike safety on Broadway Drive. Yes. We worked hard to come up with a smaller standard that would work. And it won't fix the entire Broadway drive. Mr. Kruger told you how terrible it is. This is just one piece. I'm further hearing that you're not asking for full street improvements with 12 foot. We think that would be a bit much at this point in time. Is there a concern with the pedestrian path other than how it interacts with Broadway drive? Well, it is going to be a big conduit if it ever becomes somewhat safe. But was there any elements of your appeal that is focused on the pedestrian path itself? Can I say something? Sure, go ahead. I just want to interject that the pedestrian path that is crossing the property is interesting. a mitigation or in lieu of a connectivity requirement. It is not the frontage requirement, so we haven't really addressed it at all. It's confusing because it is a pedestrian amenity, but it's done instead of a road, which would be too difficult to build from Davenport down to Broadway. But that's not the focus of your appeal. Okay, that's a good thing. And it has a public easement on it. That's my understanding. Is that correct? It'll be public right away. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. So I think you are accurate when you say that we passed a law that has this vision of where we're moving as far as every part of the city having access to sidewalks and bike paths, etc., etc., I think what I'm struggling with is this is 20 units that are not on Broadway, that the developer is being required to put another road in, in order for folks to be able to access the property. And it sounds like... It sounds like the neighborhood association wants them to actually do above and beyond because of poor planning in the past that actually didn't create sidewalks and bike paths and et cetera, et cetera, right? So Southwestern East Portland had the same problem, right? Not a lot of lights, not a lot of sidewalks, not a lot of bike paths, et cetera, et cetera. And so... You're asking us to say, okay, because now we have this new policy, this one developer with 20 properties should actually fix the whole area. Well, a big piece of the area, not the whole area. The whole area was described by Mr. Krueger, and it's just this segment. And the city, as you know, all quarters of the city have deficiencies. And the way you start to build out, to fix, to fill in the gaps, is you make developers improve their own properties, their own frontages. We're not asking for off-site improvements, although one mitigation that would probably help a lot is the intersection of Hoffman and Broadway, because right now a lot of people walk there and it's sort of a death trap. But that's how cities, and you in particular, you make developers property by property build out their frontages. And a lot of times developers say, hey, that's a sidewalk to nowhere. Well, it is today, but we have these plans and we are requiring systematically that developers build out, build out, build out. And eventually you get where you need to be, but you've got to start. Otherwise it's general fund. And that's the entire city's fund for paying for those improvements. When you have a chance, you make developers improve their own properties. So it is not above and beyond. It's very basic, it's very simple, it's very standard. Commissioner Daley. Thank you, Mayor. I think you've mostly answered my questions. I'm finding the maps we have somewhat inadequate because one of my questions was, and that's not your fault, if this would create any kind of contiguous walkway. And it sounds like no. We'll be presenting a map, the public testimony. Actually, south and downhill, I'm sorry, north and downhill of this. In the past it's been the policy that new development has been required to build cement sidewalks, and we have many I think five or six Sidewalks to nowhere that are actually kind of connected connected enough that people are walking that We do have in sight a connected, continuous path all the way from this frontage to downtown Portland. You can see it. I feel like I should disclose that we took the same transportation and traffic class together and we're both painfully aware of how bad decisions made decades ago impact us to this very day and then you add the unique terrain in the southwest hills and it's very challenging, but I appreciate this. I'm just trying to, as Transportation Commissioner, my ears perked up when you talked about increased pedestrian activity on this road, and I want to know that people will be safe and the potential impact of the pedestrian pathway you're talking about. So... Thank you. I'm curious if there's been any outreach to the principal opponents of the appeal with the proposal you just asked us to consider? The developer you mean? Yes. Yes. In fact, they did kind of a cost estimate and that's in the record and they said it was $700,000. They anticipated very tall walls, the entire length of it, which isn't the case if it was only six feet, six feet of shoulder. So that's what they came back with, with a no. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. As long as it's safe, walkable, bikeable, you would be amenable to some kind of an alternative treatment like a boardwalk? Would what? Would you be amenable to an alternative surface rather than paving, such as a boardwalk? If it's bikeable and walkable. Yeah. Yeah. It's the uphill slope and you'll people will testify and they'll have pictures of actually how it works, but it's the uphill slope So bikes are not going very fast. That's part of the problem But you know so something other than a paved surface is fine If you're not zipping down the downhill slope gravel would be a dangerous thing for bicycles. Thank you very good. Thank you Thank you stop our supporters of the appeal three minutes each. Oh How many do we have signed up? I think we have about 19. Okay. And again, my earlier admonition rings true. It's quality, not quantity. So if you hear people saying what you want to hear, you can just raise your hand or come up to the mic and say it's already been heard. The first three are John Newman, Charlie Van Rosen, and Nancy Seaton. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good to see you again, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thanks for this opportunity. My name is John Newman and I'm the vice president of the Southwest Hills Residential League. I'd like to introduce our coordinated- Residential League, is that what you said? Yes, Southwest Hills Residential League. Is that different than the neighborhood association? We are the designated neighborhood association. And I'd like to introduce our coordinated testimony by showing a couple of maps that will help orient you to the neighborhood and I think bring up some of the issues that Commissioner Udalli and Hardesty are talking about. So what we have here is a map that shows the southern part of the city. We have downtown and then we have the Portland Heights Southwest Hills neighborhood. Broadway Drive that we're talking about is in red and it's the eastern artery out of our neighborhood. Vista to the north is in blue, and that's our route to 23rd and Burnside. It also provides access down to Goose Hollow and the Max. Vista does have a continuous sidewalk along the eastern edge of it. Lower Montgomery is in orange, and it's a vehicular route downtown. There is no pedestrian access along here. There is a passable shoulder for part of the way, but around a chicane, it becomes inaccessible. Patton is our western route out of the city. There is no pedestrian usage on Patton. It's quite dangerous to walk on. All of these streets that you see highlighted see a lot of cut-through traffic during commuting hours. This is people trying to get around the tunnel basically, so they come through the neighborhood and try to get downtown to the east side, or I-5, 405. Would like to add that we have very poor bus service in the Southwest Hills Commissioner Fritz discovered this I when she was trying to come to one of our neighborhood association meetings. We have a commuter bus, the 51. It runs along Vista, the blue line here, and it only runs in the morning and weekends, or sorry, mornings and evenings. There is no midday service, and there's no weekend service. So none of us here today from the neighborhood were able to take the bus. We would have had to leave the home at 9 a.m. in the morning. Also notice that these streets all terminate in different areas of downtown, but that Broadway Drive offers the most direct access to the Transit Mall and to PSU and into downtown. If we zoom to the next map, this will provide you some more context along Broadway Drive. And here... As you can see, the blue portions are existing sidewalk cements. As Lisa said, these are pieces of sidewalks that have been required by PBOT for previous developers. The blue area is right away of on-street parking that is sort of passable for pedestrians. The blue area is the development, and the dotted line represents the frontage along Broadway where this – pedestrian passage would go and you can see how it basically begins to create a contiguous passageway along the southern area of Broadway Drive. The last thing I want to say is that, well I'm out of time so I'm good. Thank you. If you have one sentence or two. I just wanted to say that Vista has a continuous sidewalk, and it's used continuously throughout the day. We see students going down to school. We have one restaurant in the neighborhood, but we see employees walking up to the restaurant. When there's Timbers games, people are walking down to the game, and on the weekends we see people from all over the city with backpacks on hiking up to Council Crest. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and City Commissioners. My name is Charlie Van Rossen. I am the Equity and Inclusion Chair for Southwest Hills Residential League. Portland Department of Transportation produced an equity matrix map that ranks areas of Portland that helps guide PBOT in achieving citywide racial equity goals and strategies. The equity matrix is based on census track data on race, income, and English proficiency. The Bureau's goal is to make areas that measure high on the equity matrix a priority for achieving greater mobility for those residents, including safer walking and biking areas and greater access to public transportation. Broadway Drive, adjacent to the Tangent Project, is one of the most unsafe and mobility deficient areas in all of Portland. I know because I drive this road almost every day to and from work. Shoulders are non-existent. Curves block drivers' views as they turn and suddenly confront bicyclists, and vehicles far exceed the speed limit, particularly on this section of the road. Because PBOT's equity matrix map is based on large census tracts, the map averages away smaller pockets of equity priority groups in the Southwest Hills. The effect is to obscure areas like lower Southwest Broadway Drive. PBOT produced the draft Southwest in Motion Plan, which shows a more granular analysis of Portland Southwest Hills focusing on renters and those with disabilities. It captures nuances like Southwest Broadway Drive, which shows as a higher priority for addressing equitable mobility. This section of road has a high concentration of multi-unit housing that serves the Portland State campus. Many residents walk to downtown and PSU. Adding more multi-unit properties will increase foot traffic and increase risks and dangers to walkers and bicyclists. Not addressing the issue of road improvement for non-vehicular transportation will increase the likelihood of an accident and endanger residents. As I indicated, I drive this section of road almost daily. I used to bike up Broad Road Drive from downtown when I was in my 20s and 30s, when I was less risk adverse, but I will not do it now. I still bike to work sometimes during the summer, but use the safer route up Montgomery Drive. My commute is 2.7 miles using Broadway Drive and is 3.4 if I use Montgomery. No public transportation goes down or up Broadway. My commute via bus would be 38 minutes as I traverse downtown and then take the only bus that goes up Southwest Vista to the Southwest Hills. The people who live and will be living along this section of Broadway do not have the comfort of any public transportation and must either walk up to Vista or downtown to connect. Addressing the issue of mobility along this section of Broadway Drive now is the right thing to do and the safest for all Portlanders. Thank you and I just have to acknowledge that's a really hard bike ride. Good for you. That's not an easy one. Good afternoon. Hello. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Nancy Seaton. I'm the past president of SWIRL and current land use chair. Today I'll present the data from a traffic speed study which the city conducted for three days between May 19th and 22nd of this year. Yes, ma'am. This study Nancy, and the mic can move. It slides around so if it's easier just to pull it. That's all right. There you go. The study is relevant to this hearing because vehicle speed affects pedestrian and bicyclist safety and should inform the design of frontage improvements. The city recorded car speed at two points marked A and B on the map. Point A is just uphill from the intersection of Southwest Hoffman and Southwest Broadway Drive, the site of a two-car crash last week that required two tow trucks. Point B is about 500 feet downhill from the beginning of the proposed Tangent Village frontage and is a good indicator of how quickly cars pass that site. At point B you can see that 92% of eastbound downhill drivers exceed the speed limit of 25 miles per hour. 27% of them exceeded by 10 miles an hour or 35 miles per hour. 10 miles per hour can be the difference between life and death for a pedestrian, as PBOT's Vision Zero program reports. According to Vision Zero, 80% of pedestrians struck by a car traveling at 40 miles per hour will be severely injured or killed. Note that uphill fewer drivers, only 13%, exceed the limit by 10 miles per hour. This is a strong argument for putting pedestrians and cyclists facilities along the uphill westbound lane. Furthermore, a car traveling uphill can stop more quickly than one going downhill. And obviously cyclists going uphill travel more slowly and need extra space. Consistent with those facts, the draft Southwest In Motion Plan recommends that on constrained streets with only enough width for a sidewalk on one side, like Southwest Broadway Drive, the improved shoulder be placed next to the uphill traffic lane. That's from the draft Southwest In Motion Plan, page 26. Those are strong reasons to support the uphill north shoulder frontage of the proposed development as the safest location for an improved shoulder. Thank you. Thank you. Next three please, Carla. Sorry. The next three are Mickey Goodridge, Robert DeVoisen and Roger Brown. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and city council members. My name is Mickey Goodridge. I'm a retired Lieutenant Colonel from the United States Air Force and I'm a hospital administrator and a current service disabled veteran owned small business owner and I live on Broadway Drive. And I just wanted to let you guys know that I live 0.4 miles from downtown Portland, which should be a great gateway to downtown area for myself, my family, and the hundreds of residents in our Southwest Hills neighborhood. The reality is my wife and my daughter and I moved into Broadway Drive in 2017. My daughter attends Portland State University. She's an autism spectrum disorder 23-year-old and has significant challenges. especially with physical activity. So walking down the hill and walking back up the hill is challenging enough, but for the first year of her tenure at Portland State University, she and my wife diligently tried day and night and in the rain and in the elements that we deal with every day to walk up and down Portland to Portland State University so that she can go to class. My daughter requires one of us to take her most places, but she definitely requires our attention to detail walking up and down Broadway Drive to Portland State. So I just wanted to let you know that on the afternoon of May 23rd, my wife and my daughter were walking down to go to Portland State, and my wife slipped and fell on the gravel and really hurt herself. My daughter really was terrified of the cars that were coming down that day as well. And she told me in her words that she'll never walk that street again because she was nearly hit by several cars and they were speeding down and it really terrified her. And so I'm here to tell you today that my family's 0.4 miles away from Portland State and downtown, but we don't even feel safe enough to walk down the street. So twice a day, I've got to drive her down and go down the hill with her and bring her back safely. And it's just an impact that affects my little family. And I just have to tell you, in my 25 years of Air Force service, I've never seen a more unsafe street in my life. I mean, this is a really difficult, difficult area for us because we just try to make use of the pedestrian pathways and we're physically unable to. And so we just would love your attention to help families like mine, very prototypical of those in the Portland area that try to do the right thing and use less car traffic. And anyhow, I appreciate your attention today. Thank you for your testimony and thank you for your service. I appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, city commissioners. My name is Robert Duvoisin. I live near the top of Southwest Broadway Drive for almost two decades. Eleven years ago, I started commuting to work on an electric bike. I think I might have been one of the first persons on the hill to do that. I was going to say, 11 years ago, yes. Yes, it's a Chinese bike. They used it before we did. Today, I see a lot of people on e-bikes, especially in the West Hills, because it makes them accessible to more people for obvious reasons. I'm in my 60s now. And I ride every day, rain or shine, up Markham Hill, not Broadway Drive. I wouldn't dare. Broadway Drive is too dangerous. But that's not something I would be doing without the help of a motor. And so I think if we want to think about the future of the climate and making our effort, I think the increasing use of e-bikes is important. And for that, we need to provide them the space to ride safely, including on roads which perhaps a decade ago were off limits to most of, you know, to people who aren't athletic. As you were saying, it's pretty hard, South West Border Drive. So going downhill, we can usually take the lane and travel about the speed of cars. But uphill is a different matter. And so I think that we need at least three feet to the right of the fog line so that I feel comfortable that the cars are a little bit further away from me when I'm going uphill. And I think it's in the plan of doing that for Markham Hill Drive, where I'll be. I'm looking forward to that. It doesn't need to be a dedicated lane, it just needs to be some little bit of space that we can share with pedestrians. My motor isn't very strong and I don't go much faster than pedestrians going uphill. And so Portland 2035 Comprehensive Plan gives walking and biking top priority over other transportation modes, priority over cars and public transit. I'm not sure I agree with necessarily that, I think public transport is very important. But I urge you to respect this prioritization and require the frontage improvements to pedestrians and cyclists along the uphill north shoulder so that we can feel a bit safer. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Honorable Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Roger Brown. I am a resident of the Southwest Hills neighborhood and a recent addition to this world board just less than a year now. I would like to premise my comments and the fact that I've been a long time bicycle commuter over 20 years now And I live only one block off of Broadway Drive and yet I do not take Broadway into or out of town Because of safety concerns. I believe the frontage improvements for this tangent village development should be on the north side of Broadway in my opinion the proposed mitigation to avoid displacement is not adequate and For narrow streets where improvements can only be added to one side of the road, the industry standard is to add a shared shoulder adjacent to the uphill lane. And in this case that would be the north side of Broadway. And I feel the proposed mitigation of minor improvements to the south side, well, it would not improve cycling safety at all and would not really significantly improve pedestrian safety. So on a different note, I wanted to relay information that the Friends of Markham Nature Park is discussed regarding the proposed Tangent Village, because I am a board member, longtime board member of that organization. The proposed development is to include that trail that was mentioned that connects Tangent Street to Broadway, which in turn would come to a point very near where Markham Park abuts Broadway Drive. Okay. Because of this the friends group sees a very exciting opportunity for connecting a whole new neighborhood with direct walking access to the park Where none really exists today? with construction of a short spur trail would be possible to connect into the existing trail network into the park and now we're not suggesting that the tangent village project take this on but the friends group is really willing to assist in this effort so and what is doubly exciting about this possible connection into the park is that it is this is a part of the neighborhood as mentioned earlier that has some of the highest density and highest equity scores with a number of apartment buildings where residents could easily walk to the frontage improvements And as this is a demographic that's not typically well served for access to natural areas, we see great potential here. However, while we are excited by this prospect, it would only be supported if it were a safe connecting walkway along Broadway. So in conclusion, I urge Council not to let the opportunity slip away to more significantly improve pedestrian and cycling safety and connectivity on Southwest Broadway Drive. potentially allow for neighborhood access to nearby natural area in particular for a demographic that is not generally well served in that respect. Thank you. Thank you. What was the name of the park? I'm sorry. Which park was it? Markham Nature Park. Got it. Okay. Thank you. The next three are Don Bach, Chris Kaka and Craig Kuhn. Welcome. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, howdy, good to be here. I'm from Hillsdale and my name is Don Bach. I'm coming from this in a little perspective of, I spent the whole morning out there walking up and down this street. And basically it's a terribly dangerous street to walk, but there's only segments that are most dangerous. And so I'm really proposing, and I'm gonna start off with what I think should be done is, and I gotta put my glasses on, I'm afraid. The redesign of street is not something that a city council ought to be doing in a meeting like this. Due to a number of concerns and problems that existed on this artilio for many years, and I've been party to several discussions about we need sidewalks in there in the past. I recommend that we refer this street portion of the proposal to PBOT, the developer, and inform community members to seek a solution that will result in a safer, more usable street and require an answer within 30 days. So I'd actually say set it aside 30 days. Give them some time to work this through because I think there's some... Not great solutions, but there's some solutions that are affordable and could be done if we got some good thinking on it. And it would be going beyond the scope of this frontage. And it means taking some of the money that's set into the SWIM project. This is a Tier 2 project in SWIM. It's budgeted for $500,000 to $1 million. And get a plan that says we're going to do this in two or three years. And get a continuous thing from the end of the property that's being proposed in front of you all the way downtown. And that means doing things like, I think my hair, that means doing things like narrowing the travel lanes. Right now we've got 11-foot travel lanes. Make them nine feet. That's going to make the cars slow down, particularly if we put some wands along the side. You know, the speed of the traffic is what's killing people, as well as the crossings. Now, if we don't have it put on the east, on the directions, or on the south side of the street, that means crossing the street at least twice. It means we need a signal, particularly at Hoffman. Right? Because you know as we've heard earlier. There's accidents happening there all the time It's a terrible street to come on to Broadway Drive You can't see to the left and there's a blinking yellow light that doesn't slow anyone down we need a full signal or we need a basically a Pedestrian operated signal, but that isn't going to help the cars so a full signal is really needed at Hoffman and we need probably another warning signal like a hawk or a Rapid a rapid flashing beacon at the other crossing those two crossings are important if you're going to use that other side of the street You can't expect people across the street without protection in this environment Where we've got four thousand cars four to five thousand cars a day and the speed of 33 Miles an hour or something like that particularly on a downhill, so that's my recommendation there's some other stuff in my testimony, but the essence of it is is Get it back to PBOT, but make sure that they understand they've got to work with the community, work with the developer, and come up with a plan in 30 days where you ask the developer to give them the full treatment, whatever it is, sidewalk, bike lanes, and everything. That's impossible, I think, in their view, but it's still important that we do it. Thank you. Thank you, Don. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Christopher Kopka, resident of the neighborhood. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council Members. I don't, I think the conversation you began with, with Kurt Kruger, presents you with an interesting dilemma, but I want to talk about what I think the Council's major priority is. So, the Council has an absolute obligation to protect the safety of its citizens. And I don't think you, and with all the qualifications and conditions that the traffic engineer people have talked about, we don't have a safe solution. And so I'm pretty disturbed that we're actually having to have this conversation about what do we do to protect the safety of our citizens when we're trying to get them to walk. That's the city's objective in the city. This proposal does not result in a safe proposal that any reasonable families should use or allow their children or spouse to walk. And so I'm curious about why we're having this conversation about you considering drastically reducing the adopted city standards for on-site improvements. This sidewalk, if it's put on the north side of the street adjoining the property, it is an on-site improvement. There doesn't need to be a nexus. It's about the property in question. So I hope you'll take that into consideration. I want to talk about just – I want to just – restates some of the conditions we're facing and I hope you understand because Broadway Drive is a steep slope street. I think it averages more than 6% if I understand correctly. I think you've heard the applicant speak to the past about well maybe they can use Hoffman as an alternative. Hoffman has portions of it that are 23% grade. It's just not a practical solution. The proposed walkway is unusually narrow. It's sometimes three feet wide. It's going to be on one side of the street, so that means pedestrians coming from opposite directions have to pass each other in three feet. There is no protection, there's no barrier, there's no curb, there's no anything that stops a car from veering on to the pedestrian pathway. I actually have to take a little bit of exception about narrowing the lanes because this is more than cars. This is a major truck route up to the hills for people doing landscaping, for getting deliveries, so we have to accommodate trucks. It's a very windy road. And so you need the width we have, I think, to get trucks up there. If it were just cars, I might agree with you. But I think for handling trucks as well, you can't make the road narrower and make it any safer, safe-y. The proposal puts the pedestrian on the downhill side of the traffic lane. It's a higher speed. It's been documented by the city. So why are we setting ourselves up for failure? So, and again, just please think about this in terms of your own life and your own family and having to make a decision about what we present in front of them and what their daily patterns would be. This doesn't meet that test that the city should be using. Thank you. Thank you both. Carla, who are the next three? There was no room for me. I got it. There was no extra chair for my third person. Actually, Ed Stodrakovic could come up probably. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Council. My name is Craig Kuhn. I'm both a Swirl board member and an immediate neighbor on Davenport to this project. At the early assistance hearing for this project in February of 2017, the applicant offered to improve the frontage of Southwest Broadway Drive, cost not to exceed $5,000. It was noted at the time that frontage improvements are not a gift but required under code. In documents submitted in May of 19 to the hearing officer, they stated in order to fulfill a current PBOT obligation, in this case the six foot wide asphalt shoulder, they would need to construct a monolithic 742 foot wall, 12 feet high or more, 12 feet thick or more, at a cost of 695,000 estimated dollars. They declare this impractical and unproportional. I would like to present evidence showing that this massive wall is not necessary, alternatives to the scenario exist and are practical, and that they enable the developer to construct this positive benefit from their development and the larger community. A continuous wall, first off, is not necessary. I took a measured contractor measuring wheel from the west point of their property end. Every 10 feet along Broadway Drive, I made a mark at the fog line. At that mark, I measured with a tape measure straight to the cliff face wall. As you can see, that red line is the six foot mark. a good half of that frontage is further than six feet away from the fog line. They do not need a continuous wall. They need at best 350 odd feet of wall and to cut back some 350 odd feet of rock. By their estimate, which was $936 a linear foot, that would make the wall $327,000. Clearly, savings. Not only that, they may not need a wall. PBOT and ODOT throughout this area use other methods of protecting traffic. They use wire mesh, cable netting, debris fences, shotcrete, or any other methods short of a concrete wall, which is more savings. These are often half the cost of the $47 per square foot they mention as the cost of their wall. There is an environmental zone to be created and a 50 foot wide buffer. The green vertical lines indicate the areas to the left and the second from right are places where yes, there does need a wall to be cut. As you can see, the deepest area is where the environmental zone is. It does not need a wall at all. It doesn't need to be approached. The six foot wide shoulder would run through what is the proposed buffer zone because that ends at the fog line. Again, it's six feet further to the cliff wall. Not only that, the environmental feature is 12 to 15 feet above the road surface and it's 15 feet further. So you have at least 30 feet in elevation and distance between the proposed shoulder and the environmental feature. There's no need to disturb it at all and clearly the road does not. What's the fog line, please? The fog line is the white line to the right side of the road that indicates you're about to drive off the road in the fog. If I could say real quick, I walk this street almost every week. It's how I got here today. If I walk the preferred alternative of Hoffman that the developer proposes, I am in the roadway 80% of my trip. If they do this improvement, I am out of the roadway 80% of my trip. Please make this area safer for me and my dog and all the other residents. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. I'm Ed Stajakovic, and I live near the intersection of Southwest Davenport and Broadway. So Davenport is about another half mile up the hill from where this frontage is. And I've chosen this place about three years ago, and really for two reasons, one of which is obviously it's a peaceful neighborhood, the other of which is I'm car free. So I'm proud to say I don't have a car. And this was a good alternative between getting up to the hills and getting to work. My office is near here, so I walk every day to work. We won't talk about bus service, but it gets me to Council Crest as well. But one of the things I'm concerned with by living at that intersection of Davenport and Broadway is I believe this is the access method trucks are intended to use to get to this construction site. And on those two, on the intersection from both directions, there are no truck turn signs. So what I'm seeing there on a regular basis is trucks ignoring that sign and turning onto Davenport from Broadway and getting stuck. So I see on a continual basis a truck is getting stuck there. I don't know how a truck construction equipment would get up that hill and turn there. There's no sign from Davenport. to Broadway to turn for trucks. I think it was just assumed the trucks would never go there. In fact, my moving truck got stuck there. There's one of the things that they did, even though I told them to not go. But my garbage truck has to back down from 16th to get to my place, because they cannot come up there from Broadway. And in my time there, I've not once seen police or fire be able to use that intersection. So they're continually having to come from alternative ways to get there. I don't think this road was created for truck traffic, and I suspect it will be a year, perhaps more, for trucks to continue to use this road. When the delivery truck comes down my road, my house is shaking, so I can't imagine dealing with this for a year, perhaps three years. My parking garage, or my garage door, has dents in it from trucks turning because they can't make that turn, so they U-turn into my house to get out. But secondly, as I mentioned, I'm a pedestrian and I do that because I don't own a car, which means I rely on walking and taking a bus. But without getting to the poor bus service, I do a lot of walking and to walk there I often have to cross paths. I once tried to walk Broadway. I gave up because I'm continually having to switch sides of the road and clearly that's not a safe place to switch roads. And cars obviously speeding up and down the hill. I believe this is a bad decision to allow that area to be built without taking advantage of an area that I think would be great to have access to me to be able to walk down that road as well as other people and be able to access Council Crest and other places. So I thank you for your time. Thank you. That's a very provocative photo. That wasn't my moving truck, but it was a similar experience. And, of course, when that happens, Broadway is closed, as is Davenport, for half an hour. You've got to feel sorry for the guy driving the truck. I do, I do. But I hear it every day. I hear it from my house. It's just kind of a typical thing. Yeah, thank you for your testimony. All right, thank you. Appreciate it. Next three, please, Carla. The next three are Laura Torgerson, Sarah Bachman, and Eric Stecker. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Laura Torgerson, and I've lived on Tangent Street with my family for 16 years and in the Southwest Hills for 23 years. I'm a former New York State volunteer firefighter and an EMT-3, a current doctor and a member of Portland's emergency medical response organization, CERV Oregon. This proposed plan development at the end of Tangent Street which is a long, narrow, dead-end street, will place a large number of closely spaced structures in a heavily landscaped environment on a steep wooded slope in a wildfire hazard zone. When I moved into the area, none of us were thinking wildfires. However, in the last 10 years, we have seen a dramatic increase in devastating fires, as pointed out recently in local and national news outlets. I am fully aware that response time means everything. It means saving a life, saving a structure, and potentially saving an entire neighborhood. The two biggest factors in successful fire suppression are response time and water pressure. I must remind the council that there was a fatal fire on Hoffman Street because the fire truck could not access the site. And to this day, that empty lot remains a grim reminder to us all. As was stated in the 2010 Fire Department City Audit, and two of our commissioners may be familiar with this report, emergency response times are not met in our area. In the report it is clearly stated that after five minutes of fire inside of a home, a flashover point is frequently reached. Because we live in a wooded area, fire will travel quickly, especially in drier seasons and drier times due to climate change are upon us. Also, as stated in the report, every minute of delay for response to a cardiovascular emergency results in a 7 to 10% decrease in survivability. A five-minute delay of ambulance results in a 35 to 50% decrease in survivability. According to the AMA, brain death results in four to six minutes. Without the delays from construction traffic, we already experience significant delays on our narrow streets. And when firefighters arrive in this planned development, they will find that the applicant's hydrant has insufficient flow to fight a wildfire. Under Fire Code Appendix B105.2, one- and two-family dwellings, even with sprinkler buildings and fire-resistant construction, should have a minimum flow of 875 gallons per minute. However, the applicant's required hydrant will only have 600 gallons. While sprinkler buildings and fire resistant construction allow the building's occupants to escape safety, they will do little to suppress fires originating outside of the home or in the surrounding area, a deck, equipment sparks in a yard, or smoldering bark mulch. While the proposed expression of code may provide adequate safety for the residents of the development, it does nothing to protect the surrounding community and rather endangers it. During construction hours, we ask that the applicant be required to station fire and medical units in positions likely to diminish delays. And we also ask that the council ensures our safety by enforcing the minimum hydrant flow in the wildfire hydrant. Thank you. My name is Sarah Bachman. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to address you. I'm the team leader for the neighborhood emergency team for the Southwest Hills Residential League. I'm not speaking in that capacity exactly. I'm speaking in my personal capacity, but you should know what my background is to my comments. The NET is a group of volunteers who've been trained to be citizen responders to supplement the first responders such as firefighters in case of emergencies. Examples of a possible emergency where citizen responders are called out are a great earthquake, urban wildland fire. Short of such huge events, we are called out frequently to be for more ordinary wind, rain, and ice storms, for example, to guard people from driving over down to electrical wires. So we are deployed all the time. Speaking as a volunteer citizen responder, in my view, the safety issues in this neighborhood are already severe. And the proposed plan, if no mitigation is required, will compound the safety problems of the neighborhood. I have three points. First, the roads in that neighborhood, and I'm talking about not just Broadway Drive, but also Davenport, Hoffman, and the other roads that Tangent Village would be accessed by, are steep and winding. They cause existing safety risks, especially in bad weather. Those risks should be mitigated in two ways during construction. Adequate traffic control must be strictly monitored by the city. And after construction is complete, sufficient water flow will be needed in the fire hydrant for fighting fires, as Dr. Torgerson has mentioned. Second, again speaking to the narrow and steep roads, should Davenport be blocked due to construction traffic or an accident involving construction vehicles, the lower approach road, Hoffman, as you've heard, is really an unacceptable access road. Third, following on from my previous points, the Council cannot do much in the short term to fix the road issues obviously, but it can address the problems that inadequate water flow will cause in the event of a wildfire. The Council can and should require the developer to provide adequate flow under the fire code as mentioned by Dr. Torgerson. Finally, in my view, the proposed plan will compound the safety problems of the neighborhood which already are severe. So thank you for the opportunity to address you. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly? I have a clarifying question. Does the hydrant flow fall within the scope of this appeal? Because thus far we had been just focused on the frontage improvements. I guess being accepted for this. It's a de novo hearing, so new evidence can be placed into the record. Okay. And issues can be raised. New issues can be raised. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I did. I just wanted to I just put a couple of things on the record. As the fire commissioner, I am also very concerned about response time to 911 calls, but I also want to put it in context. We have a significant increase in 911 calls that have absolutely nothing to do with fire or crime or anything like that. We have a lot of calls to 911 that are all about people that people would rather not see, our houseless population. I can tell you that I don't know how those fire engines make it to many corners of the city of Portland, but they do. They're professional, they're well-trained, and they do an excellent job. What I know about water flow is that when there is a fire, we are able to tap in the water flow from other locations so that we can have more water at a higher pressure to wherever the fire is. Today fire, 80% of the calls that they respond to have absolutely nothing to do with fire. They are a medical first responder system. And I can tell you, I've been to the firehouses up in the Southwest Hill, and you've got some of the best public employees working in the Southwest Hills because it scared me when I was up there and realized, oh, my gosh, all these trees, if something catches on fire, all heck breaks loose, right? So as a fire commissioner, I want you to know I pay close attention. I'm always monitoring what's happening all over the city as it relates to fire, but I cannot say fire response is a good reason for me to either approve or disapprove. Because what I know is actually what the data tells me about what firefighters respond to and all the calls that they get. So I appreciate your testimony, I appreciate you. I think both of you are volunteer firefighters? I was in the past, yes. I'm just a volunteer responder. I love you both because, A, we absolutely need first responders, volunteers, community net. in my opinion, some of the most unsung heroes and sheroes in our community, because you're volunteering to go into places where bad things are happening to help people be resilient, right? So thank you very much for what you do, and thank you. And by the way, you know, we're looking for more firefighters, so we're going to do that again, right? Look me up. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. Thank you both. Hi, I'm Eric Stecker. I live on Davenport, abutting and just uphill from this project. I want to thank you for your time today. I appreciate you taking this issue seriously. I have written testimony with some pictures that the council clerk has. I want to talk mostly about pedestrian safety on Davenport, which we've not talked about. I also, though, in the light of this conversation, want to just mention about fire. I live right uphill from this. I obviously don't know nearly as much as you do about this. But this site has tons of vegetation, everything from little shrubs to old growth trees almost. I'm right up from that and it is terrifying for me to think that this area where you can't get personnel and you can't get trucks, I mean, I've seen the big trucks respond to emergencies. It is not easy on this street, all the way down winding Davenport. to think that we wouldn't have the coded, the statutory flow rates on the hydrants is alarming to me. It's alarming to me. But again, I defer to experts, but I'd ask you to really take that seriously. Maybe visit the site, or we could provide more pictures of what the site looks like. It's a lot of vegetation, and my family is directly uphill from it. Moving on to, the pedestrian safety. I grew up in Sheboygan, Wisconsin. And as a kid, I could walk to the school bus stop when I was in first grade by myself because we have sidewalks everywhere. And Portland is a wonderful city and we're doing wonderful things for the environment, but we don't do well with sidewalks at all. And it's really unfortunate. I'm not a NIMBY. I understand, I read The Economist. I understand that NIMBYism and unnecessary regulation threatens our cities and that our cities are key parts of our country and that our cities are environmentally efficient actually even even even even with regulations that may not immediately seem so because of density so that's important and But pedestrian safety is also very important. And this would really hurt pedestrian safety on Davenport. My kids walk to school now. I wouldn't let them walk alone even to a friend's house up the street because there are no sidewalks where we are. There are curves. There are hills. Now they're finally able to walk to the bus stop. Other kids walk to the bus stop and to Ainsworth, of course. And at 9 and 13, they can finally do it. They have to walk on neighbor's lawns. They hit hedges. I have some pictures. They hit hedges. They hit hedges. Then they have to walk out from between parked cars to walk down the middle of the street in sections before they can get to the sidewalk. And I can't imagine doing that with the construction traffic, certainly. And even the number of car trips did not seem like as many as it would be. They'll all be concentrated when my kids are going to school, at least, and everything. It's really, really alarming and it would really diminish the quality of our experience as a family and all the property taxes we pay and everything. I'm not even asking for sidewalks. I'm just asking for a plan. There's no connection. The developer is not building a street. They're building a, I don't know what the definitions are, but they're building a driveway on their own property to the houses. There is no street connection to Broadway. It all comes up Davenport, which if you take a look at a map, it's not great. Please also keep in mind Hoffman is unusable by trucks and I used Hoffman once in 13 years, I'll never do it again. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next three please. Our Peter Boykort, Geraldine Ra, and Joan Sterritt. We like your names too. Sterritt. Sterritt, okay. Mayor, while we're waiting for our next guest, just a little housekeeping matter. There are two Bureau of Environmental Service ordinances that are on the afternoon agenda. I'm pulling them and setting them over for next week. So before you leave, we'll have Carla read them and they'll be set over. And I'm also got a 430 absence. So it might affect the ability to vote on emergency ordinances. So if my colleagues could take a look to see whether there are any emergency ordinances that have to be passed today. Or can the emergency can be removed and just set over for a second reading. Carla, how are we doing on public testimony? Thank you. We have three more after them, and then we have eight on the opposed appeal. Okay, so there is a chance that we will get through the land use hearing. I see no chance that we will get through any of the rest of the agenda before we lose the quorum. For the emergency mission or Hardesty? Mayor, is it possible for us to suspend the meeting with the agreement of folks here, do what's on emergency, which will only take maybe 10 minutes, and then go back and start taking more testimony? Yeah, why don't we do this? Why don't we go for another 45 or 50 minutes? Let's see how we're doing. And then prior to, you know, Commissioner Fish doesn't need to be here for the emergency ordinances. I've got another... I think that says 335. And I've got until 445, so I've got an hour and 15 minutes. So I think we're okay with the emergency ordinances. All right, good. All right. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you for being here. I'm Geraldine Rao, and thank you, Mr. Mayor, for coming. I will read notes because I know you have a time frame here. On 20 March 2018, I was at about 9.30 in the morning. I was in the kitchen, all dressed, waiting for my husband to come out. When he came out, I recognized immediately he had had a stroke. And you talk about your firemen. They were perfect. I called 911. They were there in minutes. and followed by another truck who came in with paramedics and all kinds of equipment. They were on the phone to the stroke section at OHSU and by the time your firemen got them up, it was within one hour, which is critical when you have this type stroke to operate on my husband. Not only did early medical attention save his life, the success of the recovery has given his life dignity and some independence. I'm forever thankful. Now, I'm also going to mention when I heard you say we have no sidewalks, which is true. So our little children walk to school with no sidewalks on the street. The people who buy no property, it's a disaster. And then when you mentioned using Hoffman as an entrance, I've gone down there when I've had to back up. And this past Tuesday, I had an appointment at OHSU at 825, leaving my house at quarter to 8. I live very, I can see OHSU. I was able to make the time, but I got down Hoffman, and there's a flashing red, which meant I can come. But out of nowhere, coming up Broadway, even though the yellow light wasn't blinking, this car comes right in. It was only through a lot of skill that wasn't an accident there. I was able to skirt my car around to get past, out of his way. He was jumping a light. There was no yellow light. He shouldn't have been there and that's because of red flashing light. That is a situation that cannot continue and if fortunately everything turned out for my husband but to think that you can use Hoffman as an alternative to get to where you're going it's not true. Commissioner Hurst. I just want to thank you, my firefighters. You may know we have women on the fire force nowadays, so it's not just men. They would be thrilled to know that your husband... Please pass them on. We love them forever. I certainly will. They saved my husband's life. I will pass that along to them, and I just want you to know how much I appreciate you saying that on the public record. With sincerity. I also want you to know that... Your neighborhood isn't the only neighborhood without sidewalks in the city of Portland, right? I live in East Portland. And I gotta tell you, I followed some gentlemen through your neighborhood on a walking tour through the trails. I couldn't keep up with them, right? They've been doing it forever, right? But I know exactly what you're talking about. But walkers love to go out there. You see bicycles going up that street. It's a walking street. I don't know how they do it because I live in East Portland, and I would not get on a bike yet. I don't care how many bike lanes they put in in East Portland. I'm not getting on a bike in East Portland because I don't feel safe on a bike in a neighborhood with almost no streets. All right, back to the hearing. Back to the hearing. But I just want you to know. that I just want you to know I hear you and I appreciate you. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you. Thanks a lot, appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hello Mayor, hello Commissioners, excuse me. My name is Peter Boykork. I, me and my family have lived on Tangent Street since 1968. We've known the Ginthers and my mother and Marva Ginther, we're friends. If this helps at all, I went to high school with Sarah Boone So you're in great hands there. Wow. Yes. Since this project's proposal, the developer and the city have worked together to move forward with the 20 units. Thank you. During this time, there have been many adjustments to the building codes to allow it to move forward. While many are reasonable and to be expected, others have been inadequate to the neighborhood community especially with concerns to public safety. We've gone over several of these. The applicant has received adjustments on areas like open space, firefighting and pedestrian impacts. And one of the things to think about is that this, what we're working on, is an adjustment to an adjustment. You know, it's been one thing for us to want to make sure that we have that safe space. For me, the tipping point is when this adjustment was only to help the developer, but to endanger public safety for the surrounding community, specifically on the routes into the development. This is especially important for most vulnerable PSU students who often use Broadway Drive to get to school and those using Davenport to get to Ainsworth and Lincoln. The applicants, excuse me, the developer has a history of constructing and maintaining beautiful properties. It's true. For example, Wilcox. He has demonstrated the ability to make safe communities in the past. He continues his commitment by following the code, the rule of the code in enhancing the community. While I support dense... population and affordable housing. This jeopardizes public safety, setting a dangerous precedent not only for this project but for future projects as well. And we're asking you to please request, have them follow through on those, the mitigation factors that were brought up by Swirl. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Carla, sorry. Hello. Sorry. The next three are Ryan Federer. And John, I can't see the last, I don't understand the last name. It starts with a K. Thank you. And then the last person who signed up is Mark Vanderveer. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor, commissioners, Ryan Fede, resident of Southwest Hawthorne Terrace, just off of Davenport and Broadway. Here representing more than me, my three young kids at home to make Portland a more walkable, bikeable place. And in lieu of the time constraints, I'll try to keep this short to something new and additive. I'm in support of those who have gone before me. But just want to say that in addition to the city code policy, we also have the city comprehensive plan. I believe it's policy 9.6, which I've heard referred to as a street hierarchy. That, you know, number one priority is for walkers, second priority for bicyclists, on down the line, right? And making sure we're holding to our policies, I think. If you ever walk Southwest Broadway, if you haven't, I encourage you to get out there at some point, take your kids, take your spouses, take your best friend, walk up and down it. I think it's easy to realize that not only is it not safe, but what it could be is one of our most beautiful promenades from downtown Portland State, the end of the transit mall, up to Council Crest and Markham Park. In a few weeks from now. We'll dedicate a bridge going across Burnside to a fellow Swirl resident, a neighbor, former neighbor on Southwest Hawthorne Terrace, Barbara Walker, who championed for years making Portland more walkable for Markham Park and our parks. And I think she would want nothing more, given the few times I got to meet her, which was a pleasure, to make sure that all of you are showing leadership and ensuring that we can make Portland a more walkable, bikeable place, more than naming a bridge after her. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor, council, my name is John Kozidar. I'm a ghost who lives on Tangent Street right where the private street will descend into the development and I've lived there for 29 years. The city council has a vision of a pedestrian and bicycle friendly city and so do I. I want to zero in on the transportation impacts. The hearings officer makes a mistake when he lumps Broadway Drive, Tangent, and Davenport streets and proclaims them as a package of being, they can be traveled safely on foot and on bicycle, I'm quoting him, even without sidewalks. The appeal is so well thought out and so well written, it says everything. There's not much I can add to it in three minutes, except for personal comments. personal element. Now a previous traffic, city traffic engineer said that this proposed development will only add 60 cars a day to Broadway Drive. before the hearings officer another PBOT engineer said that this development will add 148 cars a day to Davenport and Tangent. So which is it? It's the higher one. It really is. You can do this on your kitchen table. Take 20 residences and multiply the multiple trips by car in and out of there. There's the number. So if the code is this flexible, according to the hearings officer, why even have a code? Anticipatory reality, he calls it. I call it something else. The code is clear enough without manipulation and semantic gymnastics. And most importantly, how does this decision, his decision, mesh with our goal of a connected pedestrian and bicycle friendly city? I'd like to add one more point to this, is that this development doesn't even have sidewalks itself. It has virtual sidewalks. It has a different color along the edges of the street down there, and that's deemed to be a sidewalk. I was raised in Northeast Portland, at Northeast 36th and Ainsworth, and I went to kindergarten at Kennedy School. My mother is a five-year-old, sent me to kindergarten without fear because there were sidewalks there, curbs there, and there was, the streets offered good visibility. If we could offer that 65 years ago, why can't we do it now? Thanks for paying attention. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Mark Vandiver. I'm a resident of the Southwest District. Hills neighborhood I've driven Broadway Drive for the last 32 years or so I know that it's very dangerous and I think you've heard a lot of testimony here that confirms that and the proposal that we're looking at here will not make the street any any more safe and I think that does conflict with both the pet PDX plan that you folks have adopted just this year and also Vision Zero to try to eliminate vehicle-pedestrian interactions. So I don't need to say anything more about that, but I would like to make a comment on the hearing officer's supposed authority on constitutionality of the proposed mitigations here. He's not a constitutional lawyer. People in BDS aren't constitutional lawyers. You can't really be swayed by... what might happen if you take the right action here. You can't let potential obstacles stand in the way of doing the right thing. If this matter's going to be litigated, it'll be litigated. And so you just need to, I think, take a breath here and do what's right for the city and for its citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's all who signed up on that. Very good. All right. Next up is the principal opponent because the appellant got an extra minute. If the principal opponent would like to take 16 minutes as opposed to 15, you're certainly welcome to do so. Carla, if you could set it for 16. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Chris Kobach and I represent the applicant, Gunther, LLC. Gunther LLC is Ken Gunther, his daughter Lisa Phillips. I'm sorry, I can't hear you. Ken Gunther, his daughter Lisa Phillips, and her husband Ralph Phillips, who are here and will speak with me are a couple of other people. opponents of the appeal. They have a lot to say. Male Speaker 2. A little closer. Male Speaker 2. Yeah, they have a six to eight inches. I have a couple of gentlemen here that worked on this with staff and I'm hoping they get their own three minutes even though they are consultants. They have a lot to say and there's a lot to respond to. If they don't get their own three minutes, we'll work to squeeze it in. Female Speaker 2. I don't think they do. I think they're just Male Speaker 2. They're part of me. Okay sign up for three minutes. They signed up but Okay, so Mr. Cairns and and staff I think both pointed out something that's really important This is a complicated project and it went through a complicated process It didn't involve just gun through LLC. They had probably ten consultants structural engineers civil engineers environmental consultants it involved numerous staff experts environmental experts bes p bot And that collaborative effort went on for about two years. And before we got to the hearings officer, together we estimated about 4,000 hours. Since then, there's been another approximately 1,000 hours dealing with the current design of the improvements on the south side. Those hours and that collaboration produced a staff report that went to the hearings officer, and the staff report had a unanimous recommendation of approval. And that's important because it demonstrates exactly how the process should work. It was back and forth. It was dealing with complicated issues. I'm not going to talk about a lot of the issues. I don't think they are part of the appeal. And I just need to say that for the record. The appeal was limited to one issue. And I know it's de novo and we understand new evidence can come in on that issue. But by allowing new evidence on issues that weren't appealed, it's essentially allowing another appeal long after the appeal period has expired. And that is a little prejudicial to the applicant because we were prepared for the appeal that was submitted. Could we take a break here and get an opinion from the legal counsel on that? Portland Zoning Code nor the notice nor Oregon law limits an appeal. local appeal to only those issues that were noticed. That's not how our code functions, and that's not how we've ever interpreted our code. So new issues could be raised today. So the I might still talk about the main issue and that is the transportation. I want to talk about how it got there. So as the project was proposed, there would be virtually no impacts on this segment of Broadway because the development is all on a parcel of property above Broadway and it's confined to this 1.3 acres. And there is no access to Broadway. It's impossible physically and with site distance issues to put a road in. So all of the traffic, pedestrian, bike, vehicular traffic, everything was to go different directions than Broadway. And it would take either a wrong turn or somebody doing something out of the ordinary to use this segment of Broadway. If they were going downtown, they would tend to go to Hoffman. If they were going west, you heard testimony from your PBOT expert that they would go out Davenport. Same thing for bikes and pedestrians. There was no way to get to this segment. Now, that changed because of a connectivity issue. This is the fact that there's 3,000 feet between Davenport and Hoffman, and the code I believe requires block length to be five or 600 feet. The applicant had absolutely nothing to do with creating that situation. It is really how that area developed. And there was one right-of-way Prince that was there. It could have been extended, but the city built a water facility on it. So that was no longer an option. So in the course of this dialogue, the staff came to the applicant and said, we need connectivity. We have a code that requires connectivity. Under the Hill case, I don't believe that was... Excuse me, the clock's not running. Oh, I guess I, thank you. That's not your fault, keep going. Under the Hill case, I don't think the applicant was required to put that connection in because again, our impacts did not create that block length issue. But as to evidence is ongoing cooperation and attempt to do something that was right My client agreed to put in a connection and it was agreed it would be a pedestrian connection because a road just wasn't feasible. Now that one element, that pedestrian connection is the only feature that could potentially create any real impacts because it allowed some pedestrians to get to Broadway that wouldn't have been able to get there before. So that raised the issue of what improvements are we going to put on Broadway? Now, the evidence in the record, and the hearings officer agreed with this, is that the professional traffic people opined that even with that pedestrian pathway, the pedestrian traffic coming down to Broadway would be minimal. I think the term was negligible. And on page 28 of his decision, the hearings officer agreed that he had to conclude that it would be negligible. And so with negligible impacts, And PBOT already finding that otherwise the system is capable of supporting the development, the question is what kind of improvements could we impose on private development? And this brings up this constitutional issue. In Hill, and the reason I cited it is the court, and I did that case from beginning to end, and the court was very clear that if you have a requirement, that's just the You cannot just impose a requirement because you have a requirement. You still, if you're going to take something from private development, there still has to be this impact analysis. And so in the course of the working through this issue, PBOT looked at the standard improvements and I think everybody agrees those could not be done feasibly or proportionately. Then there was another segment where they looked at the six foot path on the north side. And we've heard conflicting testimony. These gentlemen will tell you, one of them is an engineer. They worked with PBOT and eventually did a site visit. This wasn't done in a back room. They went out to the site and they looked with engineering at what it would cost to do just that six-foot shoulder. And that's where the number of almost $700,000 came. Under the law you don't compare that impact with the cost of the development or the overall benefit. You're required to compare that to the project impact. And we have this recognized fact that the project impacts on Broadway are going to be negligible. So when you compare negligible impacts from the development with 700,000, that's where PBOT in the latest alternative review came back and said, we can't require that. That would not be proportionate. Now, we didn't get into the nexus. I agree with Mr. Kearns. The nexus issue under Hill didn't come up. It could have because with negligible impacts, the developer could have said, we don't have to do any improvements. continuing the dialogue with PBOT, just like we did something to help on connectivity, and that pathway didn't meet code. It's still over 1,500 feet block lengths, but everybody agreed we would do collectively what we could to make it better. And so that was the spirit on the south side. It wasn't, we didn't look at nexus. The applicant went with PBOT out to the site and said, okay, if it's not proportionate on the north side, what can we do together? And they came up with limited improvements. We disagree with that. We think they're pretty extensive improvements given the impacts. And that's what the hearings officer imposed. And Those improvements changed a little bit over time because after the hearings officers decision The reason it was limited to gravel by the way was stormwater I think you heard from your staff that one of the big problems in this area is if you do Pavement you've got to deal with stormwater stormwater in this site. It doesn't infiltrate so you have to take it somewhere It's very expensive after the hearings officers decision. I BES came back with an idea that there could be a special circumstance that would allow the applicant to put pavement on the south side and pay a fee instead of building stormwater and that special circumstance is what Allowed the scope of the development to change and allowed pavement on the south side now, I think everybody can agree if if if there was an unlimited amount of money and There is probably the desire and the will to improve all of our streets with sidewalks, good sidewalks, bike lanes. A lot of us in this room are walkers. A lot of us are bike commuters. We come from different parts of town, and I agree with Commissioner Hardesty. I bike in from the east side. I don't go on 33rd Avenue. I wish I had bike lanes, but I don't think it's ever going to happen because the city doesn't have the money to do it, and there's no way a private developer is going to be able to fund that. So we don't like it, but we've worked collaboratively with staff and within the confines of the law to come up with something that improves the situation and compliant with the constitutional law. And it makes a lot of sense for a development that otherwise meets every box. Every one of your experts concurred that this was a proposal eventually that met not only the spirit of the code, but the technical language of the code. And so that's our presentation on the improvements. And we believe that when the appellants question the hearings officer, I think what I'd like you to remember is they're really questioning and criticizing staff too because the hearings officer's decision was largely an adoption of the recommendations from the staff that worked tirelessly with the applicant on this application and came up with this proposal. A couple of the other issues on Davenport, I don't think it's part of the appeal, but it's kind of the same situation. It's an existing situation. Professional traffic evidence here was that they operate safe. without sidewalks, without substantial improvements, and we run into the same problem. If this development with negligible impacts has to do sidewalks, it's not proportionate. You can't, the reality is that we're not going to have development in some places if we continue or if we impose burdens on developers to fix existing larger problems. Our client is doing more than what the opponents to the project lead you to believe. And this is an idea that could work up in that area and it works in other parts of the city. With negligible impacts, I don't think my client had to do anything on the north side, but they have agreed to the dedication of significant property on the north side, and they've waived the right to remonstrate. And that waiver will be recorded against all the properties. So, at least in the future, if there's money available from another fund, and we know that we have the Portland In Motion project, our client has given the city and citizens something on the north side that in the future could be very useful in developing the improvements that everybody would like to see. And that would be a way to do it that would not impose what we believe is an unconstitutional burden on just one private developer. So I've got you through the legal stuff. Unless there are questions, and I have had extra time, so I'm going to cut it off a little short. I'd like the two gentlemen seated with me, Mike Ard, who's a traffic engineer, who worked with PBOT to define the impacts and work through the process. And then our civil engineer, Chris Delorier, will talk about the actual engineering because he actually did the design, and the $700,000 is not a made-up number. So with that, I'll introduce Mike. If you wouldn't mind, I think Commissioner Udaly had a question first, and we can get it to the gentleman. Thank you. And these questions don't count. Can you please stop the clock? Yes. These questions don't count against your time. I think one thing that I hope everyone in the room can agree on is that the way that Portland has decided to require sidewalks to be built and maintained is not preferable, it's not the typical across the country for property owners to be responsible for creating and maintaining sidewalks and As the Transportation Commissioner, I wish that I could deliver sidewalks to the whole city, but with $3.2 billion in deferred maintenance, I am very sorry to say that that is not going to happen. Deferred maintenance on existing assets, that is probably not going to happen in my lifetime. I need clarity on... the issue of what triggers the requirement to build the sidewalk. Is it the development itself, or is it the pedestrian path that's triggering the improvements on Broadway? Well, the way the code is written is under Title 17, any permit, it reads anyway, 17.88.020, I think it is, says any development triggers standard improvements or hastry improvements. All the way around the property. Because they're calling it frontage. It's the frontage. But it's not really frontage. It's frontage. More like backage, but yeah. Well, in this case, you know, it's technically frontage on the property. We disagree that it's on site. There is no development on that part of Broadway, on that part of, this is an environmental trap. So we don't believe it's any part of the development side. But it is technically frontage of the property that's owned by us. So Title 17 and then 33654 sets up your guidelines for, they're just standards. These are how we want our streets to look. And here's how we want our sidewalks to work and look. And those are great policies. But what our courts have said is we have to temper those requirements with the Constitution. So we can require, if we weren't asking a private developer to pay money under the Coons case or dedicate property, there wouldn't be an issue. But when you get into asking a developer, a private party, to pay money or give property, that's where this Nolan Dolan test comes in. And you have to show that the project impacts. Create one, a nexus with a policy or provision that would allow the city to deny the application. So the impacts have to be such that you could say, those impacts are so great, we can deny that application. If you can do that, then you can take the property or the money and fix the problem. But if you get by the nexus, then you still have to get to the bigger issue in this case is it still has to be roughly proportionate. And it has to be roughly proportionate with the impact. So if you have a development that has great impacts, you can require, and you have a nexus, you can require the developer to do more. If you have a project like this where you have negligible impacts, because there's only a few pedestrians and almost no cars from the development that will go on this stretch, the improvements that you can take from somebody are very limited in our view. And I think that's what the law says. So I want to just express a concern with the current plan, and that is we're creating a pedestrian path to a street that isn't safe for pedestrians. And we are accepting a south side solution that, That is also not ultimately safe for pedestrians. I understand everything you just said. I recognize the unique terrain and various challenges of building this kind of infrastructure in southwest Portland. I'm very concerned that we'd in any way... be encouraging use of that street that is actually not safe. And I don't expect you to respond to that. I just want to lay down that, unless you want to. I would like to respond to that. I want to lay down that concern. I would like to respond. So the safety issues that we've heard about today are existing issues. There's speed of traffic coming down, 4,000 cars. But the point that we're trying to emphasize is that impact is not coming from this development. It's not our cars creating the problem. And so the pedestrian pathway is the one part of this development that is contributing because as the hearings officer noted and I think everybody here knows, that has the potential of allowing pedestrians to get there. One idea that really makes sense to me, and I don't know if council can do this or not, is defer the pathway until such time as the city can work on a program to make the pedestrian improvements practicable. The connectivity is just a general standard. And like I said, the block length has been that way for years, and the development doesn't do anything to it. It doesn't contribute to it. That's another 20 houses. Pardon? Female Speaker 2 It adds another 20 homes. Male Speaker 2 Exactly. Female Speaker 2 People who are going to need to be walking to their friends who live on Broadway Drive. And so if even one extra person is walking to Broadway Drive to get to the home of a friend, then you're putting that person in harm's way by not having, and we're not asking, the community's not asking for a standard improvement with full sidewalks, they're asking for some kind of alternative treatment on the north side. What I suggest is if the pedestrian pathway was deferred until a time when there were better improvements. Then people can't get to their friends. That's another policy that would be waiving two policies that we have in city code. And my client agreed to do it. It's not inexpensive to do it. They're doing it. um they recognize that that's a that's a policy that that that the city promotes and and they they're doing it they didn't resist that right so we now provide but it is it is the one issue that puts pedestrians on this place and then you get to the question of okay if a few pedestrians are going to go down there how how does that limited impact justify The seven hundred thousand dollars of improvements well I think that's something that that perhaps the suggestion that you go back with people to the neighbors to talk about does it have to be a $7,000 improvement we've got paths that go through parks. That's our boardwalks with anti-slip Grating on them which don't cost that amount of money Well the the cost is associated with the hillside and So to put those improvements in, there's a basalt hillside that has to be moved. And that takes a lot of time and money to move the hillside. And then you have to retain the hillside. Did you calculate the amount of hillside to be removed as was shown on the diagram that was given of the distances? Mr. Deloray and the PBOT staff went out to the site and did do that and he's got calculations that are engineered calculations that show Exactly what work has to be done. Sir, let me ask you two questions. The first is We've had I've sat through a lot of these hearings over the years and people normally raise constitutional issues to preserve them on the record But I don't remember the last time we had a hearing where the constitutional question loomed this large over the proceeding and And we've been told by council that if ultimately we get this wrong, Luba would essentially reverse us and send it back with instructions, which I take it you agree with, at least in terms of the procedural posture. But the question I want to ask you is, it seems to me some of the arguments you're making about the limited impact of development, which would effectively get your client off the hook for building out the sidewalk, could be advanced by anybody subject to our sidewalk rule. I mean, I can almost, I mean, with the exception of, I mean, almost invariably, particularly where we do these sidewalks to nowhere, just a stretch of sidewalk, it seems to me an artful lawyer, artfully crafted legal argument, would make the same constitutional argument that it's disproportionate and thereby undercut justice. you know, our whole code that deals with sidewalks. So would you give me some comfort that the argument you're making here isn't an invitation to effectively invalidate our code? I do not think the argument we're making today would invalidate the code. I believe it allows the reasonable application of the code within the constitutional law. For example, on the east side, there are a lot of sidewalk improvements done. because it's flat and they can be done proportionately. Other neighborhoods and even on the west side that are flat that have sidewalks, infill is doing them because they can be done proportionately and it works. I think this site evidence is something that we don't see often but we do see on the west side mostly and that is the topography makes this improvement disproportionate. It's not to say that this rule if you were to agree with us that these improvements that PBOT agrees are proportionate on the south side. If you agree with us, I don't think you're taking away council or staff's ability to say in another case where the topography allows improvements to be made proportionately that somebody's going to be able to say, well, look what you did on Broadway. It's apples and oranges. Would I be able to say there's never gonna be a case where a proportionality issue comes up? No, I think it comes up a bit. Aren't you in, I mean, I just wanna play this out a little bit. Aren't you effectively saying that in whole swaths of the city where you have a certain kind of topography, the additional cost burden of complying with our code gives you a constitutional argument? Is that what we're really talking about? I mean, it's not like your clients are sophisticated actors. They went into this knowing the topography. They knew the site. They knew the code. They knew that there would be an additional cost. I assume that says in the application before us these are going to be sold as market rate condos. Market rate condos in that neighborhood go for a premium. as long as the market doesn't tank, I assume they could add on a little extra to the premium to cover the cost. I mean, aren't we effectively – isn't this come back as sort of a disguised cost argument in areas where the topography makes, by definition, the cost greater to comply with our code, and therefore aren't we opening up a Pandora's box in that area? Well, it's a combination of things. It's a combination of – the cost which is a result of topography and other issues. But your clients knew, they knew when they acquired the land. But also it's, in my opinion, we're looking at there's an existing problem and everybody, even the opponents in their material agree that the development is responsible to address its impacts. So it's a combination of evaluating the cost, which is largely a result of topography and other constraints, against the specific project impacts. And so there will be cases, no doubt, where the project impacts are few and the cost is great. And somebody's going to have to tackle with the proportionality issue. So let me just ask one final question, if I could, Mayor, and I apologize. And I will just preview from my colleagues. Because there are some legal issues here that are somewhat... first impression for me, Commissioner Fritz may have spent time on, but I don't remember. And we've had a lot of hearings. And I think this one turns uniquely on some legal issues. I'm not sure under the best of circumstances I'll be able to reach a judgment today. I think I'm going to need a set over and an opportunity to get some additional legal information. But let me ask you a very simple question just to make sure I'm not missing something. If the two cases that you've cited that govern in this, that you believe govern, and that in effect potentially weaken our ability to enforce our code, if those cases were not on the table, if they didn't exist, if they had never been decided, is there any question that our code would require the improvements on the north side of Broadway? Okay. I'm sorry, my phone is now responding to my voice. Siri, give me a break here. I'm in the middle of hearing. Did your phone give a good answer? But, I mean, let me just try to state it in plain English. If we weren't arguing about constitutional takings under the cases you've cited, is there any ambiguity in our code about whether your client is required to do the build out that we're arguing over? I'm going to answer that directly. There are more cases than just the two. That's two recent cases. But if you take the constitutional concept out of the equation, the code is clear that standard improvements are required, can be required. as a condition of development. 17.88.020 states that the city engineer can require improvements. Let me just say that I'd like to see you on the stage with the other Democrats debating because you actually gave a direct answer to a question. And I appreciate that as we're trying to divine answers from other people. So our code is clear. Constitutional question is murkier. And we've been told by counsel that if we get it wrong, the consequences, LUPA will admonish us and send it back. So that's partly what we're trying to work out here. Right. And I appreciate this is a case where the constitutional issue is maybe looming larger, but that's largely because the hearings officer's decision and staff's decision was specific on that issue. The reason they imposed this condition on the South side was because they made the decision that the Constitution required. Sir, you'd be committing malpractice if you didn't raise it. I'm just, it's just, it is unusual in our hearings for the constitutional issue to be stated so boldly. It usually is just thrown into the hopper, so you've preserved your right. Here it is at the core of what we have to decide. It is at the core of this case, I agree. Thank you. I just love lawyers when they talk to each other. I'm no longer a lawyer. I'm a non-practicing, recovering lawyer. I'm going to wait until it comes out on Netflix. lawyers talking to each other. Very good. So you wanted to turn over to these gentlemen. I want to turn over. I think Mr. Ard is going to testify first. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Good evening. Mike Ard. I'm a professional transportation engineer with Ard Engineering. I've been practicing for about 20 years. I was brought into this project to focus on that Broadway frontage section of the project and to look at potential solutions as well as proportionality. I want to talk about three things, the difficulty of the project, the impacts of the project, and the solution. First in talking about the difficulty, the City of Portland, as I was brought into the project, was asking for a widened shoulder, six feet wide, along the north side of Broadway. They had already given up on the full width improvements. I examined that and found that due to the presence of wetlands, steep slopes, and a cliff that limits both the ability to construct the improvements and the sight lines that are necessary for safety for being able to cross the road created major problems and it was impractical to construct that widened shoulder. In particular, the March 13th, 2019 memorandum that I prepared talked about those issues in detail. And what I saw when I visited the site was that there was no safe place to cross at the upper or lower ends of the site that was actually within the site frontage. The City of Portland asked us to identify a safe crossing location and I actually had to go off-site a little bit to the northeast downhill from the subject property to find a location where you could see far enough down the road that it was safe to make a crossing and our proposed improvements actually included a crossing at that location. But what that means is that if we do these improvements, the six foot widening on the uphill side of the road, we put people into that same jeopardy that I identified, that they need to cross the road at locations where safe crossing distances are not available. So we did find that from a perspective of feasibility, safety, practicality and legality, there were problems associated with that six foot wide improvement on the uphill side of the roadway. I will note that the appellants here have talked specifically about the idea of having the improvements be on the uphill lane so that bicyclists as they're moving uphill have that safe refuge. But we're talking about a discontinuous improvement in the middle of Southwest Broadway Drive with no way to access that safe shoulder either before or after it. We're talking about a roadway that has very, very low volumes of uphill bicycle traffic and actually fairly high volumes of downhill bicycle traffic for precisely the reason that that infrastructure is not there. So it was never our intent to encourage people to put themselves into an unsafe position, and for that reason, we asked the city to consider alternatives. We did meet with the city as well as Swirl in pretty much exactly the fashion that the appellants were talking about meeting on the site, And we talked through the issues, we talked through possibilities, and the solution that we came to at that time, which was the best available to us, was the improvements to the south side shoulder. Since then, we got a reprieve on a stormwater issue that allowed us to make even further improvements and go to paving. But that was the best solution we could get for safety. As far as impacts of the project, we also looked in detail at weather. what the project would do and actually there were two sets of numbers that were talked about today one 148 trips and another 160 trips both of those numbers are are correct 148 trips is the number of trips that would be actually at the site moving on to tangent But from there they split into three primary directions one going downhill on Broadway one going uphill on Broadway and one coming through the local street network to the north via streets like Montgomery and And with that diffusion, we don't put more than about 60 trips onto any segment of Broadway. So the impacts on Broadway are that low, but more particularly, On the site frontage, the part that we're talking about improving, we'd expect no new vehicular trips because you'd have to be coming up the hill, pass Hoffman, continue on up to the north end, and then come back the long way or vice versa, come down the hill, pass the site, and then backtrack. Either one adds a significant distance to the travel and isn't really a reasonable route for traffic. So we don't expect that there would be... a significant addition, in fact it would be a near zero addition of motorized vehicle traffic to Broadway. In terms of the impact of the path, there will be a path connecting there. We expect that in the future as there are improvements to Broadway that that path will become more meaningful. It's less meaningful in the current context. As far as adding even one pedestrian trip, The reality is that from this development, the safest and most direct paths out of the neighborhood aren't on Broadway. So we don't expect that there's going to be a lot of trips that are using that from this development or from existing development in the site vicinity. But there is one other piece of it that I wanted to briefly touch on, which is that there's been some discussion of people that are walking on Broadway currently. And if you are living further up the hill on Broadway, walking down Broadway currently, there's no great exit point at which you can move onto the local streets in a safer network. And this path actually would allow people that are walking that upper segment of Broadway to connect onto the path, get off of Broadway, and then move through the local street system to get further down the roadway. So there is a potential safety benefit associated with that path. it's unclear whether there would be a net increase or decrease in walking on Broadway associated with this as a result. So we've worked extensively with staff and with SWIRL to try to come to the best possible solution. We heard testimony that the gravel has been problematic and we have moved to paving there. So we believe that it is a substantial improvement to safety in the area. We believe that what's been proposed is proportional to the impacts of this project as well. For that reason, we'd ask you to affirm the hearings officer's decision with our new improvement plan. Commissioner Fritz. So now that you've been allowed to pave the south side, why can't you just move the road? move the striping on the road so that the improvement, so that the north side has, the existing paving is used with a six foot. We did consider that as a possibility and we discussed that with PBOT staff. It still leaves us in that same position where we have unsafe crossings at the north side and south side of the roadway. And we're really not trying to create a network in which there are unsafe crossings. But according to the map that was entered into the record, the north side has pretty much complete a safe way to get all the way from here to hit to the other side of your property on having walked that i would strongly disagree with the assertion that there is a continued continuous path on the north side absent this THE ROADWAY ON BOTH SIDES ACTUALLY PROBLEMATIC FOR NAVIGATION WHICH IS WHY THE PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE VOLUMES ARE SO LOW UNDER EXISTING CONDITIONS. THANK YOU. COMMISSIONER HURDISTY. COMMISSIONER DAILY. I'M SORRY. RIGHT AS YOU WERE ANSWERING THE QUESTION ABOUT MOVING THE LANE STAFF BROUGHT ME A NOTE AND I GOT DISTRACTED. I'M SORRY. I'M SORRY. I'M SORRY. I'M SORRY. It sounds like too simple and good to be true, but I want to hear why you feel that's not an option. Yeah, we discussed that with PBOT staff and you're welcome to confer with them on this as well, but we talked about the possibility of shifting the lane lines and that was not considered to be an optimal solution. The primary reason is that we would like to have the facilities be as continuous as possible. Right now we have the advantage that in the downhill direction there's a usable shoulder on the south side of the roadway. The north side actually has a significant amount of parking associated with it right now that's obstructing that. There was some talk about possibly being able to shift that. But we still create this situation if we have the north side be our shoulder that we get to the north end of the property and we run into issues with needing to cross again. And that was one of my concerns that if... if this six foot shoulder was created, that it would turn into parking. Yeah, there is certainly that possibility. The other thing that came up, and I mentioned this in my March 13th letter, is that you need sight lines going around the corner on the inside. So as you get toward the eastern end of the property, there's a section that's a very vertical wall face, and it's right next to where the Portland Water Bureau's access is, their driveway. And as we make those shoulder improvements there and widen out that road there, We couldn't see far enough around that corner to have a safe crossing there. And again, that's why we had to locate a crossing east of our property frontage. And we actually ended up putting it in the frontage of the Portland Water Bureau in order to identify that safe crossing location. That's the spot you identified? Yeah. Yeah, and the trail egress point is all the way at the eastern end of our property. We actually tried to move that trail so that it would go through the Water Bureau property, but they did not accept our request to locate a path on their property. So all we could do is bring it in as close as possible and then provide a treatment that guides people toward the safe crossing location. And what's the intersection for that safe crossing? Okay. It's it's not at an intersection intersection. It isn't yeah the the closest intersection There would be the the access point to some apartments That's much farther to the east and the full street would be the the Hoffman intersection. That's way downhill and I did also submit into the record just so you're aware crash history associated with Hoffman That shows the most recent ten years of data that was available for that intersection and found a low crash rate low severity And low number of overall crashes so there wasn't anything that stood out as particularly problematic As compared to other intersections in the city of Portland there, okay? Thank you very good My name is Chris Delorier. I am the civil engineer of record on the project. I work for WDY Engineers Inc. Are we going to take this as the three minutes that you signed up for? Sure. Why don't we do that because you only have nine seconds left as part of the presentation. Yeah, I thought we were doing that for mine too. Okay. Thanks. So, I'm the director of civil engineering at WDY. and our principal. So I'm just gonna read through mine. If you've got any questions when we're done, if I have any time left, I might make some more comments here. The north side of Broadway follows a steep cut bank 2 to 1 to 1.5 to 1 in steepness. It's pretty steep. And most of the cut slopes along the north side of Broadway are near vertical or are actually exposed rock walls. Early in the development process, the applicant submitted their alternative design review appeals to request a more appropriate design, different than the standard improvements, or to be relieved from the improvements altogether as there was no economical feasible way to construct walls. the full standard half street improvements as originally requested in the 2017 early assistance. PBOT concurred that it was not feasible to construct standard improvements, reduced the request to a six foot wide paved asphalt shoulder on the north side of Broadway. This concept requires, does require significant excavation of the hillside and basalt rock cliffs, requires retaining walls 10 to 15 foot in height in average. with some locations reaching 20 feet in height. The cost estimate that we developed for that, I just wanna just reiterate that these things are not exact in their nature. We're developing some reasonable conceptualizations of what could be constructed and putting numbers to them. So $700,000 is what we came up with. Still think that's a little bit low, but didn't want to be too Liberal in that assessment under the circumstances want to be as real as possible With with what we understand might need to be constructed in parallel the project Traffic engineer determined that the traffic impacts of the proposed development on the surrounding transportation infrastructure are Negligible we've heard testimony that the hearings officer agreed with that and improvements seemed disproportionate based on the scope and cost. The suggestion of my WDY's 700,000 estimate relates to standard improvements is not incorrect. This was in relation to the six foot wide shoulder with a retaining wall. Given the circumstances after the hearing and the decision, I did go ahead and look at what it would cost to put a 12 to 15 foot wide pedestrian corridor on the north side. We would be widening the pavement on that side by six feet to get a 16 foot wide paved with a 12 to 15 foot corridor. Those numbers came in at 2.1 million and that's I still think a you know, a little too liberal under the circumstances, but low, to be frank. The traffic engineer submitted another alternative design with the proportionality argument, including the cost estimate for Pivot. It would be really helpful to me to be able to read your testimony. Okay. So if you could please submit it, and it's obvious we're going to continue the hearing, so we will be sure to do that. Sure. Thank you. Do you want me to continue reading or? No. You're out of time, but if you can give it to the clerk, then she'll, I'd actually prefer to read it too. Okay. That's fine. It's going to take me a little more time to digest it. I've got the cost estimates included. Great. Fantastic. I just want to reiterate that these things are not exact. They're understandably conceptual. Okay. Good. And colleagues, while we are listening to the testimony, I believe we have eight people signed up, five people signed up. Why don't you call the first three names, please? First three names, Lisa Phillips, Ralph Phillips, and Ken Gunther. And just to be clear, these are opponents of the appeal. Then the appellant, if they so choose, has five minutes for rebuttal. I would say it's nearly 100% likely that we will continue this hearing at the completion of that. I will stick around for a few more minutes so we can get through the emergency items on the afternoon agenda. We will need to pick a date, and I just want to prime you for the possibility that the only open date that we have in November is the day before Thanksgiving. Okay. So, start thinking about that. I'm here. Mayor, I apologize that I have to leave. I will, when we go back to the regular agenda, we'll just set over 972 and 973. Yeah, I'll make sure we take care of that. Next year. Next year. Next year. Next week, and then if we're going to continue the hearing, I want to assure the appellant that all of us will have the opportunity to review the record before we come back. So my absence does not prejudice the proceeding. And I frankly would like to have a thoughtful discussion. I'm not sure after a 10-hour council day that's necessarily the best time for us to really have a thoughtful conversation. So we'll absorb what we can today. We'll take the written testimony. We'll likely keep the record open. That's a decision to council if we make that decision later, and then then we'll be able to approach this full knowledge Good afternoon, sir. Thank you. Thank you mayor and council members. I'd appreciate you giving me a little slack I'm 92 years age and I'm gonna try and speak to Clearly, but I'm a slower reader than average people, so I appreciate that. Okay, I'm Ken Gunther, the family member that purchased the concern property about 60 years ago. The calculated present value, considering purchase price and taxes, is about $2.5 million. That dollar amount is far in excess of the market value. Efforts to sell the site have been unsuccessful because of site conditions and approval complexities. The purchase cost and holding time costs have been financially destructive. The only way forward to recover even some of the $2.5 million is for us to develop the site as the proposal details. Our land use application has city staff, bureaus and hearing officers conditional approval. These are the city organizations and staff that you rely on for professional and expert advice. We have accepted the conditions of approval. However, there is one matter that warrants your consideration. This relates to the condition for street conductivity, which you heard about some requiring us to construct a trail from Tangent to Broadway Drive. The hearings officer questions the creation of the trail, we join in that question because when the original street plat was created in the area, a dedicated street, Southwest Prince, was platted, connecting Southwest Tangent and Southwest Broadway Drive. Should the city earnestly want a trail from Tangent to Broadway Drive, it could be built on the Prince right of way through to the water property, a water tank property to Broadway Drive if you wanted it. Subsequently, the city erected a water bureau tank fronting Broadway Drive. That event truncates the Southwest Prince access to Broadway Drive, thus obviating city interest in having street conductivity. Now to require us to create a trail of for conductivity purposes, appears to be a disingenuous requirement, especially since it will be located in the environmental zone, which is designated to be undisturbed. So we've gone through all this rigmarole to create a 3.7-acre environmental zone, and now we're going to cut through it. Doesn't make sense. It would be an act of fairness on the part of the council to remove the trail requirement from the application. The benefits to the city of this project are significant. Increasing city housing inventory, close to location, can walk to downtown. I did it for many years. City utility fees, city construction fees, infill, annual property taxes of about $250,000. There have been three years of planning with city staff, bureaus, and our consultants, including numerous meetings with Swirl. During our last meeting with Swirl, a board member and a general member gleefully quoted their instructions to the attorney in this case. The instructions were, quote, to do anything to kill the project, unquote. The appeal by Swirl is suspect as to motive. They call to have the project rejected or to force us to construct a $700,000 to $2.1 million sidewalk to nowhere. The obvious motive is to kill the project. All of the issues of the opposition emails, letters, and comments today were addressed in the development of the proposal with city staff. Presented at the hearings, officer hearings. can and are mainly not relative to the specific issues before you. Thank you and I'd ask you to wrap it up. I am. After three years of planning, about 5,000 hours of constructive interaction, about $400,000 in city fees, permits and consultant fees, we have staff, concern bureaus and hearings officer conditional approval. We are at this point, We respectfully ask for your denial of the appeal and support for the project to go forward. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. I think I'll go next. I'll try to get some of your time back. All right. Thank you, sir. I'm Ralph Phillips. I'm one of the owners of Gunther LLC. Lisa and I are the property owners. Lisa's father, Ken, purchased it many years ago, and we've been the participants and have been the property taxpayers for all these years, personally for 20 years. As a city council evaluates this project. There's a lot of good aspects that I want to point out today The first of all is we're building we would like to build 20 townhomes. They're not luxury townhomes as some of the opponents have said They're consistent with the neighborhood the PUD requires that and that's how we designed them and that's how they'll be built They'll be consistent with the quality and the style of the neighbor neighborhood our project provides 3.2 acre 2.3 acres of open space and That's open to the general public and obviously to neighbors. We have added a private community park on our site within our disturbance area. Good for the neighbors to walk, walk their dogs, do whatever or walk around any of the three acres. We have a very small building footprint in our development, around 10% of the project. Typical projects in Portland, around 50%. So we're only disturbing that part of the, or building on a very small part of the project. From a disturbance perspective, we're leaving about 70% of the site completely untouched. 70% completely untouched. In terms of visual disturbance, only two or three neighbors will even see the property once it's constructed. The city doesn't typically worry too much about parking. Our proposal, our project, will minimize any parking impacts. We have... specifically designed it so that we have multiple cars for each site that will Obviate the need for people to park on tangent or be impact other neighbors similarly the traffic Analysis that Mike talked about shows we have plenty of capacity on tangent Street the project will mitigate thousands of plants and will replace over 350 trees our project provides a buffer around the seep and and ensures that it is maintained long term. We've heard a lot about landslide risk through this entire process. What we've proposed relative to landslides actually decreases the likelihood of any landslide and actually takes all the water off of the project. I'd like to say one more thing before I wrap up, and that's we got lots of feedback on fire that we really weren't expecting from the neighbors from this go-around. I think the record should show and the feedback from the commission officer is that we have approval from the fire. We have gone the extra mile. We've added an additional pipe to the facility and it now meets the code. So it really doesn't ask for anything. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. I'm Lisa Phillips. I'm owner of Tangent Village Property and Genther LLC. I'm going to kind of wrap it up for all of us. You've heard from Ken on how we've worked with the city for three years to complete this special project that we really are very proud of. I grew up on Tangent Street. I walked Davenport to Ainsworth and to Lincoln High School. So we're really, really proud of what we've come up with. We've invested over $400,000 in the planning process. In order to obtain the approval for our design and plans by all the city bureaus and the hearings officer Ralph summarized the benefits to the city in the neighborhood not the least of which is the minimal traffic and parking we want to be Good neighbors we consider ourselves neighbors not Developers we didn't just buy this land and now we want to develop it our civil engineer you're going to be able to read his testimony and Mike, our traffic engineer, talked about the site distance challenges on Broadway and how the project really has minimal impact on traffic. Chris, our lawyer, presented a strong legal argument that there's only one issue remaining in this appeal, that's the north side of Broadway Drive. Considering the cost of literally moved mountains, the north side improvements are not possible because of proportionality of the project or any other reasonable analysis. To sum it up, we support the city staff, which we really have appreciated working with, and the bureaus unanimously recommended approval of this project, and the hearings officer who also recommended approval. Please deny this appeal from the Southwest Hills Residential League. Thank you. Very good. I just have a comment, and that is congratulations on designing a project which I heard minimal opposition from the neighbors, and I think when we look at it, it is a... really careful use of the environmental zone and nicely done so I think if we can just get this one Sticking point figured out. You should be on your way. Thank you. Thanks all three. Thank you, sir We have two more people saying good Mickey Goodridge signed up on this one as well as the appeal So I just want to make sure that he meant to sign up for both. No, okay. We have one more Sarah Hartung I No harm, no foul. Very good. So if the appellant would like, they have the opportunity for a rebuttal for up to five minutes. I broke my leg this summer. Oh, no. Sorry to hear that. I said for a long time that happened. Yeah, no, I'm sure it's not. My hips are working just slightly better than hers. Yes. Keelan Nash, you get five. Okay, I'm going to try and keep it short. Commissioner Udaly, I don't know if you remember Earl Blumenauer coming to class and he has a wonderful quote. I probably don't have it quite exactly. We all have a PhD in our own neighborhood. We are all experts in our own neighborhood. So it is really funny for me to sit out there and listen to people with much higher degrees than I ever achieved tell me how people in my neighborhood are going to be walking or Broadway Drive is like a bridge. And so if you imagine a bridge with gaps in it, it's very hard to calculate what the demand of that bridge is going to be because you can't really use it yet. Okay, so all of this traffic analysis tends to be, I mean, the standard is to do it based on cars only. The problem is it's hard to calculate what the pedestrian and bike demand is going to be the way the road is right now. But I do want to point out that our map is correct. Those are existing sidewalks. You can get a Google satellite and see them and walk. People right now, when you're going downtown, you do stay on that north side because there's that big segment of right-of-way in front of the apartments that's used for parked cars, but people kind of move in between it. So there is the possibility, you know, basically from the water tower all the way downtown is imperfectly walkable and has many sidewalks and... So I'll stop there, but I'll leave you with Representative Blumenauer's words of wisdom. We all have a Ph.D. in our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, Dan Cairns representing Swirl. What the Phillips and Mr. Gunther said about how tough this project was to put together over the years, it's true. This is a really tough site to design, and I can see why they have been pulling their hair out over all these years. And they have the big issues that they resolved that we like a lot, they shrunk the footprint hugely. but they still maximize the number of units. And so still generates vehicle trips and it still generates pedestrian trips and bicycle trips. And the hearings officer took that into account. He says, it's not much. It's 20 units, like a 20 unit subdivision, but still generates and it will impact Broadway Drive for that reason. So even though it's a tough site to develop, that doesn't mean that the city should subsidize a developer's frontage improvements, right? the city does that everywhere else. I mean you don't have large developments in other parts of the city that can oftentimes have the put together projects and build out all the frontage improvements but that's basically the best way to do that is have developers do it to make those improvements and so you're because they couldn't resolve the problems solve the problems of Broadway Drive they're not even going to try and make it better. And that was basically what you heard their engineer saying. Since we can't solve these problems, it'll end here, and it'll end there, and so we aren't going to do it. And even their engineers spent all their time trying to crisscross back and forth on Broadway Drive. The hearings officer couldn't understand why people would cross Broadway Drive, and quite frankly, The ultimate way this will work, years from now, when these remaining gaps get filled in, you won't have to cross Broadway Drive, but you've gotta start. You've gotta be consistent in applying these code provisions. And one of the, if the suggestion is, eliminate this pedestrian path down from the top, That's even more in the wrong direction. It was agreed to by the developer and required by the city as a replacement for a car connection, for cross connectivity. All right, we're not gonna have cars do cross connectivity, we'll have pedestrians do it. That was a great idea. There are a lot of people who live, you've heard them, who live up there that would use this pedestrian pathway. There isn't a huge flow of traffic of pedestrians because it is so dangerous on Broadway. Your job is to make it better, even if you have to do it incrementally. And Mr. Kobach, the attorney... He does rely on those two cases. I'm not really sure why. Hill, for example, the big difference is, in your findings that you adopted in the Hill case, you said the transportation system was safe for all modes and no mitigation was needed. That's why you lost the case. In this situation, the hearings officer said, you would have to be nuts to cross to go down there. It is not safe. It is, the transportation system is safe except for Broadway Drive. So that tells you there needs to be mitigation or it needs to be denied until the mitigation can be provided. And the compromise that we suggested is a heck of a lot less expensive than full-blown code-required improvements. And I think it's cheaper than the estimate that their engineer has come up with. Very good. And so let me just end on a note here. There is nothing that precludes the two sides from continuing to have discussions in the interim. I think everybody sort of heard the conversation. You've heard our questions and some of the things that we have hinted at as being important. So I would obviously encourage the conversation to continue. I want to second what Commissioner Fritz just said. I didn't hear anybody come in and say, don't do the development. It sounds like that's not the problem. The problem is the question of the mitigation and the impacts on Broadway Drive, and for some people, tangent, and in a couple of cases, the question of the trail. So those really seem to be the focus of the questions. Then Commissioner Fish raised some of the legal questions, and he's very good at that part of the equation, and I, of course, rely on our legal counsel, to advise us on some of those issues. So colleagues, obviously I think we are at the point where we will set this over. We need to pick a date. And Keelan has a couple of proposals for us. Shall we close the public testimony but keep the record open for comments? Well, that was going to be my next question, but we can certainly take that up first. Why don't we pick the date first, then let's talk about what we want to do with regard to testimony. Sure. So the next available date we have is 945 times certain on November 27th. Commissioner Hardesty is absent that day. Yeah buddy. Yeah so we could actually keep the record open because then if you do have some conversations and come up with something that everybody can live with you can present it to us and we can put a bow on it. Okay well first of all is that date okay? I had also requested an absence but apparently it hasn't been submitted yet. So there needs to be at least four of us right? Three. Three. I'm fine if it happens without you. The next available date then would be December 4th, the following week. Are we all there then? Commissioner Hardesty is absent that day. I'm in. It would seem wise to have the Transportation Commissioner here for such a focused discussion. There's a 9.45 time certain and a 4 p.m. Let's do the early one. Consensus on that? Let's do the early. Not schedule anything else. And we have no clock running, is that correct? There is no clock. Okay, and does that work? December 4th. December 4th at 945 a.m.? 945. Does that work? We'll make it work. Okay, good. So it sounds like we have a date then. Do we want to set aside 60 minutes for that? Yes. At a minimum, I would say 60 minutes just to be put it in a 60. I'm sure we can do the conversation the discussion. So Commissioner Fritz had put a proposal on the table that that I think makes sense which was we close the oral record But we keep the written record open until that continued hearing. Yes. Yeah. Okay. And that way if the applicants once they said that they heard new testimony and were concerned about that you can submit rebuttals to the new testimony in writing as well. Can I just make a comment? Please. I really appreciate everybody being here today, the way people have focused on the application and its merits. I apologize. I cannot get to the Southwest Hills Residential League meeting tonight. I can actually get there, but then I can't get home because of the way the bus runs. So, Cynthia Castro and my staff is going to come and talk to you about something. I appreciate that many of you have taken time off work to be here and have just nodded your heads that you will be here at 9.30 on a weekday. 9.45, thank you. And I very much appreciate that Southwest Hills Residential League, that used to be a dues-paying non-member of the Neighborhood Association system, and decided to follow the standards and become... Fine, I'll come. fully donations are accepted but not required, that you now have an equity and inclusion committee and that the evidence that was brought by the chair of that committee was data driven from the city showing, so you actually have been speaking for some of your neighbors who perhaps weren't able to be here on a weekday during the day, and I very much appreciate that. Thank you. All right, so thank you all very much. This was, I think, great testimony, great preliminary conversation. Hearing is therefore continued to December 4th, 945 a.m. Time certain, the oral record is closed. The written record will remain open to the time of the hearing. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm gonna ask as people filter out if you could be relatively as quiet as possible because I'm gonna continue the council session. Could you read items number, first read 972. Announcement of Public Improvements Code to make requesting and participating in Bureau of Environmental Services administrative reviews more customer friendly. And if I heard Commissioner Fish correctly, you wanted that moved to next week, is that correct? Yes. Correct. Okay, so done. Please read item number 973. Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Southwest Capital Highway stormwater improvements project number E 10939 through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority at the request of Commissioner fish This item has been moved to next week as well We have two emergency items. I would ask staff to be incredibly quick with these Commissioner. We have three sorry, um Commissioner Hardesty. 969, 970, and then go to 973, 974. Sorry, correct. All right. Good. All right, 969. amend a contract with TriMet related to the operations and maintenance of the Portland Streetcar System to add payment to TriMet for operations, maintenance, and other services for FY19-20 through FY23-24 in an amount not to exceed $47,930,176. Hello, can you do it in a minute? I'm Catherine Levine. I'm from the Bureau of Transportation. If you have any questions about this item, I'd be happy to answer them. This ordinance would authorize and continue our ability to repay TriMet for use of their light rail trained operators and technicians at Portland Streetcar. Basically, they provide the well-trained staff and reimburse them each year. Very good. And the five-year authorization to pay triumet is expiring. That's correct. That just about covers it. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? Any further discussion? Please call the roll. I'm sorry. I need to grab this. Oh, yeah. If you could grab them all. Sorry. Go grab them all, Keelan. Thanks. Does anybody want to testify? Does anyone here want to testify on this item? But once, twice, so. Okay. May I? Yes. You have to go to your daughter's school. I know I'm trying to get through this. We got one more emergency item and then... We've got two. Oh, there are? Okay. Mine would be 36. Okay. I'm taking it nobody signed up for 969. Can we call the vote? Call the roll. New daily. Thank you, Catherine. I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Thank you. Wheeler? I know more work went into this than we had time to discuss, so I appreciate your forbearance. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 970. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the connected Cully sidewalk infill project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. What's the lowdown on this? Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. So this agenda item gives people the authorization to use them at domain authority as well as offer just compensation for the Connected Cully project. And that's pretty much it. So I'd be happy to answer any questions. Commissioner Udailey, did you have any thoughts on this? It will create safe and seamless pedestrian connections in a neighborhood with substandard infrastructure transportation infrastructure, including new ADA-compliant corner ramps and driveway approaches where needed throughout the project area. This is Marty Maloney, right-of-way agent. Did we have any... Issues with this? Remonstrances or whatever? We let all the property owners know that they affected property owners know, and we actually invited everybody to come to the council as well. Very minor. You haven't heard any concerns? No, no. Everybody's actually in favor of this project. Do we have anybody signed up who'd like to testify? All right. Sounds like you did your job really well. Very good. Please call the roll. New Daily. Aye. Thanks, Marty. Fritz. Thank you. Aye. Artistry. I would have had a lot more, not questions, but just wanted to put stuff on a public record. I'll just say for the public record, we need sidewalks in Cullen. Aye. Wheeler. Theme of the day, sidewalks. Thanks, Marty, for your hard work on this. Thank you, Commissioner Udailey. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Could we do, please, item number 974. Exactly. Extend benefits currently provided to eligible members of the Fire and Police Disability Retirement and Death Benefit Plan. Commissioner Udaly. I'm Hardesty. Sorry. Sorry. Nice to meet you, too. Good evening. As you may know, Senate Bill 507 passed the legislature, which added an additional benefit for fire and police retirement, disability retirement and death benefit plan. Sam is here. Thank you, Sam, for being here. You're a very patient man. You've been here a long, long time. We are required to pass this legislation, which is why it has an emergency clause on it. And Sam will be happy to answer any questions you may have. Welcome. Sam Hutchison, Bureau Director of PD&R. Just real quick, the additional benefits were a presumption for Post Traumatic Stress and Acute Stress Disorder Claim by Police and Fire. FPDR is not part of the workers compensation system, but this bill specifically brought us, said we have to cover it, so we have to update the charter through an ordinance to bring this into our plan, which is in Chapter 5 of the city charter. That's it. Well done. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a question first? Please call the roll. New Daily. Thank you. This is a really important issue. Happy to vote aye. Fritz. Aye. I agree. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Thank you, Sam, for your patience to be here all this long afternoon. I vote aye. Wheeler. Sam, the whole goal here was to make you an expert on land use. Yes. I hope we've accomplished our goal. Thanks for your hard work, as always. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, did you want to – I have to leave. Do you want to do the non-emergency item, or should we just carry it over? We've had – We've got staff waiting for us. Let's do it. Okay, good. I will turn the gavel. I have turned the gavel over. If anything happens, it's no longer my fault. That's right. That's not how this works. You'll be blamed anyway. It's all right. So the women are now in charge. Would you please read item 971, please? Take your power. Take your power. Declare intent. That's been it. declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street sidewalk and stormwater improvements to Northeast Couch Street from Northeast 97th Avenue to Northeast 99th Avenue and to Northeast Davis Street from Northeast 97th Avenue to Northeast 100th Avenue in the Northeast Couch Davis Street Local Improvement District. Commissioner Udalli. Thank you, Madam President. I apologize we couldn't come up with a catchier title for this item. This resolution initiates local improvement district formation proceedings and schedules and LID formation hearing as a prerequisite to beginning survey and design of the project. This will be the second pending LID in Gateway following formation of the adjacent Northeast 97th Avenue Phase 2 LID in April. As always, Andrew Abbey is here to give us all the details and more. Oh, maybe not all the details, just the most important details. Welcome, Andrew. Thank you, Commissioner Udalli. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. You may recall, I think we had the better part of a 45-minute discussion back in March. I didn't think I'd be too popular with council if we re-ran that this afternoon. This is really pretty straightforward. Keelan just passed out an amendment. We received some additional petition support, and I'm just requesting that council approve the amendment to incorporate the additional petition support into the record, which brings total petition support to 71%. And then if you approve the amended resolution today, then it'll come back in December. And then we'll talk in a little bit more detail back in December when we come back for final approval. Do I need to read this into the record in its entirety? No. Okay. The city attorney can correct me if I'm wrong, but you have the written memo on the amendment. Do you want to move it? I guess I will move my own amendment. Second. Thank you. It moves and seconded. Call the roll. You can call the roll if you like. New Daily. Fritz? Aye. Hardesty? And then lastly, we have two people signed up to testify, one of whom is Larry Jackson. I'm pleased you were able to stay with us this afternoon. I did speak with Richard Perrine and he had to leave. So he will not be testifying today even though he's on the sign-up sheet. Would you like to tell us what his concern is? I've been talking to him on an ongoing basis and he just had some questions about the timing of construction and all of that we were able to get that answered so he's not asking us to delay or vote no correct yeah thank you Mr. Jackson has been very patient would you like to come up I know. Honestly, one single item I get to be Madam President. I'm just taking on Commissioner Fish's. I know, really. You're in charge. Welcome, sir. Thank you very much for staying with us. Just give us your name. Thank you, commissioners. My name is Larry Jackson. I'm with the Nehemiah Group, and we are a joint venture with the Gateway Project, and this LID represents the street improvements that are going into that development. And we're going to be working with the City of New York to develop a new LID that will be a good example of the city's development. And we're going to be working with the City of New York to develop a new LID that will be a good example of the city's development. And we're going to be working with the City of New York to develop a new LID that will be a good example of I'm thankful that we've gotten this far and Gateway is an exciting project and we're so happy to have the city behind us and what we've done thus far and we're looking for that final as he mentioned in December. It's a project that's long awaited, I think, in the city. It's the last development this size that really incorporates what we're trying to do that's unique for the city and I think will become a national model. It's a development for heavy minority participation and how to put the wraparound services in such a way to create a development that talks about cohesiveness and how we learn to live together in a small area. So, I'm excited about what we can do and what will happen in this firm. I'm looking for the city at this point to approve that LID. Thank you for your time. How very kind of you to wait to say nice things. That's really great. Madam President? Yes, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Mr. Jackson. So, I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I love the beautiful words that you used. And I know that the city of Portland tries hard to live up to that vision. How are we going to ensure that Gateway really does benefit the people who currently live in Gateway? And, of course, I live in Gateway. So I want to make sure that not just me, but my neighbors benefit as well. I appreciate your comments concerning the people in Gateway and we are interfacing on a regular basis. I went to a Park Bureau meeting last two weeks ago just to talk about what concerns they had about Gateway. How do we incorporate all of those concerns about Gateway? And more importantly, I've been around this city for 55 years plus. I've been involved in city council meetings and this kind of stuff for 30-some years. And I'm happy to see the city finally really living up to some of those expectations about actually DEI, diversity, inclusion, equity. I mean, that's stuff that we've talked about for a long time, but the city doesn't really know that much about. So to see them really all of a sudden getting to the point where it becomes a reality and a necessity is the reason really why I'm here. And I appreciate your concern for the rest of the neighborhood. You live there. I'm close by. I'm on Sandy Boulevard. So this is particularly of interest to me. And I share your concern. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here, and I look forward to working with you and the city bureaus to make sure that this is just not a vision, but it becomes a reality. Thank you. Thank you. If there's no further discussion, please call the roll. Oh, this isn't an emergency. It's a resolution. Oh, oh, sorry. Okay. That's all right. You, Dami. We'll. Thank you for me as well for sitting through the entire afternoon. Yeah, very excited about this project. Thank you, Andrew. Abby. I'm pleased to vote aye. Fritz. No, you call her to stay next. She's the president, yes. I'm just the commissioner at the moment. Pardon me. All bets are off right now. Thank you both for your patience this afternoon. I vote aye. Prince. I just love it. having a Madam President anywhere. I'm glad that there are three of us who take turns having it. Always fun to see. It really is. Thank you very much for being here. Andrew, Abby, thank you for your work. Thank you to Keelan and to Lauren and the security folks for being here all day. I'm surprised there hasn't been more positive press about this project. I think you're going to see some coming down the pike now because we're so far down the conceptual part into the real... Good. And I'm excited about putting that out there. I think that perhaps the title of the resolutions that have been coming, the forming of the local improvement districts, people don't quite get what it is. What's going on. So if any reporters are watching this while having dinner, look into this project. It's been... 20 years or more in the making, and it's a great one. So I'm very happy to vote aye. And we're looking to involve the press a lot more now that we're at this stage. And with that, we are adjourned. Thank you. And I don't like gathering. I do like being called Madam President.