Let's do this. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the October 13th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. Appreciate your involvement this afternoon. We have a single item on the council calendar. I'll get Carla to read that for us, make a couple of opening comments, and we'll get started.
 Item 1152, amend the official city zoning map, planning and zoning code, and transportation system plan to carry out Portland's 2035 comprehensive plan, establish a new community involvement program and committee, amend related codes, the 2035 comprehensive plan, and plan map to coordinate policies and programs. Thank you.
 thank you thanks everyone for being here appreciate your involvement in the comprehensive plan process today we're here to take more public testimony and we're relying on that to tune this plan and make it as as helpful as possible for the future of our city
 Before we start, I want to go over some logistics to make sure this process goes smoothly. You can also testify in writing or by email or online with the Bureau of Planning Sustainability's MAP app, and we recommend that you do that in addition to or to complete testimony that you might make here today. Okay.
 I want to acknowledge that, again, we continue to receive written testimony and in various electronic and paper forms, and that's very helpful to all of us because we're taking in a lot of information, so written material is quite helpful.
 to maximize the number of people that are going to be able to speak this afternoon I'd like to limit oral testimony to two minutes each and again that gives you a chance to summarize your points and if you can't get it all in you can follow up by email or in writing and we do actually read these materials if you're testifying about a specific property please if you can don't forget to tell us the address just so we can note that in our own notes that we're taking as we go along
 The content of your testimony is more important than the number of people who say it. So if you're here with a cause or with a concern in the community that has a lot of others in it, it's particularly helpful if somebody summarizes that and people indicate that they're on board
 rather than that we hear the same thing 20 times. Again, we're going to try to hear as many people as possible today. And I know we have about 30 people who signed up last week because we had a hearing then, and we're going to take them first. I don't believe we need to take any staff presentations before we start. We did that the last time. We have a work session scheduled for October 25th.
 to discuss testimony and identify potential amendments that one or more members of the council are interested in. And then there's a hearing tentatively scheduled for November 17th to allow you to comment on the amendments that we do propose. And obviously keep an eye on our city calendar through the council calendar to make sure that that's the date we stick with, but that's the date we have in mind, November 17th.
 So with that, unless there's anything else I've neglected to include, we'll go back to the testimony list, which was not completed last time, and start where we left off. I show 12 people have come back. The first three are Theron Park, Michael Robinson, and Richard Uren. Welcome. Good afternoon. They'll be followed by Mike Connors, Bob Schatz, and Tim Ramis. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. I'm Theron Park, chief exec of the delivery system for the Oregon region, which includes eight hospitals and our outpatient services. This testimony is specific to Providence Portland Medical Center. We have been successful in reducing our single occupancy vehicle rate from 88% to 68% over the last couple of years, and we remain committed to that work.
 However, our future is dependent on flexibility within the TDM strategies and what is effective for our campus. Operationally, that includes how we partner with public transportation, our neighborhood associations with the city on how we implement the TDM.
 If the city adopts a TDM strategy that requires pay-to-park program, that could have a negative effect on our operations, on our partnerships that we currently have, and most importantly on our caregivers. A requirement to pay-to-park could affect and will affect our lowest wage caregivers that we have at Providence Portland Medical Center and would affect them the most.
 What we would respectfully request of the City Council is to not adopt the TIR and TDM regulations. A complete package, including the administrative rules, should be made available on the TDM regulations for hospitals, and we would like the opportunity to review that for public review and comment. Thank you. Thank you. Could you just tell me where is that regulation about Pater Park? Whereabouts is it found? Okay.
 Do you want me to answer? Let's turn it up to Mike. Michael can probably do that. Go ahead. Yes, sir. I'll do that. Good afternoon, Mayor Hills, members of council. My name is Mike Robinson. I'm here on behalf of Providence. And can I step back to my chair and I can tell you exactly where that regulation is? Sure. Sure, please. That'd be helpful. You can let the time run. No, that's all right. We won't do that to you. Sorry, no coffee. Thank you. You don't get in charge for it when I've interrupted and asked a question. I figure if you cut lawyers short, you might be happy about that. Okay.
 Make sure I've got the right regulation. So, Counselor, in 33.266.410.A, this is under the Transportation and Parking Demand Management section. This is Section A purpose. It describes the methods by which TDM will reduce single occupancy vehicle travel, and one of them is pricing. And we understand by working with our friends at PBOT that pricing includes pricing
 charging employees for parking. We also have a handout that was given to us by PBOT in July that shows a point system, which we thought was a very encouraging way to address this sort of an objective system whereby we could try and use various strategies to reduce SOVs beyond the reduction we've already made. And under one of the strategies is...
 pricing, charging employees for parking. Now, this version doesn't have a percentage figure, but when we met with PBOT the first time, the percentage figure, the points that you would get for pricing was 40%. So almost half of the points you'd be awarded for successful TDM strategy was pricing. And that is, in turn, charging employees for parking.
 That's where you find this information. And let me do my testimony, and it's only going to take about 30 seconds, and I'll make a final point that might be helpful to you. So my name is Mike Robinson. I'm here with Mr. Park on behalf of Providence Health and Services Oregon. What we've – and we have two letters we've submitted to council, one by myself and one by Ms. Farnam who runs Portland Providence Medical Center and Mr. Park.
 And our primary concern is the lack of the administrative rules. That's really how the council is going to understand how TDM will be achieved. And what we have asked PBOT, and we still think this is a reasonable request, is before we have the land use regulations in place, not only in Title 33, but then the regulations in Title 17, let's see what the administrative rules look like. It may be that we're able to resolve our concerns by a good set of administrative rules.
 But as Mr. Park said, our primary concern is we're adopting the regulations to set this process in motion, but we haven't done the rules yet. We don't even know what they're going to look like. So our primary request, and we've made this in the letters, is let's get the package, if we could, the complete package, before we adopt the land use regulations that set this in motion.
 And that's all I have for today. And obviously, having been a nurse myself, I know that transit doesn't run from the hospital where I used to work to the house that I now live in. So I will be very interested in if you keep me involved going on. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Richard Uren. I live in the Alphabet District of Portland. I appreciate the opportunity to testify in favor of the proposed FAR reduction in the historic Alphabet District.
 I've also provided a written testimony. All of us who own property in this area are aware of the privileges and restrictions of living in a historic district. In the case involved here, two lawyer owners of property in the Alphabet District are unhappy with the obligations that come with owning property in such a district. Their objection centers on the floor area ratio for new buildings.
 which means they could not build the oversized 160-unit apartment complex they have in mind. They have been trying for several years to build something on the property they own between Hoyt and Irving on 18th Street. Their proposals have been opposed by the neighborhood because the building they want to construct in order to maximize their investment is blatantly out of scale with the surrounding historic neighborhood.
 they are asking to have their property exempted from the proposed zoning provisions they have also threatened to sue the city if city council refuses to grant this exemption but they have not stopped with the threat of a lawsuit they have cleverly attached their personal agenda to several real and difficult housing issues the city currently faces
 They have woven the desire for personal gain into a narrative of affordable housing, gentrification, and not in my backyardism. Because these are high-level housing agenda issues, their efforts have fallen on receptive ears.
 They have been able to enlist media outlets and two respectable nonprofits to spread misleading information under the umbrella of their chosen narrative. I want to ask you to wrap up soon, and you can always give us the rest of your written testimony. Several examples of misleading information are included in my written testimony. Threats and misinformation are not unique in public discourse, but it is our hope that your decision...
 about this issue will be consistent with the provisions you adopted in June and not with the individuals who are asking for what amounts to a spot exemption for their property. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next we'll go with Bob Schatz, Tim Ramis, and Brian Carlton, and they'll be followed by Mike Connors, Jim Pliska, and David Schulhammer. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 I'll go first. I'm Bob Schatz. I own property at 123 through 311 Southeast 97th Avenue. It's three properties together that add up to 54,000 square feet. I've owned this property since 2007, and I plan on developing it. The reason why I'm in front of you today is the Planning Bureau plans on changing the zone from this property from EX to EG1. In doing that,
 In the EX zone, I am allowed to build apartment buildings and retail space and commercial buildings. In the EG1, I am not allowed to do that. I'm currently building the first of six buildings. By making this change, I won't be able to continue.
 This is what I do for a living. I own apartments. I rent apartments. I don't know anything about industrial land. I didn't buy this property to be an industrial manager. I urge you to not allow this change to happen. I'm 51 years old. I've been working since I got out of college to get to this point and plan on spending the next 10 years developing this property to very nice apartments and mixed-use buildings. This is planning to be my retirement.
 I'm going to hand this down to my kids in time, but if it gets changed to industrial, I just don't know what to do. I'm going to have to probably sell it and start over somewhere else. So I urge you please to let it stay the zone that it is. That was 123 to 311 Southeast 97th? Yes. 97th. I just want to make sure I heard that right. Okay. Thank you very much. Thanks.
 Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, for your record, Tim Ramos, thank you for the opportunity to comment on the request to finally conform zoning on a property in Sylvan to its comprehensive plan designation. The address is two properties, 1434 and 1512 Southwest 58th.
 I have two short comments I'll make based upon the letter I've submitted. The first is I want the record to be absolutely clear that I wholeheartedly support and join in the commitment made by my neighbor, Michael Foster, that this land will not be developed without creating a sidewalk along Southwest 58th.
 That sidewalk is a critical connection from Michael's home further up the hill to the amenities and services in Sylvan, and it's been my commitment to him that we would make sure that that happens. You will recall that the concern of the staff has been that, at least in theory, someone might try to develop that land without building a sidewalk. We won't do that. You have our commitment to that. Thank you.
 Second, even without our commitment to get the sidewalk built, you have every ability legally to impose the requirements.
 You've seen photographs of the other projects in the area which have extended the necessary sidewalk network along the street. And I provided with my letter excerpts from the record of two current projects which are in development and in development review, both of which have been conditioned to build sidewalks on 58th. No objection from the developers. Clearly, the city has the ability to require it. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council, my name is Brian Carlton, and I apologize, I'm going to read just to stay on task. I'm an architect here in Portland, and I'm here to comment on the planned modifications to longstanding allowable floor area ratios in the Alphabet District. I'm currently working with Northwest Housing Alternatives on a potential affordable housing project in the neighborhood.
 while i'm working with nha and care deeply about affordable housing the reason i'm here is to address the greater impact that down zoning in the alphabet district can have on this neighborhood other inner city neighborhoods and our metro area as a whole not only is allowing for higher densities in our inner city neighborhoods a staple of sustainable city development it is also a key ingredient in our effort to provide housing for our low and middle income citizens
 While it is never the right time to restrict access to neighborhoods that offer connections to jobs, public transit, shopping, and services, it is especially short-sighted to do so at a time when our city is struggling to provide housing, and so many are in need of such a place to live. As the owner of an architecture firm that has received several awards for our work in historic preservation, I care deeply about the historic fabric of the neighborhood and believe historic resource sources should be protected.
 I also believe history should be viewed inclusively, and in the case of the historic alphabet district, one cannot protect the district without protecting the architectural diversity. The mix of historic buildings ranges from two-story Victorian homes to six-story apartment buildings to various religious, cultural, and commercial buildings. While scandalous when they were first introduced to the neighborhood in 1903, taller apartment buildings added to the richness of life in the neighborhood and opened it to a more economically diverse group of citizens.
 This is an ideal that we are struggling to realize throughout the city today. I believe preservation and development must not be at odds. Context-appropriate, neighborhood-friendly development at higher densities and scale is possible, and Portland already has guidelines and review mechanisms in place to ensure new development is sensitive to historic resources.
 And I'll cut off here, but also we did submit written testimony, and within that written testimony we actually did some analysis on what we consider available land for development when we cut out historic resources and newly developed land and that type of thing and feel that there's actually a very limited opportunity to overwhelm the neighborhood, so to speak, and that the 4-to-1 ratio, F-A-R ratio on the available land is appropriate for the context of the neighborhood. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three are Mike Connors, Jim Pliska, and David Schollhammer, and they'll be followed by Ellen Burr, Christy White, and Kathy Birch. Welcome. Good afternoon. Who would like to go first? I'll go ahead and go first since I'm next on the list. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Mike Connors. I'm here on behalf of Space Age Fuel and Pliska Investments, LLC, who owns and operates several gas service stations throughout the city.
 We're here to submit both oral written testimony in opposition to the Planning Commission recommendation that all drive-through facilities east of 80th Avenue be prohibited and all existing facilities be rendered nonconforming uses. What we're asking you to do is to instead adopt the staff recommendation that was developed below before the Planning Commission, and I'll explain briefly why. Okay.
 First of all, we understand with the mixed-use zones that there's a desire to make them more pedestrian-friendly, but you have to balance that against the need for some auto-accommodating uses, gas stations being a number one. Cars are going to be around for a long time. We're still going to need gas.
 And you wrestled with that in the comprehensive plan and adopted policy 4.24, which said that you're prohibiting gas stations or, excuse me, drive-through facilities, gas stations, a subset of that, in Central City, and then restricting it in the inner ring districts. But no other policy. Staff took that, carried that forward, came up with their own recommendations, and then spent months talking with us and many other stakeholders to come up with the right balance, right?
 And they introduced a recommendation that basically allows drive-through facilities in the CE zone only and then prohibits it in the remaining mixed-use zones but says existing facilities do have the right to rebuild, upgrade, or remodel.
 What happened at the Planning Commission level is after the public testimony during the work session, one of the commissioners proposed this new policy. There was no analysis of the policy, what the implications would be. Staff recommended the Planning Commission not adopt it. We strongly encourage you look at those deliberations because it was clear that some of the commissioners that voted in favor of it weren't really in favor of the policy. They really just wanted to get the issue to have you discuss it.
 But we think there are several problems with it. First of all, it takes away a need in a very large part of the city for gas stations. It unfairly penalizes those existing businesses who have developed those and they're rendering nonconforming uses and would prohibit them from remodeling or upgrading those facilities. We don't think that's a good policy.
 What we ask you to do is to adopt the staff's recommendation that was developed consistent with your comprehensive plan policies after months of discussions and real thorough analysis. And I appreciate you allowing me to go a little bit over my time. Thank you very much. And presumably then car washes are also drive-thrus, are they? Yeah, drive-thrus are a pretty broad group. I mean, coffee places that you drive up to, it's a pretty broad group. I wouldn't stand for coffee, but I hadn't actually thought of it.
 for the purpose of a garage or a dry wash. A car wash. A car wash, right. And car washes are generally more environmentally sensitive than soaking it up in your front yard. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. My name is Jim Pliska, managing member of Pliska Investments and owner of Space Age Fuel. And we have four facilities that are...
 affected by the basically of not allowing drive-throughs or making these a non-conforming use. And we've been in business for over 30 years and have these facilities. And
 And we want to continue to service the areas out there. And I feel it's real unfair for us not be able to upgrade these facilities in the future. There might be other forms of fuel in the future that
 cars may use, et cetera. And I think it would be very short-sighted not to allow the upgrade or rebuilding of these sites for fueling facilities. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much for coming. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is David Schallhammer, and I chair the Land Use Committee for the Selwood-Moorland Improvement League, better known as SMILE.
 Our neighborhood has 2.8 miles of commercial corridor that is experiencing phenomenal growth. We seek to improve the quality of the mixed-use buildings and preserve the desirable qualities and charm of our neighborhood. I will address new changes proposed by the PSC. Ellen Burr will discuss our request for a design overlay in the next group, and Rachel Ginocchio from the Selwood-Westmoreland Business Alliance will testify later today.
 First, Smile and the Business Alliance support the PSC changes regarding low-rise commercial storefront areas, specifically CM1 zoning on Southeast 13th Avenue south of Tacoma Street. Second, the PSC proposes to increase the building height bonus from 3 to 5 feet for a tall commercial ground floor. We oppose this increase for buildings abutting residential properties.
 Tall mixed-use buildings can dwarf residences and deny solar access and privacy. The PSC proposal favors commercial property values over the quality of life and property value of abutting residences. Third, the mixed-use zones project includes a height step-down for buildings within 25 feet of some abutting residential properties. The PSC proposes to apply the tall ground floor bonus to the step-down height. We oppose this increase of the step-down height.
 It would further sacrifice residential quality of life and home equity to improve interior aesthetics of commercial space. In summary, we support the tall ceiling bonus presented in the proposed draft report from the mixed-use zones project that was presented in May and oppose PSC changes in the recommended draft. You are now considerate. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Next three are Ellen Burr, Christy White, and Kathy Birch.
 and they'll be followed by Susan Sturgis, J.D. Dinh, and Kevin Flanagan. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you.
 good afternoon my name is ellen burr and i'm representing the smile neighborhood association today thank you for the opportunity to testify our written testimony includes many details which i will not go into here the selwood moreland improvement league is again requesting that you expand the design overlay to our neighborhood we understand that we do not meet one of the criteria of the mixed use zones project for expansion of the d overlay as we're
 as we are not a comp plan designated civic corridor or urban center, but a mixed-use neighborhood. But we do meet the other criteria, which states explicitly that a D overlay is being expanded to those areas that are expected to see the greatest amount of development and change and warrant additional design oversight.
 In 2014, we had 5,927 housing units. As of a couple of weeks ago, we are expecting an 18% increase with 1,119 additional units of multifamily development in the pipeline.
 This number does not include the increase in the two years between the 2014 census and now. Compare this to Division, a town center expecting 700 new units, Lloyd Center with 1,000 units. Both of these have a D overlay. You may be thinking that if you apply this D overlay to Selwood-Moreland, you need to apply it to all neighborhood centers with a mixed-use neighborhood comp plan designation. We've included a chart of those neighborhoods, and they do not have our amenities, nor are they experiencing anywhere near our growth.
 A little history here because one of those is Multnomah Village, which already has the D overlay. In the late 1990s, both the East Portland Community Plan and the Southwest Community Plan were initiated. The Southeast Community Plan was to follow, but in 1996, ballot measure 47 resulted in property tax cuts in the early suspension of these neighborhood planning programs. The city turned its focus elsewhere and Selwood-Moorland did not get to partake in the Southeast Community Plan.
 Through these community plans, three southwest neighborhoods, Multnomah Village, Hillsdale, and Johns Landing, received a design overlay in their centers. We ask to receive the design overlay in parity with these southwest neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Christy White. I'm representing the University of Portland and its 5000 North Willamette Boulevard. We've distributed some testimony and had prior testimony and a couple letters and emails in the record. I'm going to go over just three of the five issues that we have remaining under the CI zone and just want to express that University of Portland largely supports the CI zone project as it applies to its property. The first one is building length.
 The new CI zone imposes a 100-foot building length along our North Willamette Boulevard frontage. We have just completed our first dorm project along that frontage and did it under the design standards that were adopted under our Conditional Use Master Plan. And those design standards were endorsed and approved by the University Park Neighborhood Association. Those design standards don't carry the 100-foot limitation, but they do carry articulations and breaks in façade.
 We don't want to have a situation where our master plan expires in 2023 and we have additional dorm projects and then this standard changes and we have an inconsistent design frontage along Willamette Boulevard because, of course, it's really important on campus environments to have consistent design of those same typology buildings.
 The other thing is that if we applied the 100-foot break to the current dorm project, we would have lost 52 double-occupancy dorm rooms, which would accommodate 104 students that would then be living in the neighborhood under our student enrollment. Those neighborhood associations and neighbors would rather have those students on our campus.
 The 200-foot building setback. There's a 200-foot building setback imposed, and I think this might be unique to the University of Portland. I'm not sure. I didn't check for the other colleges. But it looks like what it's doing is just taking our current master plan provision where there's a no-build area because there's fields currently located there and putting a 200-foot building setback on. So what that did was convert a 10-year condition to a permanent condition under the CI zone and provide a big gap in our frontage over the long term, and we'd like that removed. Okay.
 but still apply all our design standards to the frontage. And if I could just take a few more seconds, thank you. The last one is on the CI boundaries. The CI boundaries currently don't include all of the properties that are in our conditional use master plan boundary. So McCormick and Baxter site is in our master plan boundary. It was planned previously.
 and evaluated under that master plan boundary, but it's not in the CI boundary, which would mean that we later will have to do a type 3 amendment process to include properties that are already in our boundary and be able to develop them. And we think every property that's in our master plan boundary should be in the CI boundary. In that case, the property is...
 It's in the master plan and under the university's ownership, right? It's not. It isn't yet. So there's a master plan condition that says it's in our boundaries, but we're not allowed to do anything on it until we own or control it. Okay. Though it's been planned, it has FAR limitations, it has traffic studies associated with it, but we just can't do anything until we own it. But you don't own it yet. We don't own it yet. It's just in the boundaries. Okay, I see. Yeah, that's right. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Can you hear me? Yes. I've not done this before. No, you're fine. Go ahead, please. My name is Kathy Birch. I am a resident and homeowner in southeast Portland in the Richmond neighborhood. I've been there for 30 years. My property is currently zoned R5, and the zoning is to change possibly to R2.5. First of all, I wish to support the testimony given last week by a Richmond resident who
 who described and displayed pictures of several single-family homes that had been bulldozed and replaced by two houses in the $800,000 category. This will not solve the affordable housing problem, to say nothing of tearing at the visual fabric of the neighborhood and the cachet of PDX. I actually think that ADUs are more consistent with the design because then one –
 set of aesthetics would go with both buildings. Having supported her testimony, I would like to add some other ideas. I know there is a lot of pro and con regarding density. Instead of picking sides, I want to speak to how density is designed.
 I personally am upset over removal of mature trees to squeeze in property, new buildings from property line to property line. The building style is rationalized as a response to global warming. Within a mile or so of my home, many mature trees are removed.
 which have served to clean the air, cool the hot sidewalks, take up water for free, unlike the fancy swales we're busy building, and finally visually grace the neighborhood. I guess I better scurry ahead. I would also like to...
 refute the idea that minimum parking in new apartment structures is a bad idea. According to people that I heard last week, having a parking place for one's car necessarily incentivizes one driving it into the downtown. My son and his girlfriend are 25. They ride their bikes to work but keep their old car for weekends to go and do all those things that Oregonians like to do outside.
 I would have to say that saying that one will stop people from having cars by denying them parking is kind of like suggesting that we curb teen pregnancy by forbidding the sale of condoms to people under the age of 20. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 That's got to be the best metaphor we've heard this week. All right. The next three are Susan Sturgis, J.D. Dinh, and Kevin Flanagan, and they'll be followed by Cindy Idler and Jeff Cole. Good afternoon. Welcome. Go ahead and start if you're ready.
 My name is Kevin Flanagan. I own Inland Sea Maritime Group and Skern Creek Boat Works, which is located at 3255 North Hayden Island Drive. Mayor Hales and City Council members, thank you for allowing me the time to address the City Council today on this important issue. My testimony will focus on the eye overlay zone on Hayden Island in the comprehensive plan. This overlay is inappropriate for Hayden Island and should be removed from the industrial lands on the island.
 Hayden Island does not meet the criteria of the overlay. Namely, we have no railroad access on the island. Currently, trains do not stop on the island, and there are no plans for such a stop on the island. Additionally, the island is limited for truck access due to the single bridge to the island. Due to these constraints, it's unfair to apply these overlays to the industrial lands on the island.
 This is the gateway to the city and needs to remain flexible in the zoning to accommodate future developments. Directly across the river in Vancouver, the waterfront is being developed similar to the Portland South waterfront development. Hayden Island is an area of the city that is changing, and we need to allow for future changes on the island to accommodate the growth. Additionally, Hayden Island contains some of the best and most accessible beaches in the city. The island is currently park-deficient.
 Public access to the Columbia River should be of paramount importance to the city. River access is very limited in Portland, and any opportunity to increase river access should be considered. My company had previously proposed a motorized boat ramp next to the train bridge on the north side of Hayden Island. I have included a conceptual plan for you to consider.
 This is a plan similar to the Willamette Park or Cathedral Park boat ramps along the Willamette River. However, the eye overlay limits parks to less than two acres, which would preclude this boat ramp from being developed. The Oregon State Marine Board had previously deemed this a regionally significant access point for the Columbia. The East Hayden Island Advisory Board, which I was a member, had designated a river access park at this location.
 For these reasons, I ask the council to remove the eye overlay from the industrial lands on Hayden Island to allow for future growth and development and give our residents greater access to the city's greatest asset, the Columbia River. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. My name is J.D. Dinh, and I'm here to represent my mother, Mo Dinh. Her current block zone is R1, and it's a proposed change to EG1.
 Where is this located? On Southeast 82nd, between 82nd and 83rd Avenue, between Bybee and Glenwood Streets. And it's a small block. The project of an industrial interest in going there is kind of slim. But the changes have already been made. So we're concerned about...
 The number one concern is the property tax. Would that change it for her under the new designation? And that's the bottom line. Because I submitted her letter of concern to the testimony site's email. And so she just wants assurance from the city to protect her neighbors and herself in this situation from higher taxation. Because they're in a fixed pension income. They budget their...
 expenditures and then they whatever's left now they try to make it enough to pay for their property tax and that's that's concern we have and if the city can represent us in that way with empathy we much appreciate it have you tried approaching the Multnomah County
 Not yet, because this is introduced to us now. Yes. What I would recommend is whoever is your county commissioner, bring it to that person's attention, because it's the county that sets the property taxes. Yes. So they should be able to answer that question. Am I right with that? Yeah. So...
 We try and stay out of the whole property tax thing, but if you were to ask Multnomah County's tax assessor maybe get your county commissioner involved, I think they could probably give you an answer. Does your mother live on the property now? Yes, she's lived on the property for 18, 20 years, along with the neighbors the same amount of time. She's also a senior tax deferral.
 So we'll make sure you get information about that. Okay. You've got your contact info, I assume, in your testimony. So thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hello. My name is Susan Sturgis and I've submitted some written testimony regarding the proposed FAR change in the RH zones in the Alphabet Historic District.
 I just wanted to make one short point out of what I wrote in the written testimony, and that is that if you have trouble deciding about the 4-to-1, the 2-to-1, there are other options available, such as a 3-to-1 FAR with a 60% lot coverage.
 So the earlier FARs, the 2-to-1 and the 4-to-1, have an 85% lot coverage. But with the 3-to-1 and 60% lot coverage, you could have five-story building, but the reduced lot coverage, along with the setbacks, might keep it from intimidating residents.
 neighboring historic properties. I think this change was just made in August, and so I didn't really have time to catch up with it and to do a lot of thorough research on my own to really deeply evaluate the situation. So this is kind of my first brush at it, but I just wanted to make the point that there might be some other options, some other...
 flexible ways of handling the issues that would address both the neighborhood concerns and other property owners' concerns. Thank you. That's great. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. And the last two I have off of the previous list are Cindy Idler and Jeff Cole. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Well, I'm Jeff Cole, and this testimony today is on behalf of Wayne Rask, a fractional owner and principal broker representing adjacent properties at 110 and 160 Southeast Ankeny Street in the Prunedale area of Gateway. We have specific concerns about the rezoning of these lots from the current EX zone to a reconfigured EG1 zone. Our first
 Our first priority has been to fulfill cleanup on these parcels. It is listed as number 17 on the Portland Brownfield Funded Project List.
 The ownership's ultimate vision for these properties includes a five-story industrial flex building to accommodate small space users, such as startup minority and women-owned businesses, as well as build much-needed affordable housing as part of mixed-use development. And as you know, brownfield remediation of these properties will cost ownership hundreds of thousands of dollars in
 While we appreciate the city's need to dedicate an adequate inventory to land zoned for the exclusive employment-related uses, we would still prefer the land to remain zoned EX so that the buildable development justifies the projected cleanup costs of the site. However, if the final decision is to rezone our properties to EG1, we would request the following to maintain the viability of our vision –
 Number one, retain the current Gateway Plan District bonus floor-to-area ratio and height limits. These are on maps 526-2, 526-3. Under these maps, the maximum FAR is 6, and the maximum height is 120 feet. Number two, retain the current Gateway Plan District bonus floor-to-area ratio and height limits.
 The zone EG1 with a 45-foot height limit and a 3-to-1 FAR makes it very difficult to fulfill our vision for these properties in light of the expenses. Number two, eliminate a new street through our properties called for in the Gateway Master Plan. Again, if we're going from EX to EG1, that's a pretty marked shift in usage, and this represents a huge expense on top of the cleanup costs.
 Number three, allow conditional residential use within the Prunedale EG1 area. Our properties are located 500 feet from the southeast Burnside and 102nd MAC station, and in close proximity to CX properties on 102nd that allow buildings over 75 feet with a potential FAR up to 14 feet.
 One. And number four, allowed FAR and height bonuses and residential use as part of planned development on project sites greater than two acres. This is kind of similar to the mixed-use zones project
 this would be a perfect fit for potential parcel sizes in the prune area yeah so what's the total size of those it's just about two acres all for all three lots about okay yeah okay all right thank you very much okay and if I could just just wouldn't make one final remark that there's been a lot of planning for the gateway district we like to be part of a
 revitalize gateway we know there's been a lot of planning in the past we encourage the city to keep up the good work and focus on this important area thank you thank you very much okay so let's move on to the list of folks that signed up today I have a total of 48 as far as we can folks will thank you go ahead three please come on up our Doug Klotz Rick Glick and James Driscoll and
 and they'll be followed by john calhoun brian dapp and isaac dweek welcome hi my name is doug klotz i'm a richmond resident um i'm testifying again on removing parking requirements and mixed use zones i was at the planning commission briefing tuesday on inclusionary housing and it seems that there is some concern out there that the inclusionary housing program as as it now sits
 will work in the central city but may have a hard time in the mixed-use zones um and that's probably because there's a full property tax exemption in the central city which there's not going to be in mixed use um so i'm uh i'm thinking and i think some of the planning commission members are taking the same way that the removal of the parking requirements in mixed-use zones would help that um to help you know allow for more affordable housing um
 up zoning from RFI to R25. I support the up zoning of all the areas throughout, mostly southeast, where the comp plan designation has been R25 for decades, and now the planning bureau has decided
 studied them and decided which areas could be up zoned to our 2.5 i support that the ground floor height bonus that the selwood neighborhood spoke about i support that bonus which allows for taller ground floors and you know gives you an extra five feet on the on the height of the building but also an extra five feet on the step back because it wouldn't make sense to have the floor plates all jogged back down at the rear to accommodate have not that not have the additional height there but have it on the main part of the building
 I support the major city bikeway designation on Northeast 7th from Broadway to Sumner. I support keeping the FAR at 4 to 1 in the Northwest Portland RH areas. I know it's difficult to work with historic destinations and a high FAR, but I think we need to get the density in that area. It makes the most sense to have that density there.
 I do oppose further downzoning in Multnomah Village. I think that staff came up with the blocks where it was really critical, and we need to get the density there, too, to have some sort of a center in Southwest. I also support CM2 at 60th and Belmont and at Hawthorne and 50th. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Thanks.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Rick Glick. I live at 4830 Southwest Dosh Park Lane, and I'm here today with several of our neighbors to discuss the removal. We urge you to remove segment 3892 from the major public trail zoning map. That's Southwest Dosh Park Lane and Southwest Campbell Court.
 We submitted a letter from the Homeowners Association and from almost all of the residents within the neighborhood.
 Our point here today is that these streets are private roads, always have been. The city did not construct them, does not pay to maintain them. The homeowners pay to maintain them. In mistaken belief that they were a city street, the Southwest Trails Organization put up signs guiding people through the neighborhood
 which has resulted in a noticeable increase in vehicle and foot traffic through as people use it as a shortcut, which was not our intent.
 We approached city staff with this issue. Staff confirmed that there is no public right-of-way and arranged for the signs to be removed. I want to express appreciation for the courtesy and responsiveness of city staff in helping us to work through this problem. I want to leave you with the thought that
 This is not just a line on the map. This designation has consequences. And if you look at the September 16 notice, it says that this line on the map could affect future uses. It could affect the value of the property. And it could be a marking of a future easement acquisition by the city. Our homeowners are not interested in an easement and would oppose imposition of one.
 Thank you so much for the opportunity to comment today. Thank you. Thanks very much. We've got your written testimony as well. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Jim Driscoll, and I'm sort of the institutional memory for the Dasha Estates Homeowners Association. By way of background, my wife and I live in a house at 4825 Southwest Dasha Park Lane. We also own the adjacent unbuilt, undeveloped lot in Dasha Estates, which,
 I was the original owner in 1978, one of the developers. And in 1978, we worked extensively with the city planning staff to design a planned unit development, one key feature of which was that the roads in there would be private roads. We did that because, at least at that time, as a private road, it only had to be 28 feet wide. A city street had to be 44 feet.
 There was no way to snake a road down through that property without taking out many, if not all, of the large specimen trees that were on the property. Those trees had historic significance because Henry Dosh was one of the pioneer horticulturalists in Oregon, and that was his residence, and many of the trees had been planted either by Dosh or by the original homesteader, Albert Kelly. We wanted to keep those trees, and we couldn't do it with a city street.
 So the project was developed with everybody understanding and knowing that those roads were private roads. There was no public right-of-way acquired by the city or asked for. None was given. And there are no sidewalks. So this has the practical consequence that if you're going to put a public trail through there, you've got to either locate it in the street or you've got to take out a bunch of people's front yards, right?
 If you put it in the street with a 28-foot wide street, there's no room for cross-traffic for cars to travel in both directions on the road if you've designated 8 or 10 feet of it for pedestrian. So as a practical matter, there's no place to put a trail.
 As a legal matter, the city has no right to put a trail in there. And as Mr. Glick mentioned, it's really kind of frightening when you look at the public recreational trails provisions in the planning and zoning code and the consequences that occur if you want to designate this on the map. The city can do all kinds of things and make you do all kinds of things, including we couldn't build on our vacant lot without Frisky Book.
 Creating building they can make you build a section of trail where are you gonna build it? So thank you. I'm out of time. I recall you have even have some trees in the middle of the street worked around them Precisely and we we we snaked around them to save the trees and So turned out well, thank you Next three are John Calhoun Brian Dapp and Isaac do it and
 And they'll be followed by Greg Moreland, Frida, Christopher, and is it, there may be two people, Frida Christopher with David Douglas. She's here. I'll hold it right there. She's here. Go ahead, John. Frida, come on up. Good afternoon. My name is John.
 Mayor Hales Commissioners, I'm sorry you're on deck for you to go ahead. My name is John Calhoun I'm also a resident of Dosh Park Lane and I am the current neighborhood Association president I just want to echo what? My neighbors have said and to let you know that I have 17 of the homeowners which is more than majority who signed on with our request
 And the city-approved bylaws require 75% approval to change any of the regulations. So as board president, I don't have the authority to do anything other than object to that.
 what has been attempted by the city or suggested by the city. So I'm just here to support what the others said. I appreciate getting this testimony and hearing this through. So you still have a homeowners association, right? It's a private street. Therefore, it is developed as a PUD. In effect, you still have a homeowners association for management of shared assets like the streets? Correct. We maintain the street. We just spent.
 $7,000 putting on a new ceiling on the road to maintain it. Did anybody contact you about this trail before? There was some discussion in the past. We objected at the time. We thought it was going away, and then we got this notice. Appreciate you calling it to our attention. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Brian Dapp. I'm here today to bring to your attention serious problems with the proposed downzoning of mixed commercial property on Markham Hill, located immediately west of OHSU, as part of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan project. Many others I know from the neighborhood are also completely against the proposal.
 The Homestead Neighborhood Association has already weighed in on the matter, but unfortunately we do not feel that the interests and concerns of many neighborhood residents have been taken into consideration by the association and by planning staff. I'm now speaking of the many renters who live in the west portion of Homestead,
 Above OHSU on Markham Hill, I have included for your review a small collection of letters which illustrate their interests. I urge you to please carefully read and consider those letters. They represent many, many more people who did not have the opportunity to submit letters today.
 After reviewing the 2003 Markham Hill Plan 2035 Comprehensive Plan Guide and 2035 Comprehensive Plan Early Implementation, we find no justification for the proposed downzoning. In fact, these documents overwhelmingly support increasing development potential on Markham Hill, not restricting it. The 2035 Comp Plan Guide states that Portland can expect 260,000 new residents in the next 20 years.
 Where are these people going to live, and do we want to increase possibilities for people to live close to where they work? I kindly ask you to keep in mind an important and indisputable fact. OHSU employs 12,000 people on the Markham Hill campus. In light of the following circumstances, we believe that the proposed downzoning will have an overwhelmingly negative impact on our neighborhood and on our city. Portland faces an unprecedented housing shortage.
 I'm going to skip ahead since I'm running out of time. We feel that the proposed downzoning will only exacerbate the problems of which you are already aware, so we urge you to please either amend the proposal or reject it.
 I would be available to consult with you or any of your staff at any point in the future to better explain the concerns of people who live in our part of the Homestead neighborhood should the opportunity present itself. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Appreciate the letters and the testimony. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, City Commissioners, members.
 My name is Isaac Dweck. I am the homeowner and resident of 7008 Southwest Capital Hill Road in Southwest Portland. The zip code 97219. Just here, I have missed the window of opportunity for the comprehensive change in planning. So I'm here to submit...
 and make my case for the change should you consider new adoption, whether prior to the implementation or in any near future. And I have made a plan to make it simple and fast, since I don't have time for all this. This is my property, and it is surrounded by, on the north of it, it's an R1. My property is zoned R7 currently.
 The one north of me is an R2, which has been like that for over four years. The ones surrounding me, whether on the east side or the north side, they have been adopted to an R1 and R2, which leaves me an R7 just by myself. If the zoning stays the way it is, it will really diminish my home value.
 and there will be very minimum impact should it be adopted or changed to an R1, which that's what I wish it to be, or at least R2. In that particular area, it's a really very low density.
 and in dire need of additional more affordable homes, one particular point I really would like to make, I know the time is over, it is in a close proximity to the Jewish temple, which is if anybody knows about the Jewish faith, one of their requirements is to be on foot. So it is a real dire need for extra additional more affordable homes.
 So I have... Thank you. Thanks very much. Did you give the Planning Bureau staff a copy of that? I am going to leave this, and I will be emailing a testimony for all of you. Great. Thank you for making it nice and large so people at home could see it as well as us. Thank you very much. Very helpful. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Greg Moreland, Frida Christopher, and we'll go with Jim Labby, and then they'll be followed by Kyle Floyd,
 And Steve Strender and Justina D'Amesco-Hernandez. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Greg Moreland. I own a property on 14716 Southeast Powell Street.
 About Powell on 147th. I also own the property behind that. I bought this. This is being changed. This property is in a very small pocket, a long and thin pocket with about 60 houses on Powell. Most of them very close to Powell. I bought this bare lot with the intention of building a 12-flex there. I can bring access from behind on Rhine.
 which is really, really handy. This particular property wouldn't make a whole lot of sense to build a single-family house there with the expense of bringing access from Rhine. So that is really... I just have a really narrow interest here that revolves around that. And what's the proposed zoning at this point? It's R2 now, and it's being proposed to move to R5. And again, it's in a very small pocket that...
 Don't know 60 houses or so or 60 lots All right, and as a bear lot, you know I bought this as an investment and this was really the the the no-brainer thing to do Would be to build a 12 plex there so and the zoning I don't know if I can make it by the time the zoning Comes around. I don't know if I will be I can get my ducks in line. Yeah, okay. All right. Thank you very much Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. I
 For the record, my name is Frida Christopher, and I'm a member of the David Douglas School Board. Superintendent Richardson sends his regrets. He was unable to make it today. But we wanted to thank the City Council and their bureaus for engaging in conversations with the David Douglas School District to address our critical infrastructure needs relating to school capacity. We have completed our facility plan with the needs of our districts over the next 10 years, which include...
 building two new elementary schools.
 But we would especially like to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for their collaborative approach in recognizing how population growth can impact school capacity and the district's goal of providing high-quality education opportunity for students now and in the future. The miscellaneous zoning amendment package in the comp plan has given the school district the ability to review and deny 11-plus lot land division applications and zone map amendment
 We wish to note that these two provisions only give us access to a small portion of potential new housing. There is much more potential new housing in the mixed-use zones and multi-dwelling zones for new apartments that tend to bring higher amounts of new families and children to our schools. Currently, neighborhood associations receive notification when five or more
 unit development is being planned. They receive this notification early in the process. We feel if the school district could receive the same notification from the developer, it would be beneficial for us in a planning process. Currently, we only find out about the buildings because an administrator drives by, sees something being built, and has to stop and ask what's being built and how many bedrooms, etc.,
 I have provided possible language changes to the code 33.120.050 with this testimony. We feel that this is a simple change that could be beneficial to all school districts for planning of enrollment each year. We're not asking to stop anything being built just to get notification.
 In addition, there is a change being considered by Council in the elimination of this conditional use requirement for indoor agriculture on CE and CM3 zones. There are zoning changes being considered that would increase the amount of CE and CM3 zones in East Portland and David Douglas community.
 Indoor agricultural includes indoor marijuana grow operations. We are concerned about the indoor marijuana grow operations being close proximity to our current or future schools. Our request is to ensure that the conditional use process is required before any indoor marijuana grow operation is approved or placed. We would like an opportunity to provide input and share our concerns during the conditional use process process.
 Without this conditional use process, we'll have no voice in the placement of these businesses. Please consider keeping in place the conditional use process to ensure our schools and communities have a voice in the future. We would appreciate your consideration on these two items. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 We might be able to look at the marijuana growing process applications in a different process, so we'll check in on that. Thank you. Okay. It's a zoning. It's a code change is my understanding. Right. We're mostly looking at the – we've mostly been looking at the retail questions, so the grow – No, we're looking at the grow questions too. Okay. Thank you. I hadn't thought about that aspect of this. I'm glad you had. Okay.
 All right. Thank you. Welcome. Hi there. My name is Jim Labby. I'm here today speaking also on behalf of Mark Bellow, who just asked me to speak for him. We both served on the Title XI Oversight Committee meeting last year, and our testimony is about the need to remove the Title XI exemptions for commercial industrial zones in the process of updating the zoning maps and codes. Thank you.
 It's critical that the council consider the impacts of trees as it goes through the zone changes associated with the compound land. And this is a particularly important piece for a couple of reasons. You might recall that a number of commercial industrial zones were exempt from Title XI when it was adopted in 2011, both because they might potentially limit the capacity of unemployment lands and employment land supply needs were unknown at that time.
 I think the first reason was never really justified because Title XI doesn't require tree preservation. There's only an option to pay fee in lieu, and the density standards are really equal to the landscaping requirements in these zones anyway. So there's really very little situations where – I can't imagine a situation where Title XI would displace employment land. So –
 But that aside, we know now with the city's economic opportunities analysis that there isn't a shortfall in at least commercial land, commercial employment land. In fact, there's a significant surplus, and I included the page from the economic opportunities analysis that illustrates that. And so the other real important reason I would advocate –
 that the council removed these exemptions is, I mean, the original vision was a citywide tree project and it was intended to develop policy citywide. In fact, it's exactly the commercial industrial zones and actually the public right-of-ways along these mixed-use corridors where the city is farthest behind in meeting its camping targets in the forest management plan, and I included that there.
 a copy of the urban forest action plan that illustrates that and i guess lastly if you look at vivak shanta's research on areas where we have um heat island effect worst heat island effect and impacts on vulnerable populations in terms of public health it's it's in the commercial industrial lands it's along a lot of our corridors so i think for all those reasons and probably more it's
 It's time to remove these exemptions, and I'll apply the city code, Title XI, citywide. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. I'll take the next three, please. The next three are Kayuna Floyd, Steve Stranager, I believe is the last name. Come on up. And Justina Damasco-Hernandez. And they'll be followed by Greg Astley, Jan Britton, and Jackie Strong. Thank you.
 hello hello welcome thank you thank you mayor hills and members of the frontland city council hello my name is that microphone just a little bit towards you there you go my first rodeo here sorry um my name is kiana floyd i am third generation owner of amalfi's restaurant located on northeast 47th in in fremont
 So Amalfi has been a member of the Beaumont Business Association for 30 years. We're very, very strong in our philanthropic efforts, giving back to our community, our local schools, nonprofit organizations, and have supported many other community causes and events over the course of the years.
 For nearly 60 years, Amalfi's has been certainly the cornerstone of our community and Fremont Street. We came to the Planning Commission as a unified group of nine property owners to request CM2
 zoning for our properties. However, the Neighborhood Association believed that CM1 zoning was better for our properties, and subsequently our request was turned down. And this is
 A little hard for us to understand considering just a few doors down east of us as well as a few doors down west of us, those properties were granted CM2 zoning. And it was just a little small stretch of us, about three blocks where we were not granted the CM2 zoning.
 And we know that it's good to listen to all of our neighborhoods. And we know that there's very active and caring people within these neighborhood associations who make their voices heard. But we're here today because we would like our voices to matter as well.
 The voices of long-term family-owned businesses that have been active in our communities for decades. I know Amalfi's for nearly 60 years now.
 that we've been in business, and Stanich is here for nearly 70 years in business. We've certainly given back to our community and created a lot of jobs for people, and we've certainly helped make Fremont the vital place that it is today. So we're just asking that these old guys, Amalfi's and Stanich's, and the small little stretch of
 three blocks be granted the same consideration to grow and prosper as the rest of Fremont and Cully and all the, I'd say the new kids on the block have been granted and considered. And please accept our request for CM2 zoning. Thank you. Thank you for your consideration. Thanks. Welcome. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Steve Stamich.
 It's an honor to be here representing Gladys and George Stanich, who opened up Stanich's in 1949 to pay a large medical bill. From 49 to 66, they worked three jobs.
 and in 66 went full-time at Stanich's. The reason that I'm here is I was, I guess, to represent Gladys and George. I was born and raised in the Beaumont-Willshire area,
 I guess now we have three zones. It's called Beaumont, Wilshire, Cully, and Rose City. I believe Beaumont, Wilshire, and this is where I grew up, on 33rd is where Wilshire is, and on 57th was the end of it.
 I believe there was only one association. But that being said, I went to Beaumont grade school, played baseball at Wilshire Little League, and have lived and was raised, as I said, in the area for my entire life. The reason that I'm here is that my parents taught me at a young age to, they were the original pay it forward people.
 They never advertised, word of mouth. Any money they had put aside for advertising was spent on Little League teams, on high school teams, et cetera. We've had numerous Little League teams over the years since 49. In fact, over 20 years ago, Wilshire Little League field was named George Stanage. Just this summer, I changed it to Gladys and George.
 to honor my mother, who was the cook. My dad was a Fremont philosopher and was the front guy, but my mom was the person that was making the burgers and allowed them to go from three jobs to one in 1966. I strongly believe that the three blocks, the three blocks from 47th
 to 50th should be the CM2 zone. We have a cemetery behind us and I think it would, if anything, it would just be, as Kiana said, there's the same zones to the east and the west of us.
 And I'm still, I believe, a member of the Beaumont-Wilshire Neighborhood Association, which now is Cully and Wilshire Neighborhoods. I still live in the area, and I thank you for your time, and thank you for allowing me to testify on behalf of my parents. Thank you. Well, just a...
 Just a speculative question maybe, but planning and zoning is about what you want to keep and what you want to change. So what would you expect to see change as a result of going to CM2 as opposed to leaving it at CM1 with these properties over time? Just the opportunity to maybe go up one more level and have more people living in the area. Absolutely.
 as an option. I'm not certain that we would ever even do it, but if it's to the left and the right, etc.
 Also, I was wondering if the council, since we've been doing it since 49 and we have all these Little League teams, we don't go on the food channel because that costs $5,000. We take that and give it to the community. I was wondering if, before you make your decision, if our Little Leaguers from 49 to the present could have a vote. Wow.
 Wow. That's just, I'm just joking. I'm just joking on that. Well, that Wilshire Little League is still doing quite well, as you know. Yes, they were. I went to the World Series last year, and we had a big celebration. My wife and I met them at the airport when they came back, and that was a lot of fun. Yes, it was. Thank you very much. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks for coming.
 Mr. Mayor, doesn't the code provide somewhere that land use planning disputes should be decided in favor of Little League sponsors? I think there's a special place in land use for Little League sponsors. Thank you very much. All right. Was there Justina Hernandez here? Then we'll go with Greg Astley, Jan Britton, and Jackie Strong. They're number 14, 15, and 16. Thank you.
 Sorry, I haven't been calling the numbers. And they'll be followed by Martha McLennan, Susan Emmons, and Martha Cox. That's 17, 18, and 20. Okay, welcome. Who would ever like to start? Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Jan Britton, and I am representing the Woods Creek Homeowners Association in southwest Portland. A few weeks ago was the first that we were aware of the planning proposals that would go on in our neighborhood for an addition to a trail. And...
 Let's see, I probably, just so you can place it, the notice was given to one of our homeowners at 7525 Southwest 64th Place. Okay.
 The proposal, as we understand it, is to be able to connect various trails that are in pieces. And somehow this little portion of our area was seen as a good place to connect, and we strongly disagree with it. Our Woods Creek development is 31 houses. It's three cul-de-sacs. And the cul-de-sac in question has no through access.
 The homeowner who received the notice, the trail as it starts goes through their front yard where there's already a fire hydrant and a large multi-use utility box. That's the only way I can describe it. 64th Place itself is a steep street to Woods Creek down to the creek.
 It's too steep for foot traffic, especially elderly, disabled, or for bicycles. It's obviously slippery when wet and treacherous with ice. Most of the people down in the lower cul-de-sac have to park up on the main road of Canby Street in inclement weather.
 The streets narrow, so there's really no room for public parking. Street parking would impede flow of residential traffic and be a hindrance to ambulance and fire or rescue vehicles trying to get through. Okay.
 The proposed trail, it goes down from this neighbor's house down to the creek across the bridge and hangs a left. And it goes through a green space that is currently private property of the Homeowner Association and is bordered by homes on both sides. It completely floods in the wintertime.
 So it would not be safe for hikers going through. We're worried that building trails would cause possible erosion and interfere with the established system of absorption and drainage for that area.
 So I think you've used your time. I think you've given us a good picture of this. But the only notice of this that you got was a mailing to the one homeowner? That was the first we heard about this. This was a couple weeks, well, maybe three weeks ago. Ah, okay. And so it's kind of taken us by surprise, and we were sort of scrambling as to how to proceed from here. I should know this, but –
 but I know you're in the Woods Creek Homeowners Association. Which neighborhood association are you in? To be honest with you, I don't know. I think it's Ash Creek. Which is it? Ash Creek. Yeah, I think you're Ash Creek. All right, well, we will check up on this because the fact that you found out so late is kind of concerning to us too. Okay. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. All right, thank you. Welcome. Whoever would like to go next? I'll go next. Hello. My name is Jackie Strong. I'm representing the Strong family.
 And we're a longtime resident of Portland, residents of Portland, and we've been, you know, community activists for a long time. We own a significant piece of property at the corner of Williams and Alberta in the area that's really just turned around as far as growth and, you know, some say has been gentrified.
 Initially, our property was zoned as CM1. We fought really hard and we worked with the Planning and Sustainability Commission to be able to get it upgraded to CM2 and we're greatly appreciative of that.
 All the folks in our block came together and we all joined and we advocated for this new zoning to happen. Even the Department of Oregon, who is situated across the street from this property, was in agreement that it should be up zoned to CM2. We have approximately an acre there, which would allow us to be able to do a considerable sized project there. And we are in the process of trying to develop that property.
 But in our efforts, we connected with PDC. And PDC had mentioned to us that they have a North Northeast Economic Initiative program going, which is created to generate wealth for African Americans, especially those that have been displaced by gentrification and also just to pay back to the African American communities that have been so wrongly affected by gentrification.
 Started thinking and thought about, wow, if we could have some entitlements similar to what is happening with all of those buildings that are going up all around us on Williams and Alberta, it would be great. It would create generational wealth for my family. And it would also help us with the developmental process to be able to add some affordable housing for marginalized communities like veterans, immigrants.
 for seniors, for African-Americans to come back into the community. So we thought about why not come here in front of you and see if you are really serious about the city's efforts to, you know, to –
 to combat the ills of gentrification and see whether or not you could, with the stroke of a pen, say, okay, we're going to give you this additional entitlement. So that's the nature of my coming here to testify in front of you today as an African American and a person that's a strong advocate of
 reversing the ills that have happened to us from a historical perspective, and I trust that you will do the right thing. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you very much. It's currently proposed as CM1, I assume? Yes, CM1 is the current proposal, but we are asking for the additional floor. Good. Thank you very much. That's the CM2, right. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales, commissioners, Greg Astley, Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association,
 I know that you've received a couple of letters, one from the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies on the drive-through prohibition regarding to safety with bicycle and pedestrian, but also one from the United States Business Leadership Network, which happens to be a national nonprofit. Fifty business leadership network affiliates helps business drive performance by leveraging disability inclusion in the workplace, right?
 and the marketplace, I'm just here to ask to adopt the staff recommendation on the drive-thrus that was talked about previously in April. The drive-thrus are very important to our senior and disabled communities. They provide easy access for both of those communities to important services, which does include food and beverages. And I know that there was a permitting process discussed back in April that we're amenable to, and we're going to do that.
 We would like existing restaurants to be able to remodel in the future and not be nonconforming. So I'll leave my comments at that, and I appreciate the time today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Martha McLennan, Susan Emmons, and Martha Kott. That's 17, 18, and 20. And they'll be followed by Jeff Rees, Gerda Schmidt, and Karen Schmidt, 21 and 22s. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Martha McLennan. I'm the Executive Director of Northwest Housing Alternatives, and I want to speak to the issue of the reduction in the FAR in the Alphabet District. The first thing I want to talk about is just the policy issues. We know that restricting capacity for housing development contributes to heating up the market, which contributes to increased rents and purchase prices.
 Restricting the capacity in high-opportunity neighborhoods contributes to concentrations of poverty. And both of those issues are a serious concern in Portland right now. We need to have more housing in general in the market, and we need to have economically integrated neighborhoods. With that, we can have a healthier city, healthier communities, healthier families.
 In the particular situation that we are in, we also do have an interest in a site in this neighborhood. It is on 18th between Hoyt and Irving on the east side of the street.
 Most of that half block is vacant or parking right now. There is a contributing historic resource in that block as well. We do have site control from the owners of that property to see if we can put together a development project there. So that would be our project, not the owner's project, just to be clear on that.
 When we're looking for a place to site housing, we look at neighborhoods that have the resources that the residents would need. So the walkable neighborhood, the access to services, the access to transit, to downtown, to medical facilities is critically important to us. Part of why we're excited about it.
 When we learned of this proposal in September, it really threw a bit of a wet blanket on us in terms of the capacity to develop that site. What I would say is that the approach that the Neighborhood Association proposed and the partial acceptance of that approach by the planning staff and the planning commission lacked nuance.
 I think the council has the opportunity to look to the process that currently exists through the historic design review to consider properties, keeping in mind that this overlay has existed since 1980 and continued to exist despite the historic district designation in 2000.
 Other opportunities are to look at property by property instead of the kind of blanket approach that they did or other adjustments besides just cutting it in half.
 The two-to-one ratio would be infeasible for us, and we would have to withdraw our interest in this site. I know the council last week talked about could we just get in early, and I wanted to say just a couple things about that. I was just about to ask you about that, so do go on. And actually, we also, and I'll get you to react to another thing as well, maybe Susan as well, and that is it was suggested today that we consider three-to-one.
 So maybe react to the get in early and the three-to-one notion, if you would. So the get in early is problematic for a couple of reasons. One, in order to get in early, you have to have a complete packet before the permit application, before the implementation. Because this district has got the historic design review process, the expectation is you need to go through an iterative process in
 in that. No, you grandfathered as soon as you get a complete application. You don't have to have it done. But to do a complete application without having first gone through the historic design review process puts you at risk of having to redesign as it's tweaked. So there's an expense associated with that. But probably more important than that is the issue that to get
 To get financing for a property on a non-conforming use is also difficult and may be less favorable. So we would need to get not just the permitting in place, but the financing in place and closed, and have those financing partners understand that as soon as the thing is built, it will be non-conforming.
 And with that non-conforming status, in the event of a catastrophic loss, there's no certainty that it could be rebuilt. So that's the financing partner's concern. So for our purposes, it would be much better to have a clear expectation, a clear and durable expectation of what the capacity of the site is. In terms of the three-to-one, that's better. We haven't had an opportunity to evaluate that or pencil that specifically yet.
 Our belief is that we weren't going to get to the full maximization of a four-to-one ratio in any case, that that was not going to satisfy the neighborhood or the historic design review. So three-to-one has some potential. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. My name is Susan Emmons. I'm the Executive Director of Northwest Pilot Project. My husband and I have lived in an apartment in northwest Portland for 36 years, and we raised our twin sons in the neighborhood, Chapman, West Sylvan, Lincoln High School. I think I know I don't need to tell you about the housing crisis, but I'm going to mention the number again, which we keep updating.
 shortage of 24,000 units in Portland for those who we serve at Northwest Pilot Project, the poorest of the poor. And I think it's very interesting to have a son, an adult son, living somewhere else and come and visit. We put him on a plane yesterday. One of our sons
 But his shock, he hadn't been in Portland in two years. We usually go to visit him. What has happened in Portland, Mom? There are people sleeping all over the neighborhood. What are you doing about this? Why are there so many people out? So I'm here again to talk about the floor area ratio and this proposal to lower it from 4 to 1 to 2 to 1.
 We were quite thrilled when we met Mark O'Donnell. He expressed his interest and his partner, Tim Ramis, his interest in doing some housing, introduced them to Northwest Housing Alternatives. They do beautiful buildings. They'll do a beautiful building that's a beautiful neighbor. And
 They're going to do it for people who we serve, very, very low-income seniors. So it seems to me with all that we're dealing with, and we've said we need many different approaches, a private owner making land available, one of our very best nonprofits coming together to do this. And I think the bigger issue of whether it's
 three to one or two to one is, is this a neighborhood that should have more housing and should it have more affordable housing? And,
 Is compatibility with a historic district really defined by height? My husband and I lived for two years in Vienna and a year in Edinburgh, and I would say no. I love northwest Portland. I don't accuse the neighbors of NIMBYism. That didn't come from us. It didn't come from Northwest Housing Alternatives. But I really think this is a significant project.
 160 units I I will really really be disappointed if this project doesn't go through so let me just get both of you to comment maybe a little bit further I see Peggy Moretti is here as well the council I am I think we all are trying to find our way through this dilemma here obviously we've already had one development proposal for this site that was rejected
 And it seems to me that we're in an unfortunate situation of being asked to aim a shotgun at an area that would have potentially pernicious effects on historic preservation all over the place in order to address maybe one or two development projects that we might otherwise like. I'm speculating. We're not conducting a land use hearing here. Okay.
 I don't believe we've done enough as a city in terms of historic preservation. We've had a lot of losses lately, and we're having them every day. You mentioned Vienna and Edinburgh, but it's pretty hard to tear down a historic building in those cities, at least the ones that weren't lost in Vienna in the war. So I'm eager for us to do a better job of hanging on to the historic resources that we have today,
 Um, so the four to one ratio and its potential, uh, effect of incentivizing demolition and replacement is what's got at least me worried. Your thoughts about that beyond the boundaries of your property? Okay.
 So I would comment on that. Again, the four-to-one ratio has existed for 36 years, the historic district for 16. I think the development proposal for the site that I have that came through earlier was one that piqued a lot of concern. But I do think there is a way to build sensitively. I mean, the fact that that was not approved through historic design review, that it was not approved by the city council,
 actually demonstrates that those are good checks on analyzing in a nuanced way, on a site-specific way, what is appropriate and what's not appropriate. So you could take your argument and turn it actually on its heel and say, leave the potential there, and then look at the projects on a case-by-case basis through the existing procedures that exist. Okay.
 The council could also ask staff to go back and really look at what the development potential is, where are sites where there is capacity for housing that could be at above that two-to-one ratio that might be good opportunities for development. Our site does have a contributing resource on it. Our proposal is to retain that resource.
 and build around it on the site. So again, kind of a hybrid model of meeting both the historic preservation goals, but also the affordable housing goals. I mean, you have a Landmarks Commission. You have a checks and ballots in place for anybody that comes forward and wants to develop and develop at 4 to 1. And it's fairly arduous.
 So, we don't think that imposing this FAR of two to one is the solution since you already have something in place. Yes, I think the concern about historic preservation is real, but I think when we have people sleeping all over our neighborhoods, including this property, I don't see how that's better for the neighborhood and the homeowners and us as a city when we can actually get housing and put people in it.
 They are going to preserve the historic building on the property. It will be a beautiful building, and it will be a beautiful, it will be a good neighbor. That I promise.
 The counter-argument to that is that we should set reasonable expectations, and if you basically can't do it at 421 because it's not going to fit in, shouldn't we be setting more clear boundaries so that you don't spend a lot of money going through design review, getting to the council, and then being told no and having to start all over again? That doesn't seem to like its...
 helping anybody. Yeah. I mean, unfortunately, we started this process in the spring. We learned in September that the Neighborhood Associated come forward. So there's already been considerable resource and time put into it. And yeah, it just came in on us in midstream. And I think, again, as you know, I mean, we have a dire use for units. I mean, I started my day listening to the receptionist
 Answer the phone to seniors who call in every day trying to get a shelter bed. Not an apartment, a shelter bed. We have seniors living outside. And because my office is right by the receptionist, I hear this call in every morning, and it's very sobering.
 Just one additional, perhaps random comment. I mean, historically, Portland has been a relatively affordable place to live, and that part of our history is being erased. And to some extent, there is some conflict, hopefully a resolvable conflict, between maintaining the historic physical character and maintaining our historic social character. Good point. Thank you. Appreciate your helping us think through that. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Martha Cox. I'm Chief Executive Officer of Columbia Steel Casting Company, Inc., which is located at 10425 North Bloss Avenue in North Portland. I'm here to testify about the miscellaneous zoning code amendments before you, and in particular, the proposed public recreational trail alignments. I'm here to request that you do not adopt the proposed trail alignment on our site, which is a proposed amendment to Zoning Map 1924, Trail Segment 835. Thank you.
 and instead adopt a revised alignment which would avoid our operational areas. I've submitted written testimony that explains the request in detail, and before you is a map showing the proposed trail alignment in red and our requested revision in yellow hash marks. Our plant includes a substantial amount of large, complex, and expensive equipment. We rely on internal circulation roadways to move large cast steel parts and other materials around our facility.
 We maintain large outdoor storage areas and have an electrical substation on our site. The city's proposed trail alignment runs across many of these areas. Construction of the trail in the location noted in red would substantially undermine our trail operations and circulation throughout our site. We're also concerned that the close proximity of the trail to our operational area presents an unacceptable risk of theft and danger to trespassers. We understand that when required, the final alignment would be established through negotiations with the Parks Department.
 However, having a trail alignment through our operational area in print as a starting point for that negotiation is problematic because it suggests to all parties that the trail should be where it's shown on the map. Also, having this trail routed across an active industrial area creates significant problems if we seek financing or if we ever wish to sell the business or property. Thank you.
 Our requested alignment solves many of these problems by placing the trail closer to the slough and away from our operations. At the same time, it avoids most of the designated environmental zoning south of the slough and will provide a better pedestrian experience. We developed this proposal in cooperation with the BPF staff, and in fact, BPF staff developed the compromise alignment before you.
 We appreciated their willingness to work with us on this issue and sincerely hope you'll support our request. Thank you. Thank you. It looks like – oh, go ahead. I was just wondering, do you own the property where it's shown on the yellow? Yes, we do. It's still on your tax lot, yes. Yeah. So we'd ask somebody else's. True. Good. Thank you very much. That's helpful. Thanks a lot. Thank you. The next three are Jeff Reese, Gerda Schmidt, and Karen Schmidt. They'll be followed by Ian at McKenzie, Damian Hall –
 And Deanna Vita. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up, yeah. The others are upstairs making their way down. We'll make room for you in a minute. For those of you who are upstairs, there's some room downstairs now if you wanted to come down, if you're going to be called up soon. We're on numbers 21, 22, and 23. All right. Make progress. Welcome. Thank you. Number 24. I'm not sure what number you are. Sorry.
 whoever's 25. all right all right mayor hales members of the commission uh thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today i'm here on behalf of joe angel who's a property owner uh of multiple commercial properties in the city
 I've submitted some written- Could you give us your name, please? Yeah, Damien Hall. Thank you. Pardon me. I've submitted some written testimony that touches on a number of topics. There are two site-specific zoning requests, a general opposition to the ban on drive-throughs east of 80th, and expressing concern with the 80 percent reduction in auto accommodating zoning that's being proposed.
 but I'd like to speak to a different issue today here using my two minutes, and that is nonconforming uses. So the mixed-use zones project is...
 As you know, a large-scale wholesale rezoning of the commercial zones in the city's corridors and centers. You know, there are a lot of good objectives there on how to sort of shape the built environment and new construction and, you know, creating new dense mixed-use zones,
 But the side effect of that is that, unfortunately, a lot of the existing commercial space that is currently affordable and certainly has rent rates that are less than what new construction would be, that space will be caused to become nonconforming uses.
 You've heard a little bit today and in various testimony about the impact on property owners and the businesses that are operating out of buildings that become non-conforming situations.
 that impacts existing small businesses. The Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendation identifies the need to maintain affordable commercial space, and there's even a... I would call it a placeholder for affordable commercial bonus in the commercial zoning, but there's no real clarity on how that is to be achieved. I don't think there's a promise of administrative rules to be created, but not really a framework of those yet. So...
 I think that there's a, so on one hand, you're trying to create this dense urban environment, and on the other hand, you're trying not to negatively impact the existing businesses, and so on.
 and property owners who have invested in these sites that would be inconsistent with the new development you want to see under the code. So I think that there's a simple solution, and that's adding some language to Section 33-130-285, which I've included at the end of the letter handed to you. And that would simply say that the mixed-use zones and the new commercial zoning is not intended to create non-conforming uses. So if you're conforming at the day it's adopted...
 you retain your rights. But if you come in to develop new, you need to develop under the new code. That sort of allows to separate the policy debate about what new development should look like and separate that from penalizing existing property owners and existing businesses. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. Members of Portland State Council, my name is Deanna Batar, 9828 East Burnside. I'm actually here today for my father, Bill Batar, who was unable to attend due to a family emergency. So I'm going to read his testimony. Thank you.
 I have lived and worked in East Portland for over 50 years. Now we see that the Planning Commission wants to ban all drive-thru restaurants because they want to eliminate fast foods east of 80th Avenue, while the rest of the city enjoys this convenience. Is that really fair for the people in East County? How can you stop people from having something they want? Do you remember New York City's Mayor Bloomberg placing a ban on all sugary drinks larger than 16 ounces?
 The New York Supreme Court ruled against the ban, and now the drinks are back in stores. Let's look at the bigger picture of East Portland. I feel that our elected officials should be concerned about what is happening in East County and not putting their emphasis on fast food drive-thrus. Grocery stores like Safeway and Albertsons have closed. Target at 122nd and Gleason have closed. Why is this happening? The median income is too low to support them.
 We need a better mix of low-income and market-rate housing to raise the overall income level. I am sure you have all shopped at Trader Joe's, Whole Foods, and New Seasons. It would be nice to have at least one in our area. You should be finding ways to support and encourage quality food stores to operate in East County.
 They are the heart of any neighborhood inside the limiting access to fast food restaurants. In closing, our company is losing 19 potential drive-thru locations under the proposed new zoning code. Not all these properties would be workable for a drive-thru, but nevertheless, we are losing the drive-thru zoning designation.
 We currently have two fast food restaurants that will be non-conforming if the proposed zoning plan gets adopted. One is at 82nd and Fremont, and the other is at 92nd and Powell. I ask that the council to please retain the current drive-thru zoning for these two properties.
 I have listed their addresses and legal descriptions separately. I strongly object to the new zoning proposals that arbitrarily limit the use of these properties in East County. Again, may I say the residents are entitled to drive-through access here, just as in any other parts of the city. I am requesting that you do not make any of the proposed drive-through designation changes. Thank you. Bill Bittar. Thank you very much. Appreciate you coming. Our regards to him. Yes. Thank you.
 Was there a Jeff Reese, Gerda and Karen Schmidt and then Ian McKenzie? At least one of them. Okay. And then we'll go with 26 and 27, Lisa Lucas and Erica. Yes, Erica Yoshida.
 They're here. Welcome. Go ahead while they're getting ready. Hi. My name is Ian McKenzie, and I'm a resident of northwest Portland. I'm here to oppose any down zoning in the Alphabet District, and in particular the down zoning being requested south of Gleeson. I entirely agree with the testimony you've heard from affordable housing advocates. With Portland's first inclusionary zoning ordinance likely to come into effect in February, we should be very careful about removing capacity in opportunity-rich areas. Thank you.
 Implementing the comprehensive plan often requires balancing competing policy objectives. Much of the testimony received in favour of the downzoning was from people who, quite rightly, care about protecting the historic character of the district. I would argue though that in this case capacity for housing and historic preservation are not in conflict.
 The Alphabet District is very different to other historic districts in Portland, such as Ladd's Addition or Irvington. They're almost exclusively made up of single-family houses. By contrast, in the National Register nomination form, the Alphabet District is described as "...unique in Portland for its concentration of early 20th century multifamily structures, many of which were designed and constructed by the city's premier architects and developers."
 I myself live in such a structure, which, although located just outside the boundaries of the Starr District, was built during the period of significance by noted architects Clausen and Clausen. It comes in at an FAR that calculated of 3.2 to 1.
 There are a great number of four or five-story multifamily buildings in the district, many of which were individually listed on the National Register before the historic district was created in 2000. Most of these come in an FAR of somewhere between 2 to 1 and 4 to 1. A handful are actually above 4 to 1 and are therefore non-conforming even with the current zoning.
 Indeed, 29% of contributing historic resources, and that's only the historic resources at South Eglisean, have an FAR above 2 to 1. Clearly, these historic structures are not incompatible with the historic district. So it's not at all obvious to me why we would need to zone vacant parcels to FAR limits well below what we were building in the early 20th century. As others have noted, the character of the district is protected by the fact that all new buildings in the district go through discretionary review by the Landmarks Commission.
 Indeed, a project now under construction at Northwest 21st and Irving, which was approved by the AHLC with enthusiasm, will have an FAR of 2.96 to 1. So that's it. Thank you very much. Nice job. Yeah, submit that if you can, too, please. I emailed it. That's the testimony. Good. Thank you very much. Okay. Is there Lisa Lucas, Erica, Yoshida, or Jim Hoy? Thank you. And we'll also go with Brian Lessler, Zoltan Sputer, and Anthony Calibroo.
 Okay. Good afternoon. Welcome. And Peggy Moretti, Rebecca Biederman, and Susan Lindsey will be... Thank you. My name is Erica Yoshida-Watson, and thank you for allowing me to speak today. My family owns commercial land on Markham Hill, located at 836 and 904 Southwest Gibbs, adjacent to OHSU. I'm here today to address our concerns that our property is proposed for downzoning from CS to CM1.
 As you probably know, there's a tremendous housing shortage on Markham Hill next to OHSU, especially for medical staff, students, patients, and their families. We have carefully been planning for the last several months a mixed-use apartment project that would cater to those needs, both for short- and long-term housing needs with walking distance to OHSU. The proposed zoning change would actually cut our plans in half.
 which would limit the amount of housing we could provide for those in need, and then also negatively affecting our plans to incorporate affordable housing in the project as well. So we respectfully request for the CS and CM parcels on Market Mill to be up-zoned instead of down-zoned to CM2 or 3. Great. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Brian Lesler, and I'm going to be very brief because I'm here on behalf of the Ishida family also. And I have submitted some written testimony early this morning, which you probably haven't had a chance to look at yet. We'll get to it. Given your load, I know. Just a couple of issues I wanted to emphasize, though. With respect to this issue,
 this neighborhood up there surrounding I'm oh yes you Markham Hill
 It's a very special area, and there's about 2,000 residents that live in the Homestead neighborhood, which it is a part of. And about 70% of those by demographics are renters. So it's a sort of bifurcated neighborhood. And I know Commissioner Fritz was very involved with the Markham Hill plan in the past, and this –
 This concept of village center, which directs the concept of living and working and shopping without driving, is directly overlaid within the properties that Yoshida owned.
 And so this down zone, you know, you've heard a lot about affordable housing today. I'm not going to reiterate that. As a commissioner of Home Forward, I am fully aware of the depth of the problem. As a developer, I also understand that by constricting the yield out of a piece of property, the ability to cover debt –
 when you have to reduce that yield, becomes very questionable. And so likely no affordable housing other than requirements for inclusionary zoning, which I think can be very positive if there are appropriate incentives for it.
 What we really want to see is a CM3 designation on this property to allow a really well-developed project that allows for commercial services as well as
 both market rate and affordable housing. How large is the property, roughly? It's an interesting property. It is going to require street vacation. It's bifurcated by 9th Street, bordered by Southwest Gibbs and Southwest U.S. Veterans. That's a mouthful. Southwest U.S. Veterans Hospital Road. It would in total be about 20,000 square feet with 3,000 street of vacated space.
 3,000 feet relative to street vacation. Interesting.
 Interesting problem in that neighborhood in that I think it's the only place in the city that actually meets this description, which is obviously there are a lot of places in the city where we can't expand automobile capacity even if we wanted to. Right. You're one of them. But you're also the other principal mode of transit to Markham Hill is an aerial tram that's also reaching the limits of its capacity.
 So we have a transit system that can't actually get any bigger, which is not the norm. We can add buses or we can upgrade from bus to light rail or whatever, but we can't add extra cars. So just a brief response. Allowing a higher density of housing I think actually helps to mitigate that problem by eliminating the need for people to commute from off the hill. Right.
 If we're trying to shorten commutes, then your point is well taken. And what was the reason given to you for the choice of CM1? Well, we've been trying to investigate that. Our sense is that it's really a response to the concerns raised by the Homestead Neighborhood Association, which –
 We're not sure it necessarily represents the 70% of the residents that live on the hill. What was the concern? Their main concern is traffic and parking. And we think that their limitation, their desire to limit the density there, actually works in reverse of their concern. And they've not exactly been anti-growth, but I understand that there may be a different view of the problem there. Right, right. Thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony.
 Is there a Lisa Lucas, a Jim Hoy, Zoltan Peter, or Anthony Calibro? And you already called Susan Lindsay, I think. And then we'll go with Peggy Moretti. Come on, Susan. I think you're on. Wasn't Susan Lindsay called? Rebecca Biederman and then Susan Lindsay. Yes. Oh, sorry. Okay. We jumped her ahead of you, Peggy. I hope you don't mind. Go ahead, please. Welcome. Yes. Hi. My name is Zoltan Pinter. I'm in-house counsel with Del Monte Fresh Produce.
 We have the facility located at 9243 North Rivergate Boulevard, and we trace our business back to the late 1890s, and we've been in Portland since 2000. We have a 52,000-square-foot facility wherein we employ 180 to 200 lower-class, middle-class individuals that work throughout the year. And right now we're here to oppose the additional I-zone overlay on the industrial H-zone
 As we see that, it imposes additional restrictions on our property. It will disallow and may affect our operations in the future, what we can do, affecting our property values. And in our view, what's happening is the city is predicting the future today by doing this overlay, which would cause for – there won't be the ability for changes in the future anymore.
 And there is no ability to discuss in the future. You're essentially giving up our rights as of today. And it appears that it targets certain businesses while other businesses, for example, the port, the airport, are not part of this. So for that reason, we oppose the iZone overlay. Thank you. Thanks very much. Malcolm.
 thank you my name is anthony calabrese i'm a 18 year resident of the city of portland and an employee of del monte fresh produce for last 10 years i've been driving out to north portland to go to work every day with a lot of various people the area that i work in has a lot of buildings that are empty a lot of places that could be developed maybe there's a opportunity for capital investments
 and I agree with my associate, Zoltan, that adding additional overlays onto the zone may prohibit more development in the area. Thank you. Okay, thank you both. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Let's see if this works. Okay, there we go. Hi, I'm Susan Lindsay.
 I had the pleasure to be able to be on the PAC or the SAC or whatever it was called for the mixed-use zoning project, and I thought that Barry Manning and Bill Cunningham did a fantastic job. But I'm here today that I've heard that some amendments have been raised or some concern has been raised, and there's a desire to perhaps remove the parking minimums that were set. And
 i don't think that's a good idea uh for one thing we we don't even really know what adequate parking is i mean there's never been a really substantial look at this and what we have i've noticed that from years of being on different committees the concern about parking consistently comes up now one thing that i do know is that oftentimes parking is raised as an issue that if we provide more parking it just gets filled up well we
 One thing I'd like to point out is that the Planning Bureau for many years told us that if we accepted a lot of density in the city...
 that what would happen was that would be keeping housing affordable. And actually the opposite has taken place, and we have this tremendous crisis around rental affordability that is very disconcerting to many of us who were born in Portland. The first house I ever rented with four other housemates back in 1974 cost $90 a month, and it was on Southeast 6th and Mill. And my first house that I rented on my own was $75 a month,
 So you can see why I'm concerned.
 And I haven't noticed that building all of these apartment buildings, many of them that don't have parking, has brought those rents down and created more affordability. So I don't believe that an argument can really be made that if we now eliminate parking from all the new large structures that are being built, that we'll have more affordability. I just don't believe that's true, and I think that's just a never-giveaway that the city should not do, and we'll lose more livability. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Peggy Moretti or Rebecca Biederman, 32 and 33. And we'll also go with 35, Richard Allen. And they'll be followed by 36, Tamara Derritter, 37, Marty Suchek, and 38, Donna Bestwick. Good afternoon and welcome. Hi. I'm Rebecca Biederman. I'm here about the TSP and the Greenway proposed on Northeast 7th.
 I've lived in Irvington for almost 11 years. I'm a mom. I have a third grader at Irvington Elementary, and we walk and ride our bikes back and forth through the neighborhood every day. As a parent and a resident in Irvington specifically, I'm concerned about not being involved in the decision about the proposed greenway on Northeast 7th and what the design would look like and how it would impact the safety of the neighborhood.
 Opposition to this decision still exists among the residents on both sides of Northeast 7th, as well as the streets that will be impacted by the reduction of traffic on Northeast 7th. Increased congestion on Northeast MLK and Northeast 15th is not optimal. Increased cut-through drivers at increased speed through the Irvington neighborhood and around Irvington Elementary is dangerous.
 I and other residents would like to be allowed to have our concerns addressed. We would like the design work on this project to proceed with full integration of the residents and the neighborhoods impacted. I would expect multiple meetings offered by PBOT as design work moves forward so that a solution can be designed that is pro-neighborhood.
 PBOT, we wish, does not move forward with this unless they also have a plan to hold meetings with the public to ensure the many concerns already brought to you in the spring through the public testimony process. I think our major concern is not having a voice as the design process moves forward around the Greenway.
 And that it was originally between Northeast 7th and Northeast 9th. So I think that's the main concern we have is having a say in how that integrates into the rest of the neighborhood. Thank you. So there wasn't a process to decide whether it's on 9th or 7th? Is that what you're telling me? No, I think I don't. We...
 This, in the spring, there was testimony around this. It seemed like the plan had not, it hadn't been chosen to be Northeast 9th or Northeast 7th, but I believe right now Northeast 7th has been designated as the preferred route for the Greenway. The neighborhood didn't get involved, wasn't involved in that discussion or?
 Not since the spring. I mean, I think it was put on the back burner, and then we just recently found out what the preferred designation was. And there hasn't been any PBOT meetings or design meetings yet. I know we were told in the spring that once the process started, if the gas tax starts,
 was passed, that there would be meetings around what that would look like for the neighborhood in terms of the diverters or stop signs or speed bumps or different measures throughout the neighborhood. So our main concern is just being a part of that process as this moves forward and not –
 being uninformed about what's happening. Thank you very much. We still have to make the decision about whether it's northeast 7th or northeast 9th, and obviously we've heard a lot about those options. But definitely once that decision is finally made, we want to involve the neighborhood in the actual design process. How would the decision be made? I think it's up to us. I think we've got a recommendation that it's 7th, but...
 I think actually it's up to us. As was stated when we had the discussion in the spring, there was an expectation that the community folks were going to be involved in that. We'll look into it anyway. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm Peggy Moretti, the Executive Director of Restore Oregon, a nonprofit that works statewide to preserve and pass forward the historic places that make our communities livable and sustainable. I'm here today to enthusiastically endorse the proposed amendments to lower the far and height limits in the Northwest Alphabet Historic District and Irvington Historic District. Thank you.
 This is highly important if we want to fulfill the comp plan policy objective of preserving historic buildings and the character of our historic districts. And inherent in that need is the assurance of compatibility of the new construction. I would further point out that this adjustment does not conflict with the city's otherworthy goals of density and affordability. To say that preservation is in conflict with those things is a very false dichotomy,
 I would point out a few supporting points. The Alphabet District is already the densest district in the city, and Irvington is number two. These are already very dense districts. With proposed transfer bonuses that would still be in play, the FAR for new development could still reach five to one.
 So we're not literally limiting new buildings to two stories. They have that transferable FAR is still going to increase their height to be in line with what has already existed in that district, existing historic buildings. And if we leave in place current zoning that is going to generate
 development proposals that are pretty certainly going to be rejected by Landmarks Commission. We are setting up a continual round case after acrimonious case coming before City Council for resolution. I don't think that sets the Landmarks Commission up very well to do their job.
 I also think it's important to note that taken all together, all of Portland's historic districts represent less than 2% of our total land area. We are not talking about a huge swath of this city. They contain, however, the majority of our historic resources. So giving them a little protection is not going to stymie our quest for affordable housing.
 Furthermore, it makes little sense to me that advocates pick some of the most expensive real estate or land in the city in which to locate affordable housing. That kind of goes against my logic. And I kind of have to throw out the question, why is the central city, which is already dense, bearing the bulk of the burden of adding more density while outlying neighborhoods that are crying for new and better development seem to be going wanting here?
 I think we should be focusing on making Portland's outer neighborhoods as lovely and livable and dense as the inner city. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Richard Allen, I'm here for American Waterways. My testimony concerns property at 110 Southeast Carruthers and 250 Southeast Carruthers. From that location, American Waterways has for 20 years operated a successful cruise vessel business under the Portland Spirit banner.
 Our concern today is specifically with the mapping of the major public trail across the riverfront of the property and how the city's desire for that trail, which dates back to the city's 1987 Willamette Greenway plan, changes.
 conflicts with American Waterways' obligation to comply with federal requirements applicable to our operations under a post-911 federal law, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA. MTSA requires covered vessels and facilities to submit a facility security plan to the Coast Guard for approval.
 Under the MTSA, the certificated passenger capacity of at least two of our vessels triggers the requirement for a facility security plan, and we have to be able to operate in compliance with that Coast Guard-approved plan in order to be able to operate our vessels. A few key points about the facility security plans. First, they have to fully describe a suite of security measures for the facility to comply with.
 Second, homeland security and the Coast Guard can at any time change the security requirements as threats change. And third, and this is really the kicker, is that American Waterways is prohibited from disclosing the provisions in its facility security plan except in very limited circumstances. I've been doing work for them since 1997. I don't know what's in the plan. They've never discussed it with me, and they can't.
 So, but an unrestricted public access trail across the riverfront of the property is going to make it, I think, very difficult to operate in compliance with the MTSA. So we would either like the trail removed from our property or
 or in the CC2035 process to have provisions in 33272, which deals with trails, to exempt MTSA subject properties or to allow MTSA subject properties to have a special type of easement where you can actually close it off if it's necessary to do so for MTSA purposes. Thank you.
 So I might ask you, if you can, maybe you've already had this discussion, to follow up a bit with the Planning Bureau staff. I mean, I've heard this concern, and I'll confess to not understanding all the technicalities of it, but I do spend a lot of time on the water, and I can certify that there are lots of places in the United States where it's possible to walk laterally along a riverbank and still get to a ship. So I must assume that other...
 carriers are somehow surmounting this security requirement without canceling out the ability of the public to move up and down the riverbank on a trail. So, again, just looking at the context, you're talking about national regulations here. Again, I've spent a lot of time on a lot of waterfronts. Boston comes to mind, Baltimore comes to mind, San Diego comes to mind, and so on. So somehow the public is allowed...
 relatively free and open access up and down those waterfronts while still having ships subject to these regulations docking at Proprietary docks that are perpendicular to those walkways. So I understand that we shape you can carry that technical Conversation on a bit with our staff because we obviously don't want to be in contrary We don't want to be contrary to federal law, but we also don't want to be missing an opportunity here. I
 I understand. I think there may be a difference between what we see when we see the public seeming to have
 free and open access, and having a recorded easement that says we have a legal obligation to give the public access, at least I think the rules currently are from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m. It may be a different situation, but we'll certainly work with staff on that. It would help us to understand really what our boundaries are here. So thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 The next three are Tamara Derritter, Marty Suchek, and Donna Beswick, 36, 37, 38. And they'll be followed by Katherine Christensen, Debbie T. Gefford, and Stan Green, 39, 40, and 41. Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Tamara DeRitter. I'm representing Rose City Park Neighborhood Association as their chairperson and also representing myself as the principal for TDR and Associates Planning. First off, I'll be representing the Neighborhood Association. And they have –
 requested your support for the Planning and Sustainability Commission decision in 2011 not to rezone the 60th Street station area just yet.
 Right now, the density that's being called for will change R5 to mixed-use commercial 2 and R1, higher densities. And the 60th Avenue between Sandy Boulevard – I mean, between Halsey and the stationary at I-84 has two-foot-wide sidewalks. So to rezone it, then you'd have a smattering of improvements with the developments there.
 but nothing consistently all the way through. I've been working with PBOT in getting funding, looking at funding for that area. Once those improvements are in place, then it won't be a safety hazard and we can rezone. But it's one of the few areas in the comprehensive plan that has not rezoned over the last 20 years, and for good reason, because all working class housing and some of the streets just do not even have sidewalks.
 Second, the board has supported a revised requirement for off-street parking where you need to have three parking spaces for every four dwelling units for mixed use. And this is in support of your own study on how many dwelling units have housing, rental housing, have dwelling units. It's 70% of all renters have at least one.
 car, vehicle. And so the question is, how do we address that with mixed use? And the requirements you have right now for 500 foot setbacks from Sandy Boulevard are minimum. Like, right now at
 parking spaces for 89. And as TDR and associates, excuse me for going over just a little bit, I want you to draw your attention to the Title 33 zoning code that does not include the policy number 9.58 requiring adequate parking.
 parking for off-street parking. It does not include that in any of the documentation, and therefore it does not comply with the comprehensive plan. And I therefore request continuance of this public hearing until such language can be inserted and reviewed by the public. Thank you. Thank you very much. Could you just give me that?
 Code number again? Yeah. The reference number is 9.58 off-street parking. Yeah, and what is... Of the comprehensive plan. Yes, but what's the zoning code piece that you want, that you think doesn't comply with it? Well, it's the... It's the elements of title... Let's see.
 33.266.110. Thank you. B. Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. Welcome. Hi, I'm Donna Bestwick, and I'm a 35-year resident of Multnomah Village. And we're all painfully aware that you are in a constant tug-of-war between citizenry, development, and interests of Portland. And while I am compassionate of that, I won't let you off the hook.
 On your parking requirements, the lady next to me here mentioned them. Every neighborhood in Portland is very distressed about the parking situation. And, you know, we don't wear the suits of lawyers, of developers, of people with a personal background.
 financial interest. We're the people who live here in Portland. We have, for many years, we've paid taxes that support all of us and take care of all of us. And we are a majority of Portland, a single family dwellers who have faithfully paid our taxes all these years. And it looks to us like we have the least voice in the system of a city that's supposed to work for us. You know, the only thing standing between
 developers, and I won't call them mercenary or anything like that, because this is America, and they have the freedom to make as much money as they can. But, you know, once an area is overdeveloped, it's not going to go back. And this business of
 of not having enough parking for a one-to-one, you say it has to do with mass transit. And the mass transit is fabulous in Portland. I rode the bus down here, and it's wonderful. But people are not going to get rid of their cars.
 I am not going to take a bus to visit my Aunt Gladys in Spokane I'm not going to visit my cousin in Montana on a bus and then not have a vehicle when I get there we are all in that position I'm going to ask again, how many of you on the council have cars? ...
 You all do. We all do. And so what you're doing is you're putting incredible pressure on neighborhoods and street parking. People are going to be parking in front of our homes. And so with reference to the parking policy, I'm going to use Irma Bombeck's quote again. Please stop peeing on our shoes and telling us it's raining.
 Thanks very much. You know, I just think it's important to note that this is a difficult issue for the council on the parking issue, but most of the advocacy that we're hearing on the other side is not from developers. It's from transportation advocates like Portlanders for Parking Reform who are disinterested in the question of this or that development, but believe that we should be working towards a future where we are walking more and using transit more and
 driving less. So it really isn't a tug of war, in this case, between neighborhoods and developers. It's a tug of war between two different visions of how the transportation system should work that I've been hearing from, and we've had a lot of testimony on the plan on the other side, but I think actually none of it from developers. So I don't want you to
 Think of it, I hope you don't think of it because I think that's inaccurate to think of it, is that that's the debate. It really isn't between neighborhoods and developers. It's between neighbors and neighbors. It doesn't make it any easier for us, but I think that's a more accurate characterization of the debate. I agree 100%, but what the lack of parking allows developers to do is,
 is increase their footprint. So if they were going to build a structure anywhere and had to have at least one-for-one parking, they couldn't go as big on the footprint. No question. So that's where they gain the advantage. I understand that. Mass transit and driving a car are two separate issues. Please don't tie them together because we do take – I walk everywhere. I don't take my car to the garage three to four days a week, and many of us don't.
 But I still have a car. That's not going to go away. Understood. Thank you. Thank you. And there's so many people parking now, it's hard to walk in the neighborhood. But I will start my testimony now, Carl. Put your name in the record. Marty Suchek. I'm here representing the Multnomah Neighborhood Association. And I find it disconcerting that all of these things are just one.
 council agenda item. Each one of these we should be able to testify on. I know we can send it in, but there's something different about actually being here. We have a big problem with the mixed use issue. We don't want to be a center. We prefer, we've said we want to be a corridor, but we really don't want to be that. We want to be a main street, and we're sorry Metro decided to let
 Portland do away with this quaint concept that reflects our village. But I also want to comment on previous issues. I don't want to be the one to tell Smile that a design overlay doesn't get them anything. They need a plan district. It's kind of deja vu, Mayor, all over again, because you and I were sitting in this very room thinking,
 I think Commissioner Salzman was there, and Vera Katz, and James Francesconi, et cetera. When you said in 2001, you called the planner in and said, is there a height limit on a design overlay? And he said, well, he didn't have the code then, but yes, he thought it did. So you said, let's have a design overlay on Multnomah. And...
 The mayor agreed. And it was therefore done. I was just reviewing that testimony. I have testimony from there. A design overlay hasn't helped us preserve our character. So I think what we really need is a plan district.
 And the mixed-use process has taken this thing like a chainsaw clear across every neighborhood in the city. They came to Multnomah, they had two groups, they walked people around the city, and two different times they went down to Southwest 40th where Gabriel Park is and where the last pervious surface, truly pervious surface is, and said, what about a Walmart here at different times? So what we believe is that the Planning Commission and the principals in the Planning Bureau
 have a different idea of what it should be, what moments should be, what we would like to see as a planned district, where we get businesses together, people together, et cetera. And the other thing I really am compelled to say all the time is there's a false dichotomy set up. It's actually a logical fallacy between trees, for example, density,
 single-family houses. It's not one or the other. With intelligent, creative planning, we can have trees even on 5,000-square-foot lots. We can have great development. We have had great multifamily development in Multnomah since the Southwest Plan started.
 The other thing I hate is this nimbyism, and I heard an advocate for the poor, I think, refer to nimbyism. I'm really getting sick of that. There is some nimbyism. In the 20-odd years I've been busy in this activism, I've seen maybe a dozen true nimbys. They don't want that in their backyard. We want some of the things in our front yard.
 I think when you attack people for being NIMBYs, that's logical fallacy number seven, as I remember from my philosophy course. It's saying you attack the man, you attack the messenger, you do not engage the argument. So I'd like to see all of this...
 Accusation blank about NIMBYs or about, you know, I don't want to say Neanderthals, they seem to be smarter than we give them credit for and even us, but the Cro-Magnons were not that. We want to protect the UGB. We want creative planning that keeps our neighborhood a walkable place and lets it develop in a smart way.
 truly smart way. And it's nice to see you 20-something years later. Some of us have been at this for a while. Yes, and we should tell Smile they should ask for a plan district. Maybe we could get one. Nice to see you up there. Thanks for continuing to be involved. I've always said that if you don't care about what goes on in your backyard, then who will? So you have to come and advocate for your community. So thank you. Right. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you all.
 Next three are 39, 40, and 41, Catherine Christensen, Debbie T. Gaffard, and Stan, I believe it's Stan Green. And they'll be followed by 42, Lois O'Hara, 43, Eliza Greenstat, and 44, Mark P. O'Donnell. Hey. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Catherine Christensen, and I, too, am from the Multnomah neighborhood. And I appreciate your listening to my testimony today. Okay.
 What I wanted to talk to you about was the CIP should maintain a list of communities and
 I'm going to read you what I want to say about this. We're concerned that the August 2016 recommended draft of the Community Involvement Program allows the city to determine what is a community without public transparency. The definition of community as a group of people with a shared sense of identity or belonging is so broad that without further definition, the public cannot understand which groups of people
 with shared identities or belonging have standing in the SIP as communities? Basic questions about who is any given group of people with a shared sense of identity or belonging. What is the name of the group? How is it determined that people in the group share the sense of identity or belonging? What is the sense of identity or belonging? Who speaks for the group? And how the group makes decisions or adopts positions are left unanswered.
 The SIPP needs to be more transparent in defining community because community appears to be the basis for the SIPP. The Multnomah Neighborhood Association is requesting that, at a minimum, the SIPP maintain a list of communities...
 that have standing in the SIP as communities, provide procedures used to add and remove communities from the list, and clarify how membership in a community is determined so that any individual may unambiguously determine whether or not they belong to a given community and whether they belong to more than one community, and a report on the annual basis of the funding that communities on the list receive from the city. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Mr. Christensen, have you already sent that in? We will send it in by the end of the day. Thank you. I really appreciate it. That's a piece that I'm taking a particularly close look at, so thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thanks. I'm Sean Green. I'm a longtime Irvington resident. I have several points that I wanted to raise to council that I'll include in my email testimony, but I just mentioned the most important one right now.
 There's a PSC proposal that the City Council accept Northeast 7th Avenue as, quote, the preferred route for the Greenway alignment that previously was Northeast 9th Avenue. And PBOT language around this issue is, quote, staff responses that we need to conduct a proper study of the effects of various diverter treatments on traffic patterns in the area of question and a detailed traffic analysis.
 peabot would need to conduct a full public process to assess various options and weigh the benefits and impacts to the public during the tsp major projects list adoption process earlier in 2016 city council amended the 7th 9th neighborhood greenway project to identify both routes as potential alignments subject to further study the designation of 7th avenue is a preferred route and major city bikeway is inappropriate given that that study has never taken place there's been no community involvement
 I think that this should be deferred until that traffic analysis and study has taken place and there's been opportunity for community input. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Debbie Thomas-Shifrard. I'm here primarily to focus on the FAR modifications proposed. There are nine C zones on this list, and five of them are upgraded. One stays the same, but three are downgraded.
 The city is talking all about the density needs, mainly in housing, but also in commercial and services. We talk about new codes and requirements for unreinforced masonry buildings. We talk about bonus FAR to encourage certain kinds of development. Thank you.
 The zoning changes proposed suggest changes that would lower density in many areas that we as taxpayers have spent many years at improving and put many resources into infrastructure and amenities in those areas. My comments are not spot property accommodations, as someone suggested. It's not just Irvington and northwest Portland. It goes all over the city and affects many property owners, northwest, northeast,
 St. John's, where they desperately need density. You're suggesting devaluation of properties and lessening the use of our city's infrastructure that everyone pays for. In your proposed modifications, CS, CX, and CG are the only ones that the FAR is penalized or lowered. The others have been increased. I hope this is an oversight that will be recognized and changed and not adopted.
 specifically regarding CS to CM2. My first question is why. It penalizes owners that haven't done a recent development, not to mention that I believe it will create less design diversity since everyone will most likely create boxes that maximize what they can do. Going from CS to CM2 reduces FAR far more than it appears, 3.1 versus 2.5 to 1. However, it's really much more than that because you have limited the bonuses.
 so it could have a huge reduction for some properties or planned developments. I'm not sure a lot of people actually realize that part has been slipped in. And do you realize that in some cases, if the property is deemed uneconomical to reinforce...
 With this change and under the new proposal, you might not even be able to recreate what is there now. Makes no sense to me, goes completely against our coveted urban growth boundary, and I am in strong opposition to this and several other elements, such as CN going to CM1 and limiting retail sales services and office. Wow.
 Debbie, this is very – I mean, you understand real estate better than most people, so I hope you can give us that statement in writing because I think we should take it. I wrote it down, so I'm reading. Yeah, take it. So I'd like to take some time and really look through it. Okay. Rather than you finish it now, if you could send it. Okay. I really was almost finished. My closing is what is –
 With inclusionary zoning requirements, gross sale taxes on corporations that we desperately need to create jobs in our market, along with this suggestion, Portland is going backwards. We need our elected officials to focus on legislation that will encourage methodical growth and the influx of more businesses, not discouraging both. Thank you. Please send that to us, particularly your analysis of those transitions from CS to...
 to CM2 and from CN to CM1. I need to look at the numbers and understand that better. Okay. Thank you. That would be very helpful. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are 42, 43, and 44. Lois O'Hara, Eliza Greenstadt, and Mark, I think it's P.O. Dono.
 And they'll be followed by 45, 46, and 47, Karen Carlson, Greg Thiessen, and Rachel Ginosio. I believe it is. Okay. Good afternoon. Welcome. Go ahead. You can go ahead and start while they're coming up. Hi. I'm Eliza Greenstat. I'm another person to talk about the Greenway proposal on 7th Avenue. I live on 8th Avenue. I don't have anything written. I just want to kind of explain –
 that we're concerned about this because we don't feel like we have, we feel like this has been framed as if,
 It's been about which is a better avenue for the greenway and who's on what side or something. And it's been strangely acrimonious. And really, we found out about this late. We were told that we were going to have some input on the decision. We really haven't. Our requests for information have been...
 from the city we haven't received any reply for. We haven't actually seen the plan, a physical plan for this. And our concern is just that if there's going to be a great, and I should say I'm also a bike commuter. I bike to work every day. Our concern is that when MLK is blocked with traffic,
 7th Avenue is right there. It's a two-lane street. It's one of the few active two-lane streets in our neighborhood. And I've seen it just recently that cars will just go right on there. And it is terrible. They'll zoom along the street.
 when MLK is blocked, and I understand that the residents on that street are alarmed by the increase in traffic that's happened there, but then if there's a proposal to turn that into a greenway or a bike commuter, and there's also some confusion about which it's going to be, because those are very different kinds of streets, then what's going to happen to the traffic that's going along there now? That's what we're concerned about. And...
 I'm all for, and we as a community that's been thinking about this, we are all for having more different kinds of transportation, better bike routes, better pedestrian routes. We're just trying to have more input and more say and to have that be done safely in a way that's not going to cause more problems for our whole neighborhood.
 I'm disturbed to hear that you haven't received a response to a request for information. Would you mind dropping by my office and leaving your contact information? Sure, yeah. And then we'll get back to you and make sure that you get answers to the questions you've been asking. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Mark O'Donnell, and I own property with Tim Ramos at 1727 Northwest Hoyt. And we're here today in opposition to the reduction in FAR from four to one.
 You know, I dread coming here to see you today. I really do. You know, I grew up in northwest Portland, and...
 I walked down to my old neighborhood today. I was the last graduating class of St. Patrick's School in 1957, and at that time, I was on the wrong side of the poverty issue. I was on it. My single-parent mother raised four of us, and we all got to go to St. Pat's without paying tuition. We got to go to Friendly House, and we all got to be something in life today because somewhat of the neighborhood we lived in.
 I'm not going to get into it today about this idea of, like we see in our current presidential campaign of fear.
 If you don't reduce the FAR, Northwest Portland is going to lose all of its historical designations. I've been here before with you, and I'm sure you remember us. We went out and got Mark Edland, one of the most competent, integrity, impeccable persons to come in here, and he told you the building didn't work, et cetera, et cetera. We also offered to take care of 100 seniors a year for 10 years, da-da-da-da-da, and we didn't meet the criteria you had. You have well in place.
 You have well-in-place ordinances and criteria that protect buildings. Now, what I would like to talk to you about is the 160 people, at least, that would live in this project. And we have a tendency in this world today to talk around circles. And I realize that you can have a clash of values. I'm perfectly understandable of that. But we have a housing crisis, as you well know.
 The number is 23,295 units that we need in this city. We need this for people of extremely low income, which means you make less than $15,000 or $13,000 a year. Our project would be primarily occupied by people in that income category. But on the larger scale, you know, I try to think of,
 Why someone who makes less money, in effect, is economically excluded from living in northwest Portland when people come along and have alternatives for them to live there? You know, if you're an elderly citizen, medical concerns are quite a bit. And if you're four blocks from the hospital, that gives you peace of mind. Now, that's on top of the fear of having one foot out the door for no housing. It's also...
 You can walk two blocks to Trader Joe's. You can walk five blocks to Fred Meyer's.
 You can walk two blocks to the William Temple House that has support services, and there's all kinds of churches and facilities there for people. But if you don't make the economic criteria of affording a $1,600 a month rent with pass-through of all utilities, we're going to shift you to the west side, east side. We're going to shift you to east county. And, you know, you can slice the bread any way you want to slice it. You want to slice it any way, and –
 Since we're limited on time, I can't develop this in depth for you, so I'll give you the conclusion. The conclusion is this reduction in four-to-one is economic segregation. When you close Safeways at Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway and Shoals Ferry Road, that has nowhere near the impact when you close Safeways, Target,
 to Albertsons in the East County. Because if you have to take a bus for 20 blocks to take your groceries, that's a lot different than hopping in your car and going down there. So, look, there's plenty of control. You have plenty of control. I'd ask you to remain the flexibility that you have now, the oversight that you have, and that you –
 You do not do this. And I will send you a letter on this process, all right? We had no notice that your Planning and Sustainability Committee entertained such a drastic measure. The only reason we got notice was because under the Measure 49, we got notice. Thank you. Any questions? That's good. I appreciate it. Thank you, Mark.
 Thank you very much. I think we had called a couple other people. Karen Carlson's in the room. I think she was called. Karen Carlson, Greg Thiessen, and Rachel Giaccio, I believe it is. Ginocchio, I'm sorry. Thank you. Oh, thank you. Yeah, good point. Thank you. And then they'll be followed by Rick Michelson, Jim, sorry, I can't read the last name, Northwest Nikolai.
 And Mary Ann Terrell-Levine. Okay, we might get everybody in. So, welcome. Okay. Hi again. As you know, NWDA has provided a lot of testimony. Your name on the record, Karen. Oops. Karen Carlson, President, NWDA. We provided a lot of testimony. In fact, I don't even know how many times. We've requested and worked with staff for changes in Northwest. We've received many of them. We're very thankful. Thank you.
 and there's a few we haven't, but I've handed in some written testimony to ask for your consideration on a couple other things. However, what I guess I would like to address is the FAR. It's not the first time you've heard this. You know, right now we are so offended by all of the accusations that we are elitists, and I know there's been article upon article in the newspaper about
 You know, we're experiencing great growth in our neighborhood. And for the last couple of years, we've added almost 1,200 units. Our biggest dislike about that is none of it's affordable. Right now, we have over 800 regulated affordable housing units in our neighborhood. We've been asking them for them even when other neighborhoods were saying, no, not in my backyard. We said yes in our backyard.
 The median income in the core of our neighborhood is just under $35,000. And we have a lot of market affordable housing that we're afraid we're going to lose in that core area.
 You know, the Northwest District Plan is the only plan outside the central city that has an affordable housing bonus. We have an affordable housing bonus in our plan district. A few blocks north of the site that keeps being talked about, you could build up to 7 to 1 FAR and 120-foot tall building if you do affordable housing. We've been promoting affordable housing for a long time. We are not NIMBYs. We are not elitists. Okay.
 You know, we were as surprised as they were that there was a project going on. We didn't know anything about this project that has been happening since the spring. And actually, I do think that we may be able to find a solution if we all sit down and talk about it. So I am, you know, leaving it as the reason we're trying to do this is because we want to provide certainty to developers and property owners. Okay.
 Thank you. And I guess I just want to urge you and the others that are in this debate, outside of the five of us, it doesn't mean we can't settle it. But if there's further conversations that could be had among people of goodwill that might be able to get to yes in some way that would be helpful to the council, that would be most appreciated. And that is our plan. I hope so. Thank you. All right. Who'd like to be next? Go ahead.
 mayor hills i'm greg tyson i'm here on behalf of the northwest district association planning committee today thank you for the opportunity to testify um this is not about the far uh
 We have been working also on the institutional zoning project, and you have a hard copy testimony from me and probably also an e-mail testimony. And our work has led us to conclude that the best response to the challenge of planning for service growth at Legacy Good Samaritan is not to include it in the CIZP. As currently drafted, it does not reflect the unique nature of the Good Samaritan campus as it functions in the Northwest neighborhood.
 And as drafted, it ignores the unique characteristics of Legacy Good Samaritan. It has this...
 sort of integration into the neighborhood that is not at all campus-like in nature. Even PSU, with its sort of integration into other parts of the city with the block structure, has blocks in it and streets that are blocked off, and Good Sam only has one that's like that. So its unique grid development pattern provides for multiple access and throughways and its building sizes and locations that respond to the grid and the surrounding built environment.
 By not acknowledging these fundamental characteristics, the CIZP will fail to serve the Northwest community and Legacy Good Samaritan as they continue to grow and evolve together. What we would like to see is the opportunity to amend the Northwest District Plan and by doing so, addressing the issues with the Legacy Good Samaritan campus, if you'll call it that, and that would better serve all interests involved. So thank you for your consideration. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Hi, my name is Rachel Ginocchio. It's
 Pinocchio, but with a G. You have to own that with that kind of last name. And I'm the community liaison for the Selwood-Moreland Business Association. And earlier in the day, you heard from David and Ellen from SMILE, and I am here to support their testimony. It's a pleasure to sit here today to present a unified neighborhood testimony. We urge the PSC to recognize two vital aspects of our community when finalizing the zoning codes.
 The first is that the commercial corridors run right through the residential streets in our neighborhood. That's what makes it so lovely and charming, that you can walk to everything and anything you need. But what this means is that residential and commercial properties often abut one another. So height of commercial buildings becomes the overriding issue that comes up.
 So our neighborhood's easy compromise is to oppose the additional two feet of additional height for tall first floors and oppose applying the bonus height to the step-down height when commercial properties abut residential properties. If additional height is acceptable if it's a commercial property abutting another commercial property.
 This gets me to the second vital aspect of our neighborhood. Our business corridors also intersect one another. So commercial properties also abut one another. This means that one commercial property can have an overlay, and even though it shares a wall with another commercial property, that commercial property might not have an overlay. Okay.
 So having a design overlay or a main street overlay on some properties, but not all commercial properties, creates this situation of have and have nots, and it can impact the future property values of the buildings that, again, are right next to each other. And so we recommend a de-overlay, and we recommend applying it uniformly to the neighborhood. Okay.
 And I know that the person that just spoke talked about a planned district, so I'll have to connect with her and find out what that is about. But thank you for this and other opportunities to provide neighborhood input into the zoning process. Thank you. It would be interesting to look at the numbers, but I suspect almost all the commercial properties abut residential properties. They do. I can't think of very many that wouldn't.
 Nope. And there are some commercial properties that abut other commercial properties. And we're saying, great, that's a great place to add density and to add height. But when you're adding height to commercial properties, that is blocking the light and
 invading the privacy of residentials, that's where the conflict comes. But we finally, over the last few months, have worked together, the property owners, the business owners, and the residents, to talk to each other, and we realized that that's what the issue was. It was the height of these new buildings that are abutting the residential buildings that it's a huge problem, because our neighborhood is this little peninsula, and from park to park, it's all right in there, which makes it charming and wonderful to live, but...
 Yes, it's been great working together to get to this place. Well done. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Good work. The next three are Rick Michelson, Jim Sovimas, and Marianne Terrell-Levine. And then the last three I show signed up are Alan Brown, Brainerd Brower, and Scott Eaton. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'll start. I'm Rick Michelson. I'm here to talk about the Alphabet District. But I want to start more generally.
 I believe that providing affordable housing is one of the most important things we can do. In fact, that may be my largest political donation ever to support the bond campaign. However, I'm really concerned that at this time of crisis, affordable housing and its need has begun to trump every other goal. And I want to remind us that we're planning for the next 100 years.
 And while we have a crisis today, we should not allow one goal of our many to trump everything else, to abandon our system of corridors and centers, to do other things that are not consistent, because we need to all work together and continue to do that. I also want to remind you that this proposal is about one-half of one historic district in a city where only 3% of the land is in historic districts. In Manhattan Island, 27% of Manhattan Island is historic district.
 So we're way down here, and the amount we're protecting doesn't make very much difference. This proposal is about truth in zoning. Too many times I get calls from people who are saying they've got this great property at Kearney Street, and I could build it to an FAR 4-to-1, and I should go ahead and pay this price for it. And I know better because I know the Landmarks Commission is going to come down and reduce that.
 But others don't, and they get into the process. They don't know that there's demolition denial potential. They don't know anything about this because they look at the map and it says FAR 4-1. One suggestion I've got, if we need to allow some more density in there, is change the map to say FAR 2-1 with a footnote that says it can be increased to 3-1 with the approval of the Landmarks Commission.
 One way of doing it. In terms of this particular project, a particular site, I think I could find enough additional density to transfer onto that site to make the project work even if the base FAR is 2-to-1. Other options would be to extend the city's inclusionary zone affordable housing bonus to that site so they can get the density done.
 Finally, we could also include the NWDA affordable housing bonuses and extend them into the historic district. But the most important thing is that the zoning reflect the closest reality to what's desired, what's there today, and does not mislead people. So I'd urge you to do the FAR 221. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you very much and appreciate your offer as well to try to figure out a solution for that particular site. Thank you.
 Welcome. Hi, Mr. Hales. First time in front of the City Council. I want to talk about properties in northwest Portland, 3030 Northwest Nicolai, 2123 Northwest Nicolai, 3004 Northwest Roosevelt, and 3032 Northwest Roosevelt. One of your council members. Give us your name again. Hi, Jim. And last name spelled T as in Tom, S as in Sam, O-U-M-A-S.
 One of your city council members happened to encounter me one day and blatantly explained to me how he was going to change my zoning and made me really, really anxious, so I engaged him slightly more and was –
 Not interested to find out, but found out that he was seriously going at me tooth and nail. So there's a development coming next to me on a piece of property that Bill Nadeau's family is deceased, of course. Nadeau's family owns, and then Lou, my other neighbor, has. And I don't want my zoning changed. Now, what you do on the other side of the street, I can give a damn.
 That's not my problem. But changing the zoning from what is there now to what's proposed is going to negatively affect the whole dam industrial part.
 And if it negatively affects them, it will negatively affect me. I'm really, really disgusted with the way I was going at this, was not given any opportunity to make a comment on it, was not notified by anybody, developer or a city council person, that seemingly was working for two people in this area. And then recently, none of my neighbors in the industrial park do anything about this maloney.
 Because a lot of bozak, I mean a real lot. I was at the last, the end of meeting, and nobody saw this as anything good. Because we all know once you erode the industrial park, get the boundaries shorter and shorter, pretty soon we have something called, what was it, the moss in the trees over by Bullseye Glass that made that lady cry on television. Nobody offered here any solution to the problem. Our foreign governor, Kate Brown, didn't go, well, you need some scrubbers.
 Here's $8 million. We'll give you a low interest or no interest loan. Fix it. Keep your employees. I didn't hear that from anybody. I'm more than disgusted with this. It seems to go nowhere quick.
 Well, it's not done yet, so... I'm hoping, I'm really hoping, that's why I'm here, that this will go to more thought. If you could follow up with just an email to us with those addresses, and what's the zoning that's proposed? He knows. Okay. All right. So just send us the addresses. He damn well knows. He knows.
 So send us the addresses and we can follow up. Well, thank you. Thanks for your time. I think we did make a decision on this property, though. Yeah, we made a decision and we may not have gotten it right. So that's why it's good to hear from you. If I could add one more comment or correction. Martha was concerned about vesting rights for her project.
 The project vests when they apply for the design review application, not when they apply for the building permit. So that shouldn't be an issue. That was what I thought. But then what's about her point that it would be a non-conforming use after we've changed it? I think that's more of an issue. I have many projects that are non-conforming that I've financed. But if there's a way to get that obstacle out of the way, I think they'd be better off making it conforming.
 So I do have a question then, I guess. Since you did discuss this, what was the decision? Well, if I think I've got the property right, I think the property was changed to R1 on one portion of it and CM2 on the other, but I don't trust my memory. That young woman right there is actually get her card, if you would, and send her. We'll pull up. Thank you very much for coming. We'll follow up. So thank you.
 The last three, this is Mary Ann Terrell Levine. Is she here? Then the last three I show are Alan Brown, Brainerd Brower, and Scott Eaton. Okay, come on up. You get to back clean up. Thank you for waiting. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Brainerd Brower.
 I own some property on there, Southeast 13th and Powell, 12th and 13th and Powell. And this is in regards to commercial property. Just want to make the observation that this is the first notice that I think I've received on any specific changes. So just chiming in that that was someone else's comment. Also, someone else's comment went to the point that the idea of preserving an owner's rights, even if the zoning is changed. And that does ring a bell with me. I mean, it just seems like a...
 an idea we're thinking about. And then I have a slight prepared statement here. So I have been the property owner since 1995 and worked hard on my properties in the neighborhood and to continue to improve it year to year. Just give me the address again, please. One of the addresses is 3205 Southeast 13th Avenue. Thank you. There's a couple surrounding it as well. Thank you.
 And I'm proud to have been an active participant in this progress. You know, crime has been reduced significantly and with the help and cooperation of many Portland police officers. My current zoning is CG, and it's proposed to go to CE. I find the change adds many more restrictions, including but not limited to setbacks to residential property. So the 3205 Southeast 13th, that's residential property.
 The new CE zoning may have its place, but in this situation it reduces the incentives for revitalization, at least as I can see them at this time. I request my zoning to be left at CG, or if not, provide some real incentives, move it to CX or something. I don't know. This is a critical time to get it right.
 as a point of perspective the properties directly to the north of me north of powell and east of southeast 11th avenue those properties are owned by the fire department which are business being moved probably partly pdc trimet interests and some private development that's being proposed to go to ex zoning and that's a landlocked property from the north by the train
 and to the south by Powell, and those properties are probably not the best use for that kind of zoning, but at least that concern should be taken into account. And to push ahead, there was an idea passed on by an architect friend of mine that just made a suggestion. I want to pass it on, and that is that those properties, perhaps they would turn into a park area.
 One thing that whole region doesn't have is a park, but that park could be also a park zone that was a hub for pedestrian traffic, possibly even out of the norm with a park and ride that would give a central spot for pedestrian access and relieve tension on the Ross Island Bridge. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners.
 My name is Alan Brown, and I live with my wife at 1115 Northeast 60th Avenue in the southeast part of Rose City Park neighborhood. We are east of Normandale Park in an area I call East Normandale. We are currently zoned R5, and the proposal is to go to R1.
 East Normandale is a 126-year-old neighborhood, making it the oldest section of the Rose City Park neighborhood. Indeed, we might even have the oldest house in Portland, but that discussion is for another time and place. In East Normandale, residents by and large oppose rezoning, as does the Rose City Park neighborhood. And you heard from our chairwoman, Tamara DeRidder, earlier.
 East Normandale cannot handle increased density without degrading the neighborhood's quality of life. Indeed, a 2011 study by the Portland Bureau of Transportation of another proposal to increase density in East Normandale concluded that increased density would cause traffic to fail in our area. Instead of rezoning our area, I would like you to focus on working with the residential infill proposal.
 Like others, I was not in favor of this, but as I looked at how development happened over the last century in my neighborhood, during which rules similar to residential infill were in place, I have to admit it worked out well for East Normandale. So-called middle housing is located in places that make sense and at a scale that works for the neighborhood.
 In contrast, some recent East Normandale projects developed under current zoning regulations are out of scale, poorly sited, and poorly located. So I ask you not to rezone East Normandale and instead to join with neighborhoods to develop, refine, and broadly implement residential infill so that it works as well throughout Portland as it has worked in East Normandale.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. What was your address again? I'm sorry. 1115. 1115 Northeast 60th. Okay, got it. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. Welcome. Mayor, commissioners, thank you. I'm Scott Eaton. I am with the development group that is also involved with the NATO piece that was just referred to in northwest Portland, south of Nicollet. I'd like to clarify that those properties are not in the Giles Lake Industrial Sanctuary.
 They never were. You did make a decision on these properties during our process with the comprehensive plan where we worked with the Northwest Neighborhood Association, and you have received letters of support from the Northwest Neighborhood Association for the rezone that has taken place there in the comp plan. We worked together to come up with –
 in our one zone along Wilson, in this case where we did middle housing at their request, and then kept the ability to do virtually the same uses that are there now, but also do potentially more residential there as well with the properties to the north.
 So I just wanted to clarify and speak on behalf of the Northwest Neighborhood Association and our development group for the work that we are trying to do there because this area was identified as an area that for the past four decades has been completely underutilized. The streets are not developed. It is in a state of disrepair, and it is a place where improvement needs to be made. All right. Thank you.
 thanks very much okay do we have any others or is that the is that the whole list that's everyone who signed up on the list thank you all all right well then amazingly it is uh 5 p.m on the dot i don't think we've ever managed this so we'll close the hearing right eric and next steps hi um eric kingstrom bureau of planning and sustainability um so the the decision you have to make now is um
 If you're ready to close the oral hearing, at what point would you like to close the written record? And I think staff has recommended that you hold it open until the end of day, midnight Friday, essentially, since there's a little bit of time for folks. At least that long, because we have been inviting people to send in testimony that they've provided today. Well, I'm assuming you're not going to work on it over the weekend, so how about 8 o'clock on Monday?
 8 a.m. Monday is fine as well, if you prefer to do that. Let's do that. Let's leave the record open until 8 a.m. Monday, and that way if people over the weekend want to send in email or other correspondence, that they won't be forced to get that done tomorrow, but we'll have the weekend to do it. We'll let you take the weekend off, Eric. And you don't have to read it until Monday.
 And we will, of course, put all that into the record in one of those boxes. And then another next step was we will be coming back to you on October 25th. I believe we have a work session scheduled. And so as you're reading through the testimony, we would like you to be preparing your potential amendments list and then be prepared to talk about that on the 25th.
 Okay, that'll give us, yeah, that gives us a week. All right, so keep the record open for written testimony until 8 a.m. on Monday the 17th, and then we'll stick with our schedule as planned for work sessions and subsequent hearings. Right, and then we would also note that the intent was that then you would reopen the record for testimony on your amendments for the November 17th hearing. Right. And also note the testimony that's been added to the box. Yeah.
 Yeah, we did also add testimony that we collected since last week to the box that was put in there earlier. Okay, well, we all have a lot of reading to do and appreciate excellent testimony today and hopefully hear even more from people by electronic or other correspondents in the next few days. Thanks very much, and we are adjourned for the week. You're going to miss the Lange series, aren't you? Yeah.