All right, I think we're ready to get to work. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the October 28th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Okay.
 Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We have some time-certain items and some presentations, but before that, we have council communications. We allow citizens to sign up for three minutes each to talk on a topic of their choosing, and that will come first, and then we'll get to the regular agenda after that. If you're here to speak on a regular agenda item, just let our council clerk know, and
 We typically allow three minutes per person. It doesn't look like that will be difficult this morning given the number of people here. And you need to give only your name. You don't have to give us your address unless you're representing an organization. We ask that we maintain the rules of decorum here and give people a courteous hearing. And if you agree with them, give them a thumbs up if you feel like it or a thumbs down if you disagree. But please let's not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view so they get to express them.
 that's about all the procedure there is to it so with that let's hear our communications items starting with 1086 request of stuart emmons to address council regarding veterans memorial coliseum and 1087 i think they're a team sure 1087 request of brian libby to address council regarding veterans memorial coliseum good morning good morning and we'll do a combined six minutes if that's okay that's fine thank you for having us
 Okay, good morning everyone. My name is Stuart Emmons and I'm here representing the Friends of Memorial Coliseum. Brian Libby, my co-chair, and Marilyn Clint of the Portland Rose Festival, Ron Carr, our veterans representative, and I represent a broad-based group of citizens that include architects, veterans, design community members, preservationists, and other community members.
 Some of you know me as an architect for affordable housing and involved in schools. So why do I care about Memorial Coliseum? Why should anyone care about Memorial Coliseum? I have five good reasons. One is culture. The Coliseum is one of those unique buildings that define our city's culture and is important to our history. Veterans. The whole building is a veterans memorial.
 the coliseum restored will be one of the most visible and impressive memorials to our veterans in the nation community we need a 6 000 to 10 000 square foot venue and will continue to need one and even more so as our population increases out of the rain there are about 100 events annually at the coliseum already for instance cirque de soleil sold sold out two-week run at the coliseum in may would not have come to the city if we if not for the coliseum as our city grows
 The demand will surely rise. The estimated costs for varying levels of Coliseum restoration are far less than what a new arena would cost. Economy. It is really important to our city's economy. Restoring the Coliseum will have an economic impact, quote, worth multiple times the cost of renovation per the Portland Business Alliance. And values. We're a sustainability capital. We favor reuse over demolition.
 Last week, the council approved $195 million for the Portland building, an enormous sum and still no movement on the Coliseum. The Coliseum should not be passed over in favor of the Portland building. Funds that should have been used for preventative maintenance and upgrades to Memorial Coliseum have been diverted for two decades to pay off two debts at Providence Park. Why doesn't Providence Park pay for itself? We will need a venue like this more and more as we grow.
 And then a word on growth. Our city is growing really quickly. We need to focus on building density in close-in districts that are well served by mass transit. The area from the Convention Center to the PPS Blanchard site, including Rose Quarter, is one of the best districts for future density.
 The Coliseum can be the leverage point, the centerpiece of a transformed Rose Quarter district, a vibrant and high-density neighborhood that includes offices, retail, hotels, and affordable housing. We can restore the Coliseum for far less than the Portland building and have far more economic impact. It is time to restore Veterans Memorial Coliseum. And now we'd like to put our video up, if you will. Thank you.
 Portland in 1960 was a much smaller town than it is now. The whole community got together to build this exposition center that ended up being dedicated to the veterans. The building was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. 1960 was during the heyday of Skidmore's work.
 Kennedy became president, the space race started. There was just this love for the future and an appreciation for what was to come. This building embodied that. It was about the future. It's the equivalent of about two and a half city blocks in size, but the entire building is standing on just four columns, which still just kind of blows my mind, honestly.
 We got involved trying to save the Coliseum because of the great architecture and because it can still be a great building, but it's just an amazing repository of Portland's cultural history. The Blazers winning was just a monumental thing for Portland, and it happened in this building. The first, at about 2 minutes and 18 seconds, past the hour of sort, the World Championship! The building doesn't have luxury boxes, it doesn't have different levels, everybody comes out onto the concourse.
 It's not just a building, it's not just a work of art, which it really is as well. It goes back to our core values about who we are as a community, as a city, and we've become even more excited about keeping this building because of what it can be in the future.
 We still need as much help as we can get. Nothing has been decided yet, and the city could still decide to tear this building down. We don't really feel like the Coliseum will be completely saved until it's restored, and that's been the difficult part. Mayor Howes and the City Council are still looking at the possibility of tearing this building down. We really want to hear from people, whether it's military veterans or just ordinary citizens. We really need people's help to let us send a message to City Council that we're not going to let this building be torn down.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Can I ask you guys two questions? Yes. Where did you find the archival photographs, these wonderful new pictures of the Morrill Coliseum? Commissioner, I spent several hours in the City of Portland archives and that's actually where they came from. There was a treasure trove of information there. I had great fun looking through all the historical documents.
 historic images and and even deliberations about what to call the building for example it was almost officially named the glass palace uh and so that's where a lot of this came from and i chime into the we also found um historic pictures from probably the top modern photographer architectural photographer in the world julius shulman down at the getty and um
 Just last spring, I found a trove of absolutely fabulous pictures done by a Pacific Northwest photographer, Art Hoopy, in the basement of the UW Special Collections Library. And these photographs, the Shulman and the Hoopy pictures, really prove that we have a real gem on our hands here. And it's hard to see the way it is in its state. The other thing I just want to note from your video is that
 Right now, when you're looking east at Memorial Coliseum, it's obscured by some trees that have matured over time. Now, this is a city that prides itself on protecting trees, but it does completely alter the relationship to the building. You have the photograph where it was actually fully exposed to the west. Yes. Absolutely. I think this is the only time in my life where I've ever wanted to see trees cut down. I'd love to see us.
 engage in some kind of initiative where we plant 100 trees for every Coliseum tree that we cut down. But this is a glass box that is all about the transparency, and so those trees, like you say, should come down. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thanks. Okay, let's hear from 1088 please. Request of Fritz Junker to address council regarding downtown safety and urban vagrancy. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak today, and thank you, Mayor Hales, for your stated desire to focus on the city instead of re-election. My name is Fritz Junker. I've lived in a condo four blocks from City Hall with my wife since 2007. I'm speaking today out of concern for the safety of my family, friends, and neighbors. Last summer, as we all know, a man was stabbed to death by a drifter just steps from here. This terrified our neighborhood. Earlier this summer, my wife was assaulted by a homeless man a block from our home.
 She's now constantly afraid and on guard. Just weeks ago, a visiting friend was spit on and threatened by a panhandler who was displeased with not receiving change. My wife and I, our neighbors and our friends, have had innumerable other experiences with aggressive and criminal behavior from Portland's increasing unsheltered populations, and we've all reached our limit. As quoted recently in The Oregonian, the next New York Times article about Portland isn't going to be about how great our food and wine are.
 for the last several years i've watched with great frustration as our city has been allowed to become a destination for lifestyle vagrancy unchecked drug activity limitless street camping aggressive panhandling and other illegal and disruptive behavior that directly affects the safety and quality of life of residents downtown and citywide sadly portland is no longer a place where we can use public spaces without disruption anxiety or fear
 Recent efforts to temporarily displace this activity or label it as a byproduct of an affordable housing crisis are short-sighted, misleading, and will not resolve the serious public safety issues we face as a city. Only after we restore basic rule of law can we then speak about affordable housing and other solutions not related to immediate public safety issues.
 Every summer, street kids, drug users, and other lifestyle vagrants flock here in greater numbers to take advantage of the city's hands-off ideology. They inundate our woefully understaffed police force with increasingly brazen and illicit behavior, draw drug and gang activity into the region, and extract dollars, services, and compassion from resident populations of the homeless and mentally ill who really need it.
 This coming spring, we must send a strong message to those who travel here or choose this lifestyle that Portland is not their anarchic utopia. Some in this debate want to make those who are fed up with the lawless behavior of these populations to feel heartless. We're not heartless. It's about behavior, not homelessness. Of course, there are people here in Portland who desperately need social services and deserve compassion. But compassion that is misdirected helps no one.
 to care for those who are legitimately in need we must sort out those who abuse our collective kindness i speak today on behalf of a growing number of portlanders who are very frustrated with the state of our city we implore you to consider the following four solutions one properly staff our police force at fbi recommended levels and pace staffing with population growth two drastically increase funding exposure for the smart change not spare change campaign to educate portlanders about the dangers of supporting panhandling
 Three, commission a neutral third-party study of the true demographics of Portland's unsheltered populations. And four, draft stronger ordinances to allow better law enforcement response to these issues. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Okay, let's hear from 1089.
 Request of Alan Linares to address council regarding illegal camping within Lentz and on the Springwater Corridor. Mr. Linares is not able to make it. Okay. All right. Then 1090, please. Request of Wayne Wigness to address council regarding homeless people's rights and de-partitioned housing. Morning. Morning.
 I'll begin sharing a story as it helps demonstrate my point today. I came to Portland in the summer of 2013 to take a summer class that helped me get into U of O. As you recall, I'm sure, back then Portland was unique in the sense that homeless people had the right to congregate in packs of 100 or more on the streets of downtown.
 I chose to sleep under the Burnside Bridge because I needed to get to school and I needed to hit the day labor spot by 5 a.m. I needed the energy to function. I needed a decent night's sleep to do that and to do that I needed safety in numbers free of looking over my shoulder every 10 minutes. And that's why people do it, safety in numbers. And secondly, it gives a sense of community and this
 This can make all the difference between a livable situation and a very bad one. Lastly, it will reduce the shame of being homeless. Now, the ability to make connections and the right to congregate is easily the most overlooked aspect of homelessness. Typically, we think of keeping people fed and warm, but it's been my experience that people will find a way to keep warm or to feed themselves.
 But what they can't do by themselves is find connection, find that safety in numbers, that ability to congregate, create community, etc. Now, underneath that bridge, there was a small group of street punks off to the side. They had their petty little skirmishes every two or three weeks, but they were easily outnumbered by what was a much larger body of peaceful homeless people. And to my eyes, there was a sense of peace, if not community, on the streets of Portland, California.
 And this is a recurrent. Volunteers, they'd come down, and you couldn't tell if they were – I couldn't tell if they were coming down to mark down volunteer hours or to just hang out for the fun of it. And this is a recurrent theme you'll find if you go from town to town in homeless situations. If given a place where community can grow, a funny thing happens. These street punks, these vagrants, they quickly become outnumbered. They get put in check. They'll even show respect. And then from there, human nature will surprise you. It did me. Now –
 About a month later, Mayor Hales, the paper started reporting that you had given cops permission to start sweeping the streets of hobos and doorways around sidewalks. And all I know for sure is that within two or three days of hearing this, two to 250 people were trying to squeeze underneath the bridge that can only accommodate 90. I can no longer tell the difference between those street punks and the rest of the crowd, those petty street punks.
 skirmishes that happened every two or three weeks they became full-blown fistfights every two or three nights within a week a guy pulled a knife on me for trying to uh take the last spot available that was next to his family who had been involuntarily swept there because they had nowhere else to go you know you limited his options i don't know if it was you but um later i found he was a pretty uh peaceful guy it's just we had put him in a defensive position
 A few months later, a kid got stabbed to death. That's, to this day, why you see that yellow tape underneath the Burnside Bridge. In the following years, I've witnessed the crowd has changed a lot. A lot of peaceful hobos take off to the woods, go to other towns. A few acquaintances that I met upon moving here, they seemed to take refuge in that sense of community. Now, I've watched them relapse on drugs, kind of fall apart. Nowadays, when I go to the Burnside Bridge, all I see is these street punks and these vagrants. Um...
 It's allowed them to take over. So it's ironic that I hear in the papers nowadays that the city is explicitly targeting this group. I need you to wrap up soon. I'm giving you a little extra time, so go ahead. It's ironic because –
 Having been there from on both sides, watching it play out, I can say with good reason that the enactment of our policies is what has allowed them to take over. It is even more ironic considering that majority faction is a central concept in political in the founding philosophy of this nation, you know. But yet when we speak of homelessness, the only solution we can think of is to break people up rather than drown it with human nature.
 But I understand that a select few business leaders' lack of trust for human nature and their interests may take precedent over the very lives of people sleeping on a dirty, pissed-on sidewalk. But if we're going to enact policies that are going to affect people in ways that you can't even begin to understand without getting to know them, we should at least have alternatives in place. Almost done. On that note, and alternatives are not missions that institutionalize and disrespect people.
 We need, on that note, hopefully later today I'll be able to testify and share an idea on affordable housing that could kill two or three birds with one stone and maybe make everybody happy. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, we're going to take our consent calendar quickly, and then we'll come to our time certain items. I've had one request to pull something off the consent agenda and take it to regular agenda for discussion, and that's item 1095. Are there any others? Yes.
 If not, then let's take a roll call vote, please, on the consent calendar minus that one. Novick? Sorry. Just yell. Aye. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay. Item 1091. Accept report on the Planning and Leadership Across City Environments Place Program.
 well we look forward to this presentation each year because we have students that work with the bureau of planning and sustainability from caitlin gable so want to invite you up to begin that presentation so whoever's the first wave welcome and come on up and i think you have powerpoint slides too is that right yeah okay yeah that's right bring extra chairs if you need to have more than three at a time good morning
 So if you're using that microphone, you just push the button there. You want to give him a hand with the PowerPoint there, Carla? It's a complicated system, so give it a moment here. That's the presentation. That was the one we got today, but there was another one the other day. I can talk about the presentation.
 There we go. Nope, that doesn't look like the round. No. That doesn't look like the round. Right. So I'm just going to talk about it without the slides, if that's okay with you guys. Okay, that's fine. Sure. All right. So my name is Kyle Greenspan. I am a sophomore at Catlin-Gable, and I was a part of the 2015 PLACE Summer Program.
 And so the first thing I want to mention about our program is that while it is sponsored by Catlin Gable and run through a teacher at Catlin Gable and George Znanowicz, we had students from seven different schools throughout the Portland area and even from the East Coast. So we had a very diverse background of students, ages and schools.
 And so what we did is we split our time between learning about how our city works and a project that we focused on youth. And so our project was about youth-friendly public spaces. And what this meant is we looked at two questions, is how do we engage youth in public spaces?
 And we also developed a list of best practices for developers to design places that would make it easier to engage youth in these spaces. And we looked at our problem, which was that the availability of public spaces does not cater to youth. We have these public spaces that are not utilized by youth. And we asked the question, like, why is this?
 And we looked at this through what we call lens of equity, and we say, who traditionally benefits from the availability of public space? In our case, we decided that youth are not the traditional beneficiaries of the availability of this public space. And so we looked at this through what we call lens of equity,
 And what we did with our project is we looked through this lens of equity and we developed this list of best practices and a tool for youth to engage youth in these public spaces with their benefit in mind, while benefiting others as well. And with that, let me just go through. So here's our, we said, I said a tool and a list of best practices here.
 and our lens of equity and how do we involve youth in public planning. And with that, I'll turn it over to my peers, and they'll talk to you about our methodology. So as Kyle said, we had two groups. We had this best practices list, and how we decided what to put in that list, we basically broke down into four smaller groups. Excuse me, could you give us your name for the record? Oh, Kiva, sorry. Okay.
 And so we had community outreach. So we sent out surveys across the country through our web of peer connections to youth, and we found out what they want in public spaces, what they desire, what brings them to places, what works for them. And then we also did literature analysis. We read articles about other times youth have been involved in public planning and other times places have been designed for youth and whether or not that was successful. We looked at case studies of those. Okay.
 and looked at places where we know we go and where our peers go, and what made people want to go there and what made them feel safe there. And then we talked to experts in city planning and youth involvement in public spaces. And then the other side was our tool, which we created as an app. And so this idea of this was to get youth involved and have them find public spaces. And so we did that by, again, using community outreach and talking to our peers about what draws them to an app and if they would even want something that helps them find youth-friendly public spaces.
 And we looked at case studies of other times where youth really like apps and what draws them to it. And apps like Yelp that have lots of surveys and reviews of spaces and what makes those successful. And we talked to experts in app design about where that would be. And then within our group, we realized we were all youth. And we talked about whether or not this was something we would actually want. And we found across the board that that is something we would want and something we desire and would be successful for our group.
 My name is Hannah Davis. So our research from the case studies expert interviews, literary data analysis, and community outreach built the platform for our recommendations.
 We discovered the most popular ways of how youth engage in public spaces, how to communicate with youth through a youth agency, online or social media, how youth utilize public spaces and what youth like in public spaces. And this information was used to condense our findings into a list of best practices and a youth involvement tool.
 Hello, I'm Marlee Lopez and we use this information to decide, we had two different prompts basically. We had how to get youth involved in public planning and what youth want in public places.
 So for public planning we decided that we needed to have a youth-led commission. So we would have youth as leaders in that role, and then there would also be students in that role. But to get youth to be involved in this commission it would be necessary to have incentives. We would have to incentivize this council. So that could be through either having it be like a paid internship or to give credit for it in schools.
 and you would have to recruit diversity for this. You can only create for diversity if you recruit with diversity. And also having teens and youth in roles of leadership on this commission would help to challenge the social stigma towards youth in social settings and in work environments, and it would help to redevelop how we view youth in these settings.
 So what we saw for what youth were interested in in these public settings was we wanted basically just free Wi-Fi and food to be close and it needed to be accessible. We needed to be able to get there without a car because not all youth can drive.
 And then also we needed, we had different needs. We needed to be able to have places where we could study and do work, but also places where we could socialize and these could be different or connected. And youth public places are not always different than just public places for everyone. So we could also integrate youth into public places, which is something that is kind of hard to find now other than maybe in parks. And so with these programs,
 with the things that we are looking for in public places, we can also integrate these or to change other options that you have to make them actually what youth are enticed to go to. I'm going to switch over to our other group now. Hey, thank you. Thank you. Morning. My name is Maya Fernandez-Powell.
 And so now I'm going to be talking to you about what we've actually created and how we came to that. So before we designed our tool, which we decided to be an app, we did a lot of research into what teens want today. And we conducted surveys as well as just looking at important stats that would help us design the best tool for teens in Portland. So we looked at some basic statistics about how right now
 are always on their smartphones and how the power of the internet and smartphones is the best way to communicate and get information from people our age.
 We also conducted surveys that were more specific to what we wanted to find in our app. So we asked about whether people wanted an app or a website, how important free service was to them, if they wanted photo sharing feature in the app, and also how important interaction is when finding places to hang out. Most teens today ask each other where to hang out. That's the most common way to find a public space to go to.
 So those were some things that we kept in mind while creating our app and basically all of our information supported the decisions that we made later on in our app. We also looked at other apps which were our case studies to basically see certain apps that have had a lot of success with teens and why they're having all the success.
 So we looked at apps like Instagram that had this photo feature to them, and we just looked at them from a design point of view and also from a content point of view. So we saw that they have a toolbar, which is something that you might not think about when you're using Instagram, but it's something that makes the app really easy to use. And especially for teens, accessibility and being easy to navigate is really important for deciding whether you're going to be using an app or not.
 What is Rotten Tomatoes? Rotten Tomatoes, Yelp, and Airbnb are all rating apps. Rotten Tomatoes is specifically for movies. Something like Yelp is generally for restaurants, and then Airbnb for places to stay. We looked at these apps to see why their rating systems are having so much success, because
 We knew that a big feature of our app was going to be youth giving feedback on public spaces. So how are we going to get the most helpful data, but also get as much data as possible? And what we found from this is that all of these apps were very simple. They all had very simple rating systems that anybody could use. So this was something that was really incorporated into our app.
 So basically, from all of our research, these are some of the key points that we found that we later used in our app. So first we found that youth were equally interested in having an app and a website. And so I'll be showing you this in a minute, but we've created an app and then just modeled a website right after that app.
 Also, we created this app for it to be very youth-specific. So all the information that we found, all the surveys that we conducted, were all things that youth wanted to see in this app. So all the decisions we made were keeping in mind what is the best thing for teens our age. We also...
 thought about ways to get the most reviews possible. So the main idea of this app is to get the most information we can from youth about what they think about public spaces, to ultimately have urban planners to make this change in the city. Because youth right now, we feel, don't have as big of a voice as they could. So how can we get them involved in public spaces in Portland right now?
 So now we're going to be showing you a mock-up of the app we created. And so we decided to call this Spot, or Spots to Hang Out. So when you come to this app, it's pretty easy to navigate. So the first thing that you do is that you come to a trending page. And this is something that you'll see in a lot of social media apps today, such as Instagram. The first thing you come to is just constant news feed of pictures and the most updated news that you can get.
 And so for this app, what you would come to would be reviews of... Most recent reviews of spots to hang out. So, for example, if...
 I've just logged in and I want to see what other people are hanging out at and their reviews I'll see the name of a location or public space There will be pictures because we found that youth really want to have pictures involved in this app because that's something that's really important right now in the social media and also there would be a small description in the top right hand corner of things to do at the space and
 There's also an interactive section to it where you can thumbs up or thumbs down what you think about the review. And then ultimately on the left side there is a rating system out of five stars because what we found is that people, well youth, aren't going to take the time to really go through and look at all the basic criteria for how we rated this place.
 So basically getting a quick answer out of five stars, what this person reviewed the space as, was really critical. There's also a finding spot feature, which is basically if you want to find somewhere to hang out, you can select what type of public space you want, and then you can decide what kind of things you want to see in the space, so select your criteria, and then the system will basically...
 come up with certain ideas of public spaces that you can hang out with and give their rating, their criteria, so things that you can do there, and the distance from your current location. And then the most critical aspect of this app is the rating system. So this is where youth are basically going to be giving their opinion on public spaces. So you select what type of public space you want to review. You choose the space that you're reviewing. You can use a GPS form or just something
 type in your area. And then once you've done that, it'll take you to a review system page. And we put a lot of thought into how we were going to create this rating system. So as I said earlier, the key to making this a successful app is that it's very easy to navigate and simple, and you can give quick reviews so that we could get the most data possible. And so you type in the...
 title of your review. And the four categories that we decided to use for our rating system were first, transportation. We found that for teens, it's for a lot of teens who can't drive, it's really important that this public space that you're getting to is easily accessible. Two was entertainment. So just
 just how enjoyable is a spot to be in. Things to do, so is there a wide variety of things that would cater to the needs of teens, or is it fairly basic and not very interesting? And then finally, safety, so how safe do you feel at the spot? And we looked at past surveys of what people have tried to, when people have tried to get information on what you think about public spaces, and we basically narrowed it down into these four categories to get simple, quick reviews.
 You can also share a picture, which has this photo sharing aspect, and then leave a comment. So yeah, that is the main idea of the app. You will have your own profile to give it that social media aspect, which is really important for teens to have your social image. But that's the main idea. And then, as I said earlier, we created a mock-up of a website, which is practically the exact same thing, just in website form.
 On the next slide, there is also... You can find a spot, like, in the other app. But then you can also...
 add some more specific feedback about something that you want to change in the space. So here's where you can get very specific data on what exactly are teens enjoying in spaces, but what are things that are not working for teens, to ultimately collect enough data so that you can have an idea of how can we improve the city and make it more youth friendly for people in Portland.
 So what we did next is look at how we were going to market to youth and developers. Give us your name, too. Oh, sorry. I'm Catherine Putz. So we wanted to do this in a way that would encourage community involvement. So we first, as some people talked about earlier, we sent out surveys to see what kind of data and research and people were looking for in the app and how this would help us to market the app and the best practice list in two separate ways because we had two different target demographics.
 We also looked at some case studies of successful ways that people have marketed to teens in the past. And then we interviewed some professionals in the area, like architectures and advertising professionals, to see their ideas on how we could market our two products in a realistic way.
 And then we came up with a timeline, two separate timelines, one for the app and one for the best practice list. So basically that just converted all of our research and ideas into a timeline for how we were actually going to introduce the app and when we were going to release it. And then finally we made mock-ups of advertisements, our logo, and different kind of just fun things like invitations and QR codes that we might use to advertise.
 as well as finally just completed a cohesive marketing plan of everything that we had researched into one document. Next. Okay. So we came up with user profiles, two different ones, for our two separate products, our best practice list and our app. So basically we just wanted to get an idea of who our target demographic might be. So for the
 best practice list, it might be Jack Smith, who just moved to Portland and wants to start a project with youth-friendly public spaces. And for the app, it might be Sarah Johnson, who goes to Lincoln and wants to find places to hang out in Portland with her friends that are nearby, because maybe she doesn't have a license, she doesn't have access to driving to faraway places, so she needs to have places to hang out nearby to where she is at that moment. Next slide.
 As I talked about before, then we made two different three-month timelines. The first one was for our app. What we thought is that in the first about six weeks, we would create social media pages because this is a main source of information for teens right now, as well as a blog with videos on it of potential users and information about our app.
 And then during week seven, we would release the app and host a release party. And then during weeks eight through 12, we would use our blog for videos and post information on social media, as well as put advertisements around the city and use QR codes. So then for the best practice list, we made a different timeline because we have a different target demographic for the best practice list.
 So for the best practice list, during the first five weeks, we would write articles and get brochures out there, basically form connections with people who might be interested in using the list, basically developers, architectures, people like that. Then during week seven, we would release the list, and then in weeks nine through 12, we would film local designers and their plans to actually use the list, interview people, and keep up a website, update the website with new information. Okay.
 So then finally we came up with our logo. So to do this, we looked at popular apps that teens are using now, like Instagram, and we found that they're all bright, simple, and convey one kind of theme, so goal. So we have this, and it's pretty bright. It has two spots because our name is Spot. And then we have a QR code, which basically how it works is you scan your phone on it, and it will take you to the app directly from there because this is a pretty easy way to advertise and get people on our app.
 And then, yeah, social media. So we found that Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram were the three most used social medias in teenagers now from our survey. So we would have social media for Spot app, which would feature weekly spots, top-rated spots, and post things that people have done on Spot recently.
 So finally, we would have an invitation to a release party or as an incentive to subscribe to our app or download it and follow us on social media, as well as public advertisements around schools, coffee shops, parks, because this is another way that we found from our surveys that teens get their majority of their information. So that's a summary of what we worked on in marketing. Thanks.
 Hi, my name is Tyler White. And in conclusion, this plan has the capability to make the City of Portland a frontrunner in youth civic engagement and agency. Today you have the choice of providing practical solutions to the lack of youth engagement that is prevalent in our society through empowerment. By providing a setting where youth can care and talk about the places that they interact with. Through our app, you have the choice of giving youth the city at their fingertips.
 Preserving distinctive places is also another thing that is involved, that have been known as spaces where youth thrive and interact, while also having the ability to improve such areas to best fit the needs of youth, and also creating new places, giving way to a more involved and active youth population.
 Mayor Hills, along with the rest of our city council members, have been steadfast in planning for a more inclusive and environmentally sound future. But none of that matters if the future generation, the faces that you are looking at right now, do not have the interest in being involved with planning and creating an authentic sense of community where all voices of all people, no matter their age, are heard. That is why you must do something. It is only those who take action that truly make a change worth noting. Thank you.
 I decided to take my work one step further in heading the I Love This Place project, where I have the honor of creating a space for the stories of the displaced and gentrified neighborhoods and people of Portland to be shared with everyone. In working on this project, I have met many different dedicated youth and young people making changes who are just waiting for a government to follow behind them. They are, I am, we are all doing something to make a change.
 So what are you going to do? Thank you. Wow. What a great presentation. Let's break the rules and have some appreciation. Thank you.
 Well, Place, you know, this project has been great for years, but you've outdone yourselves this year. George, this is really tremendous. And I guess my first reaction as the commissioner in charge of the Planning Bureau is that I want us to keep working with you, and I suspect the Parks Commissioner feels the same way because you've really put something together here that's pretty actionable for us. It's not an abstract project. It's something that we can obviously put to use fairly quickly.
 Other questions, comments, suggestions? I really appreciated your opening with the equity issue and then closing with that. Did you have any discussions about the 25 percent of youth who don't have access to smart phones and how you could include them in engagement in our public spaces?
 It was definitely something that we thought about, because it's true that not all youth have an iPhone. That's a very specific demographic of students that do have accessibility to those things. But I think what we decided is that right now,
 this idea of social media is really something that's powerful for youth. And whether you have a smartphone or not, it definitely finds a way of having an impact onto your life. And so I think the idea for behind this project is that we start by creating this app, having this website, but with more data and more information that we get and more people starting to use it, we hope that it's not just going to become an app. It's going to become something that's part of teams
 teen life. And so hopefully it would find a way of getting to those people and not just being something that you need to have a smartphone to use. It's going to be more part of your general life. Thank you. Other questions, comments? My daughter is constantly admonishing me not to put specific details about her in social media because she doesn't want people to know where she is at a particular moment and she wants to protect her privacy. And
 And that's become a huge concern, really, with social media. So what are some of the privacy issues that you've been thinking about in terms of how to promote this conversation among teens while also protecting the privacy of people, including information about where they like to hang out?
 I think something that we thought about when creating this app was we thought about it from like for me I have an Instagram account and I have all the social media accounts that most a lot of teens have But right now what a lot of social media has realized is that you have to create a way for there to be some kind Of private aspect to the app. So for Instagram, for example, you can have a private account That's what most people do that. I know and so I think that
 As Spot becomes something that's more successful, there definitely will be this option to have a private part of it. You don't have to give all your details. But I mean, ultimately, you have to be comfortable with giving information to whatever group you decide, whoever you allow to follow you or to see where you're at. You have to be comfortable with giving that information. But I think that's something that all youth are having to make a decision about right now when they decide to use social media.
 Yeah, and to go off of that, the main goal for this app is, one, to just provide data for planners and for other students where to go. And so Spot will have, obviously, a huge privacy aspect. So I mean, if we go back to the start of this app.
 basically each user will quickly have the availability to...
 Sorry, you can't see it, but basically you can sign up and have an account. And so the whole point is that people in basically your sub-community in this app will be able to see what you like and where you think other people should go. But on the broader community, only the data that you're sending to planners and to the app will be used to give other people suggestions, but your name will not be attached to any of it.
 And it's basically just to get the largest sample size possible so that we can really help all teams figure out places where they want to go because everyone's different, everyone has their own places where they like to hang out. And so our main goal is just to provide a space for everyone. MR. I noticed you referenced the Multnomah Youth Commission in your report and you're proposing to create a youth public space commission. Is there a possibility this could be part of the Multnomah Youth Commission or like
 like a subcommittee of it or something like that in your minds? Yeah, I was actually a part of that group, and we talked to Mark Fernandez, the former person who ran the Multnomah Youth Commission, and definitely he was thinking about having kind of a subgroup that worked with planning because the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability did used to have a youth planning program, so they're kind of thinking about maybe doing something like that. And then also the new diversity and equity department.
 here for Portland could also head something like that. So it could be kind of a partnership and collaboration between different departments, but then also with the community. Thank you. The
 the idea of this rating system, I think, is really exciting. I'm not just old. I'm old-fashioned. I don't know what Instagram is, but I found that these online rating systems like TripAdvisor and Rotten Tomatoes, some of the other ones you mentioned, are incredibly valuable. So this sounds to me like a really exciting idea. And as the Transportation Commissioner, I noted that you said that that's one of the things that you would talk about in the app is transportation access. And it may be that if you're able to identify places where people...
 that youth would like to congregate they have other good features but they're hard to get to then we could do some thinking about how we can we improve the transportation options to those places thank you very much and we have to keep working to expand youth paths so that all youth have it all the time
 Well, thank you all very much. I just want to commit my office to follow up with you, and I know others here will want to as well, and to have this move forward, because I think you've really come up with something that's going to be very useful for the city. Actually, we just had a presentation yesterday from our management and finance staff, because we're using dashboards much more to show people data about the city in a user-friendly way
 And so it's got to flow both ways, obviously, in a way that people are willing to engage. And I think you've really created something that's tremendously useful for the city, for us to hear from youth about how the city is working, literally, for them. And...
 there have been occasions when we have designed public spaces that didn't turn out to be very popular we have many great parks and many great public spaces in the city but there are a few that are notorious for not ever really working and so if we engage youth better at the front end of the design process or when we're getting ready to change a park or renovate it that could keep us from missing an opportunity
 on the design and construction level. So there's just a lot. It just seems to me there's a lot that we can all do with this, and I'm just really blown away by the quality of your work and by how useful this is going to be for the community. So we look forward to following up with you and having it be real. Thank you very much. Well done. Well done. Let's hear it again. Excellent. You'll hear from us soon. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, speaking of technology, that's the next item on the list, which is 1092. Accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Good morning. That's a hard act to follow. It is indeed. So good luck with that. Wow, that was really great. I'm impressed. Totally impressed. Thank you.
 Were they all in Calvin Gable? No, they were in multiple schools. Oh, okay. Okay. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius, a Senior Management Analyst in the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm the support staff for your Technology Oversight Committee. Thank you.
 With me are Jeff Barrett, the Director of Bureau of Technology Services, Wilfred Pinfold, who is Mayor Hales' representative on the TOC, and Ken Neubauer, Commissioner Fish's representative to the TOC.
 We're here to present information from the quarterly report for July through September of this year. As you know, TOC is made up of five community members appointed by you. The other members are Joshua Mitchell, Diana Garcia, and Colleen Gadbois.
 We're going to project some dashboards where applicable. Ken will be updating the report itself, and Jeff will be giving you the results of the most recent meeting, which was just last Monday. So we have an update a month beyond this report. So with that, let me see if I can find the correct PowerPoint. Okay, the first project up is ITAP.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Ken Neubauer. I am joined by fellow TOC member Wilfred Pinfold. Today we are presenting the TOC's quarterly report for the months of July, August, and September. The format will be as follows. I will provide the TOC's assessment of the project, followed by BTS Bureau Director Jeff Baer's real-time assessment of that project. For some projects, there may be other Bureau Directors, project staff, as well as outside vendors that may wish to comment on that project at your discretion.
 The first project is the Information Technology Advanced Project, also known as ITAP. For reference, ITAP was one of the first projects brought to the TOC four years ago. At that time, the project had not yet selected a vendor. Approximately one year later, 2012, the project selected the current vendor.
 This project's goals are to develop paperless permit and case management processes and allows complete online access to the permitting and case review services. Project deliverables include digitizing and online assessing of historical permits and property information, implementation of an updated permit and case review, information management system, online case and permit application and review services, mobile online access for field staff, and implementation of an automated queuing system.
 The TOC continues to have concerns around this project's duration, budget, and scope, and overall performance. For the major accomplishments this last quarter, the project continues to work on amending contracts to remedy contract gaps and re-baseline the project. Upcoming milestones for the next quarter is re-baselining the project, address development environmental support, make adjustments for interfaces moved in and out of scope, address gaps resulting from Phase I gap analysis. Again, the risk...
 Concerns for the TOC. The TOC continues to be concerned about the project schedule and volume of remaining work. For the quarter, both the TOC and QA assess all aspects, competence, budget, and scope of this project as read. This should come as no surprise to anyone that has been following this project. The TOC would like to stress that it's our opinion this project is not in distress due to the efforts by BDS or BTS, but rather the primary vendor selected to provide this capability. You will likely hear how the vendor is going to turn things around
 It is my opinion that while the vendor possessed the capabilities at the time the project was awarded, they have since lost that capability along with the entire team, 17 people. They've had to hire new employees to staff the project. These new employees will likely be developing the skills to fulfill this project's requirements on this project, thus taking longer and costing more than what was originally proposed to the city. Jeff? Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of City Council, Jeff Baer, Director of the Bureau of Technology Services. I'm going to keep my remarks brief, but I want to provide some key updates to the report that you have in front of you specific to the ITAP project. And although, as Ken indicates, all the primary indicators are still in red, and I don't think that's surprising given the last three months of activity that we've been going forward,
 But I would characterize this phase that we've been in as a demonstration period, which is to allow the city to make some very informed decisions here in the near future. And I think that there is a level of optimism. I know I, along with some representatives from Piedmont, have been more involved in the project, meeting quite frequently with Paul Scarlett and his team,
 And I think I'll reserve my comments for now and reserve those for questions afterwards, because I know Paul and his team have some more detailed information to provide for you about what to expect over the next couple months. Plus, we have a representative here from Sierra Cedar who is the vendor on this project. Thank you, Jeff. The next project is a lien accounting system, which is used to record and manage assessments and liens for the city. As required by city charter and Oregon state law.
 The application is written in an old programming language and was one of two remaining applications on the mainframe, which was scheduled to be decommissioned on July 1, 2015. Because of the tight timeline and resource constraints, the decision was made to rewrite the existing system using a more modern programming language and transfer it to a Windows environment.
 The status of this is lean has been the sole remaining application on the mainframe since July 1st and has had to absorb all the costs associated with it. The TOC has concerns about the month-to-month schedule, push, and ongoing costs. Some of the major accomplishments this past quarter were completing some of the parallel testing and bug fixes. Their upcoming milestone is to complete cutover.
 And under risk, the project is months past its original cutover date, and the TOC is concerned about month-to-month schedule push and ongoing costs. For the quarter, the TOC assessed confidence in budget as red, with scope remaining green. Jeff? Thank you.
 I'm just pleased to announce that our go-live cutover for the lien accounting system begins Thursday this week, tomorrow at 5 p.m., and then on Friday the legacy system will begin to be turned off and no longer available. So we have a cutover planned right in front of us. All indications are that we're ready to go, and beginning with the city's next accounting period, which coincides on Monday, November 2nd, all work will be performed in the new lien accounting system.
 Outstanding. Thank you, Jeff. The last project is the PCI Payment Gateway Project. This project is to address the city's requirement to meet payment card industry, PCI, and data security standards, DSS, as part of the merchant service contract as required by card networks, Visa, MasterCard, and American Express Discover and JCB International. Thank you.
 The city does not currently meet PCI DSS 3.0 standards and is required to remediate the car processing environment or adopt other means of processing car payments to enable the city to be compliant by December 31, 2015. Current status is the TOC originally requested that this project be presented as two separate efforts, the payment gateway and the overall PCI remediation. As of the end of the quarter, the payment gateway effort has been presented
 progressing very well and we have no concerns with that. Regarding the overall PCI remediation, the TOC continues to be concerned about project duration given deadlines. However, I suspect you'll hear some positive news from Mr. Baer when I'm finished. Major accomplishments for this quarter, migration work with NIC is almost complete as part of the payment gateway aspect. Collaboration with impacted bureaus given their decisions to cease taking payment card information over the phone.
 Some of the upcoming milestones for the next quarter, the PINPAD point-of-sale solution is close to finish, and PINPADs are scheduled to be deployed and installed by 9-25. Under risk concerns and comments, as noted, the TOC continues to be concerned about the project duration given deadlines. For the quarter, the TOC assessed all aspects, competence, budget, and scope, of the payment gateway aspect of the project to be green. For full PCI remediation, the TOC assesses all aspects, competence, budget, and scope,
 As red, with the exception of scope, which increased to yellow for the last month of the quarter. Jeff?
 Ken. So we've had a lot of work continuing to migrate away from the city's payment gateway. We are currently sitting at 98% of all transaction volume, going through what is now a PCI-compliant gateway, hosted gateway, and we have a very clear executable plan for the next two months, and we are positioned to be in a PCI-compliant state by the end of December. So we are on track for that
 And, in fact, our external auditor was on site to conduct an initial review the week of October 12th, so a couple weeks ago, and will be returning before the end of the year to complete the review. And we expect this audit to validate all the work that has been done to comply with these very complex PCI requirements.
 And we've also had a number of discussions with our banking partners, which indicate they are very pleased with the progress being made. And I do want to say very specifically that this has been a very collaborative effort working with the affected bureaus, and we recognize that some of these changes are very difficult, but we do want to recognize these efforts and the support that we've had to help us get to this point. So we are on track to report back at the end of this calendar year that we are in a PCI-compliant state. Thank you.
 The end of the calendar year. End of the calendar year, correct. That is all. Okay. Questions, concerns, points to make? I thought I'd maybe just add some perspectives. I know we're going to have BDS on our Sierra Cedar representative, but I just thought I'd, on the ITAP project, add a little perspective. Since I received the Bureau of Development Services in July, mid-July,
 I sponsored an executive stakeholder retreat on August 15th, which happened to be a Saturday, by the way, and we had over 35 city employees participate in that retreat, and all of the bureaus expressed, you know,
 They have concerns about ITAP, but they also underscore the importance of the ITAP project for the functioning of the city. So I was very heartened that so many employees took time out on a Saturday in mid-August to participate in this stakeholder retreat. I've also met with Sierra Cedar Senior Executive Kevin Bryant, who is here today. I met with him on August 31st to lay out a 90-day demonstration plan and terms for,
 C.R. Cedar led a plan and mitigation presentation on September 16th. The meeting was attended by city executives from BDS, PBOT, and Bureau of Technology Services. An action plan was developed from those conversations at this meeting and is actively being managed during the 90-day period. The 90-day demonstration period started on September 23rd.
 And I will continue to rely on Director Scarlett and Rebecca Sponsal for leadership and monitoring of the 90-day demonstration period. And following the 90-day demonstration period, I will be making a decision on the next steps. I just wanted to add that perspective. And I welcome, I really appreciate Jeff Baer of the Bureau of Technology Service, you know, coming on board in a more visible way. Appreciate that. Other advice that you and the other members of our volunteer committee might have for,
 I mean, it sounds like we're about out of the woods on the lean accounting system. I think we're on the way to PCI compliance. Lean and PCI are headed the right way. Obviously, the ITAP's the big worry here. Everybody believes, including the TOC members, that the capability that the project is asking for, the city desperately needs. Yeah.
 What I don't think everybody is in concurrence with is do you have the right person, right vendor providing those capabilities? Do you need to look at a different approach? You're multiple years into it, and you're looking at multiple more years. Typically, IT projects that span four, five, six, seven years, they tend to have a higher failure rate, and that's a concern you should be worried about. I have a question for either Ken or Jeff. In these reports, I think you do a very –
 You do a laudable job presenting us with updates and assessments. The question I wanted to ask you is, do you feel you have the latitude
 unfettered latitude to make recommendations to us, as opposed to doing a risk assessment. Do you feel in these proceedings you have a satisfactory charge to give us affirmative recommendations for future action, even if those recommendations are potentially not shared by the Bureau or for other teammates? Yes.
 I believe I can speak for most of the TOC saying we feel comfortable that we can bring issues to both Jeff or Fred Miller, which I believe is who we officially report to, or our individual council members, which we have done in the past back a couple years ago with the Water Bureau project. That was one that we felt really required some attention, and we brought it to your attention, and you acted accordingly. Let me just give you just a context.
 The mayor recently led a process where we considered options for the Portland building. And quite frankly, none of the options were great. But I think one of the things about that process that was really helpful and constructive is a panel of experts were asked to review the options and make recommendations. None of us up here are developers or people that do the professional work of, you know, deciding about the fate of a building.
 I found it very helpful to have a group of experts come in and say, this is our best recommendation, and then we could accept or reject it, and it turns out we accepted it. I find sometimes, Ken, when I'm listening to these presentations, that I don't always understand the language that you folks speak as you're walking through the presentation because I'm not an IT person, and the reason that I asked you to be my representative is that's your work. So I have a harder time following some of the narrative
 but the part that that i just want you to know that we have delegated to you is to give us the recommendations and at the point in which you think we should cut our losses or take a hard line or or that we're going down the wrong road i hope you feel fully empowered to give us that advice because the most useful part of this presentation for me is the coding because i could sort of follow the red and green and yellow
 But in terms of the narrative, you lose me a little bit because it's a highly technical field. And so I'm looking for big picture stuff. And if you get to a point where you've lost confidence in a vendor or you think we're going down the wrong path, I'm looking for you to actually tell us that. I think at the end of this 90 days we'll all set up a pretty good idea of what it looks like and we'll probably look at, you know, do we need to make a different type of recommendation or are we still on the right path?
 Thank you very much. And if I could also answer that question for myself as BTS director, I've had many conversations directly with Matt Grum from Commissioner Saltzman's office, provided a number of recommendations, and plus with reporting directly to Fred Miller, I don't feel any hurdles in front of me as far as making those recommendations. Other questions or concerns from the council? And, Wilfred, are we going to hear from you as well, or are you just on standby? I'm just on standby. Okay. Thank you very much.
 Well, thank you all very much. Thank the committee for your work. We really appreciate it. BDS panel. And yes, now I want to bring up BDS and your team. Give us your report and your prognosis, please. Okay. Sure, you can come over here. Musical chairs.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Paul Scarlett, Director for Bureau of Development Services and sponsor of the ITAP project. Things I was going to share, a lot of it has been shared by the TOC members and Jeff. I can highlight that the ITAP project continues to be critically important to the city for the benefits that will be achieved and yielded
 to the customers and our employees and the citizens. The aspects around the delays and the scope are shared, the concerns. We have...
 been monitoring those delays, have been working collaboratively with the vendor to manage those as best as we can. There's a handout that you're looking at that chronologically shares some of the highlights and progress and accomplishments since end of July, since the last time we reported to you as part of the TOC report. It does highlight a number of accomplishments which are key to showing some progress.
 I'm, like Jeff, optimistic that over the next couple of months we'll continue to see progress and be able to make, hopefully, a good recommendation in concert with Commissioner Sossman about which direction we go into the new year with the vendor in this project. The team continues to work.
 work very diligently. I'm very thankful for the collaborative approach that we've taken with SARA as well as the interagency bureaus. Maurice Henderson, PBOT Deputy Director, has joined the executive team in meeting with us weekly as well as Jeff Beer. And sometimes it's a phone call meeting or in-person meeting and we're going through
 budget deliverables, information shared from the team gathered by Rebecca Sponsal, the ITAP project manager, and Sierra's ITAP project manager. We are, I think at this point,
 The focus is on this 90-day demonstration period. And we're a month into it. We've seen some progress. For context, to be clear, there's a 90-day demonstration period that calls out a specific module. It's the land use module. And...
 Concert with that as running in tandem or concurrently is the rest of the project. So there are two things being monitored within this 90-day period. One of them can't go any slower than the rest sort of thing. They need to be running concurrently together to be able to provide a comprehensive review and assessment by the end of the 90-day period. So...
 I have a number of things that I can share, but I will yield my time because this is the first time we're having an executive person from the vendor, Sarah Cedar, present here at Council, and pretty excited to turn this over to Kevin Bryant, the general manager for Sarah Cedar, for him to share his perspectives. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for having me.
 In way of background, I'm Kevin Bryant, General Manager for Sierra Cedar. I have responsibility for our public sector practice, which includes the Infor practice and all of our projects, including ITAP.
 For some of you who aren't quite as familiar, we're about 1,000 resources in terms of our firm. And within the public sector, our Infor practice is a very meaningful practice. We do business and have done business for quite some time in the space. We're probably the largest, if not one of the largest, systems integrators. And you evaluated that. You saw that at the point of selection, right?
 The city of Boston is a successful implementation. We continue to do work there. The scope and, you know, the project, not so dissimilar from Portland. City of Minneapolis, we started shortly after your project, and we've continued down that path. City of Las Vegas, city of Long Beach. Thank you.
 We have a very significant capacity in the marketplace. Infor will tell you that, as will the market. And we're very confident in our ability to deliver on the commitments that we've made here. With that said, those projects are not unlike the city of Portland in that projects change.
 You learn lessons as you move on. You adjust as you move on. And clearly we recognize the first several years had some challenges. And a good chunk of the last year has gone to compensating for that and adjusting. In one area, there have been resource changes.
 The resource changes, by and large, are past us. I think over the last year, we have been, by and large, consistent without staff turnover. We've had the same team in place, and we have very talented resources working. We've recently had a project manager change who replaced an interim project manager,
 and the interim project manager wasn't released we have them now focusing on an operational part in tandem with rebecca so we've strengthened that we've taken a lot of lessons learned on approaches the city of portland is a complicated environment with respect to this particular project everyone acknowledges that
 We've taken a lot of time to refine the approaches in how we're going about delivering this project, and you're starting to see that bear fruit. As I met with Commissioner Saltzman back in July and then again with the executive meeting, I think it was clear that there were still two areas that we needed to focus on, quality, number one, and the baseline and the schedule, and until the schedule evolved, it would –
 continue to be in the red and quality was an important area. So we've identified land use as Paul has mentioned, and we're tracking to target. And over the course of this 90 days, we expect that to result in a rebase line of the project with a very strong level of confidence that we can deliver.
 and along with that, we're entertaining all sorts of areas where we can expedite the schedule, and so we expect the results of that to come in the December timeframe, and it will be provided to your attention. We look forward to that, and from my perspective, a lot of the lessons learned, it's a joint project on both ends have been made. The teams have been working well together for the last year. We expect success.
 to continue working well, and we continue to have momentum with accomplishments. And I think you'll see that in the actual activity and the deliverables as we get toward the tail end of this year. And so, thank you again for having me, and I look forward to the next 90 days and reporting back in the December timeframe. Questions? Why did you all pick land use as the demonstration project? It seems to me that's one of the most complicated.
 I'll defer to Rebecca. There's a lot of decisions. There were several options open to us at this point. It was a discrete amount of work. We've already split land use into two components and had completed the first. We were scheduled to start land use in August, and we did that on schedule. We were able to also complete that in the 90 days. We had considered the commercial permit, but that is...
 the largest item that we have in the whole project from a permit perspective, and that was not achievable in a 90-day window. Okay.
 If I could add one little bit more of information. We've been looking at this closely and wondering, are there areas we can have some early wins, if you will? And so we've identified an electronic plan review aspect to hopefully get implemented next year, 2016. To do that, we essentially had some collaborative conversations with SARA to allow the contract to be separated out, and they agreed to release
 any constraints so we could work directly with Evolve. And that's something that we feel could come early, and our customers and staff could utilize electronic plan review, reduce papers, and all that stuff. So that's an anticipated early win, and it won't impact the rest of the project, and the interface will occur at some later time. Other questions for now?
 So I know in a consulting firm, you know, your personnel come and go, but I guess I think the disruption of the turnover was pretty severe. How would you assess the likelihood that we'll have the same team the remainder of the project? I think there's a high degree of likelihood that you're going to have a continuity with the team moving forward and looking back, and, you know, your team can testify to this.
 The majority of the turnover was early on and in the early year of the project, and over the last year we've had a lot of continuity. And where we've made adds, it's typically been adding on top of the resources that we have and improving upon what we have, and so I would expect continuity moving forward. Thank you. All right, any other questions? Yes.
 thank you all very much and we'll see if there's any public testimony on this item before we take a motion to accept the report anyone want to speak on this item okay thank you all thank you welcome thank you second roll call please thank you all very much i really appreciate all the time that you put in and it's your shining example of civic involvement in the city of portland and i
 Yes, thank you very much to the Technology Oversight Committee for all of your work and to the team at Bureau of Development Services and throughout the city. I was pleased to hear that the TOC agrees that the city staff have been doing everything that we could be doing and continues to do so. I really appreciate that.
 Of course, this isn't the first time that we've had a discussion about whether to continue with the current vendor. That was something that I looked at when I was in charge of development services soon after I got the project, having been started under the previous commissioner.
 And at that time we decided that the best thing to do was to continue moving forward with the current vendor. So I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman now putting that on the table in public, and we'll have that public discussion as to whether the current vendor can provide the services contracted for. Thank you for your work on this. Hi. Yeah, let me just add my voice to that, and particularly to Ken, who's been a constant on this and really appreciate the expertise that he brings from his work at the standard vendor.
 and thank you for your work aye i too want to once again thank the technology oversight committee for their uh outstanding work thank you ken and wilfred for for being here today and uh thank you kevin bryant from sierra cedar for being here too it's a little bit being in the hot seat but that's what it's all about so anyway we appreciate the the work everybody's doing and we uh on all these projects and uh pleased to accept the report aye
 Well, ditto to those comments, and just this is big stuff, big dollars, big risks. I think it's important to remember that also with the ITAP project, there's a big benefit not just to us as an operation. Maybe we see those benefits on some ISD projects more internally.
 but this one has a huge external benefit once it's operational that people are used to paperless transactions and they'll be able to do their permitting work in a paperless environment which is overdue here and and operational in other cities so this is one that
 again completed well is going to pay off for the citizens of this city and i'm looking forward to that obviously we do have to successfully complete the project have it work the way it's intended be able to adapt to changes that the council makes or that occur in building technology or any other way affect what paul and you and your bureau do but
 this is really a big deal for the community and and the sooner we can get it working and have it working well the better so please continue and again committee members thank you for your willingness to look us in the face and say this is a big problem you got to do something about it or is the big problem and you should continue and facts are friendly and good advice is never punished so I don't think you're gonna hold back but please don't thank you all very much I
 okay let's take our next item which is 1093. ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the city and the portland police commanding officers association relating to the terms and conditions of employment of police lieutenants for 2015-2018. okay anna canwett and her team are here uh leadership of the ppcoa is here so wendy lieutenant would you like to come on up
 Good morning. All right. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Anna Kenwood. I'm the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. And here with me is Maureen Weber, who was the Chief Spokesperson for our negotiations with a contract with the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association. I would add this was her first time as Chief Spokesperson, and she did a really good job. This is not easy work. And then Wendy Steinbaum, who you know, who is the President of the PPCAOA and the
 I have to say that this was a very collaborative process for both parties. Wendy and I also had some very good discussions around the interests and needs of the bargaining unit, and I think that establishes a good relationship for this group going forward. As you know, the PPCA now consists only of lieutenants, the rank of lieutenants within the police bureau.
 Just the highlights, this is a three-year agreement, so due to expire the end of June 30th of 2018. Bargaining unit is about 28 employees. We did agree to our health insurance program, the similar to we agreed with housing, which puts in place July 1 of 2018.
 the incentive program so that the 95-5 premium split will remain as it is unless the employee does not engage in the required preventive health exams, and then it will move to 90-10. We think that's very important in terms of continuing to encourage wellness in the city and obviously keeping the cost of our insurance down.
 We also reached an agreement on Article 29, which is the provision in the PPCA contract dealing with interview safeguards and the language in the contract that was pretty much identical to what's in the PPA contract requiring a 48-hour advance notice has been deleted.
 And currently what we have is obviously we would inform the member of an initial interview, whether they're a suspect or a witness, and provide an opportunity for them to meet with an attorney if they choose, but there is a provision that that can't cause a delay in the investigation. So I think that's a huge move for the city, very, very important. I was very pleased that PPCOA agreed to that as well.
 We have a – this unit is unique that they have some benefits similar to nonrepresented employees. One of those is an ability to take a partial day absence without using your crude leave. The contract had it as four hours. We did reduce that to two. That's really a more appropriate amount of time for an employee to take off without accessing their leave balances. Okay.
 We've continuing the professional development fund, which is very important, that $30,000, which is simply continuation of the amounts that had been in the contract before. Changed working out of class. The member is now eligible for the higher level of pay if they're doing the work for one full shift rather than three.
 So those are pretty much the high points of the changes in the language of the contract. In terms of the monetary provisions, we agreed to COLA provisions similar to other contracts, the floor of 1 percent, ceiling of 5 percent, the COLA if,
 this contract is ratified by council, will go into effect October 7th, which is the date PPCOA ratified. We did not reach agreement June 30th, so the COLA will not be effective July 1. But we did agree October 7th is the date.
 Also, in this current fiscal year, we negotiated an education premium in part similar to PPA, 2% for a bachelor's degree. There are 23 members who have a bachelor's degree. This is extremely important to Chief O'Day for several reasons, but I think the most important is, you know, the studies, research does show that an educated workforce is
 I think it's important overall, but when you're looking at police work, it really is in terms of judgment, critical thinking, those types of skills that people do learn in college. Also agreed to an additional 3% for a master's degree or higher. And I think there are four members of the bargaining unit that have that degree. Okay.
 Then in year two of the agreement, we also agreed to an across-the-board 2% increase. This was really based on market considerations comparing our lieutenants to the cities we look at. Without the education premium and the across-the-board increase, we were behind all of our comparable cities with the exception of Fresno, Albuquerque, and Oklahoma City. Okay.
 Cost of living, particularly in Oklahoma City and Albuquerque, is not particularly comparable with us. It does meet the statutory definitions of a comparable city, but we were concerned. With the increases we negotiated in the contract, it's a little difficult to predict, obviously, year two, which is when the 2% goes into effect because we don't know what the wages of those other cities will be in the second year. So we're looking at 15, 16, 17, excuse me.
 It will put us close to even, about even with Seattle, otherwise the same relative ranking with those other cities. So we did feel that was justified for this unit. Then last, in the third year of the contract, we did negotiate a 5% residency premium. So this...
 was a topic of some discussion. The mayor, of course, has an interest in this. We wanted to be sure that while encouraging people to live in this city, we were not negatively impacting our ability to diversify the workforce. Since we know that Portland is not a particularly diverse city, we wanted to be sure that if we, you know, alternatives to a premium are you can
 Council could adopt preference, so in other words, points for being living in the city of Portland, or additional pay, things like that, but, you know,
 The mayor's office saw that as potentially negative to our ability to diversify the workforce. So with a premium, it is obviously an incentive to live in the city of Portland, but there's not really a great disincentive in terms of our recruitment abilities. There are right now— What's the effective date you have to live in the city to qualify for that premium? Yeah.
 Well, you would have to live in the city before July 1 of 2018. That's when this would go into effect. So, again, I think there are eight current members from PPCA who actually live in the city. And in discussing this with Wendy...
 You know, we felt that it may encourage current members to live in the city, but also what we're hoping is broad, long-term, you know, looking at people who are coming into the city, new officers, PPA, that if we negotiated this with PPA, we'd kind of have that pipeline going further on through all the ranks. Yes.
 With that, I think that's really all I had. You have the fiscal impact. I can go over that as well if you'd like. Questions? Sure. I could add something real quick. Out of the eight members that we appear to have identified that live in the city. Could you come a little closer to the mic? Sure. Doing some further checking, I think there's only going to end up being about three that actually live in the city limits proper. The other four.
 four or five have portland addresses but they actually live in unincorporated washington county so i believe it's the intent of council to actually live in the city limits proper so i think it looks like it'll affect about three members at this point hopefully more later so i have a question about the educational premium what's the baseline requirement for members of the police uh
 PPC OA or any police officer? Yeah. Well, it would be for a lieutenant, right? Well, yeah. I mean, this is for the lieutenant. So to get the education premium, they have to have either a bachelor's degree for the 2%. But what's the job specification? Is there a requirement that you have?
 There's no requirement to have the education. We had a number of years ago there was a requirement, and it had a negative impact on the diversity of the workforce in terms of bringing a candidate pool. So there's not a requirement, but there's a definite encouragement. PPA has the same 2% premium for having a bachelor's degree. And what's the current baseline application requirement for a PPA?
 For a Portland Police Association member, for a new recruit, what do they have to have? There isn't an education requirement. They take people right out of high school or with no high school diploma? No, you have to have a high school diploma, yes. Lieutenant?
 my understanding it was it was 90 credit hours or equivalent experience military i think they made exceptions for military experience a few years ago um that was how it was when i got hired but it may have changed that's like an associate degree is that 90 credit approximately equivalent to that so a ppcoa member in order to be promoted would not require at this time would not require any additional to that okay thank you this is anecdotal and and uh it'd be actually good for me to review this as well but yeah
 what we've been getting lately in classes of recruits is quite a bit above that bait line baseline we've been getting
 bachelor's degrees in many cases, master's degrees in some cases, pretty impressive life experience in terms of other professions that these folks have worked in before they decided to try to become a police officer. So although I believe in having a higher educational baseline, we've been getting it by who's been applying and getting through the selection process. Even if it hasn't been a specific requirement, at least –
 in many cases. So I think Deanna's here. We might want to just go look back at the last several classes of recruits and quantify that by just remembering the accounts of the backgrounds of the folks that have gone through the last few swearings in. Frankly, it's been very impressive. Former high school principals, I mean, people that have really had great life experience and educational preparedness for the job. Yes, I...
 My question was more just about the baseline requirements. And over the course of the recession when we weren't hiring, a lot of folks went back to school. So that's good that they were getting more people with degrees and advanced degrees. I forgot my other question there. Cameron, what I was going to ask. So I see there's a –
 A physical fitness premium of 1%? Yes. I assume that means a real physical fitness test, not a biometric? Yes, yes. There's a real physical fitness test for PPCAOA members. And it's no gimme, let me tell you. Especially for us older. And I have a question for you. I recently did a ride-along with two officers, and we were together about eight hours. And we talked about a lot of things. And one of the issues that came up was this issue of residency. Yes.
 And I thought they had an interesting perspective on why they chose to live where they did. And it caused me to reflect on this issue. I see that we're building a 5% premium, so an incentive, if you will, to choose to live in Portland. But I just wondered –
 Since I've sort of had another perspective shared with me about why someone might choose not to live in Portland, what do we identify as the benefits of providing that premium? What are the benefits of having officers who live in our city? I think generally what the studies show is that they're –
 can be a greater commitment to the community if you are actually living in the community and a sense from the public that you are sharing in their concerns.
 And by saying that, I don't mean to imply that because our police officers, lieutenants, et cetera, do not live in the city, that they're not fully committed to serving the community. I truly believe that they are. But there is also, I think, a feeling – and this is some of what the studies I looked at raise –
 that you're one of us because you actually live in the same community that you are working in. So it is that balance. But, again, I don't want to leave the impression that because our members of the police force don't live in the city of Portland, they're not committed to serve the citizens of Portland. No, and I think—
 One of the things I like about a premium is the data that Dan's bureau has been sharing with us recently makes very clear that a police officer is going to have a harder and harder time finding affordable housing in our community.
 So we can't simply state an abstract goal and then say, you know, you have to therefore sacrifice on the kind of home that you can afford or apartment. And I know that some of our officers feel they can get a better value in other communities and choose to take a longer commute. And I think that's obviously within their rights. The other thing, though, that struck me is I had a lot of time with these folks to get a sense of...
 their view of their work and day-to-day strains. One of the things that I was reflecting on is that when my day is over, quote-unquote, and I go to Fred Meyer, my day really isn't over. And while I'm not as recognizable as the mayor, the truth is that people will come up often and they have a concern. And it frequently has nothing to actually do with the city. Just if someone thinks they've seen you before, you're a point of contact.
 And I consider it both a responsibility and an honor to have those conversations. So in other words, I've learned we don't really have off time. And when we're in the public doing the routine things of life, we're actually still in our professional jobs. And that's a responsibility that we all willingly accept, and it's an honor to do that. I don't have the same standard for people that work for the city.
 And it seems to me a police officer should be able to end his or her shift and be able to let his or her hair down and not be in a situation where we expect that they're continuing to serve a public safety function or, you know, be on call and more closer to the city so that if they're on call, they get to work quicker and things like that.
 I'm glad we're offering a premium, and I think I understand the benefits of having a higher proportion of our sworn officers living in our city. But it was interesting to hear another perspective about officers who are on the front lines doing really hard work and have chosen to locate their families in places where when they turn off the clock, when they're off the meter, they're really off the meter, and they are not sort of –
 half on, half off the way we are as electeds, where we're always on. So it was an interesting perspective, and I've been reflecting on it, but I'm glad we're offering the premium as an inducement. I agree with that, and I think that's why a premium is a better approach. I want to give people encouragement to live in the city for just the reasons that Anna cited. I think it will improve the relationship between
 between the city and the police bureau if more of our officers choose to live in the city i use that word choose deliberately because it is a choice and i and i think their understanding of the nuances of the community will be better just because of proximity and more more contact with their neighbors so i think everybody wins if we put this kind of an incentive in place and over time that balance shift will there be some officers that that
 still make that choice that I really want to disconnect and I don't want to really have any further contact with my job when I'm off duty, sure. And one of the ways that they might feel that they can accomplish that is by living farther away. You can have the best of both worlds like I do by living close to the border. So I can go to Lake Aswego, and nobody knows who the heck I am. It's really fun. I do remember one more question, though, and that do we provide tuition assistance for PPCOA members to go back to school to get their degrees? Thank you, Nick.
 Yes, part of the fund is a $30,000 fund, and there's percentages that are used for, I think, tuition reimbursement, and Maureen would have the details on some other things of that fund. It's a 60-40 split, which is 60% is supposed to go towards education and 40% can go towards things like conferences and seminars. Terrific. Good. I'm glad we provide that.
 other questions commissioner novick actually i'm not going to throw a wrench into the monkey by opposing this but i just want to say that i'm somewhat skeptical of both the education and residency premiums as far as education is concerned i think it's actually important that the city has jobs in the public as well as the private sector that don't require a bachelor's degree and i'm a bit worried about sending a signal that we don't value the people without bachelor's degrees who are doing the same work as much as the people with them
 On residency, I share Commissioner Fish's concern. I've heard the same thing, that sometimes it's nice to be able to actually be done with your day. And also I've heard officers say there's some people that live in the city that aren't particularly part of the community. You know, the people who live outside the community or outside the city are very much a part of the community.
 I will say, however, that I am a little worried about lots of our police officers living in Vancouver, and if there's an earthquake and the I-5 bridge comes down, then they won't be available. So that is an argument for at least being within – on one side of the bridge. Yeah.
 So, I mean, I do want to express those concerns. I also wanted to note as a tangent that I get approached at Fred Meyer, too, but quite often people mistake me for Commissioner Fish. So I just make all sorts of promises to those people knowing I won't be held accountable.
 That just happened to me yesterday, too. Ask me if that was the commissioner. The question I often get when I'm doing the laundry or the grocery store has nothing to do with city business. The first typical question has to do with our libraries and sometimes has to do with other areas. And, you know, we're points of contact. We can follow through on all those. By the way, I'm keeping track of Commissioner Novick's comments this month.
 Generally, I find him very persuasive, but I've learned that when he couples any comment with a reference to resilience, he becomes just unbelievably persuasive. So I'm taking a page out of his book. Any other questions or concerns to raise with the team here?
 or anything else that you need us to know thank you all very much appreciate appreciate the collaborative work but does anyone wants to speak on this item before we take action on it we have two people signed up okay please come on up dan handelman and robert west come on up please morning morning mayor hales and commissioners i'm dan handelman with portland cop watch and uh while uh we've applauded the removal of the 48-hour clause from this
 contract, we're very concerned that perhaps whoever was negotiating this was not paying attention to the full discussions going on around police accountability and the DOJ, because there's been talk about expanding the powers of our independent police review division to be more, doing more of the investigations, and the contract leaves intact the
 The language that says that the lieutenants who are going to be interviewed for investigations shall be interviewed in an important police station facility and they'll be informed of the name, rank, and command of the member in charge of the investigation, which a lawyer would say implies that an independent agency cannot conduct these investigations.
 Furthermore, the very first line of the reinserted text after the removal of the 48-hour clause says prior to being interviewed regarding an IAD or EEO investigation, it doesn't contemplate an IPR or independent body investigation. So I'm hoping that perhaps you will delay approval of this contract so that the work that we're heading into according to the meeting with the judge earlier last week will actually take place and we'll have an independent agency doing those investigations.
 This process in the past for the PPA contract has been public, and I've been able to attend those meetings, but this was not public at all. This is a public policy issue, and I was hoping that there would be some time to put in comments like the ones I just made. I'm not trying to throw a monkey wrench in at the end because this is the first time we knew about the contract being negotiated. I also read in the paper that attorneys both for the police association and police,
 For the city have interpreted the 48-hour rule to not be effective in deadly force situations, which is something I brought up numerous times, and I just got met with stares from the attorneys that I brought it up with because it says except in cases where there might be criminal liability. So essentially it's not achieving everything that we're seeking to achieve.
 Lieutenants aren't often interacting with the public and rarely get investigated for misconduct against citizens. There is an exception to that, which is Lieutenant Jeffrey Kerr went out of his jurisdiction and shot a man in front of his sister's house yesterday.
 in 2006, and Lieutenant Kerr, Sergeant Leo Besner, and Brett Burton, all of whom were involved in very controversial deaths of community members, attended the COAB meeting last week in uniform with guns, and I was probably the only person who realized that there were three officers involved in such cases there, but it made me very uncomfortable. And the officers who sit on the COAB come without their uniforms on.
 Uh, the PPA contract, when you get around to reviewing that one also has a specific clause saying that the IPR shouldn't be involved in deadly force investigations. And when that gets negotiated, you have to pull that out too. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Morning. Yes. My name is Robert West. I'm with the police nine one one. And I was concerned about several things. Um, one is the residents. One is the residency. Um,
 You know, you're going to make it required for lieutenants, but not officers and sergeants and stuff like that. The other thing is to sit there and say, we'll pay you more because you live in the city of Portland. Seems a little shaky. And the other thing that I wanted to bring up is that the lieutenants...
 aren't involved in a lot of door knocking and calls and stuff like that. They sit in their car, they all sit in the precincts and stuff like that. They don't go out that much. And if he goes to the precinct wanting to talk to a lieutenant, you get a sergeant, which usually sits there and says, well, the lieutenant's busy, can't talk right now. So there's not that much communications between the public and the lieutenants.
 And therefore, you know, I do want to throw a monkey wrench in. I don't think lieutenants should get the pay raise. I don't think that they should get residency, extra money for residencies. You're not giving it to the fire department. You're not giving it to regular police officers. You're basically putting police officers above fire lieutenants.
 supervisors in the water bureaus, supervisors in transportation, and stuff like that. And they're all public workers. Regardless if they're a police lieutenant or a fire lieutenant or a supervisor, they should get the same treatment.
 And that's it. Okay, thank you. Thanks very much. So thank you both. I'm going to get Anna back up to respond to your question, Dan.
 So this language issue about investigations, Anna, could you respond to that, please, about whether this language in any way fences off IPR investigations? The two contracts are different. PPCA does not contain a clause similar to the one that the gentleman was referring to. So, no, there isn't a fence off at all.
 So IPR investigations operate under city code? Yes. And this contract does not interfere with that? That's correct. Okay. I think that's important to get on the record. Yes. Other questions for Anna? Thank you very much. Thank you. So this is before us as an emergency ordinance. Go ahead and take a roll call vote unless there's a reason not to. Okay, roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz?
 Well, thank you very much for the presentation. Thank you to those who testified and raised concerns that certainly have been heard and will be considered in the next contract negotiation with the Portland Police Association. I have learned over my time on the city that one rarely gets everything you want in a bargaining situation from either side. I think it's terrific that we've made these changes that were outlined. Many of them I thoroughly support.
 And I appreciate the changed language on the 48-hour rule. I think it's perhaps not coincidental that the three people at the
 table here were women who are able to negotiate based on interests and looking at things holistically. So I very much appreciate that. I concur with Commissioner Fish that paying extra for folks who live in Portland is appropriate since we know that it costs more to live in Portland. And we do want people to be both close in so that they can help out in emergencies and also to be part of our community. So thank you very much for all of your work on this.
 Well, I want to, you know, first of all, say I appreciate the work the commanding officers do. It's very important work. And I do support the residency premium, I think, for the reasons we all stated, that it's a good thing in case of emergencies to have our officers closer and also recognizing the higher cost to live in the city of Portland. The premium also helps in that regard. And I really appreciate the getting rid of the 48-hour rule. It's a very important precedent and...
 hopefully it'll be followed in our ppa contract so uh good work everybody hi
 I want to second those comments. We've made real progress towards community goals and towards a police bureau that's got a more solid relationship with the community in this contract. So I appreciate those improvements and the precedents that we've set here. I just also want to thank Lieutenant Steinbrom and the members of the PPCOA for working not just through this contract but through a lot of difficult issues over the last year.
 in a very collaborative way, and I really appreciate the spirit of how you've operated in this as well. So thank you. Aye. Okay, well done. Thank you. Let's move on to the rest of our agenda. We have one item that we pulled from.
 The consent calendar, the regular agenda, which is 1095. Authorize a grant agreement with Cash Oregon for $75,000 to provide financial education, counseling, and free tax preparation services to low-income families and individuals in Portland. I don't think we have a presentation on this, but there was someone that wanted to speak. Was that you, Lightning? Come on up, please. Morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I had on this grant is that I wanted to have an understanding that from my position when we're talking preparing for taxes, tax preparation and also counseling and financial education, I'm very hesitant on approving this grant because
 For the purposes, I understand you're going to have an office located in Lloyd Center. I understand this company has several other locations, up to 24 different locations. One of the other concerns I had on this, on reviewing the agreement, is that on the signatures here, the grantee is Rob Justice, Executive Director of Cash Oregon. Okay.
 One of the things I wanted to stress here is, you know, is this the developer that used to work for Join? Is this the developer that is currently doing numerous projects out through the city of Portland? So I wanted to have an understanding. The money is going over to Rob Justice, who is the executive director of the company called Cash Oregon. And I don't have any issue on him receiving the money. It just depends.
 due to the fact i understand he has other commitments with the city also in the development side of real estate and also pertaining to this also so that just kind of like i say from my position i want it to be understood i want to have a maybe in the future i'll do a little more research on this to understand is he getting commitments on the 24 other locations because obviously on this particular location at lloyd center he's getting 75 000
 Because if he is, that equals $1,800,000. I've also been looking at this that it seems as though they get a lot of volunteers to do a lot of these. And I wanted to have maybe a more clear understanding that their Lloyd Center office seems to be the location that is basically receiving the most business. They're receiving close to 4,978 filers at their Lloyd Center super site.
 The remaining other locations, it appears to be close to 10,000. So I just kind of wanted to have a clear understanding. The name Rob Justice jumped out at me on this, and I want to look at this very close. Thank you for your time. And I was hoping a speaker would be here to speak on behalf of CASH Oregon. I think we can get some clarification on those points. I just wanted to clarify for you that Mr. Justice is not working on any city housing invested projects.
 He is a developer, and he does develop affordable housing, but there's no current city investments in any of his projects. Okay, fair enough. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much for raising those questions. Okay, any further questions about this item? Let's take a roll call vote, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish?
 I'm a very strong supporter of this program, and I appreciate the questions that Lightning raises, but I want to just also add to what Dan said by putting this in context. We make a number of investments as a city into programs which help leverage substantial other monies that benefit low- and moderate-income families in our community.
 Yesterday we took up a proposal that Commissioner Saltzman brought forward to invest some general – excuse me, yesterday we discussed a proposal that's coming to our full bump that invests general fund money in helping Section 8 voucher holders be successful. A successful Section 8 voucher holder means a more successful family, and it means we don't leave money on the table. We also have a program that helps –
 People qualify for SSI disability. Now, when an otherwise eligible person gets their disability benefits, a number of good things happen. They get coverage going forward, but a significant amount of their preexisting medical bills are also paid. So it's good for the community, good for the healthcare providers, and good for the individual. This is a third program that has a great leverage component because a lot of low- and moderate-income families are not.
 are not aware that they are eligible for significant federal relief in the form of an earned income tax credit. And if you don't have a tax preparer helping you do it, you can literally miss an opportunity to capture millions of dollars of benefits. And the attachment to this shows all the benefits that Cash Oregon has brought forward.
 to our community by helping people successfully get those refunds and tax credits. So I believe very strongly in the limited investments we make to help people be eligible for federal benefits in particular because they have a huge impact on both the families and our community. And I thank Dan and the mayor for bringing this forward once again. Thank you.
 saltzman hi hey all hi thank you okay let's now move to our regular agenda uh and just a time check for the council's sake it's 11 30. i'm going to attempt to power through this with you and get it done before 12 30 but i propose to take break at 12 30 regardless that's okay so let's move on to 1107.
 Adopt a waste reduction plan and accept and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro to receive Metro Waste Reduction Challenge funds of $283,408 and $336,189 for the Recycle at Work program in fiscal year 15-16.
 I believe we have a presentation from the Bureau on this item since we are approving an intergovernmental agreement. But any questions about this item? If anyone wants to speak on this item, then it passes the second reading. 1108. Mayor, this is rescheduled to next week.
 oh you're right do we have to read it yes 11.8 declare intent to pilot the community initiated neighborhood trails process to allow community organizations to identify and improve undeveloped right-of-ways to trail standards okay rescheduled to november 4th at 9 30 a.m 1109
 Amend contract with TriMet related to the operations and maintenance of the Portland Streetcar System to add payment to TriMet for operations, maintenance, and other services for fiscal year 15-16 through fiscal year 19-20 for $40,490,618. Okay, and this is here as a previous agenda item, but it's ready for second reading, isn't it? I think it is. Is that right? Because we already had a hearing on it. I believe so.
 big numbers so we got to double check yeah we're stuck here yeah it was oh sorry okay so we haven't had a hearing yeah we haven't had any sorry about that that's amazing i lost track of where we were i want to make sure that okay so commissioner novick um is catherine levine here to explain the infancy of the private is here
 Good morning. I'm Catherine Levine from Portland Transportation. This item is an amendment to provide additional contract authority under our existing intergovernmental agreement or contract with TriMet.
 So in 2012, the city entered into a number of agreements with TriMet recognizing Portland Streetcar as part of the regional transit system. And it's through those agreements that TriMet provides funding to the streetcar system.
 In turn, we reimburse TriMet for the use of their trained operators and mechanics in our system. This amendment does not change the budget. It does not increase the streetcar budget. What it does is provide through that IGA contract the budget authority for the next anticipated five years of service to be able to reimburse TriMet. Okay. Questions for Catherine?
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I always have is with projections. And where I'm at from my position is that I think we need to be very cautious on projecting anything on streetcar, TriMet Max, or buses. As you've noticed in other states, when Uber and Lyft successfully operate
 implements their business model. The taxi cab industry is the first one that begins to lose a tremendous amount of money. When they continue to add more drivers, permitted drivers, with no cabs, on how many they can have, for the drivers to be able to continue to make a reasonable amount of money, they will begin to focus on streetcar. And I appreciate your leaving, Mr. Novick, and I hope you leave office pretty soon, too. They will focus on TriMet Maxx.
 They will focus on buses. They have a model already called UberPool, which they will get two or three different people in that vehicle. They will cut costs low enough to compete with streetcar, TriMet Max, and bus. When that happens, when you're using these projections currently right now, that absolutely mean nothing to me. Because unless you're including UberLyft and the potential for lost profits, your numbers mean nothing on projections.
 Your projected losses in the next three to five years, in my opinion, will be comparable with the traditional cab companies, and their losses have been in the last six months. You can mark my word on that within three years if you do not place a cap on Uber and Lyft.
 I'll be sitting here today. Mr. Novick will not be sitting where he's at. And I will say I projected this out, that Uber and Lyft will cost the streetcar, TriMet Max, and the bus service the most profits we've ever seen in the next three years, unless we get a cap put into place on Uber and Lyft comparable to what we used to have on the traditional cab companies. Your projections mean nothing to me at this time, but thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Okay, and since it's previous agenda, does it move to second reading or do we take a vote? It's an emergency ordinance. So we do take action today? Yes. Okay, then roll call vote, please. Wait a minute. It's not listed as an emergency. It is an emergency ordinance. It says so on the ordinance itself. I just didn't say I needed to do that. But it doesn't on the printed agenda. Sorry about that. I should have made sure it was on the agenda. Sorry. But it does in the ordinance. Yeah, it is. Sorry. Roll call. Novick?
 Thank you, Catherine. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 fish aye saltzman every now and then um and maybe the media will notice this item or maybe they won't every now and then someone comments on the what the city spends to operate the streetcar and says boy that sounds like a lot of money and actually 40 million dollars is a lot of money over the multiple years of course that this country that this uh agreement covers but
 It was just mentioned in passing yesterday, and people might not have noticed it, that Andrew Scott or Josh Harwood, one of our financial professionals, mentioned that about 10 years from now, the general fund of the city and the county are each going to take about a $30 million a year jump. And that's because the Pearl District is going to completely come back onto the tax rolls.
 It's partially back on the tax rolls now because of the action we took last year on urban renewal reform, where we put, I believe it was 40 percent of the assessed value of the Pearl District back on the tax rolls. A recent study that's just been completed shows that the assessed value of property, both because new buildings have been built and because land is worth more along the Portland streetcar line, has risen since its construction by $12 billion. Okay.
 The Portland streetcar, I think, I believe, is the single most lucrative investment that the city of Portland has ever made in terms of tax revenue cash flow.
 So it's a color of money question of what we spend to operate the streetcar versus what we earn from all those property taxes. And every now and then I think we need to remind people that that's why it looks like the streetcar costs money to operate. Well, that's not true when you look at the revenue that it has brought by all that development. So $40 million of outlay for $12 billion of development.
 Assessed value, a good deal. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move on. Item 1110. Authorized Central Eastside Interim Commercial Off-Street Parking Pilot Program. Second reading, roll call vote. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Very excited about this. Aye. Okay.
 Steve, I'm also very excited about this. We've been working with Venture Portland with a group of business owners, property owners, and affordable housing developers in the sort of southeast 6th Avenue area, and it falls within the area of your pilot project where you've proposed to waive sections of Title 33. And the U.S. Bank –
 U.S. Bank owns a parking lot there, and they are actually very interested in being part of this pilot. And we previewed this with the group recently that you were working on this, so thank you for your leadership. And I think it may end up being tailor-made for sort of test-driving some of the ideas that you want to put into place here. That's great to hear. So thank you very much. Hi. Hi.
 Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Mr. Fish, I'm voting for this because Commissioner Nova can inform me that this system will make the Central Eastside Industrial District more economically resilient. Aye. 11-12? 11-11? Sorry, I saw parking twice there. Yes, 11-11.
 authorized temporary commercial parking on oregon department of transportation blocks as part of the central east side interim commercial off-street parking pilot program roll call vote please i just want to recognize grant moorhead who's labored continuously on these items and who showed up here even though these are on consent agenda i i mean even though it's with your second reading rather bye right hi hails i'm sorry fish hi
 I just want to note that this one is not resilient because we have higher and better uses planned for these two lots, so no one should get too accustomed to this parking, but I look forward to having maker space there soon after its temporary use as a parking lot. Aye. 11-12.
 Accept Engineer's Report on Oregon Health and Science University SkyBridge and Tunnel Encroachment. Roll call vote, please. Nozick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? We had a fantastic hearing last week, and Mayor Hales, I probably don't have the same high-level concern you do about SkyBridges. You've made it very clear that you see them as high-level.
 inconsistent with the kind of urban form you'd like to see develop, and therefore you have set a very high bar. But regardless, what was exciting about a presentation last week is they've met that very high bar. And this is a very important part of our city, not just because it's where I get my health care, but it's a campus that's unfolding that's serving the larger community. And it just seemed like...
 a very sensible request beautifully conceived so that it's an amenity for the for the broader public and i want to thank ohsu for the work they did and the design team they brought together and today i'm proud to support this by voting aye well i also wanted to commend oregon health and science university on the good job they did on the design of the skybridge
 And also on the next item, Portland State University, I think if there were ever two great cases presented for SkyBridges, these were the two. So I'm pleased to support them. Aye. Aye.
 Mills. Again, I'll echo those comments. The applicant did meet the high bar and demonstrated that there's a really legitimate public purpose and a particular type of use that makes sense in both of these cases. So as I said before, 10 years from now, I'm sure there'll be a couple more that come along. In the meantime, these two are great. Aye. Second one, please, 1113. Aye.
 Accept Engineer's Report on Portland State University SkyBridge Extension Encroachment. Roll call. Novick? Responding to Commissioner Fish's previous comments, I think by definition all concerns about sky bridges are high-level concerns. Aye.
 I don't know. I'm going to take you folks out to Russellville and show you how the poor seniors are trying to cross this very narrow street in the rain with their walkers to get from one side to the other. On this particular topic, though, I happened to be on the bus going past the previous sky bridge when it was being knocked down. It was quite fascinating. I think we should have sold tickets to it. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hale? Aye. OK. 11-14.
 Authorized Procurement Services to enter into a contract for construction and payment of grant pool mechanical renovations. Commissioner Gritz. Thank you, Mayor. This is one of the first projects coming to Council for construction authorization under the Fix Our Parks Bond Measure, which the taxpayers generously funded in November of 2014. Mary Ann Kessin, our wonderful manager of the entire project, is here to tell you about this one. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. My name is Mary Ann Kasson. I'm the Parks Program Manager for the Replacement Bond Program. As you know, the park system is an old one, and it is systematically – excuse me, we're getting the slides up. Oh. Which one is? I'll just keep talking here. It's an old system, and it has systematically been built and renewed using bonds and levies.
 The most recent evidence of that, of course, was just about a year ago when, once again, we got a resounding yes vote. Thank you, Portland voters.
 As you remember, the bond program has seven theme areas covering such things as playgrounds, restrooms, etc. This particular item has to do with one called pools. So in this particular theme area, it's not just Grant, but Dishman and Peninsula will be getting improvements there.
 It's an important one in particular at Grant, and in fact we started this the day the bond passed using existing staff even before we hired because we knew the clock was ticking on the mechanical systems there. And it's not just a cute saying about the duct tape and the bailing wire holding these filters together. We didn't want to even chance one more pool season with the existing system that we had there. So we jumped right on this one.
 It's currently in for permits. It will be advertised in December. We'll come back to you with the contract, hopefully a competitive bid, a nice low one in January, and we're expecting to open it before the pool season opens in the summer of 2016.
 In addition to the mechanical improvements, we're going to be addressing some significant ADA issues there. You can see that big lip that precludes bathers from entering the pool, batting lifts, as well as addressing cross-slope issues on those decks.
 And this is just a warning that you're going to be seeing a lot of me in the weeks to come. We've got a lot of RFPs and bids getting out there, including consultant services that we're reviewing right now. We've got a very engaged staff working hard to get all these things done as quickly as possible. So that's just a few of the highlights coming your way in the next few months. Yes? What on earth are you planning to do with that Lee Kelly masterwork?
 Are you saying that it needs to be updated? Why, no, sir. It has to do with getting the folks with disabilities down to it. So what we're going to be doing in the Rose Garden is addressing that promenade. Currently, if you were needing a disabled spot, you would park and be faced with a giant set of stairs. Right.
 And it's very hard to get in. So we're going to address the parking area, the ramp getting down, and the entire promenade, including the stairs on either side of this sculpture. Do we allow people with a disability to park behind the amphitheater? There's a way to get in, but it's much less than elegant. Good point.
 All right. That's all I had to say. What questions do you have for me? Questions for Marianne. Any others? I just want to thank you. That's my neighborhood pool. And a few years ago, we kicked the junk food out of that pool, although we still have some work to do. I see the slushes and a few other things have made a comeback. But this is a pool that gets a ton of use. It's one of our most popular ones, yes. And it's also the place to be when you run a movies in the pool. Yeah.
 Delighted you're working on this. Yes, the water quality will improve immeasurably. Thank you very much Thanks, Mary Ann anyone else want to speak on this item? Yes You do when it comes to the Portland parks. I'm really cautious about there's about how they do things Please okay. My name is Robert was I'm with some of the police then one one That's mine
 And what I'm concerned about is people that go in for the scholarships, even if they're granted a full scholarship, they still got to pay $450 a year.
 You can only apply for that scholarship. This is about a construction project. So you should come back when we work on the parks budget if you care about those issues. Okay. Well, I object to the contract to pick as a city contract.
 provides money people pay for the parks and stuff like that okay that's all this is about it's just fixing the pool pumps and the other work on the pool it's structure itself not about what we charge to use it right but it's coming out of taxpayer money and that's why the objection to it okay all right thank you all right thanks very much okay it's an emergency ordinance because we got to fix it in time for next summer so roll call please no Vic I
 When the engineer showed me this, what was on the photographs, she said that the insides of those mechanisms are over 100 years old, and she didn't dare take them apart to fix them again because there aren't any replacement parts to them. So it was one of the most compelling examples that, indeed, the voters of Portland decided that we do want to fix our parks again.
 and to fix that particular pool. It was a specific promise made that we would be doing this. And so I really appreciate Mary Ann Kasson and the entire team at Parks for getting this to us so quickly and that it will be done by next summer. Hi. Chris? Thank you, Mary Ann. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. We have boilers from Liberty Ships that are heating some of our wrecked facilities, and they're not going to last much longer. So this is wonderful news that we're upgrading our systems. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 helps me hi ales always a pleasure to have marianne cassin in this room on this for this reason and we're looking forward to you coming back regularly aye
 Mayor Redekopan, Mayor of the City of Okay, let's move on to the next one, which is 1115. Mayor Redekopan, Mayor of the City of Authorized contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction remodel of the Schmeier Pump Station upgrade, project number E07448, for $1,800,000. Mayor Redekopan, Mayor of the City of Commissioner Fish. Mayor Redekopan, Mayor of the City of Mayor and colleagues, you remembered last week.
 Bill Ryan was here, and he tried to trick us into thinking that he was actually Scott Gibson. He's not going to pull that stunt again. He had taken private disciplinary action over that, and now he is back. He is, in fact, Bill Ryan, our chief engineer. You do have a PowerPoint in your packet, and I'm going to turn it over to our crack team to run you through this and the next three items. Bill. Great. Thank you very much, Commissioner, Mayors, Mayor, Commissioners.
 With me today is Dennis Jaramillo, who is the design manager for this project, and I'll let him tell us what's going on. Good morning. Good morning. So, like Bill said, my name is Dennis Jaramillo, design project manager for the Shmier Pump Station Upgrade Project. And...
 Our main goal for this pump station is basically to upgrade a pump station that was completed right around 1974. It hasn't been upgraded since then, so it's about 40 years old with obsolete pieces of electrical and mechanical equipment, and maintenance is having more and more difficult time acquiring parts.
 to keep this sewage pump station operational. It serves the commercial area in Delta Park and eight other sewage pump stations feed into it before it feeds its flow into the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. So with this upgrade, we plan to improve the pump station reliability with new pumps, new electrical and control systems,
 and also to improve the safety and ease of maintenance access for our millwrights and electricians. In order to do that, we're going to convert the underground portion of the pump station into a submersible pump station. That'll eliminate the need for our guys to...
 perform confined space entry into the below grade pump station i've got several slides that show existing conditions as well as some what the new pump station will look like when it's done while we're doing that we're also going to increase the capacity of the pump station to accumulate accommodate future dry weather and wet weather flows we're going to move all the electrical and control systems to a brand new above-grade electrical building
 The 40-year-old standby generator that provides backup power will improve reliability of that pump stations, eliminate overflows to the slough that's located just north of the pump station.
 While we're doing that, we're also increasing the site of the pump stations to allow for future odor controls and stormwater treatments and to expand the pump station.
 Like I said, this next slide kind of shows the underground portions of this pump station, and one can see the confined spaces where the pumps and the mechanical equipments are on the left side and on the planned view on the right side. This next slide shows what the planned view of the enlarged pump station will look like
 On the west side there is our brand new electrical and control building with a brand new generator room. Most of the pumps now are going to be in that submersible circular pump station, and maintenance crews will simply be to just drive up to it and lift out mechanical equipment, and they don't have to enter that confined space anymore. Side view of what the completed pump station will look like.
 some elevation views of that new control building. As far as project budget and schedule, our engineers' construction cost estimate is approximately $1.8 million. We're confident about that estimate. And...
 This project has been in the design, pre-design, and permitting stage for about two and a half years now. And we've spent about $500,000 through those process. And we plan to advertise the project December 1st and bid opening about three weeks later. Notice to proceed to the successful lowest responsible bidder by March and completing the project one year later.
 That's all I've got. Questions? Questions. Looks good. 1974, we're due. Yeah, all those round buildings that you see across the city are going away. You know, having all the electrical equipment and having the workers have to go into the area with all the gases from the sewage.
 And there, I mean, we do have air handling systems to take it out, but it's not a safe environment, so we're changing that out. Thank you. Thanks very much. Appreciate it. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then this passes the second reading. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, 1116. Thank you.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Project Phase 1, Project Number E10475, for $10,800,000. We're spending a lot of money today. We're spending an awful lot of money here. You have another PowerPoint in your packet, and I'll turn this over to Scott Gibson. Thank you, sir.
 Just testing. Just testing. I saw that. And giving me a complex. Today with us is Susan Hjorten, and she is the design manager for the Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Project. By the way, I do want to give my colleagues a warning. This PowerPoint contains one of Bill's specialties, which is really disgusting photographs of existing pipes. It's designed to so alarm you that you are –
 Further encourage to support this matter. So I just, if you want to pass over page four, or if there are people watching this at home. Scary crumbling infrastructure for Halloween week. Page four is the one that's particularly disgusting. So take it away.
 Hello, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Susan Yorton. I'm a Senior Engineering Associate with Bureau of Environmental Services. As mentioned, we're here today asking for authorization to approve an ordinance to advertise the $10.8 million PAL rehabilitation project contract. Here we go. Okay. All right. This map shows...
 It shows the location of the project in southeast Portland. It's bound by southeast Powell Boulevard to the north, Bullgate Boulevard to the south, southeast 42nd Avenue to the west, and then 74th Avenue to the east. Foster Road divides it diagonally. The rest of the map shows various large-scale sewer rehabilitation neighborhood project areas. It's a lot of work.
 And these projects are in various stages of implementation. Some are in planning, some are in pre-design, some have already been constructed, and some are in construction now. So this is a close-up of the project area. The proposed construction method is open cut. We're going to replace all the pipe that's shown in red on the map. The areas of blue will be spot repairs of the existing pipe.
 The project scope is almost 35,000 linear feet of pipe, ranging in size from 6 inches to 30 inches in diameter. We're going to require vitrified clay pipe to be used. This is a third of four pilot projects that we are requiring that to test to see how the market is for the clay pipe. Forty-five percent of the pipe in this project is 110 years old.
 the rest of it being in the age of 85 to 95 years. So the pipe has held up fairly well, but it's time for some new pipe here. I was just asking a question about the pipe, the clay pipe. That sounds like it would break in a earthquake. No. It depends on the type of soils it's in. We did an extensive geotechnical review, and the soils in this area are very stable, and so we're very confident that there won't be any problems here.
 About 75% of the project is in residential areas here, with the rest of it being in major streets. I can skip quickly. I left any wrap photos out. Just a quick question in passing. In terms of coordination between our bureaus, the Foster reconfiguration project is going to follow this work? I don't know.
 Actually, that's a darn good question to which I don't have the answer off the top of my head. I know Leah Treat's very fervent about making this new coordination system work. And, in fact, the engineers of both bureaus meet monthly to go over all current projects. So if it's not flagged to the commissioner in charge, it means that it's been sequenced with the professional staff. Okay. Thank you. Okay.
 BES public involvement staff have done extensive outreach to communicate both general information about the project and anticipated night work. This map was included in a flyer sent to the residents, businesses in the area so they would be aware of any anticipated night work. They held a public meeting in case anybody had questions or concerns.
 We were able to do some redesign and actually avoid Powell and a couple other locations. The one area that we're at is actually very smaller than it, much smaller than it shows in the map. It's just a spot repair of a broken pipe that we need to get fixed. Public involvement also communicated with the neighborhood associations, business districts, the public schools, and TriMet. There was nobody voiced any concerns.
 Our engineer's estimate is $10.8 million. Our level of confidence is high. We would like to advertise next month and begin construction in May. The construction duration is expected to be about 12 months. Questions? Any questions? Yes.
 It's like a big one. That's a lot of streets. And back to the question about coordination, you can imagine that working in Powell and working in the busy streets that are out there, we have been coordinating with PBOT on this for a number of months. Yeah, I was just thinking about the Foster project in particular because that actually is going to reduce traffic capacity on the street and that'll –
 that'll cause some anxiety in and of itself but if we're both doing the sewer work and doing that at the same time it might constitute the perfect storm so it might be good to wait and do the restriping right after you're done okay questions thank you very much this passes a second reading as well
 And we'll move on to 1117. Thank you very much. Authorize a contract with Century West Engineering Corporation for professional services for the design of the Wheeler Basin reconstruction and green streets, project number E10219 for $590,872. Okay, colleagues, again, you have a PowerPoint in your packet, and I'll turn it over to Bill Ryan and Brandon Wilson.
 Okay, thank you. And I'll let Brandon take it away. Hello, my name is Brandon Wilson, greeting City Council. I am an engineer for the Bureau of Environmental Services, and as it was announced, I'm here today for a first reading to authorize a PTE design contract with Century West Engineering for the design of the Wheeler Basin reconstruction and Green Streets projects, and the amount is $590,000 as in front of you.
 A little background of the project. It's part of our BES systems plan. And again, this is a PTE project. It's primarily a pipe-upsized project. It's all basement sewer backup risk. There is a Green Street component as well that I'll mention later. The location is in inner northeast Portland, just northwest of the Lloyd Center. It's bound north to south by northeast Russell and Hancock and goes from east to west, roughly I-5 to southeast 7th.
 or northeast seventh, excuse me. So this is a PTE contract, and I went ahead and put the MWESB participation at what we have is 45%. That's a total amount of 267 of the total contract of 591,000, and just some rough numbers on what we anticipate the project will be, approximately 10,000 linear feet of mainline pipe
 This also includes two sewer extension mains, some non-conforming conditions in the city, and, as I mentioned before, 11 stormwater infiltration facilities. Public involvement...
 so i anticipate that several mailings will be sent throughout the design life of the project informing the surrounding community and updating them several neighborhood public meetings will also be held just to make sure we we solicit that input and and make it part of our design if possible we expect just continued ongoing close coordination with the residents and businesses generally speaking one one component of the project i'd like to mention is a flow transfer
 um and the addition of the green streets so what we've already done is basically took some of the the scope that was identified in the pre-design and removed it from north williams and mlk boulevard so instead we're we're doing that work on on side streets instead that's going to reduce night work and further impact to the public the addition of the vegetative stormwater facilities was
 a large part of making that happen. We were able to remove some of that stormwater volume and make that flow transfer option a possibility. And just some brief next steps. We anticipate, if this ordinance goes through, that the consultant will start early December, and we anticipate a design duration of 12 months and a construction duration of 12 months. And open for questions if you have them. Thank you. Questions? Yes.
 Thank you both very much. Anything else? I just wanted to comment that one thing about this project that may not be real obvious is that this is one of the areas in the city that has the highest frequency of sewer basement backups, and this will be a project that really takes a lot of that risk out of that portion of the city. It also shows the difficulty of...
 the fact that the sewer system was put in without respect to Busy streets and people living alongside So now that we're going back and replacing a lot of these pipes changing the system We're quite often having to redesign the system in order to have less impact on The residents great. Thank you. Thank you both anyone else want to speak on this item And if not, then it also passes a second meeting 11 18
 Extend contract with Murray Smith and Associates, Inc. for the Fulton Pump Station replacement project in the amount of $885,701. Thank you. Mike Sturr and Dave Peters and Darren Kipper are here today to give us an update on the Hannah Mason Pump Station. And just an interesting historical note, we're talking, of course, about the replacement of the Fulton Pump in Willamette Park.
 This new facility will be named after Hannah Mason, a philanthropist, landowner, and the widow of an early Portland mayor, William S. Mason. At the time of her passing in 1908, she owned a majority of the land on which Willamette Park today sits. Her husband, William S. Mason, probably also known as Bill –
 Interestingly, served as the 28th and 31st mayor. So he took a little break, recharged his batteries and came back. And also interesting, during his tenure, the council grew from nine members to 16 members. So he was a believer in big government. This particular project has been a collaboration between the Water Bureau and Portland Parks and Recreation.
 and we've had a very active nine-member citizen project advisory committee that has advised us along the way. And I'll turn it over to Mike Stuer to give us an update on this matter. Mike? Good morning. My name is Mike Stuer. I'm the director of the Water Bureau. Today I'm joined by Dave Peters on my right. He's the principal engineer in charge of the design section.
 and has been deeply involved in the $500 million worth of work we've put in in the last 10 years. On my left is Darren Kipper. He's in charge of construction management and has been in charge of building it. What we're going to do this morning is give you a briefing on this contract amendment and why it's important to all of us. And at the end, Darren's going to go through and show you a little few pictures about the project that's currently underway. Thank you.
 uh hannah mason pump station which replaces the old fulton pump station fulton pump station was built in 1912. it's about the same age as the pool parts that the parks bureau is replacing it's 103 years old it's given very good service over those 103 years 1912 was six years after the san francisco earthquake there are no seismic capabilities in the existing fulton pump station
 And currently, the pump station provides water to 16,000 services. That's 47,000 Portland residents and another 62,000 people that are served by wholesalers that this pump station also pumps to. When we get finished with this building, it will be seismically resilient, flood resilient, and capable of withstanding winter storms.
 In the 2007 master plan for the Bureau, this project was our number one project to get done. You got the next one. Okay. One of the challenges here is the Hannah Mason Pump Station is several blocks away from the real Fulton Pump Station. If you take a look at the drawings, you can see that this old pump station is closely surrounded by condos and houses.
 So when we were looking at the challenges of replacing this, we had the choice between driving our neighbors nuts for 18 months or finding another solution. And we worked with Parks Department to put it in Willamette Park. That allowed us to do something else. If we had done the construction on site at the Fulton Pump Station, we would have had to build a temporary pump station to continue to push water up the hill while we shut this thing off.
 So right now this has served our purposes very well, and I hope we've also improved the park a bit in our efforts. Our design is a 42-month effort, and Dave Peters is going to chat about that with you and describe some of our public involvement in committees and so on. Mr. Mayor and commissioners.
 My name is David Peters, and as Mike pointed out, I was responsible for the design of this facility. And I'd like to run through just some of the project features, both at the pump station and the park, and also some of the public involvement.
 The new Hannah Mason pump station, which will be in Willamette Park, and this is a picture or rendering of what that may look like, is going to be capable of pumping 12 million gallons a day of water up to the top of the West Hills to serve those customers in southwest Portland. To do this, we'll have to install new mains between this site and the existing site.
 to transfer the water and get it back into the existing system. By moving it to the park, we've been able to build a system that will be –
 easier to operate and less costly to operate because we have the ability to connect into two different supplies in our system. And one of them has a higher head, which means less pumping to get it up to the top of the hills. This building is going to meet the new seismic standards as well as being flood resilient.
 It also has an environmentally sensitive design. When we worked with the design commission, we developed, we minimized the glazing, the windows on the facility. The windows that are there are bird-friendly, and there's also eco-roofs that are part of this facility.
 As part of our construction in the park, we've also worked with parks to develop some improvements that encompass the park. For example, the site that we're on is the existing location of the restrooms in Willamette Park. So as part of that, we'll be replacing those restrooms and integrating that into our pump station facility, along with a small water bureau storage facility.
 To get the footprint of our property, we are committed to doing some trail improvements. Over half miles of trails will be improved to meet ADA requirements. And as part of the land use process, there are some nonconforming uses in the park with the landscaping and bike parking, and we'll be improving those facilities also.
 To develop the pump station design and the park improvements, we've had an extensive public involvement process. It started back in 2008 when we developed our outreach plan. In 2009, we developed the nine-member public advisory committee that Commissioner Fish mentioned, and they worked with us on a monthly basis for a period of time to develop the design that was approved for construction projects.
 That was revealed in 2011. In the meantime, there's been numerous meetings with stakeholders in the area. OPB is a next-door neighbor to this particular site. We've worked with them closely to understand their concerns. We've worked with businesses in the area to minimize the impacts to their businesses while we're under construction. So there's been a lot of work that's gone on over the last six years.
 So this particular amendment is an amendment to the design contract, so the professional technical expert contract with Murray Smith & Associates. This is amendment number 10, and the proposed amendment total is $885,000, and that's broken down into three pieces. One, the first piece, is the public involvement consultant contract.
 We had a reduction in staff with our public involvement section, and so we needed to add additional services under this contract to continue the public involvement that we've been successful with on this project. There's a small piece on the design services, $150,000. Okay.
 that is due to some of the design challenges we faced, especially with the electrical systems in the site and the schedule increase that Mr. Storer mentioned, going from 24 months to 42 months. And then the rest of the change is the construction phase services. And at this point, Darren Kipper will talk about those services and the progress on construction. Thank you.
 okay thank you david so now we've moved into the afternoon so good afternoon i'm darren kipper the principal engineer in charge of construction management
 And thank you for your time this morning. I wanted to mention that in all projects, as we noted here on the slide, we continue to have the engineer of record provide services throughout the lifetime of the project from beginning to end. And in this particular project, there's no difference. The scope of this project is...
 changed as we've gone through the various negotiations with parks and communications with the public and development of the project over time. The original scope was prepared with the expectation for these services, but without the...
 real understanding of what the final scope of that work would be. And so, as I mentioned, it was contemplated early on in the request for proposal phases.
 And then now once we made it to the bid process and we had a contractor on board, we fully understood the scope of what the work was going to be and then contemplated what that scope would entail with our consultant team and also with the adjunct services of the construction management group. This is something that's typical for us to do on all of our construction projects. We can't know anything.
 the exact extent of the ae services during construction until we actually get 100 design and submit it to bds to go through the billing permit process at that point we find out all the list of special inspections and so on that we have to do so the
 Excuse me so that on all of our constructions that involve vertical facilities We will have a change order that adjust the length of services that number also Is a top number we only use what we need to use out of that five hundred and maybe whatever amount it was 593 448
 to get the details. So, um, with that said, um, and in light of the amount of time we have here today, I'm going to walk through, if you would, um, the slides of some of our construction here real quickly. So, um,
 On this first slide, on our construction update, you can see we've completed the aggregate pier foundation. Site utilities have been installed. The foundation has started, and we anticipate celebrating in the latter fall of 2016 the completion of the project. First picture here is the...
 Improvement of the foundation with the rock columns being placed. That's a process of drilling down through 15 to 18 feet of material and vibrating in rock columns. It presents a challenge, as you see in the next slide, when you...
 encounter some of these materials down below where you can't see and there's quite a bit of muck I guess I would describe it as in a layman's way to discover and we've had to make some improvements to that soil to bring it up to the to the strength that we need the geotechnical engineer this makes my heartbeat faster
 So in the next slide you can see now the ground's been fully improved and this was accommodated through the installation of about 370 of these rock piers. And now we're prepared to, as you can see in the next slide, move into the excavation of the top of those piers and prepare for the foundation underneath the pump station. Thank you.
 Moving on up vertically, as Mike mentioned, we're looking at the forming of the pump station and this arced component there that you see in the formwork is part of the restroom facilities that the parks will have control of on the east side of the pump station for restrooms in a very nice storage area.
 This is not an ATM, this picture. Nor is it Commissioner Fish's smoker. This is actually an architectural mock-up of what the exterior is going to look like on a large part of the pump station. It's to resemble a vertical basalt face, and we've gone through some extensive mix preparation to incorporate pigment to create that image of a dark basalt material.
 Again, here's part of the construction of one of the pipes that's going to be at the bottom of the pump station. This is not Home Depot, obviously. This pipe diameter is about 30 inches in diameter with 3-inch flanges, and it's about an inch thick in this particular segment. So it's being fabricated in one of our subcontractors' fabrication shops.
 Now you can see one of those pieces of pipe, as I just mentioned in the last slide, is now at the bottom. It's been placed and coated, and it's at the bottom of the pump station. And we're starting with the formwork to climb out of the hole and move on up vertically into the remainder part of the pump station. Thank you.
 Parks have been very accommodating in terms of our location for our contractor to work, and we are still accommodating users of the park, bicycles, walkers, various sightseers, and boats for the launch. And on this particular day, you can see they're into an extensive concrete pour at part of the foundation work with several extended-arm concrete pump trucks. And lastly...
 But not least, we're continuing, as I mentioned, to climb out of the ground. If you get an opportunity to be in Willamette Park, you'll be able to see that it progressed beyond what you see here. And we continue on with the construction in earnest to our deadline for the project. That concludes our presentation. If you have questions. No. Thank you very much. Does anybody want to testify on this item? No. It moves to second reading. Thank you very much. Please read item 1119.
 Amend Chapter 3.30 to add administrative review of stop work orders. Amend Titles 24 through 27 to add administrative appeal provisions, revise external appeal board provisions to conform to the state building codes, add term limits to all external boards, delete obsolete provisions, and make other technical changes. Thank you. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Madam President. I'll turn it over to Nancy Thorrington of the Bureau of Development Services, who is
 Worked very hard to clean up some codes here. Yes. Good afternoon. I would say Mr. Mayor, but he's gone. Commissioners, Nancy Thorrington for the Bureau of Development Services. The ordinance before you is most of its long overdue amendments to our code. One of them is basically to codify our existing administrative appeals board that's been in existence for decades. We also have added stop work requirements.
 appeal language so that that complies with the new ombudsman's ordinance. And we've added term limits to the existing external appeal boards and just basically cleaned it up, deleted obsolete provisions, and...
 made other technical changes. So it's a big ordinance. I apologize. The reason why it's so large is because the same changes are going essentially into each of, you know, Title 24, which is building, 25, 26, and 27, you know, which are heating, the plumbing, and the electrical. So that's it in a nutshell. So if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer those for you. Anybody want to testify on this?
 Thank you very much. It's a non-emergency. We'll move to second reading. Commissioner, I want to thank both you and Nancy and the team at BDS for finishing up this project, which was started earlier in the year. I'm particularly excited to see adding term limits to all of the external boards and commissions. That's a great way to encourage turnover and get new folks with experience on city boards and commissions. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Our last item is a roll call on 1120, please. Amend contract with Catholic Charities to add $50,000 to house chronically homeless women for a total not to exceed $160,000. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. With that, we're adjourned until 2 o'clock. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Right on time. So good time to meet you. Thank you, Steve. Thank you.
 I'm going to say something very brief. Ready, Carla? Terry, how are you doing? Nice to see you. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the October 28th Portland City Council meeting. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Novick?
 here prince here fish here saltzman here hails here welcome everyone we have a couple of different subjects on the council calendar this afternoon we want to welcome you to participate in those if you're interested in speaking on one of those items make sure you let our council clerk know and she'll have you on the list because of the
 The fact that we have timed certain items and that we have a lot of people here who might want to testify, I'll probably limit testimony to two minutes per person in order to make sure that we get to hear everyone. Rules of decorum, for those of you who haven't been here before, simple enough. Also...
 to the purpose of making sure we hear everyone, and that is if you agree with someone's position and want to indicate that, you're certainly free to give them a thumbs up or a friendly wave of the hand. And if you disagree with them and you want to indicate that and you really feel like you need to, then make a polite hand gesture to the contrary. But we ask that we not make any kind of vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens here so people feel like they can be heard.
 if you represent an organization when you come up just let us know that otherwise you just need to give us your name no address and other particulars are necessary so with that I think we'll take up item 1121
 of Northern portion of Ross Island from the Port of Portland to Portland Parks and Recreation. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I am very pleased to announce an exciting new chapter in the history of Ross Island, which is the donation of the tip of Ross Island, the Northern tip by the Port of Portland to Portland Parks and Recreation. There are two acres and they add considerably to our restoration efforts to return native vegetation to the island and create significant fish and wildlife habitat.
 This consolidation of public ownership combined with the 45 acres donated by Robert Pamplin from Ross Island Sand and Gravel in 2007 creates a place for a more comprehensive restoration of the Ross Island natural area. And we're here today to celebrate many people and entities who helped make this happen and have continued to work on Ross Island for many, many years.
 And so thanks to everybody involved, and I'm going to turn it over to Mike Abate, the Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, members of the Council, Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation, and I'm joined by Curtis Robinhold, Deputy Executive Director of the Port of Portland. Today's land donation by the Port to the City builds on the great work of the Audubon Society of Portland, Willamette Riverkeeper, Urban Green Spaces Institute, GreenWorks, Christina Frank, Melissa Medeiros.
 They developed a document, Envisioning Ross Island, a guide to foster discussion about the future of the Ross Island archipelago.
 And Portland Parks, along with our partners, the Bureau of Environmental Services, Willamette Riverkeeper, Audubon Society, and volunteers, is managing the property currently for its natural area values. This 2.2-acre donation will ensure that we can manage the entire north end of the island together. We've been removing invasive plant species, planting native trees, made great headway on returning the portion of the island to the black cottonwood Oregon ash forest with the shrub understory.
 So we're very thankful for the vision of protecting and enhancing Ross Island for its natural area values, and that increases the biodiversity of the city. So...
 Pardon me. I'd also like to thank our staff, though this is a donation. This has been a process to get to today. So I want to thank our staff, Trang Lam, Zelaine Nunn, and Emily Roth, who helped make this deal happen. I'd also like to thank Lise Glancy and Don Goldberg from the Port of Portland, who were instrumental. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Curtis Robinholdt.
 thank you director welcome thank you curtis robin hold deputy executive director of the port of portland thank you very much mayor and commissioners for having me here today really just came today to express our gratitude and our excitement about this transfer we're really pleased to help make the community's vision of consolidated ownership and overall restoration of ross island a reality
 The donation of our parcel has long been on the port's radar, given the strong community interest in the island's restoration. We're grateful for the collective work in making this donation possible, and in particular, if I could share the quick shout out to Lise Glancy on the port staff, who's really been dogging this for us over the last several years. Another special call out, and you'll hear from several of them here today, to the community stakeholders for their vision of restoring the island over the past 15 years.
 This partnership really is emblematic, I think, of what can happen in the city of Portland and emphasizes the importance of a coalition of interests working to integrate nature more deeply into our shared future. So we hope this donation is just one step in the larger consolidation of ownership and restoration of Ross Island, and we look forward to continuing to be partners in that process. So thank you very much. Thank you. Questions for either of these two? Thank you.
 I just want to say it's extraordinary to have this kind of public turnout on what we think of as a fairly routine matter. I was surprised myself, Commissioner. But I look forward to offering autographs outside in the hall. They might not be here for this item, but I bet they're glad to hear about it. Oh, Wyatt never brought out crowds like this. It's the future of the poor, Commissioner.
 Who's in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation. Yeah, there you go. There you go. The true rock star. This is great, and we just appreciate the good work that's gone into it between the two agencies. And this looks easy when it's at this stage, but there's a lot of work behind it. We have a short panel presentation also. Thank you. Mike Helf from the Urban Green Spaces Institute, Bob Salinger from the Audubon Society of Portland, Travis Williams from Willamette Riverkeeper, and Mike Fair from Greenworks PC. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Mike Houck. I'm here representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute. My first involvement with Ross Island, by the way, came in a hearing before City Council in 1979, 36 years ago, except we were facing this direction. And in spite of the fact that Charles Jordan pointed out that the great blue herons that were nesting there
 We're feeding on his koi in his backyard. He joined the council to recommend a buffer, a 350-foot buffer around the heron colony, which now is home to a bald eagle. So we go back a long ways. It would be cool if Bill Bach were here because he was the property manager, and I bugged him for, I don't know, the last 30 years or so. He's since retired. Okay.
 This donation is important for helping to clarify who's in charge with regard to protection of much of Ross Island. As was mentioned by Mr. Abate, Bob, Travis, Mike Fea, Melissa Medeiros, Christine and Frank all came together. Christine has a master's thesis at the University of Washington.
 was on Ross Island. And we collectively did produce Envisioning Ross Island. And I would invite you to read this. Basically, we left it open as to what exactly what happened, but just threw out some ideas in terms of what the future, well, what the future of Ross Island is, including public access. Thank you.
 I also handed out a really cool article that Tara Wilkinson, a staff person of the Intertwine Alliance, put on the website for the Intertwine Alliance. I encourage you to read that as well because it gives a timeline of all the significant events that occurred. And finally, there's a picture of Simplicity, our boat, Icon, with several people. And I'm going to invite all of you. We actually took the entire –
 editorial board of the Oregonian several years ago on a kayak trip with the boat around Ross Island, and every one, including Dave Reinhart, wrote really very heartfelt editorials following that trip once they realized the resources out there urging its protection and restoration. So I'd just like to extend an invitation to the entire council and your staff,
 I think we have room for like eight people, I guess, however, to come out to join us and do a little tour around Ross Island and into the lagoon to take a look at it for yourselves. And we can talk about some potential futures for Ross Island. Thank you. Thank you for your work, Mike. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Stalinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland. I know there's a lot of people waiting to testify today, so I'm just going to be very brief and express my appreciation on behalf of Audubon to the city of Portland, Portland Parks, Oregon.
 and the Port of Portland for this important step forward. It's great to see the island getting more unified. It gives us a real opportunity to develop a very unified, holistic vision for protecting and restoring it, and we look forward to working with all the entities involved going forward to really realize that vision. So thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Travis Williams and I'm Riverkeeper and Executive Director of Willamette Riverkeeper. And along the lines of what both Bob and Mike have said, we're very appreciative of the port for making the donation and for the city to facilitate it. And now we can manage it as one unit.
 continue to do restoration work out there and get members of the public out there. And I would also invite you to get out there on the water with us, maybe in craft that are even more simplicity, being that we only have canoes, but I can offer those up to you. But I would say that for the public to get out there to gauge on the island, frequent trips are conducted with city staff, with the Bureau of Environmental Services and parks, and those will be ongoing just so everyone is aware of that.
 So thanks again to you and the port. And I would just like to add Simplicity has a cabin and a nice wood stove. We run in the winter. Mike, when did you prepare this? When was the first edition of that? 2007, I think. Yeah. 2007, 2007. When I was first elected, you came and presented me with a copy of this. So it was 07-08. Okay.
 And then just a quick follow-up. One of the last times you were here talking about Ross Island, you were passionate about a no-wake zone as a first of a number of steps. How's the no-wake zone holding up? I think it's working really well. I just can comment. Yeah.
 It unfortunately wasn't all of the Holgate Channel, but it goes from the mouth of the lagoon upstream to the Oregon Yacht Club. And there are some scofflaws out there, but for the most part, I think it's really made a huge difference to allow families in particular to canoe or kayak without fear of, in some cases, during the testimony before the Marine Board, there was one craft that
 that got cut in two by a speeding towboat for water skiers. So it's made, I think, a significant difference. A lot of enforcement still to be done, but it's helped a lot. And then Mike is not here. Okay.
 He needs a chair. Thank you all. I'm going to ask Zelaine Nunn and Lisa Clancy to come forward too. You weren't invited speakers, but I want to give some credit to the U.S. representatives of staff who, as Mike said, have done a lot of great work on this. Please come and share the glory. Thank you, Commissioner. We were told we had just a few minutes, so I decided to charitably give mine up to Mr. Houck. I guess I'll take this opportunity to say
 Just put your name in the record, Mike. It's Mike Fayette here from Portland, Oregon. And I'll take this opportunity to thank all of you for serving the
 us citizens and putting in the hard work. And I get to thank Mike and Travis and Bob for doing the same thing from the private sector. It's been a joy and a privilege to work with them on important environmental issues over the last 25, 30 years. And this is just the beginning. The work that Mike and Bob and Travis have been doing is work that needs to continue into the future. Thank you.
 Ross Island, we don't have a concrete vision yet, and we need to think about it. Some people have a concrete vision. But we do need to look at the next step in preserving what is one of the most important wildlife refuges in the city of Portland, and that's Ross Island. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. I really appreciate it. We have 15 minutes. We've been done in our 15 minutes, but thank you very much, Abby. I also see Tom Lipman and various other folks who have been involved in this for a long time. So there's many city bureaus who've been involved in this. There's also the public-private partnerships and the public-public partnerships, and I'm really happy to celebrate this day. Thank you for coming.
 Thank you very much. Anyone else that's signed up to speak on this item? No one else signed up. Then I need a motion to adopt the report, please. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Novick? This is very exciting. And actually, I can tell you from experience that Curtis Robinhold has run this kind of crowd everywhere he goes for years and years. Aye. Aye.
 Well, thank you very, very much, everybody who's been involved. It's truly an honor to be following on from Commissioner Fish's leadership of the Park Bureau and to bring something like this to the public's attention. This is actually an issue that I could have just signed off by myself as the Parks Commissioner. I wanted to make sure that everybody knows that we've made a great step forward and that we're going to be looking after your public parks the best we possibly can. Aye.
 This is a very happy day. We have the largest urban forest in the country within a city's boundaries, and that's Forest Park. And this will someday be one of the prize natural areas in the heart of a city. Having one is a blessing. Having two is an embarrassment of riches. And I will say that Mike Houck has been beating the drum on what this could be for a very long time.
 And I think sometime in the not-too-distant future, we'll be gathering to talk about a naming opportunity for the lagoon because there is, in fact, an indispensable party, and I'm not talking about a heron. And, Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your... You're not talking posthumously either. No, we'll waive our roles on that one. And, Commissioner Fritz, thank you to you and your team for bringing this forward, and thanks to the port. Hi. Folksman? Well, I want to thank...
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau, for accepting a generous donation from the Port of Portland. This really helps to start fulfilling some long-held visions we have for Ross Island. Great step forward. Thank you. Hi. Niels. Well, I'm not old enough to be a grandfather, or at least I'm still in denial about that. But my son got married a year and a half ago, and his fiancée had a 7-year-old. Yeah.
 And so I had this strange conversation where he said, hey, can I call you Grandpa? And I didn't get to say, I'm not ready for this yet. I had to, of course, say yes. One of the first things I did with my new grandson was I put him in the canoe at Selwood Park and took him to Ross Island on a nice summer day. And it was a great experience. Nothing particularly noteworthy about that because Port Wonders get to do that. Yeah.
 and people get to take their kids or their neighbors, or in my case, my new grandson, to see nature in the city. So those of you that have worked so hard to make that just a normal part of life in Portland, that's great. There's more to do, and this is a really good piece of that long effort that makes us a great place. Well done. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to a... Now for something completely different, to quote Monty Python, right?
 Since we already quoted him on not dead yet. Yes, Mike. You have to be dead to have a street named after you, but not a lagoon. Just for the record, though, this is the second time today that Commissioner Fish has taken liberties with naming things in our parks without going through the process. So there will be a process. She's going to start naming water facilities next. All right. So would you like us to read both of these items together, Commissioner Saltzman? Yes. Okay. So if you'd read 1122 and 1123, please.
 1122, direct the Portland Housing Bureau to contract for an independent study on the nexus associated with the demand for housing affordable to low and moderate income households created as a result of jobs created by commercial development and an assessment of the extent to which new market rate housing generates additional demand for affordable housing and the economic feasibility of an affordable housing linkage fee. 1123.
 1123, amend the tax increment financing set aside for affordable housing policy to ensure continued development, preservation, and rehabilitation of housing affordable to households with incomes below 100% medium family income.
 Thank you. Well, let me begin with a few remarks, and then I'll turn it over to Commissioner Saltzman and their other council members. I think you want to comment at the outset as well. On October 7th, this council declared a state of emergency with respect to housing in our city. Other places in the country have followed suit, like the state of Hawaii recently, because there is a national problem of
 the popularity of cities and therefore the superheated real estate market in cities. And we certainly feel that here. We also feel the forces of change all around us. And can we still be Portland and not become San Francisco in terms of our housing market? And so this whole council is acutely conscious of those pressures and those problems. And we appreciate so much the advocacy from the community on these issues.
 The commitment that we're looking at here today of urban renewal resources is a really important, tangible commitment by this council towards making that state of emergency something that gets real things done.
 It's important, and I'm proud of this work that's in front of us today, but it's not sufficient. This is a good proposal to maintain our commitments with urban renewal to the neighborhoods that want to see other changes made there, and also to be serious about committing urban renewal funds to housing, but we all know that
 urban renewal source is not sufficient to solve the problems or to even properly address the problems that we see in our housing market. So that's why the NEXUS study that Commissioner Saltzman will talk about is important as well. I just want to appreciate the partnership that we have on this council and in this community on these issues, and also with Multnomah County and Home Forward and the nonprofits who are here today as well. It will literally take all of us working together on these issues to make really good
 real progress and it needs to be made quickly. So with that, Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for your leadership and take it away. Thank you, Mayor. Today truly is an historic day for affordable housing in Portland. Today we will take the first steps in creating a new citywide revenue source for the development of new affordable housing, a developer impacts fee. And today we will take our urban renewal involvement in affordable housing to new heights.
 increasing the set-aside for affordable housing in our urban renewal districts from 30% to 45%. It is painfully obvious that Portland is experiencing unprecedented growth, and with this growth comes many challenges that all of Portland is now wrestling with. We must ensure that our communities, especially communities of color, do not face continued displacement. We must ensure that our seniors are able to remain in Portland,
 close to amenities like transit and social services, as well as their families, we must ensure adequate affordable housing for our most vulnerable populations. We are tackling these challenges in numerous ways, but the biggest part of the solution is funding, specifically targeted towards affordable housing development. The decisions we make today will help ensure that these new funding streams will add and continually add thousands of new affordable units to the city.
 Into our construction pipeline and before I turn the presentation over to the Housing Bureau I do want to acknowledge the great work of mayor hills and bringing the urban renewal set-aside proposals before us today and I want to recognize my colleague Commissioner fish for a few remarks as well and
 And I just want to say that, you know, Mayor Hales, after we had the council work session a couple weeks ago, without his sort of getting this across the finish line, I don't think we'd be here today poised, I think, to really create history. So I want to thank you, Mayor, for your great work on this. The proposal that increases urban renewal set-aside from 30% to 45% still protects –
 the economic development commitments that the PDC has made with the other remainder of the urban renewal dollars. And so I think we'll be able to create hundreds of new affordable units and also honor the commitments to economic development and other important infrastructure that urban renewal helps to pay for. And so I'd now like to recognize my colleague, Commissioner Fish, for a few remarks, and then I'll turn it over to Housing Bureau Director Kirk Krieger, who will do an overview of the plans for the Nexus study, the developer impact fee,
 and then we will have a couple of invited panels. And then Patrick Quinton will also come up from PDC. So I recognize Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much, Dan. I want to begin by going back in time a little bit to February 26th of this year. And on February 26th, it was the last time that Gretchen Kifori ever came to this building and the last time that she ever spoke to this council. And as everyone in this room knows, Gretchen Kifori spent a life
 fighting for affordable housing in our community, and you could say that she actually built the foundation of this movement. And on February 26th, she came before us when we were debating whether to increase funding for affordable housing in North McAdam, and she sat where Director Krieger is sitting, and she said two very powerful things. She said, it is important for you as a council to keep your promises, and I challenge you to do more.
 And as a result of her advocacy and the advocacy of a whole host of groups, including the League of Women Voters and affordable housing advocates in Oregon on and a whole chorus of voices, the council made a change in policy and significantly increased funding for affordable housing in North McAdoo. And I felt at the time that that was a turning point for this council.
 because a lot of familiar faces came back into this building sensing that things were happening in our community, and they demanded that the council take action. Gretchen died shortly thereafter, and we all lost a friend. Commissioner Fritz and I lost a mentor. But the question that was, I think, presented in our community was, who was going to pick up her voice? And her voice was very loud and very effective. And the good news is you picked up her voice.
 You, the Community Alliance of Tenants, the League of Women Voters, Welcome Home, Oregon On, the Metropolitan Alliance for the Common Good, the Faith Community, Activists in Northeast, Outer East Activists, the East Portland Action Plan, all the advisory bodies of the Housing Bureau and PDC, everyone who has ever lifted their voice and said we need to do more for vulnerable families in our community came together and demanded that we take action.
 And today is a proud day because it is the culmination of a series of actions taken by this council under the leadership of a mayor who recently announced that housing would be the primary concern of this council for the balance of his term. No mayor in my time has ever said that, that housing would be the number one concern of the council during his tenure. And Mayor Hales, I applaud you for that announcement, and I thank you for your leadership.
 And Dan Saltzman, as the Housing Commissioner, I thank you for brokering this deal today because it required some compromise and give and take. And even with the good relations between PDC and PHB, there were big disagreements about how to get here. And thank you for your steadfastness in getting us to this day. And thanks to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission for unanimously recommending that we do this. They are an important advisory body, and I think this is one of the most important things they've done
 And thanks to the Metropolitan Alliance for the Common Good that worked this building and worked the community and demanded that we take action. I'm very proud to be on a council that has said that affordable housing and homelessness is the top concern facing our city. And as Dan said, we're not done. And under the leadership of this mayor and this housing commissioner, we've taken some big steps, but we are not done. And finally, I just want to say that this $67 million is going to be helpful, but as the mayor said...
 it's not going to solve the problem overnight. And one of the things that I want to work with my colleagues to ensure that as we identify new resources to fight for affordable housing and homelessness, that we target those resources to people with the greatest need. If there ever was a time when we had to target our dollars to people with the greatest need, it is now. And by declaring a state of emergency and by saying that there is...
 a big problem in our community, we have made a commitment to target the people, our resources to the greatest need. And I'm honored to serve in a council that has taken these steps, and today is another proud chapter.
 in in that campaign to address the crisis that we face so thank you to my colleagues and thank you thank you commissioner and as i said now i'd like to turn it over to uh director kurt krieger and matthew schibold who will do an overview of the plans for a nexus study for a developer impact fee and that is a fee which would be based on the demand that new market rate residential and commercial development
 creates for low and moderate income housing. Commissioner, if we have any amendments to submit to either item, should we wait until after the presentation or do it now? Yeah, that would be preferable. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mayor, members of the Commission. My name is Kurt Krieger, Director of Housing. Matthew Scheibold is Director of Policy and Equity for the Housing Bureau. And I'm pleased to present to you our intention to proceed with the Nexus study.
 We are funding this out of savings in our current year budget, so we're not asking you for any money. But we think it's important enough to raise to your recognition because of the policy implications.
 You will recall that two weeks ago we had a study session about the housing element of the comprehensive plan, the 2015 to 2035 comprehensive plan. Within that housing element, there is some 123,000 housing units contemplated within the city over the next 20 years, a minimum of 10,000 of which need to be permanently affordable, about 8%, which mirrors the rest of the city in our current permanently affordable stock.
 So how do we provide adequate funding for that stock? I provided you with a fiscal note, a capital impact assessment at the time, and now we are backfilling that big number with a series of tools. The linkage fee is a means by which the
 Commercial and industrial impacts through new jobs created can be understood, and the housing impacts of those new employment centers and activities can be imputed. It's a little inside sort of context.
 baseball, if you will, with respect to housing policy. I was asked by the Business Journal recently about a New Republic story on Colorado. The New Republic claimed that the housing market in Colorado was driven by marijuana sales. And I said, jobs create housing demand. And indeed, there may be some jobs created through housing.
 agro-tourism, perhaps retail sales, perhaps short-term lodging. But in fact, people are coming to Colorado because they have an educated workforce. They have a good business climate. People are coming, as you know, to Portland for many of the same reasons. We have an educated workforce. We have a high quality of life. And therefore, those jobs create housing demands. Okay.
 We want to be able to identify what those housing demands are. And in our PowerPoint presentation, we have an example of a deli where the average wages would likely be $9.25 an hour. I might add that that may be a part-time job rather than a full-time job.
 But if that were annualized, that deli worker would earn about $20,000 a year. The average rent for an apartment within the same area, the central city, would cost approximately $1,400 a month or $16,800 per year or 87% of their total earnings.
 I might add that the standard by which housing is deemed affordable is 30% of rent and, excuse me, 30% of income spent on rent and utilities. So this particular household would be paying about 300% more than they should for that housing. So we need a means by which to underwrite the cost of such housing impacts.
 The other example that I've used is hotel development, which, of course, is very labor-intensive, and those jobs tend to pay between $9 and $15 an hour. So the employment density of the actual economic activity is very important, and the NEXUS study will evaluate that.
 Moreover, it's very important to make sure that we stress test the market feasibility of commercial and industrial properties so that a linkage fee does not render a project infeasible. Nothing is gained if a project is burdened with fees that make it infeasible because it won't proceed.
 We also want to have a conversation with business stakeholders, including the Portland Business Alliance, about the scope of work for this effort to make sure that people know ahead of time what we're thinking. The idea being that any net revenue that we're levied in the form of a, of
 of a fee would inure to the Housing Investment Fund. That Housing Investment Fund is a flexible means by which we underwrite projects. And I want to make sure that you know, since there's been some conflicting press about this, that we have 19 active projects, about 1,650 units. Those are signed deals that are proceeding in good faith with both nonprofit and for-profit owners. We'll come back to you in the next couple of weeks with our –
 multifamily property tax exemption proposals. We have five live proposals presently. There may be more that come in between now and the time we actually present it to you. So we are fully deploying all of our resources. With that sidebar note, the NEXUS study basically evaluates the impact of these new jobs and it imputes the value that might be gained for the Housing Investment Fund.
 The employment density is quite important. So when you look at other cities, you'll see a range. And the reason that they're looking at ranges is that oftentimes manufacturing is highly automated. You can have a lot of capital improvements but not very much employment density. Therefore, the effect on housing demand is quite small versus retail sales or hotel development, which is much more labor-intensive. The –
 Range of fees in different jurisdictions, I think, is helpful. Boston and San Francisco have levied these fees for many years. The city of Boston levies a $7.87 per square foot fee on office. Sacramento is a range of $0.27 to $0.99 per square foot. The San Diego fee
 was just recalibrated in 2014 to range between $1.28 to $2.12. I might add parenthetically that prior to the downturn, San Diego was concerned about their business climate. They cut the fee in half, and then they did not increase it or market to any sort of inflationary factor, so they had to reestablish the rate last year, and they did so in 2014.
 San Francisco, as you know, is an expensive city. It also leads the cities in levying the linkage fee of $16 to $24 per square foot. Of course, there's very little manufacturing left in the city of San Francisco. It's nearly all office. San Jose is levying $17 per square foot. And the Seattle City Council has a proposal that they are deliberating on.
 Mayor Murray's HALA, Housing Affordability and Livability Agenda, has recommended a range of $5 to $22 per square foot. And in my private practice, I was a consultant to the City of Seattle and did some work for them on the linkage fee.
 So I might add that Seattle requires legislative authorization, and we don't believe that Portland requires legislative authorization to proceed. What does that mean? That means that you are legally empowered to levy this in our estimation and in the estimation of the city attorney.
 That's why we think it's very important to share the scope of work for this next study with the stakeholders prior to coming back to you with a proposal so that people have an understanding of how it may affect their business. And I would add that in the mission of the Bureau is to serve the entire city and the low and moderate income housing needs the entire city. We'll later discuss tax increment financing, which, as you know, only applies to a maximum of 15% of the city. Practically, it's really more like 12% of the city. Okay.
 So the linkage fee would apply to the balance of city. We don't think that we have sufficient tools to cover the other 85% of the geographic area of the city and the housing needs of the city. I'd be happy to respond to any questions you might have. We do have a panel that will speak to this issue later. Is it only on new construction? No.
 Well, I think we'll look at the cost of repurposing or changes of use. Tentative improvements to buildings may apply if there's a certain valuation. I think that's something that's worth looking at. The office building oftentimes will involve gut rehabilitation or major capital improvements. So I think that's worth looking at as to whether or not that would be a trigger or not. But if a new business starts up in an existing space, would it?
 It would likely not trigger the necessity to pay the fee, especially if it was the same employment classification. If you were taking a vacant commercial building and repurposing it into a boutique hotel, then you might actually have a reason to care about that because the employment density would change. But I think if you're staying within one use, retail use to retail use, it would likely be less of an impact.
 The timing of the fee is one of the elements that we want to examine, and I don't want to foretell exactly what the triggers would be because we need to make sure that we have a range of alternatives for you to look at. How long will the study be, and when will you expect to have the results? We will develop the scope of work and share it with the stakeholders this winter. We would like to procure a consultant first of next year, and we would like to have a draft –
 available by the end of April. The comprehensive plan and your schedule, I think, goes into effect July 1. We want to make sure that this is in place for the implementation of the comprehensive plan. MR. Dr. Krieger, what in other cities that you've tracked, what kind of revenue has this generated?
 Well, it's very robust in San Francisco. I don't have the numbers off the top of my head. The city of San Francisco, Mayor's Office of Housing is run by a colleague, Olson Lee, that I know quite well. They also have a voter-approved system.
 general obligation bond of $300 million that they're deploying. So it's in the mix of important funding sources for them, but it's not even the largest funding source. Matthew, have you looked at the total? Depending on the structure of the fee, anywhere between $5 and $20 to $30 million a year in comparable cities with respect to population and households, not the industrial or the economic makeup.
 What discussions have you had with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Planning and Sustainability Commission in terms of the potential impact on job creation? Well, this is embedded in the housing element, and I've raised to the Bureau the interplay between the economic element that you heard yesterday. And from what I understand, most of their –
 study session with you focused on industrial land supply, specifically not necessarily the transaction cost. So we have discussed it and we have, I think it's an open matter of conversation between the bureaus. But the next study is within the plan element that they presented to you already for conversation so that they've already subscribed to the technique. It's really a matter of fine tuning the implementation of it.
 I hope that when it's done that you'll take it through the Planning and Sustainability Commission as well as the Housing Commission. That would be very helpful to get their advice. Very good. I would warrant to say that the PDC will care a great deal about it as well, since they have to market the city as an economic prospect as well.
 So if there's no further questions on Nexus, I'd like to invite up PDC Executive Director Patrick Quentin to join Kurt and review the plan for the 45% affordable housing. Slide up another chair there, you guys. There you go. And Tom Kelly. And then after that, we have two invited panels of, I think, three people each, and then it's open for discussion, debate. All right.
 So this is a refresher. Some of these slides we will go through quite rapidly because you, of course, have had some of this conversation previously. Introductions? Let me just let Tom. It's okay. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Tom Kelly, the Chair of the PDC Commission.
 PDC is honored to have worked with the mayor, Commissioner Salzman, and the Portland Housing Bureau to develop this proposal and make such a significant contribution to address the most pressing problem in Portland, the lack of affordable housing for our residents. As a result of this action, 40% of all urban renewal dollars will have been invested in affordable housing over the 20-year life of the set-aside. And I just want to emphasize that's over the life so that we don't get confused by percentages. Thank you.
 While some may believe that this proposal took too long to come to council for a vote, the PDC board and our stakeholders asked for thoughtful consideration of both the tradeoffs and priorities and the impact on PDC's long-term sustainability. In the end, we believe this proposal represents a careful balancing of the need for immediate action on our housing crisis and maintaining our commitment to the priorities established with the stakeholders and PDCs in urban renewal areas.
 We hope the energy and advocacy for more funding for affordable housing continues after the council action, as we all work toward a permanent long-term source for funding for affordable housing. Even with fewer dollars, PDC remains committed to the strategic plan adopted by this council six months ago and hopes to engage council in exploring opportunities to solidify PDC's financial future.
 Now I'd like to turn the presentation over to Kurt and Patrick. Thank you, Chair.
 So, we itemized the series of actions. I want to remind you that the Portland Housing Advisory Commission started this review. They were mandated by you as a council to do a five-year review and they did so. They voted unanimously as previously mentioned. The current executive committee is chaired by Sarah Zahn.
 And Dyke Dame is here to speak for the PHAC, and he will do so on the panel. I'd add also that Alyssa Harrigan with Memorial Trust is also a member of the executive committee. So we have a talented group of committed individuals to help us work through the policy issues. They recommended a minimum 50% set-aside in the aggregate across all URAs, which is a
 began our earnest review of fund balances with the PDC. They also recommended that we maintain current income targeting.
 The PDC, of course, has had a couple of meetings of their own and has evaluated on a URA by URA basis the effect that it would have on their commitments in the community. And they are very strongly in support of a citywide funding mechanism rather than a mechanism that relies solely on tax increment financing, as mentioned by Chair Kelly. And, of course, they're intensely concerned about the sustainability of the organization.
 which I certainly respect. So in this last few weeks, we have been meeting daily, basically, working through these issues, and it is recommended by the action before you that we would increase the aggregate to 45% from 30%, and that it would apply on a going-forward basis beginning July 1 of 2015. The calculation within the River District in
 involves an inter-tie with the U.S. Postal Service property and an ownership interest by the Housing Bureau in cooperation with the PDC, assuming that they are able to come to an agreement with the Postal Service. And if they do not, there'll be an equivalent value of $20 million from TIF that flows from PDC to the Housing Bureau. And we further underscore our belief that we should leave the current income guidelines in place.
 The 2015 policy review recommendations, to summarize them in a table form, slide five, you can see that we have active URAs with the status quo policy in the aggregate 30 percent set aside, ranging from as low as 18 percent on the central east side up to 52 percent in the South Park blocks.
 On a going forward basis, looking at the 2006 to 2015 set aside, we were able to achieve 32 percent. And with this policy review and the URA by URA analysis, we are prepared to go forth with 45 percent. That increases Lentz.
 Gateway, Interstate, Central Eastside, North McAdam, and the River District. The other three, Downtown Waterfront, the Oregon Convention Center, and the South Park blocks, are closed districts, and there's no new debt recommended there.
 So what difference does that make? It has a significant impact, and we think a positive impact. In the Lentztown Center, it would go from $31.6 million, and we would add $7.5 million for nearly $40 million total. Gateway would go from $10.6 million with an additional $2 million for about $12.6 million. Interstate.
 goes from $63.6 million. We add $32 million to interstate for $95.6 million. Central East Side is status quo at $9.8 million. North McAdam goes from $60 million to $65 million in the aggregate, and the River District goes from $26.5 million
 with an increase of $20 million, as I mentioned, with an intertie to the U.S. Postal Service property, to $46.5 million. So that $66.5 million represents, in total, about a $270 million investment in affordable housing. And we heard you loud and clear in our last study session about the impacts and understanding the impacts at the URA by URA level, since commitments have been made by PDC, and Patrick will go through those impacts.
 specifically for you. So, um...
 The beginning with interstate, interstate is contributing the most to this increase in the set-aside, $32 million, as I mentioned in the work session. Interstate has both a significant amount of debt capacity that we've yet to use and a significant amount of unprogrammed resources. So from a pure line item perspective, we aren't kind of sacrificing any existing priorities there.
 These funds were budgeted in light items that we generally refer to as opportunity funds, so they do represent funds that we might have used for commercial real estate projects and kind of local property ownership projects. And so it will require us as we come across those opportunities to figure out other funding sources to bring to bear on those projects. But generally speaking, as we go through the other urban renewal areas, again,
 these funds were the least programmed. In Lentz, we have worked hard to figure out how do we make good on the Lentz action plan and bring forward additional resources to affordable housing. And I think we've done that. And a lot of this...
 We have conversations in this forum about urban renewal dollars, and part of the frustration is they end up being a moving target a lot because every year we get new information. It fades in and out. Sorry, just persevere. This is the one that Commissioner Novick had before, probably. He swapped it out. The...
 So in Lentz, we actually believe at this point that we can bring these dollars into the five-year forecast and continue to meet the obligations under the Lentz Action Plan, including the money to be invested in what's known as 92H, the 92nd Herald, a three-acre property that PDC owns. What we are sacrificing is money that was projected to be available in out years, you know, after the next five years.
 And the kind of the most specific opportunity is we would have less money to work on kind of addressing the range of issues on Foster Road east of 205, both relating to the floodplain and the availability of industrial land. It's not zeroed out, but there is we will need to be looking for other resources and out years on that.
 On Gateway, while it has limited resources, it did have a fair amount of unprogrammed resources. We tried to minimize the impact.
 Of this on Gateway, because we have heard from a lot of stakeholders that, one, they want us to be able to continue to invest in both economic development, business development, but also continue to invest in the infrastructure in the neighborhood. And there was also a concern from David Douglas School District in particular about the impact of adding more households there.
 to a district that already has a significant burden on the schools. And so $2 million represents a relatively small amount, and it can likely go into some existing either preservation projects or the existing project that we have underway. River District actually covered this already, and so we –
 we still have some work to do in kind of finalizing the agreement between PDC and the Housing Bureau on what level of contribution that the Housing Bureau will be making to the acquisition of the U.S. Postal Service. And so right now we think that the equivalent, that the dollars invested in that will represent the 30% FAR that we talked about.
 work session that translates into to roughly 600 to 800 units potential units basically a land banking strategy and then the remainder would be money that goes to the set aside directly as you can see in the presentation we we we will probably find it from different different line items within the river district but most likely it will reduce uh um some of the funds that would be available in the out years of the old town chinatown action plan um
 But we will do our best to make, to certainly make that plan whole, either through other funds if we end up with additional money in the district or through program income. So, you know, we have a high level of confidence that we can make good on the objectives of the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan. And then the last one is North McAdam, where...
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, we went through a fairly extensive conversation around how to program the funds in the out years of North McAdam River renewal area. This adds $5 million more to the affordable housing pot that was established at that time. And what it's really taking from is the additional resources that we projected could be created from the full build out of the Zydell property project.
 which was in the neighborhood of $25 to $30 million. And there was a range of infrastructure and parks projects that are kind of in that speculative part of our forecast. And so this pulls $5 million out of that. And I know that there has been conversations about what this means for projects like the South Portal and others. I would still say that...
 that there's a fairly kind of 20 million minimum amount of money if projections hold that we can budget probably in future years. I'm not sure that we can really budget at this point in time future years to make progress on whether it be Southport or whether it be the completion of bond all the way through to the Central District or whether it be completion of a parks project.
 Yeah, there will be a pot of money, roughly $20 million plus, that we can talk about at that time. But there will be a shortfall in North McAdam in the out years. I guess the last thing I would say on that is there was always going to be a shortfall given the needs for the infrastructure in the district and the completion of kind of the master plan for open space. And so this just makes the shortfall somewhat larger. Yeah.
 So I think that's it for the presentation. Yes, questions, please. So I'd like to ask a few clarifying questions. There were a lot of scribes in getting this ordinance pulled together, and Shannon in Dan's office, and Mayor, you had someone working on it, the Housing Bureau, PDC, Jillian worked on it. So there were a lot of scribes.
 people crafting this and there were a number of concerns that I had. I want to make sure they're clearly embedded in this draft language and make sure it's clear. So the first question I have is on the question of lengths and the sense of the council that we want to hold them harmless in relative terms. Are you recommending as part of this that you're going to either extend the life of the district or increase the indebtedness, and when would that action come back to council? It's a separate action. Okay.
 So it was an important part of the conversation. It's obviously not part of this action. We would, I think PDC would recommend that the council consider that action. Which of the two? The extension of the life of the urban renewal area by an additional two years to access what we project to be leftover maximum indebtedness, roughly $15, $16 million at this point.
 So we would recommend that. I don't know that it has to be addressed in the next month or two months, but within the next year I think councils should come back to this issue so that the folks in Lentz do have some certainty on those resources. Mayor, that's your opinion? It is my intention to do that, yeah. I don't think we have to wait a long time, but get it right and bring it forward. So I think I appreciate all the effort that's gone into clarifying that. The second has to do with where we focus these new dollars.
 And we have a letter of support from Multnomah County Chair Deborah Caffori specifically calling out the deficit in the 0 to 30 area of our housing production. We actually even have a letter here that I read is a qualified support from the Portland Business Alliance. If you take out the qualifying sentence, it is support. If you add the qualifying sentence, I'm not sure. But let's talk about where this money goes. In the draft ordinance –
 In the recitals, number 8, it specifically says that we are falling short in meeting our goals in 0 to 60. Director Krieger, is that correct? Yes, overall it is. Within 0 to 60, are we also falling short in 0 to 30? I believe so, yes. Okay, so we have specifically called that out in this ordinance. And then in the resolved, it says in sub C,
 that as the Housing Bureau develops a proposal that you'll come back to council for consideration, you will take into account the unmet goals in each urban renewal area. And do you understand that to be primarily at 0 to 60 of MFI? I think it's meant to be the full spectrum, frankly. I think everything should be on the table. We need to look at the –
 opportunity to do preservation of existing market affordable units that are subject to conversion, provide assistance to those owners to renovate those properties and perhaps a challenge to those owners by matching their equity investment. We also need to look at new build opportunities. And, of course, in Lentz we have made investments in both Palindrome at the new Copper Penny and in Williams and Dame development for their development on PDCO land.
 I'm glad we're having this conversation because this language was inserted at my request, and I will tell you what my intent was. It was to focus on the area of greatest need, and that is 0 to 60. And ultimately, any recommendation comes back to council for approval, and that's clear that once you have had a public process and taken into consideration the need, it will be decided ultimately by this council through the budget process.
 But, Director Krieger, I want to be very clear. The reason I asked this language to be inserted was I wanted to focus on the area of the greatest need. Understood. And I appreciate that your job is also to preserve as much flexibility in meeting this range of needs. But that was the reason for the recital and the resolve, to focus on the unmet need, which I understand is primarily at the – well, primarily, frankly, at families of four making $22,000 or less. Correct. So –
 I just want to give you my interpretation of the language. And I think to reinforce that, yesterday, as you may well know, we issued a notice of funding availability for $61.5 million with a focus under 60% of AMI. So we are currently employing your preferences with current money, and we would apply those preferences on a going-forward basis. But we do want to have that conversation with every URA because they have slightly different needs and requirements.
 yeah and i appreciate that and i guess the thing that that we're going to struggle with is this is 67 million dollars of new money to address a housing emergency where we are limited by the tool that is its urban renewal money but we are trying to address a city-wide problem
 And so the reason this comes back to us in the budget process is the council wants the flexibility to address the crisis. And the crisis is not necessarily lined up with the individual priorities of every district. And since this is a citywide concern, we want the flexibility to be able to look citywide. And the final question I have is the mayor has, I think, correctly identified a sense of urgency about this.
 we were discussing the need to make sure these dollars are front-loaded. One of the problems with urban renewal is it takes time sometimes for the dollars to be generated. Under this plan, are these dollars essentially front-loaded?
 Yes. So we've done our best to model out how all these resources can be available in the next five years. And so I'm just going to pause because the only question was whether the availability of the funds in North Mac, but I think even that we've figured out. Yeah, so in year five, I think we will make available the additional money in North McAdam. And just so everyone understands, that's fine because there's –
 There's enough money already in North McAdam for Dan to proceed on the current project he's working on and a second project. That would actually help fund a third project. Right. And I think, well, Kirk can talk to this more directly, but the near-term money in North McAdam, the next wave, actually could help in terms of taking down the parcel of land on the Zidell property that's been negotiated. And it was –
 kind of always questioned, okay, you've negotiated this, but will you have the money to actually purchase it? And so that actually might be the case now. Male Speaker Thank you very much. Female Speaker May I just ask a clarifying question then about Lents? I thought you said that we were going to continue to be doing the Lents action plan items as a priority. So,
 going to prioritize both housing and? Yeah, I mean, so urban renewals, we give ourselves 20 years to issue the debt. The pace at which we can issue debt is driven by two factors. One is, do we have the projects to spend the money on, and do we have the growth and assessed value to do that? And so as we've looked at our projections
 on both, we see the demand for the dollars, obviously, and we see that working with OMF that we actually can bring that money forward, as we say, within that five-year period. So it means we're borrowing more over the next five years than we had projected to. But not impacting any of the economic development and not impacting potential projects along Foster? I think the
 Those get pushed back in terms of timeline. They were – within the action plan, there was far more specificity around projects like 92nd and Harold, and the Foster Road work is –
 has a lot of unknowns to it so that was always farther out but but yes that that is what suffers in terms of a timeline um and it would be the the area where we would uh could most use the the additional accessing the additional debt at the end of the life of the district so that would necessarily mean that it goes past the five years you know in our conversations with stakeholders and we were all a bunch of us were all there last night
 They all expressed kind of comfort with that tradeoff. There was far more of a concern for how this proposal impacted projects in the town center, in particular 92nd and Harold, and so I think that seems to be a tradeoff that they're willing to make. I hope there's some folks from Lentz because I'm particularly interested in that time of question. Well, thanks, Chris.
 So I think we – actually, I mentioned two mini-panels. I think we can consolidate them into one panel if we can find one other chair. So I'd like to now bring up Dyke Dame, who is a member of the Portland Housing Advisory Committee. He's also a housing rabble-rouser in general. Portland Housing Advisory Commission, excuse me. Rita Delamontre of the Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good, the organization that led the charge to increase –
 The renewal set aside? Yeah, if we can get five chairs. Thanks, Patrick. Bishop Stephen Holt, the chair of the Northeast Oversight Committee. Ray Espana, who is another member of the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. And then finally, Martha McLennan of Northwest Housing Alternatives. Great. Why don't we start with Dyke, Portland Housing Advisory. My goodness, to be described as a rebel rouser. You are. You are.
 First off, I want to thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales, for giving me the opportunity to serve on the Portland Housing Advisory Committee and now being one of the three members on the Executive Committee. It's been a pleasure to interact with the other members of the committee.
 and an honor to serve with them. And it's also very enjoyable to see the good work of the excellent people that you have performing the service at the Housing Bureau. Director Krieger, Matt, Javier, and the many others, I just think they're doing a great job. My background lends a little bit to the rabble-rousing. I grew up in a war housing project in Paterson, New Jersey.
 I understand some of this stuff. That was 61 years ago, though, when I left there. So serving in this committee has been a very rewarding experience for me, as I said, and also a good reminder of how difficult it can be to live under those kind of circumstances. So you're addressing two issues today, tax increment and I'll use an abbreviated term, linkage fee.
 The TIF, to me, is a no-brainer. I hope you're going to do that. You know the Housing Bureau fought, if you will, hard to keep the 50% on two different occasions. I think the 45 being a 50% increase over the existing 30%.
 to enable PDC to continue with the rest of its good work is a good compromise, and life is all about compromise. And so I would certainly, along with other members on PHAC, encourage you to approve that. Probably long-term, more importantly, is the linkage. And as I think Kurt will tell you the first time he and I met,
 We discussed two things. We discussed increasing the TIF, and we discussed linkage and or inclusionary housing. I understand inclusionary housing is a difficult issue in this state and would require legislative action, so I think you're taking the correct course.
 by studying linkage, if you will, or charging a per square foot for various developments to generate affordable housing funds. I think it's the right course to do. I know that our PHAC group certainly supports it, and we all would encourage you to participate.
 Vote unanimously for it. So I'd be happy to answer any questions Rita Delamontre did I pronounce your last name correctly? Yes. Okay. That was a metropolitan lines for common good To be speaking to you today in favor of a proposal to substantially increase the TIF housing set aside to 45% of course we hoped to attain more and
 But we do want to acknowledge your efforts and those of the Housing Bureau and PDC to step up creation of affordable new homes for hundreds more families in the next years.
 These families in deep crisis fall heavily within the 0 to 60% MFI range, and we urge you to press all involved to move up production of highly affordable units at every opportunity, engaging the creativity of staff and community for completion of as many units as possible within the next few years.
 We also hope that all involved will remain mindful and committed to 45% as a floor with the intent to exceed that minimum whenever possible. As we move through the implementation process, MACG looks forward to further engagement with officials, community partners, and developers for better effectiveness, transparency, reporting, and accountability.
 From the local level to the state level, we are excited to forge partnerships to creatively engage and overcome this crisis and secure a safe, healthy, and just community where everyone has a chance to create a life without constant fear of eviction, calamity, and homelessness. From our first proposal,
 the PHAC's July meeting through our press conference assembly before your October 13th work session we have insisted that crisis requires swift and significant action although the TIF increase is a small advance in this crisis taking this first step now is critical for Portland's and will be life-changing for the hundreds of vulnerable residents who will find the refuge and springboard that affordable housing provides
 We understand that reassignment of funds to affordable housing and urban renewal areas may come at a cost to other budgets, but trade-offs are expected in a meaningful response to emergency and there are other costs we want you to bear in mind
 the cost of upheaval and even homelessness on the lives of struggling and vulnerable adults and children who find themselves unexpectedly displaced or dispossessed, such as Francia, a resident of the interstate URA, who will share her story a little later today, the long-term public cost to parks, transportation, and public safety. These important programs may experience short-term cuts or delays with respect to funding the housing emergency,
 but those will be known costs that can be planned for. The longer we take, though, to meaningfully address the burgeoning housing crisis, the greater the unintended costs to local governments for parks, transportation, and safety, spiraling costs in both budget impacts and lost ground on critical goals.
 Add to those the public costs of damage control from the well-known difficulties with health, education, and chronic poverty suffered by families without stable housing, and we cannot afford not to pass and exceed this new floor. Portland is a beautiful city. I'm proud to call it home. But the eruptive boom of our local real estate market follows the trajectory of other West Coast cities as market forces erase the diversity and equity of Portland's neighborhoods.
 relegating to only the very fortunate, the livability and sense of place built by all. All of us here in this room, organizers, advocates, allies, and elected officials, are called to serve the interests of all the people in this city. And right now, the crucial need is to vigorously preserve and develop more homes where people can feel secure and grow.
 It is important that we deliberately make space an opportunity for residents of all incomes not only to live but to thrive in areas well connected to public transportation, grocery stores, parks and schools, and not turn away as vulnerable residents are pushed out of their communities and dispersed to remote parts of the metro area. This is not a theoretical question of symbolic representation today. This is the real work of equity and justice.
 Thank you. Thank you. Bishop Stephen Holt, who is the chair of our North Northeast Oversight Committee. And, Bishop, we've just pushed that button at the base there. There's no red light on. Ray, can you turn yours off? Oh, maybe that's it. All right.
 Okay, there you go. Here we go. There you go. Very good. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. First of all, I just wanted to express appreciation, appreciation for the responsiveness of this leadership to the housing crisis and that some creative process was put in place to rapidly and tangibly do something of significance to address it.
 The TIF set aside being increased to 45% is tremendous in that it is a 50% increase above the present amount. Of course, I think all of us had hoped it would be a 50% increase, but we're glad for a 45%. And thanks to the co-sponsors. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioner Saltzman, and Commissioner Fish for the work on this process.
 I also want to express appreciation for the directors of PDC and PHB and their ability to create positive partnership to utilize uncommitted and unprogrammed funds as it relates to this. As the chair of the Oversight Committee, the foresight and intent to develop the Oversight Committee with the purpose of keeping accountability and transparency for the city's efforts around affordable housing is proving to be of great value.
 our primary focus and concern is to ensure that what has been undertaken is under is accomplished with efficiency effectiveness equity and as promised the promises made become the promises kept to that extent um portland housing bureau created a structure to ensure that the funds utilized in the manner the community states uh
 that their needs are, that they're met. I would like to ask the council to consider increasing the scope of the oversight committee with additions to membership representing the North Portland-St. John's area to be included around these additional funds.
 I also recommend that the preference policy that's being developed become the standard for how people gain access to programs in north and northeast Portland. I recognize that certain circumstances will require exceptions, such as bridge meadows, which the Oversight Committee also supports. The need continues to be expansive, as has been mentioned by the mayor, several commissioners, both directors of PDC and PHB.
 Long-term strategies must be developed to assist those who have needs that don't fit within the present boundary or function of the areas that are being studied. There are countless or have been countless individuals who are just outside these areas who have needs. And as we think about creating a livable Portland, we must address how best to serve our citizens who are in need. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Ray Espana, another member of the Portland Housing Advisory Committee. Thank you. Mayor Hales, commissioners, it's always a blessing to be in front of you. I just want to lend my voice as a commissioner as well as the role I play at NAYA as the developer of 40 units of Generations Housing, Family Housing, and Lents that I just want to reinforce and be brief on three points, and I really appreciate the words I've heard today.
 The actions before you require bold encourage. I think you're up to it. I expect that. I wanted to just focus in, though, on some pressures that have not been spoken about too much today, and that is the threat of displacement that's occurring.
 The pressures of destabilizing families and forcing them out of a stable housing for landlords who would like to take advantage of increasing rents. So, in fact, you take somebody that's stably housed and move them out, move them on. We need some protection, some tools, but the threat of displacement and the subsequent actions need to be addressed. Okay.
 Those individuals that I'm speaking about are heading eastward, toward outer southeast, out toward mid-county, out toward Gateway, out that way. That's occurring today. So while I appreciate the effort to address TIF resources and I support the action, that only applies on a very specific limited part of geography.
 I understand completely the desire to take on the issue of housing the crisis on a citywide basis. Those tools do not exist today. I think we have to work harder, faster to get those tools in place. I think I've heard the words of special communities. Unfortunately, you know, I would lend my voice to seeing the tale of two cities.
 those that have and those that do not have. That divisiveness based on economics, we've made a pretty good data case of the growing disparities of those communities of color in this regard. So the look at the special needs of children, specifically children of color, families, survivors of violence, those type of populations need to be addressed on a citywide basis.
 So yes, this action you take today and you consider, I think has at its root an equity social justice foundation.
 I lend my support to the Welcome Home Coalition, who you may have heard about. It's now exceeding 100 organizations who want to work in coalition with you to identify a permanent source of funding for housing. It's going to be a challenge, and I just can't help but feel with the words I've heard today, the reconnection. We look to innovation.
 I think there needs to be a not business as usual approach. I think all sectors need to be involved, and I think we need to hear more and involve private sectors. So I intend to work with Dane to kind of address those kind of issues and concerns. So I think it's all sectors, the foundation, whether it be my or others, need to be involved as well. With that, I'll just close. And, again, it's a blessing to be with you. I appreciate the time. Thank you.
 And finally, Martha McLennan, the Executive Director of Northwest Housing Alternatives. Thank you. Good afternoon. You know, as I was looking at the opportunity to testify to you today, I reflected back in my life and my career, and I've now worked more than 30 years in affordable housing and community development in Portland. And it is clear to me that we are in an unprecedented time.
 We have been challenged with homelessness and affordable housing off and on over those years to greater or lesser degrees, but what we're seeing in this past year or two is really quite stunning. So I also want to applaud the council for the leadership that it is taking to look at this problem in a very comprehensive way and to look in all corners for the resources that can help contribute to solutions.
 If we don't solve this, we do risk the health of the overall community. We risk, while we have a very hot market now, what we risk is a collapse of a market if we don't address this problem.
 What I want to talk about briefly is the idea of linkage fees. Kurt Krieger has given you a very good kind of summary overview of what they are, how they work. The points that I would add to that is that they are a common tool that is used broadly around the country, a very effective tool.
 The Nexus study is the step that we need to take to really understand how that tool could be applied in our particular community and to kind of share that concept with the broader community, with the business community, the development community, and understand how it could help this particular crisis.
 The linkage fee, the TIF resources, all of these become part of a larger toolkit, and there are other tools that we should continue to explore. Certainly, inclusionary zoning is one. We have worked for a number of years in the legislature to override that preemption. There is still work to be done. We hope that the city council will support that work.
 And I know you're looking at other resource-based strategies to support affordable housing. We are at a time where we need those, all the tools, all hands on deck and everyone doing their part. So I look forward to seeing the product of your work over the coming months and years and I hope to be a partner in doing that work. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Did you have questions for our panel? I just wanted to make one quick comment because this was a very inspiring panel.
 Ray, you said that everybody has a role to play, and you said specifically we're going to talk to the private sector to see what role they'll play. And I just want to underscore, in the last three years, 11,000 new market rate apartments, less than 2% of which were affordable. And when I hear developers say that the city has not been generous enough with their subsidies, I say to them, what is your moral obligation to address this housing crisis?
 And why is the only route one in which the city has to step up and subsidize the unit? We'll play our fair share. We'll play our role. But we're talking about a moral obligation. And to the comment about the impact on families through this housing crisis, Glen Fair Elementary School, Outer East, with a new dynamic principal doing her level best, 50% of the students that she starts the school year with will not be there on the last day of school.
 And so you want to ask the question, what does it mean not to have stable home for struggling families? Fifty percent of the children will not complete that year. How on earth can we have learning when children don't have a stable home? And the third comment I want to make to my friend Bishop Holt, who said, we would like to have more money.
 The reason I support this compromise is because $67 million is more than the original amount that was in Leah Greenwood's study. And this was a basis for our discussion, and she identified $55 million and some properties. $67 million is a good compromise when you start at $55, and that's why I support it. Appreciate it. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Is that it for invited testimony, Commissioner? So let's turn to the sign-up sheet, please, and...
 Bring people up in threes or fours? Mayor, I'd like to offer my amendment first. Yes, please, Commissioner Novick. Sorry, I forgot that. Colleagues, this doesn't directly relate to the TIF set-aside percentage technically, but I think as long as we are talking about committing additional URA resources to affordable housing, we should take a look at Memorial Coliseum.
 I think that the people of Portland expect us to be progressive. They also expect us to be fiscally responsible. And I think that Memorial Coliseum might present us with an opportunity to be both. We've been told recently that it would cost at a minimum $35 million just to make enough repairs to keep Memorial Coliseum limping along as a venue for the Portland Winterhawks and for high school graduations.
 I think it would be hard to make the case that it's worth $35 million to keep the venue limping along, even if we had $35 million, which we don't. When I took a tour of Memorial Coliseum a couple of years ago, I was struck by what bad shape the building was in, but also what a great place it seemed for residential development.
 It's right on transit. It's got a great view of downtown. And I believe that it would have to be possible to work out a deal with some developers where they get to build expensive housing, but we reserve a large percentage of housing for low and middle income people.
 And I've been told that it would be legally possible to give preference for low- and middle-income housing at that location to veterans we want to honor and to the family members of people who were displaced from that area when Memorial Coliseum was built, who, of course, were predominantly African-American.
 So I'm suggesting that we direct PDC and the Housing Bureau to study the possibility of developing that site for residential and setting aside 30 percent of the housing for people between zero and 120 percent of median family income. I recognize that there are people who dearly want to preserve Memorial Coliseum as it is. We heard from two of them, Stuart Emmons and Brian Libby, this morning.
 But we are in an era of limits. We cannot be all things to all people. So I think this is a suggestion that at least deserves to be studied, and therefore I move this amendment. Is there a second? I'll second it, but I just want to express my concern about the timing under which this amendment will be executed. I think we discussed yesterday maybe a six-month period. I've since talked to the Housing Bureau director and –
 Don't believe that doing this in a six-month period is feasible, that it's probably going to take at least a year to do this. And it's going to take the full involvement also of the Office of Management and Finance. Simply to complete a study of feasibility? Yeah. Actually, I don't think I specified a time period in the amendment, so whatever we can get it done. Mayor, can I speak to the amendment? Sure. So with great hesitation, I'm going to oppose the amendment. Okay.
 And I do so at my peril because a couple years ago Commissioner Novick had a proposal that we Engage the Citizens Utility Board to be the oversight one of the oversight bodies for our utilities And it was one of the best ideas that's ever been presented to me around our utilities And I embraced it and it has been spectacularly successful, but I can't support this amendment for three reasons number one I think we're putting the cart before the horse and by way of a little history I
 There have been numerous studies of what to do with the Rose Quarters since I've been on this council. It seems to be the Bermuda Triangle of mayors. Let's hope not. We keep launching these studies to figure out, and if we've learned anything in that process, we've learned that without a master plan, we're never going to tackle the Rose Quarters.
 And if we keep just sort of saying there's one piece here and one piece there, we're going to miss the forest from the trees. Number two, we have not called the question as a council as to whether Memorial Coliseum is even an opportunity site for housing. So why on earth would we do a feasibility study before we've decided that we're giving up on a landmark historic structure that at least a prior council committed to veterans that we would not disturb? And we've had that fight.
 And I don't want to study this ahead of having the council decide that we've lost that fight. And number three, I cannot support the concept of using TIF and the limited resources of the Housing Bureau to fund housing at 0% to 120% of median family income. That is not an authorized purpose of TIF, and it is not the mission of the Housing Bureau. And so while I think the spirit of this amendment is laudable,
 And I appreciate the creativity of my colleague. I urge a no vote because I think it's at the very least out of time, out of sequence. And in any event, until this council has a master plan and takes a decision on the future Memorial Coliseum, I don't think we should be investing scarce resources in assessing development options on a site that at least current policy is we are going to save Memorial Coliseum.
 I'd also like to speak in opposition to the amendment. This isn't the forum to discuss Memorial Coliseum. It isn't the forum to spend even more resources looking into it. You commissioned a study as part of the Bermuda Triangle, responsibility of every mayor, and we should have that as a campaign question, what will you do with Memorial Coliseum and the Rose Quarter? Okay.
 We haven't had a council discussion on that. My reading of that was very similar to the reading on the Portland building. It would cost more to demolish it than it would to fix it up, and there are multiple reasons why we should fix it up, not least that it's got a historic designation. It would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to take that off. So I respectfully request that we bring this question back when we have the discussion on the Memorial Coliseum rather than addressing it today.
 We have implicitly addressed a lot of questions today, or we are going to address them in the course of this 45% set-aside, because if you're spending 45% on housing, there's other things that you're not spending money on.
 And I think that a Memorial Coliseum that's a danger, we will kick the can down the road forever, just as we have with transportation funding. I wasn't here three or four years ago, but we all received the most recent report that said that at a minimum, it takes $35 million simply to keep Memorial Coliseum limping along. Right.
 And I do think that it's appropriate to call the question, does that make any sense? If it doesn't, we should start actively exploring other alternatives. And finally, we are here today because we know that there is a housing crisis that
 And unfortunately, we don't have the tools to address it all at once. But I think that we should be exploring every option to provide for more affordable housing, not just for the poorest people, for middle-income people who are also being squeezed out.
 And I think that we cannot be all things to all people, and we should at least acknowledge the possibility that housing for low- and middle-income people is more important than keeping a building limping along as a site for the Portland Winterhawks and for high school graduations. Well, let's go ahead and take a vote. I think I can offer some reassurances. I'm going to not support the motion, but let's go through the process here and take a roll call vote on the amendment. Okay.
 Novick? Aye. Prince? No. Fish? No. Saltzman? I just want to point out that this does not involve, the amendment does not involve the committing of urban renewal funds whatsoever. It talks about the urban renewal area, but it doesn't speak about the urban renewal dollars being committed. In fact, there are no urban dollars left in the Convention Center to be committed to housing. I just wanted to get that clarification, but I do support this amendment and will vote aye.
 Well, I appreciate the creative suggestion, Commissioner Novick. I mean that not as a backhanded compliment. I actually appreciate when people do this and bring forth creative ideas and that we actually debate them in this room and vote on them and that we're not always 5-0 or 0-5. But I'm going to oppose this amendment for several reasons. One, I've actually, in my capacity as both Commissioner in Charge of the Office of Management and Finance, which owns the
 a bunch of the property there and in my role as the council connection to PDC, I've had a lot of discussions with a lot of people about the future of Memorial Coliseum. Haven't sailed into the Bermuda triangle, but have looked in from various corners several times with various parties. And I've heard a lot of creative ideas for Memorial Coliseum over the last two years and 10 months. None of them are actionable, which is why I've left the money for,
 in the urban renewal budget but not spend any of it because I agree with your point of view that spending a bunch of urban renewal money to just keep this building limping along is not a success. So I'm still looking for that viable idea. I think we still might hear that idea soon because there are some smart, creative people in the community working on other scenarios than just maintenance or demolition.
 Secondly, it would cost, by what I've seen, about $11 million to tear the building down. And so actually, unfortunately, Commissioner Fritz, it would cost less to tear it down than it would to fix it up. But neither scenario is my first choice. So, again, I'm looking for the better option, and I think we still might find it and not simply be lost in that triangle. But to the $11 million, we own a lot of land.
 We, the city, own a lot of land. In fact, we own several parcels at Memorial Coliseum, one of which is vacant. And I'd rather see us build housing on those parcels that don't require an $11 million demolition, all other things being equal. So you're right to keep the pressure on for us to not foolishly spend money on a –
 an unremarkable outcome with Memorial Coliseum, but I think we can focus our housing agenda better in other places, at least for now. No. Okay. Any other amendments? So let's now take public testimony. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? We have 18. Okay. That's not an unmanageable number. Thank you all for exercising some restraint for not everyone testifying.
 spokespeople are great so let's call them please the first three or four please come on up are john mulvey terry parker harriet cook and frida christopher and they'll be followed by arlene kimura jackie putnam alexandra anderson and steve massanetti john i think you're on first thank you
 Mayor Hales and members of the council, thank you for the chance to talk to you this afternoon in support of raising the TIF set aside for affordable housing. My name is John Mulvey. I'm a former member of the Lentz Town Center Urban Renewal Advisory Committee, and I'm a current member of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee. I want to thank you for your leadership on raising the TIF.
 As has been said before, we need to do more on housing in this city, but this is a big step and it will make a big difference. I had quite a bit of very complimentary language when I realized I'd be cut down to two minutes. Most of that made it to the end.
 Oh, darn. I'll just skip to my concerns, if that's okay. This is the five-year review of the set-aside policy, as you know. And the fundamental question that we all should be asking is, how do we ensure that the TIF dollars we're spending translate into safe and affordable homes for low-income Portlanders? And...
 There are certain aspects of that conversation that I felt like got a little bit of short shrift during this Discussion in this process. I wish that you had delved more into the way the Portland Development Commission's obscure and ad hoc processes make it less of a community partner and more of an ongoing obstacle for the groups working to house low-income Portlanders
 I also wish that you had revisited your decision to do away with the citizen advisory committees, which provided one of the few meaningful tools to bring transparency and accountability to the agency.
 Housing set aside reports are inconsistent from year to year, only including total dollars spent, not the number of units, not the income levels, and not how much money went to which projects. And I hope that that's corrected going forward.
 On the occasions when the PDC solicits public input, they consult with only a fairly narrow group of people. The project selection committees are filled with homeowners, property owners, known opponents of affordable housing. Renters, housing advocates, and communities of color are rarely at the table for these conversations. So I'll finish there, but I just want to mention that low-income Portlanders –
 I've heard the word burden used as far as neighborhoods being burdened with affordable housing, etc. And I just want to push back about that. I mean, these are people who are the future riches of our city in the phrase of CES Wood. And so I hope we really treat them with that kind of value and respect. I was happy to hear Dyke Dame refer to his example.
 youth in subsidized housing. So let's remember that future dikedames and future people who will have that level of impact on our community could be living in substandard housing right now in East Portland. So let's always keep that in mind. And again, do more. Thank you. Thank you. Pretty much like me next. Yes, I'll be down.
 First, I'd like to thank you for allowing the opportunity to testify today. My name is Freda Christopher. I'm a member of the David Douglas School Board. I've been on that board for 24 years. I'm also co-chair of the EPAP Housing Subcommittee, as well as having served on the Gateway URAC through its life. So I have knowledge of education, housing, and how URAs are run.
 But today I am speaking strictly for David Douglas School District and our school board. Superintendent Grodding extended his regrets. He was tied up today, so I was elected to come. And as we said in our October 19th letter, our district is not taking a stand for or against the TIF, increasing the TIF set-aside. But since approximately 50% of Lent's URAs
 90% of Gateways URA as well as two MPIs are within our district boundaries. We felt it important to share certain information with you today in your final decision making, but also in the future because having worked with the URAC, I know the allocations can change.
 David Douglas is 12 square miles in East Portland. We have nine elementary schools, three middle schools, one high school, and one alternative school. Our high school is the largest in the state with over 3,000 students. Our current enrollment is just over 10,700 students with 75 language spoken in our schools and communities. Our schools are at and over capacity.
 Our demographics has changed dramatically since 96. Free and reduced lunch went from 39% to 82%. We currently have five schools in the new federal program that gives free lunch for everyone because in those catchment areas, 62.5% of the residents qualified for food stamps. Our ELL population has grown from 6% to 20%. It has peaked as high as 25%.
 And during the period of 96 to 2014, the average growth in our district was 2.6% per year, but the average growth in the free and reduced lunch went up 11.5%. We have a concentration of our ELL and low-income students, which causes a need, and that causes the district to have to provide many extra services.
 We are doing, we currently we're doing our facility plan and they're working in collaboration with planning and sustainability as well as parks because of the 12 square miles we lack room to build schools.
 but our current projections say we need two new elementary schools within the next 10 years, and that isn't to reduce capacity. That's just to handle the new students. In a recent bond workshop, looking at all the needs over the next 10 years, we would have to go for a $120 million bond. That doesn't seem a lot with PPS at half a billion, but for Douglas, we're lucky to pass a $49 million bond just three years ago.
 With the URAs, we happen to have one of the lowest tax assessed values per pupil in the state. And the frozen amount of the URA, that growth, is taking off our ability to lower our bond costs significantly.
 There's $400 million in assessed values in the URAs. But today I want to just stress that we acknowledge this importance of stable housing for our students and the effect it has on their educational success. The service we provide to those students in the district are very important. And we feel it's important for the City Council to consider the impact of any decision
 they make today as it has on the schools that provide those services to those students in the URA.
 They mentioned extending Lentz. I should tell you, as the long-term member, senior member at David Douglas School Board and the most knowledgeable on URAs and a big supporter of starting the Gateway URA and extending the Lentz, that at this time, because of bonding and our needs in the future, we probably would come out against any extension of any URA. Thank you. Thanks very much. We appreciate your partnership. Good afternoon.
 Hi, my name is Harriet Cook. And I first want to express my gratitude for all of the work of the commissioners and all of the speakers before me who have spent so much time and energy on this important issue. At the risk of sounding like a lunatic, I'm here to introduce an idea of an alternative financing
 potential, which is complementary local currencies at the local government level. Complementary currencies are anything outside of our usual financing system. There are books that describe how they work currently, historically, the problems with them, and their potentials.
 I'm not going to go into details. They basically connect underutilized resources with unmet needs. Naomi Klein's recent book, This Changes Everything,
 really brought light to the problems of our capitalistic system. And yet we don't hear too many alternatives to that. We're continually working within the system, within the limitations of the system. Her book also sheds light on the problem of economic growth. And yet how many of our ideas require economic growth?
 To be limited by money, if there are people looking for work, is an arbitrary and unnecessary limitation. Complementary currencies at the local government level is a long-term idea. It will in no way diminish the importance of the revenue-generating actions within the current currency system.
 And I look forward to talking with all of you as the future permits more about these ideas and how to integrate them to meet the goals of the health of the people and our region. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're very welcome. There you go. Yes. Terry Parker, fourth generation Portlander. I'm speaking as an individual today. Okay.
 Policy 5.18 in Portland's recommended draft comprehensive plan addresses aging in place. It reads, encourage a range of housing options and supportive environments to enable older adults to remain in their communities as their needs change. To many older adults, retirees, and senior citizens, aging in place means continuing to live in their owner-occupied single-family homes.
 While the city offers tax breaks to developers for including affordable housing and multi-unit developments, older adults now retired and living on fixed or semi-fixed incomes who have a lifetime investment in their homes are being taxed out. Property taxes on even a modest home in Portland includes an extra $400 to $500 with the item line Urban Renewal-Portland.
 Moreover, this will be the third year in a row where there will be no increase in Social Security benefits. If the minimum wage is increased to $15 an hour, prices on food and other necessities will likely increase. Seniors on fixed incomes who will see their cost of living rise with no corresponding increase in income have been completely left out of the conversation. Where is the dialogue and the mitigation for the financial impacts on these retirees?
 It seems only equitable that if 45% or 50% of urban renewal funding is to be dedicated to affordable housing, seniors on fixed or semi-fixed incomes living in their own homes should have a similar percentage reduction from the urban renewal line on their property tax bills. It is simply unjust to expect low-income seniors to subsidize affordable housing for other people. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 the next four are arlene kimura jackie putnam and alexandra anderson and steve messonetti and they will be followed by john rogers lisa and francia velasquez and annie rose shapiro hey arlene i think you're first and your microphone's already on so you're ready to go my name is arlene kimura thank you very much council members and mayor hills
 for this opportunity. I do want to thank Mayor Hills and the council for their work on the revised proposal, specifically for Gateway because that's where I have my neighborhood, and I appreciate the effort that went with it. I'm also, however, very concerned that this whole process has been, I believe, somewhat knee-jerk.
 Definitely not holistic because you cannot have just housing. You have to have economic development. You have to have transportation. And I don't feel it was inclusive. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jackie Putnam. I'm one of the former co-chairs of the Gateway Urban Renewal Committee. I serve on the Hazelwood Neighborhood Association Board and an active member of the East Portland, I should say a participating member of the East Portland Action Plan. I am not in favor of increasing the set-aside in the Gateway area. It is a very small area. It has more than its share of affordable housing.
 The Gateway URA has contributed many times to, in fact, multiple times to the same property for establishing and working nonprofit housing projects.
 We need to save what diggable land we have in Gateway for tax-generating businesses. There's also discussion about the building at the park site. It should happen, and it should be entirely tax-generating. We don't want another nonprofit occupying the ground floor of what should be a tax-generating establishment. What is the point in delaying the work that's been happening, searching for someone to build?
 Before we know it, the Gateway URA will be sunsetted, and the acre at the park will be vacant with tent dwellers reminiscent of the North Park blocks. Please consider retaining the 30% in Gateway and rehabilitating houses with that money that exists already without renewed construction. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Welcome. Hi. Hi.
 My name is Alex Anderson-Dabolu. You may remember me from such hearings as raising the minimum wage for city workers alongside 15 Now, the Climate Action Plan, speaking as a local scientist, and now today on affordable housing. Under the watchful eye of this elected council, gentrification, discrimination, displacement has occurred unnecessarily and without cause. It seems now that you're aware of this.
 but it's not the first time. Without the support and protection of this city's elected officials, we deserve representation that sees this coming and acts ahead of the crisis. What we've heard is $30 million to help. That's 18% of what 33,000 estimated displaced people have spent of their own money on moving and transportation expenses.
 we're looking at 165 million dollars of what our people have spent what this council has suggested is that their hands are tied and that you have limited power it's a good thing we have plenty of power rent control must find its place within these halls counselors i ask for a volunteer and this is the offer i've secured an affordable housing unit to occupy for a term of three days
 Amenities include a locking door, heat, running hot and cold water, and 100 square feet of ample living space. We will provide the address along with security codes for the bathrooms and laundry facilities. Mr. Novick, would you care to make use of the key for a few days? Mr. Mayor, would you take residence here? Any volunteers?
 thanks for the challenge we'll see who takes you up on it later i actually lived in a place like that when i first moved to this country for quite some time okay well i don't hear any volunteers so by decree of the people's right to their city remember this you are here by resigning yourself to replacement in the next elections thank you for your service this is your notice good afternoon uh there's a switch on the button on the base of that there's thank you
 I'm Steve Messonetti, CEO of Habitat for Humanity, and on behalf of Habitat and the families we serve, I thank you for your co-sponsors, especially Quick Due Diligence and your staff's work on this issue and bringing it quickly through. Habitat encourages your support of increasing the TIF set aside for affordable housing. With this additional subsidy, owning a home can be made possible for hundreds more low-income families and families of color. At a time when finding affordable
 and affordable rental seems impossible for so many of our low-income working families. It's necessary to remind everyone in this room that home ownership is possible for a family making as little as $25,000 a year, and Habitat is making this happen in neighborhoods all over our city. Who has access to buying property? Our answer to this single question is the deciding factor of whether or not we get a future Portland that is equitable for low-income families and people of color.
 This is because owning property has always been and will continue to be the single most powerful element to build social and financial equity. Ownership simultaneously and immediately builds equity while preventing displacement long term. I would also like to recommend, as Commissioner Fish did, that a key focus of these funds be on the development of new affordable housing units that are sized for families with children.
 A significant part of this housing crisis is that all of the units being added in this building boom are high-end units and that are small. The creation of new family-sized affordable housing is critical. That said, I believe an unintended consequence
 of the creation of the Portland Housing Bureau years ago was the elimination of the city's homeownership development program. Prior to the creation of PHV, the city had a successful PDC program whereby it issued TIP funds annually to nonprofits to develop affordable homeownership units for families earning 30-60% MFI. Just Habitat alone built more than 50 of these units in the interstate, Lents, and Gateway areas for families under 60% MFI. Over 80% of them were households of color.
 But this program abruptly stopped when PHB was created, and no other homeownership units have been created with TIP funds since. Homeownership subsidy for new units also frees up rental resources as households move out of affordable and subsidized housing.
 so i thank you again for your support and encourage your support of this to set aside as well as um the other items i i suggested thank you we appreciate what habitat does mr messonetti has the council made particular choices that have done away with that program or what why has it gone away
 I'm not sure. I believe it was just the transition of the structure of PDC going over to the Portland Housing Bureau and not having a structure to allocate the development of housing. And those funds, therefore, have been used for the down payment assistance programs to help a family buy an existing house, but not for the development of additional housing.
 I know that several of us have volunteered with Habitat Building, so I appreciate you bringing it to our attention, and I'd like some more information on that. I'm glad you raised it because there are a couple of side effect issues of having the two agencies. This is one, and another is that we're not as good as we used to be at doing mixed-use projects.
 Because PDC isn't in the housing business, and housing isn't really in the commercial development business, and so who makes sure that we build great mixed-use buildings that support neighborhood life? So there are some costs to the structure that we have now in terms of effectiveness, and I appreciate you raising that. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay. Next four are John Rogers, Lisa and Francia Velasquez, and Annie Rose Shapiro.
 And they will be followed by Blaine Valdez, Zoe Taylor, Linda Robinson, and David Kingham. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Go ahead, John. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is John Rogers. I'm a member of Salt and Light Lutheran Church in northeast Portland and a leader in the Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good, MACG. And I'd ask MACG leaders to stand this time. Thank you all for coming. Thank you.
 Thank you for this opportunity to testify on the proposed amendment to the TIF set aside for affordable housing. We all know that today the citizens of Portland are experiencing an unparalleled housing crisis that threatens the very heart and future of our city. MACG and its predecessor, the Portland Organizing Project, has been training and organizing citizen leaders and taking action on our neighborhoods for 30 years.
 We have trained over 2,000 new leaders, preparing them to participate in the decision-making process in the public arena, and to give them an opportunity to claim their voice and power, and to bring positive change about in neighborhoods. In reporting our testimony and presence in numbers at several recent public hearings, MACG has been identified as faith-based housing advocates.
 While many of our 25 institutions, which represent approximately 27,000 members, are faith-based, MACG is more than that. It's a broad-based organization, and our member institutions include labor unions, health care organizations, and community nonprofits located throughout metropolitan Portland. We've been called housing advocates, but MACG is more than that.
 For many years, MACG has been organizing to create more equitable communities for all the citizens of Portland. We've organized around community health and safety, negotiating with the city of Portland $200,000 in funding and enforcement mechanisms to restore neighborhoods by contaminating properties used in drug use production.
 We've worked with unions to win 800 prevailing wage jobs in the South Waterfront development. We've secured much needed housing for survivors of domestic violence. And we've worked to secure for all Oregonians access to affordable health care. Worked with contractors, unions, and community-based organizations to bring about energy efficient improvements to Portland, and in particular the Cully neighborhood in Northeast Portland. But all of these actions
 spring from the same source, listening to our people's stories and acting. Over time, the issues and the stories may change, but our practice remains the same. We listen to the stories and the pressures that our members are experiencing, and then we organize to take action to relieve those pressures. Over the last three months, we have heard hundreds of housing crisis stories from our members who live in every part of the city,
 That's why we're here today to support this increase in the tips set aside as the first step in addressing the housing crisis that threatens an ever-increasing number of people who are facing housing insecurity. As our member partners at OHSU remind us, one of the major determinant social factors in family health and well-being is stable housing.
 We commend the City Council, the Housing Bureau, and PDC for doing the hard work of negotiating this ordinance, weighing a variety of needs while keeping the current crisis in the forefront. We're mindful that these are public dollars that are being spent, and so we need more accountability and transparency going forward. We want to spend our public dollars wisely, yet creatively, and with some urgency.
 The crisis is real, immediate, and daunting. But with every crisis, there is a kernel of opportunity. Now is the time for bold action and innovative thinking. We look forward to working with you, our community partners, and private developers. Together, we can find permanent funding for housing, new tools to ensure that housing remains affordable and permanent,
 and more imaginative ways to build it. The TIF increase is a good first step to address the crisis. Now let's make this an opportunity to envision new housing possibilities, not only for ourselves, but for our children and our grandchildren. Thank you. Thank you very much, Sean. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales and commissioners,
 Mi nombre es Francia Velazquez y hoy me siento muy triste. My name is Francia Velazquez and today I feel very sad. Me siento triste porque no tengo domicilio permanente. Me siento triste porque me quitaron mi hogar y es como si me quitaran la vida. I'm sad because I have no permanent address to tell you. I'm sad because it feels like my life was taken away from me along with my home. Hace 12 años llegué a North Portland con la esperanza de encontrar un nuevo hogar.
 Una estabilidad para mis hijos. Tengo a mi esposo y a mis tres hijos de 17, 12 y 11 años de edad. I arrived in North Portland 12 years ago with the hope of finding a new home, a stability for my family. I have a husband and three children, aged 17, 12 and 11 years old. Hicimos una vida ahí. Mis hijos nacieron y crecieron ahí. Asisten a la escuela en el vecindario de Piedmont, donde vivíamos. We made a life here.
 My children were born here, they've grown up here, they attend schools in the Piedmont neighborhood where we lived. Este año vendieron los apartamentos sin avisarnos y llegaron a nuestro hogar y nos dijeron que ya no podíamos vivir ahí. This year our apartment building was sold without warning. They came to our home and told us that we could no longer live here. No pensaron si nos afectaría si teníamos un lugar para nuestros hijos
 No pensaron en el efecto emocional y físico que nos causarían. No nos ofrecieron otro lugar para rentar, ni el tiempo para buscar otro departamento. They didn't think about how this would affect us, whether we had a place to go. They didn't think of the emotional and physical damage that this would cause to my family. They didn't offer us another place to rent or enough time to find a place.
 Simplemente nos desalojaron. Nos pareció injusto. They just evicted us. It felt so unfair. En la búsqueda nos encontramos personas malas que nos bajaron nuestra moral con sus comentarios negativos y se podría decir que racistas. Fue un estrés terrible. Mis hijos no disfrutaron sus vacaciones de verano. Hasta estuvo uno de mis hijos en el hospital a causa del estrés que le provocó.
 During our housing search, we met bad people who hurt our morale with negative, racist comments. The stress was terrible. My children couldn't enjoy their summer vacation. The effects of stress caused one child to be hospitalized. Anduvimos cada dia en la búsqueda hasta altas horas de la noche, sin descanso y sin encontrar un lugar donde vivir.
 Pasamos noches sin dormir de pensar qué íbamos a hacer, el cual iba a ser nuestro futuro. We spent all day, every day, searching without resting and without finding a place to live. We spent sleepless nights thinking, what are we going to do? What will our future be like? Cuando llamamos a la empresa que compró para que nos dieran solo dos días más, se negaron.
 Nos dijeron que si no nos salíamos, llegaría el sheriff a sacarnos de ahí. We called the company that bought the apartment building to ask them to just give us two more days. They said no. They said that if we didn't move out, the sheriff would come to force us out. No nos quedó alternativa y todos nuestros muebles los tiramos.
 Vivimos del sueldo de mi esposo y no tenemos ahorros que nos permitieran rentar una bodega para guardar lo que por 12 años juntamos con sacrificio. We had no alternative. We gave away all of our furniture. We can survive on my husband's income, but we weren't able to save enough to store the furniture that it took us 12 years of sacrifice to purchase. Perdimos todo. We lost everything.
 Tenemos suerte de tener familiares cerca. Estamos viviendo con ellos. Por el momento, esto les permite a mis hijos seguir en las mismas escuelas. Por ahora, en las escuelas que ellos se han acoplado. We are lucky to have family nearby, so we moved in with them. This allows my children to continue in the same schools for now, where they are very attached. This is critical to their education and well-being.
 Pero somos once en una casa de tres recamaras. Estamos haciéndonos a todos nos causa estrés. Tengo miedo porque a todos nos podrían desalojar de esta casa por romper las reglas con tantas personas. But it is 11 of us in a three bedroom house. It is crowded and stressful for everyone. It's scary because we could all be evicted from that house for breaking the rules with so many people there.
 Espero encontrar una estabilidad para mis hijos, un lugar que podamos llamar casa. I hope to find stability for my children, a place they can call home again. Por favor, queremos viviendas con precios justos y accesibles para vivir. Gracias. Please, we need more accessible, fair pricing housing. Thank you. Y que Dios los bendiga a todos. And God bless you all.
 Thank you for coming, and good luck. Hopefully there are quite a few people in the room that would like to help. I think you see five of them right here. Thank you. Thank you. Was there an Annie Rose Shapiro? Okay, then we'll go to the next four. Our Blaine Valdez, Zoe Taylor, Linda Robinson, and David Kingham. Come on up, please. And they'll be followed by the last two. I show Peggy on Madison and Diane Lynn. Okay.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'd like to be first. Am I going first? Your mic's on, so you might as well. Good afternoon, Mayor Howell's commissioners. My name is Bianeth Valdez, representing Welcome Home and the Tireless, Fearless Advocates of Portland. These voices were represented to you earlier this afternoon when we presented with
 300 postcards of the many people who need a call and need of action for more affordable housing in Portland. I would like to take the time to read some right now.
 And I encourage you to read some as well in your free time. These are really heartfelt stories and personal stories of many people in the community who want more livable and affordable homes. And I encourage you to read them and let this be just the first action in getting more affordable housing within Portland. This is not just our first step, but we have a long way to go. Okay. Okay.
 One reads, I have worked with families and individuals who are homeless for the past 20 years and have seen the increase due to the lack of affordable housing. I support an increase in funding for affordable housing using a larger proportion of the tax increment financing. Please remember us, the low-income people of Portland. I've lived here 72 years.
 Housing is a human right and it is a mark of our civic decency to increase the access to safe, clean, and affordable housing. It is a matter of safety for all and an opportunity to say who we are as a community. Please consider this. Our city needs to work for people of all income levels. The best time to address this was 20 years ago. The next best time is now. Home is where the heart is. Don't lose the heart of Portland. Thank you for your time and thank you for supporting this policy. Thank you. Thank you.
 Linda, please. Linda Robinson I'm Linda Robinson. I live in the Hazelwood neighborhood which includes the Gateway Urban Renewal area. I wanted to start by saying that I was disappointed and there didn't seem to be much effort made to reach out to the people who have been involved in the Gateway Urban Renewal for 15 years or more.
 I'm not sure there was much effort to contact even any of the people who were on that citizen advisory committee, and I'm still disappointed that they disbanded it. This would have been a great opportunity to discuss what some of the tradeoffs might be. You know, if you increase the spending that affordable housing set aside, what are we giving up? Give us some say in which part of the budget might, you know, go away. So I'm still thinking that...
 even if they weren't monthly meetings, if we had some sort of way to reach people.
 Also, I just wanted to say that the East Portland Action Plan and a lot of us who live out in East Portland, we are trying to prevent displacement. We haven't gentrified yet. We're trying to put things in place, put affordable housing permanently in place so that when the prices do start going up in Gateway, we retain the affordable housing that we have. So we're not against affordable housing.
 But when you look at Gateway and East Portland, very few households there make more than the median family income. I mean, almost all of the housing that exists in East Portland is affordable housing just by the nature of the fact that it's cheaper there, which is why people are moving there.
 We have a lot of affordable housing. What we need is to put money, instead of building more affordable housing, put money into rehabilitating and converting some of the privately owned properties so that they stay affordable housing when and if the other rents begin to rise. So if you're going to put more money into affordable housing and gateway, I'd say...
 prefer to see it go into that way, to rehabilitate, make them better, some of the older housing that we have, and keep it so that it stays affordable housing in the future. And one other concern of mine is that the work session that I saw, PDC said that they would put affordable housing on the property adjacent to the new Gateway Park, which will be built starting in March or April. Okay.
 That's not consistent with a master plan that many of us spent a long time developing. There are other PDC-owned properties in Gateway. This is not the place for affordable housing. We need to put what was planned there so that we can generate more TIF, so that we have more TIF that you can then put into affordable housing. We don't have much of anything that generates TIF, and that project was designed to generate TIF and should stay that way.
 Let me just offer a little bit of reassurance here from my perspective, and that is what each district is...
 um contributing to this effort varies widely obviously from district to district the proposal is that there'd be an additional two million dollars we don't have a lot in our fund to start understand that so it's sort of from from each according to their ability um but uh also how we how we address the affordable housing need in each district doesn't have to be the same right so it doesn't have to be a generic project i guarantee it won't be which is why i wanted to you know emphasize that what
 our need is and gateway and we've heard much the same concern from lentz that they have a specific action plan they have certain things that they want to see and so our commitment here is that yes we're going to raise the total amount of commitment to affordable housing but how we do it in each district
 really needs to be involving people from that district, as you've mentioned. That's critical. And it won't be the same because the market conditions are wildly different in different parts of the city. The Pearl District and Gateway are just a little bit of a different situation in terms of market. So let's get real about that and have a strategy that makes sense in each case. And it could very much be part of our prevention of displacement goal. Yep.
 Good point. Linda, can I just ask you a question? Because I have a recollection we were involved in doing that master plan for the Great Way Park. And there was a park, a plaza, and then there was a building. And that building was originally conceived of as being office space. Originally, but then it was changed that it would be housing because they wanted to have eyes on the park in the evenings and weekends. Right.
 And so – but it was talked about being primarily market rate housing, which incidentally in Gateway is pretty much affordable at this point, but could go up with the market with maybe some affordable units in it.
 What happened to the concept of mixed use, ground floor commercial? It's supposed to be ground floor commercial, but the proposals that came in when they put an RFP out were all for nonprofit use of that space. And what we really wanted was a restaurant that would look out onto the park,
 We wanted businesses commercial in that. I thought, yeah, and again, I'm a little out of date on this, but I thought we were trying to activate the plaza and the ground floor both for some commercial vitality on that commercial strip, but also to provide eyes and ears. We are. That's why neither of those proposals was accepted. Right, exactly. That's why they went through two rounds, because all of the proposals that came in were non-profit use of the ground floor level. We're not there yet. Yeah.
 And I've been working with Commissioner Salzman and his staff and discussions with parks as well to maybe pull back on the current request for more proposals on that site. One of my thoughts is let's wait until we've built the park and people will see how spectacular it is and then potentially we can get some market rate or even government offices or something there.
 I really appreciate you raising that point because on that particular site, yes, there's big dreams and it needs to be a catalytic. It's really the focal point of the whole Halsey-Weidler corridor. Yes, it is. We'll keep working with you and get to a good result. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Zoe Taylor. I moved to Portland four years ago because I wanted to live in a progressive city and also one that has no snow.
 We'll try to make good on both. Okay. I'm the face of white privilege. I own a luxury condo in downtown Portland. I have a pension and social security. I have Medicare and health insurance. But guess what? It's not just about me.
 Shelter is a human right. I'm grateful for all I have, but what about the rest of the community? I was a struggling single parent in the 70s, but I had the baseline of privilege, and despite discrimination in housing and employment, that baseline allowed me to succeed.
 I raised my son to serve his community, and thus I am the mother of a veteran Portland police officer. I give back. I volunteer at two shelters. I donate to various local NGOs. I don't just wait for the government to act, but what I do as an individual is just not enough. You on the council must ask yourselves, what kind of world do we want to live in? What kind of city? We must ask.
 We must ask, you must ask, what about the other 99%? What about the workers who serve us? What about those who do the jobs that we cannot or do not want to do? What about those whose hard work makes our work and our lives possible and comfortable? On our Justice Center, the words of Martin Luther King Jr. inscribed, Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.
 so members of the city council please show fairness compassion vision and love in addition to approving the increased tif set aside continue to work for housing for everyone higher end housing may support our tax base and our attractive public image but housing for everyone supports our humanity we need more than band-aids we need substantive and continuing action and we need it now
 Take up that challenge that was alluded to before, the opportunity that the current housing crisis offers. Just do it and walk the talk. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. I'm David Kingham from Lutheran Memorial Church, and I work with like a PAM church unit, and also I work with...
 giving children food and stuff every week, every Tuesday. So about 50 people. So it's just something that I'm trying to work with on that. And also thank you for the council for working with homeless people also. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. We have a few more signed up. The last two I have are Peggy on Southeast Madison and Diane Lynn. Peggy, you're still here? Yeah.
 Okay. Diane, you may get the last word.
 And not for the last time. Good afternoon, Members of City Council. Diane Lynn, Executive Director of Proud Ground. And I was just going to make the joke. It's not often that I get the last word in a situation like this. Sorry, I stole your line. But that's fine. I will make it brief mercifully for all of you and for all of us. But I do want to thank you for the great progress we've made today. In this last window of time, we've just really had a momentum going, a focus on this incredibly important issue here.
 I just, again, want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for taking the lead on the Nexus study. That's obviously a very important kind of calibration of exactly how much we really can generate out of the development of commercial that is going to require, hopefully, that workforce and housing balance that we all believe so much is important.
 And at the same time, I think we do need to keep a full court press on the legislature to remove those barriers. I've mentioned it before. We've got a lot more work to do. We may have an opportunity to close the door on it, remove that barrier in the 2016 session. We'll be in touch with you about our approach to work on that together. Almost an insult that the legislature would stand in the way of an august body like yours to at least be able to apply these tools. Thank you.
 I just came back from a national conference with colleagues across the country, and I'm telling you there are jurisdictions that are creating hundreds of units of housing using the inclusionary zoning and linkage fee tools. So I think we're going to need, again, everything we can get. I'm also here to reinforce the message you heard from Steve Messonetti at Habitat for Humanity about the home ownership component of the housing continuum. Absolutely necessary.
 Focus most attention on the most needy. I did that when I was in public office. I honor all of you for doing that, too. And at the same time, we've got to look at the holistic, kind of comprehensive need to help people move out of subsidized rental, which can be very expensive, and to help people move out of subsidized rental, which can be very expensive.
 when they're ready, when they're stable, into homeownership opportunities instead of having them compete in a rental market that's almost impossible for a lot of families. As Steve said, we are creating opportunities that will stabilize families once and for all, anchor them in communities, and allow those children to go to those public schools and stay put for the duration. It's a life cycle result kind of solution as opposed to these,
 continual efforts to just hope that transition is going to work for families so there was a lost in translation problem i think with the homeownership program between pdc and the housing bureau no one's fault specifically it's just i think it is something we would really love to talk to you about because we i think could do a better job of being creative at leveraging all those resources
 I spent much of my career, as you know, in the homelessness arena and have a deep commitment to that. It's not to take a cent away from that effort. It's to be creative with leveraging what we can bring to the table at Proud Ground and create permanent homeownership and market protect those units citywide so we can reduce displacement going forward into the future. Again, if we'd been able to plant those seeds years ago,
 If you can't do it then, today is as good a day as any to do it going forward. So, of course, the set-aside now increased in the different urban renewal districts is what many of us came to talk to you about, and in representing that wonderful coalition of activists, we thank you so much for being so responsive so quickly. Sometimes these things take longer, and you're obviously responding to the crisis that the community is really feeling today.
 And finally, I would just say it is going to take creativity. It's going to take partnerships. It's going to take leveraging. And we should continue our work to do it using the information we've got going forward. And in order to save those very expensive units
 For people that need them most, we've got to look up the continuum and help families move into the most appropriate housing for them citywide at all levels of the median incomes up to 100%, ideally. So we look forward to that continued partnership, and I wish you all a great afternoon. Diane, since you had the last word, can I just –
 I'll offer two observations. The first is that I don't think that the affordable homeownership agenda got lost in the handoff. I think we hit the worst recession in years in my lifetime, and the housing market collapsed. So I think the opportunity to implement some of those goals became compromised at a time when people couldn't get financing. Right.
 and people were hammered during the recession. I have one regret, however, and that is that we didn't take a page out of the Habitat book and do massive land banking during the recession. Habitat had John Gray's money, and John Gray's money allowed them to buy tracts of foreclosed properties and areas of the city where developers gave up on developing. They came in and bought it at a discount.
 I wish we had done a lot of land banking because there wasn't the same opportunity to get people into homes, but we could have, I think, acquired dirt at a discount. So I regret that. But the other thing is about inclusionary zoning. There are four Democrats in the Senate who keep us from getting the preemption lifted. My own personal view is last time we complicated this exercise by crafting a legislation and putting sideboards rather than just lifting the preemption.
 And I'm going to be arguing forcefully that our strategy this time is lifting the preemption. But three of those Democrats in the Senate don't live in the Portland metropolitan area. So it really, on some level, doesn't matter what you and I think.
 If we don't mobilize the people in their districts and across the state to say this is a statewide problem, we're not going to win the fight in the Senate. We've got Tina Kotek in the House. We're not going to win this fight in the Senate, and three of the four Democrats that blocked us last time don't live in the Portland metropolitan area. So I hope as we look at either the short session opportunities or the next biennium,
 that we focus on a clean lifting of the preemption, keep it simple. And I hope we develop a strategy to appeal, to make the case to a number of our friends in the Senate that maybe still have concerns about what this means.
 But that will not be Portland's voices that carry that day. It will be mostly voices in places like Eugene and on the coast. And I think that's where we should be focusing mobilizing support. We have a contract, Prog Ground does, with Lincoln County working statewide. The wonderful mayor of Eugene, Ben...
 places like Hood River that have absolutely no housing inventory are really attuned to this. The coalition was pretty statewide. You're absolutely right. We can discuss the political nuances of sausage making in Salem as it goes sometimes and figure out the best path to win the day to allow us enough latitude to use this tool in Portland and statewide. Thank you.
 I just point out that last time the legislation that was debated didn't have anything to do with rental housing, which made it fundamentally flawed.
 And we didn't get past the Senate where we have a majority. So there's two pieces I think we should revisit if we're going to try to get this over the goalpost, either in the short session or next time. Completely understand. Want the same thing you do. There were reasons for that, and we can discuss that offline. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks very much, Diane. You bet. Mayor, I just wanted, before we move to voting, just to clarify for everybody in the audience exactly what we're voting on today. So we are voting –
 Today on the resolution to go ahead with the nexus study, the linkage fee study, that will look at the development's impacts on affordable housing. And then next week, as per our council procedures, we will vote on whether to increase the tax increment set aside from present 30% to 45%. So just for clarification.
 And I just also wanted to just take this opportunity to thank a lot of people that worked very hard on the tax increment set aside, since many of them probably won't be in the audience next week when we actually vote. I want to start out with, first of all, thanking the Portland Housing Advisory Committee Commission. I'll get that right one of these days. The Portland Development Commissioners, Patrick Quentin, the Executive Director of PDC, and Kurt Krieger, the Director of the Housing Bureau for their...
 collegial work on these issues. It was not easy, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, to get to where we got to with 45 percent, and that does bring me to thanking once again Mayor Hills, but also the people who work behind the scenes to really make us look good, and that's people like Kimberly Branham, the Deputy Director of PDC. I hope I got your title right. Jillian Detweiler of the Mayor's Office. Sonia, what's Sonia's last name?
 Szymanski. Szymanski. Sonja Szymanski in Commissioner Fitch's office. And then most, I'm assuming last but not least, but Shannon Callahan in my office and Brendan Finn. Couldn't have got there without the work, dedicated work of all the staff who helped push us, the electeds or the appointeds, across the finish line in this great compromise. So thank you very much. Commissioner, is there a reason that we can't add an emergency close to the second ordinance? No.
 As long as the council would like to do that. Yeah, for unanimous, I guess that's it. All right, let's take action first on the resolution, because that doesn't require any amendments to do that, and then we'll see if we have a motion to add the emergency clause. Okay? Sorry, Novick? I just wanted to add to Commissioner Fish's frustration about the tools that we don't have. We don't have inclusionary zoning until we get some of those four Democrats to switch, or if they're replaced, or get some Republicans to.
 um i look at the housing market and it seems to me we've got all these rich people moving to uh moving to portland and buying houses at really expensive prices and i think wouldn't it be nice if we had a luxury tax on houses that are above say half a million dollars but we can't do such a luxury tax because the voters of
 the state a couple of years ago passed a ban on real estate transfer taxes. I've talked to some legislators about asking voters, would they consider allowing real estate transfer taxes only on houses above $500,000 or, say, a million? And so it would be interesting to see if they act on that. It's also frustrating that the operations of Measure 50, the arcane property tax limitation that was passed in 1996 –
 prevent us from getting the full value of the housing appreciation we've already seen just in regular property taxes in recently gentrified areas. We have this ridiculous situation where taxes are relatively much higher in East Portland than they are in expensive, recently gentrified areas of the Middle East. If we had the full tax benefit of that gentrification, we could devote more resources to affordable housing.
 So absent those tools, we have to look for other tools. And I was very excited when I heard about this idea of a linkage fee. I think I first recognized this as an option when Joe Zender told me about it. We were both on a trip to Toronto a few weeks ago. So I applaud the commissioner in charge and staff for their creativity and really hope that this will prove to be a valuable tool. Ritz?
 Commissioner Stossman, I especially appreciate that this study is being done within existing resources, that clearly it is a priority to get the data which would support any increased fees on this linkage plan. So I very much support this. Thank you, Dan, for bringing this forward. This is one of a number of innovative ideas that you've spearheaded as the housing commissioner, and I appreciate.
 I'm frankly proud of the work that you've done, particularly in the last two months, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Thank you very much. It's courageous and creative, and it will make a difference. Aye. And now is there a motion to add the emergency clause? I move to add an emergency clause. Second. We need some language for that.
 We're just adding the emergency clause. But we need a reason. Because there's a declaration of a housing emergency, we add the emergency clause to this ordinance. Carla, thank you for keeping us on a straight and narrow. We are lucky to have – we are very lucky to have Carla. It doesn't look like it passes a straight face test with her. She does a superb job in her capacity. Thank you, Carla. You're welcome. Thank you. Now we can take a vote. Roll on the motion. Novick? No.
 This is just to add the clause. Carla, just to reassure you, we won't start declaring an emergency on every topic that we want to add emergency clause to. This is, I think, a unique case. I was just wondering if you were adding the clause. Oh, that's right. Aye. Ricks? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, and now on the ordinance as amended. Novick?
 I am incredibly impressed by all the work people have done in the past few weeks. I really appreciate the fact that staff and fellow commissioners did a great amount of outreach. I know that there's people in the Lentz area and Gateway areas that are still worried, but I think that some of them have been reassured. I'm concerned by the case that Frida Christopher from David Douglas made –
 So we are not making everybody happy, and this is a – not a – this is not a perfect process, but it's also not a perfect situation. I also know that people thought it would be nifty to get to 50, but 45 is obviously significant progress.
 So I wish we were not facing this housing emergency at all. I wish there were easier ways to deal with the problem. I recognize people have legitimate concerns, but this is an important step. It will create housing units. I very much appreciate the work of the bureaus and the advisory committees and all of the advocates and Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish and the mayor and Commissioner Fritz for working on this. Fritz.
 I appreciate all the work of the staff in Portland Development Commission as well as in the Portland Housing Bureau, but particularly all of the input we've received from the community and from each community that's affected by this. And I appreciate that the resolution, the ordinance, is now more nuanced and looks at specific urban renewal districts. Thanks, as always, to the League of Women Voters for weighing in with their advice. I hope we've heard a lot of concern
 about the advisory committee being now a citywide advisory committee. And it seems to me that reconstituting the gateway, Lentz and interstate urban renewal committees in a different format, perhaps, and perhaps through the Portland housing Bureau specifically to guide these changes forward would be,
 be, yes, more work in the near term, but in the long run would help make sure that communities have their voice and that they know what's happening and that they know which order it's happening in. So I urge you to consider that as a process to move forward. And I dedicate my vote to Gretchen Khafouri. Aye.
 i began today thanking and acknowledging all the people who brought us this day and i again want to thank the mayor and the housing commissioner my colleagues mac g the phac all of the advocates who have been pushing hard for us to step up and address this challenge each of you who've taken time from your day the welcome home coalition all the heroes in the fields doing the hard work that have caused us to take this action
 This is not new money per se. This is reprioritizing existing money. And so when we hear the voices of people saying we need new money, let's remember that we are reprioritizing existing funds to meet a crisis, but we're not yet at the point where we have robust new money. And we desperately need new money. And I'll close with a story. Early this morning, I start every day at Pete's on Broadway. And early this morning, I was with some friends having a cup of coffee.
 And a middle-aged woman walked in, and she was drenched because she had been outside. And she was homeless, and she had a bruise on her face. And when she came up to me, she had alcohol on her breath, and she asked me for a dollar. And I hesitated for a second because I instinctively want to help everyone that needs help, but I also want to make sure the money goes to the right person.
 And that's why I generally give through trusted nonprofits who then provide the service so that I know that the dollar is being well spent. But she was standing there wet and cold and homeless and alcohol in her breath, and she asked for a dollar, so I, of course, gave her a dollar. And when she left, one of my friends in the table said, you know, shame on the city for not providing a shelter or a home for her.
 and instead spending money on, and he rattled off a number of things, as people often do, that they're sort of acting in denial about the fact we don't have enough resources. As if we didn't spend money on curb cuts and if we didn't spend money on transportation alternatives, we'd have this huge pot of money to take care of everyone in need. Well, that's a fiction. And I wasn't really getting through to my friend until I changed the frame of the comments and I said, let me put it slightly differently.
 The federal government is subsidizing your home and your second home. And it's a lavish subsidy because we allow you to deduct your mortgage and your property taxes. And you're getting one of the greatest gifts that you can get in our country because you don't need it. But we are subsidizing your home and your second home. And we are not providing the money for this woman. What's wrong with that?
 And I have to say, it caused us to change the frame of that conversation, and it changed the outcome of that conversation. We are a very generous nation in subsidizing the housing of people who don't need it. And we are awfully parsimonious when it comes to providing homes to people who desperately need them. And we are going to take some more urban renewal money today, and we're going to allocate it to housing. And I applaud Dan for brokering this deal.
 and we're going to take some general fund money through the fall bump in the regular budget, and we're going to put it in housing, and it's going to come at the expense of other programs. But we will not fundamentally change this debate until the federal government asserts its obligation to provide federal support for housing and until we have a new revenue source. And I will remind everyone here that there is only one issue that we have not heard in any of the debates at the federal level to date, only one issue that I can remember on either side,
 and that is the role of housing in America. So I applaud the action today, and with the tools that we have, I think we're acting responsibly. But let's not forget that in America, the biggest housing subsidy goes to the people who need it the least, and the greatest need goes unfunded. And until we change that dynamic, we are going to be moving the deck chairs on the Titanic to address this crisis.
 and we will not be able to make the kind of serious social change that I think we all support. And today I'm proud to vote aye. Saltzman? Well, I very much appreciate the council's support for increasing the tax increment set aside from 30% to 45% and generating some $63, $64 million of additional investment in affordable housing. And I do pledge to the Lentz Association,
 and to the Gateway neighbors, that much like as Bishop Stephen Holt suggested, that perhaps we take the North Northeast Oversight Committee, expand its membership, and use it to provide us
 on how we spend those additional housing dollars in a way that's conducive with the hopes and aspirations of those geographic areas, which includes not only things like homeownership, but also issues around acquisition and rehabilitation versus new construction. And to have all those things factored in before we make the final decision,
 budget allocations under this new amount of money that's being dedicated by the City Council today. So we will have that process, and we'll figure out. We don't have a North Northeast Oversight Committee in Lentz or in Gateway, but I think we probably have. I know we know the people there to contact to get the feedback that we need as we craft these plans, and we will do that.
 starting tomorrow. So I appreciate, again, everybody's support, and this is a significant increase in the amount of money dedicated to affordable housing, and I pledge on behalf of myself and the Housing Bureau that we will spend it wisely and effectively. Thank you. Hi. Nails. Well, I'm very proud of this city and this city council.
 It was exactly three weeks ago that we declared a state of housing emergency. Government doesn't often do this much in a lot longer than three weeks. And there's more that we will do together because there's more to do. There are people outside who need to be in shelter. There are people who are losing their apartment because of a renovation or a sale or a
 rent increase or a 30-day eviction that soon will not be a 30-day eviction. Also, thanks to this council in that same three-week period. So I'm proud of the fact that we have focused on this emergency together and together with a lot of people in the community. I want to thank all of you who are advocates for this. And I want to second some of the comments that my colleagues have made, starting with taking off Commissioner Fish on one of your points about
 and that is it's important to remember that the federal government, when I first arrived at this dais, most of what we were spending on housing was community development block grant money coming from the federal government where that no longer amounts to much. And the city wasn't dedicating property tax dollars to affordable housing like we are. And it's important to remember that's what we're talking about here.
 These are property tax dollars. We call them TIF, but that's property tax dollars that are simply channeled through a different ditch to a different bucket, but they're the same property tax dollars. And they would be going to police, fire, parks, libraries, mental health, and schools if they weren't going down this channel.
 But I'm really proud of the fact that we have both reduced the size of that flow, because last year this council adopted a proposal that I brought forward to go from 11 urban and rural districts to nine and put $800 million back on the tax rolls. That was a good move, and it was the right focusing of PDC on things that really matter. And this is another one, but we're focusing the resources we have on things that really matter.
 There have been a number of numbers thrown around the room today. It's important to remember that with this addition, we will now be at $270 million of that particular bucket of property tax dollars that we call tax increment financing going into housing.
 that's a impressive accomplishment and we should be proud of that and we're going to as commissioner fish said we're going to find more dollars in our general fund and anywhere else we can including attacks on demolitions that will be coming back to this council in a few weeks to pay for home ownership opportunities and other housing needs and in effect this council is taking the cash drawer that we have and shaking it upside down and finding almost every dollar that we could possibly find for housing
 But we have to find additional dollars in addition to this, and maybe even from a source other than property taxes for a change. So that's why these discussions about what the legislature should set us free to do and what we might do under the nexus study that we've approved here this afternoon might lead to.
 There's not much else in that drawer after this good work, and I'm proud of the good work, but I think we all know it's not enough. But it's a lot, and I'm proud of this. I think it's going to make a difference for a lot of people. I think all of us have in recent months and weeks just met people.
 individual neighbors of ours who are victimized by this huge economic change and who are being left behind and who are scared, and in some cases who are homeless or facing homelessness. So this is real and it's personal for those folks, and I hope that it's personal for all of us. It is for the five of us, I think, as you can tell. And I'm really proud of that. Thank you all. Aye. And we're adjourned.
 Thank you.