The last item was the polled item, 1102. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland for economic development activities for $6,540,664 as appropriated in the city fiscal year 2018-19 adopted budget. And who polled this item? Mr. Lightning did.
 I think he may have left. He left. Okay. He's not here. So I think if the person who pulled the item is not here, then we don't need to have a presentation on it. Great. And just please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Okay, the ordinance is adopted, and we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thursday. And now we will move on to our 945 time certain.
 Proclamation. Do you want to do the consent agenda first? Okay. Sure. We've had a request for 1102 to be pulled. 1102. Okay. Okay. So, yeah, call the roll on the rest of the consent agenda. Okay. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. And we'll take up 1102 after our regular agenda. Adopted.
 Or the grant is accepted. Item 1107.
 authorize a memorandum of understanding with the partner agencies that constitute the Domestic Violence Enhance Response Team for the stated project goals listed in the Office on Violence Against Women, Fiscal Year 2017-2020, grants to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of protection orders, grant program application and award.
 This is the second reading. Vote only. Please call the roll. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Yeah, I just once again want to thank the Portland Police Family Services Division for all the great work they're doing to combat domestic violence and child abuse. Aye. The next item is 11-12.
 Authorize a contract with Synegro-WWT, Inc. for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Biosolids Inventory Reduction Project at an estimated cost of $7 million. Thank you.
 Mr. President and colleagues, the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant serves more than 600,000 Portland residents cleaning wastewater and capturing and recycling biosolids and other waste products, including biogas. The lagoon that stores biosolids is filling faster than design, creating a risk of overflow and the resulting risk to the plant's effluent discharge permit, not to mention public health.
 This ordinance would authorize Environmental Services to remove excess biosolids to protect public health and to comply with our permit. We're joined today by Steve Barrett, Environmental Services Manager of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, who's going to give us a brief presentation. Good morning, Steve. Good morning, Commissioner. Good morning, President Salsman and Commissioners. My name is Steve Barrett. I'm the Wastewater Operations Group Manager. I'm joined today by Muriel Cresa-Torful.
 I'm a supervising engineer with BES. As a wastewater operations group manager, it's my responsibility to manage the operation and maintenance of wastewater and stormwater collection, pumping, and treatment facilities. And the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant is our largest facility. And a primary part of collection and treatment is managing the solids portion of the wastewater stream.
 In July, we determined that we are virtually full in our storage capacity of biosolids in available facilities at the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. But before I get into more background about how we got there, I just wanted to acknowledge the tremendous work of dozens of employees in BES who've really worked hard to determine...
 how to understand and plan and effectively address being full of biosolids and
 Remedy, find a remedy to get out of this situation. I think we caught it in time. Biosolids management is science and it's engineering and partly art. And it requires excellence in all. And we've been really supported by those staff and staff from the commissioner's office and from procurement services and others in other bureaus.
 We believe that the strategy that's identified and outlined in the ordinance provides the best opportunity to assure protecting water quality and meeting the terms of our permit.
 The approach supplements the Bureau's biosolids land application program by providing continued funding for a contractor who's already on site, mobilized and currently working to extract, dewater, transport, and properly dispose of the excess biosolids. The combination of the Bureau working hard at keeping up through a land application process
 With the contractor helping us catch up, it's necessary that we reduce the risk of a permit violation that's meant to protect water quality in the environment. We don't have the capacity with existing facilities to catch up. We have never installed that kind of capacity to remove excess biosolids.
 However, we're nearly 20 years into a program to build that capacity to manage solids and be able to keep up in a sustainable manner, including catching up to some degree. We're addressing the storage space. We've been limited for a number of years, and we will for a few more years due to a...
 great project to rehabilitate the biosolids lagoon lining the lagoon cells to protect groundwater our dewatering equipment is old and needs to be rehabilitated or replaced with new technology that's
 physically newer and has greater capacity. Our digesters adequately treat biosolids, but also need maintenance and reinvestment. And our land application program is one of the best anywhere, but we will need to plan for the next generation of growth. Thank you.
 So we got into this situation due to a few key factors. We had a plan, but we didn't fully appreciate how challenging it was going to be for operation and maintenance in this five-year window during the construction, the rehabilitation of the lagoon.
 And we've never done this before. And in retrospect, even though we had a plan, we needed to do more planning because we didn't fully anticipate some of the factors like we didn't have enough data to understand the inputs and outputs adequately to know how risky it was going to be if we got behind planning.
 We didn't anticipate that there was going to be a fire in the gorge that closed down Interstate 84. That's our transportation route to our land application sites, and it closed it down for a number of weeks. That meant we couldn't haul biosolids, and we had to store. There was back-to-back years of unusual snow and ice events that closed down the gorge for weeks at a time. Typically, we only get a day or so of outages, and that transportation route...
 being closed down meant we also had to store solids. This is during that phase of the lagoon rehabilitation project where we only had a portion of the lagoon available for use, and so that storage impacted that space. There was a construction startup delay in the next phase of the project
 which means that there's a more extended time that we have to have a limited capacity in our lagoon. And then most notably, we have old infrastructure and outdated and undersized systems, so we have no ability to catch up. So once we got behind due to some of those factors I mentioned, there was no way for us to catch up with our facilities, and that's why we need a contractor to help us catch up and...
 manage those excess biosolids while we continue to keep up with the current inputs.
 So we're solving these issues. If we stay on course, we will have a system that's able to manage those solids on a real-time basis. We'll have the right infrastructure, a sustainable operating plan. We'll have the appropriate resources, and we should have those in place for the next generation by 2024. And I guess I would ask Muriel if you have anything else to add. No.
 No, thank you. We'll answer questions. At this point, thank you for your consideration, and we'll be glad to take some questions. Questions? Okay. Thank you for a very thorough presentation. Thank you. Thank you very much. On biosolids. Any public testimony? Yes. We have three people signed up, Joe Walsh, Lightning Super Creativity, and Maggie. Okay. Come on up. Let me have the end one. Okay, Mr. Lightning, we'll start with you this time. Oh, okay. Okay.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity. One of the concerns I have is Police Union President Daryl Turner calling our city a cesspool. Well, let me say this to you, sir. You very well might be correct. What we see here is that if we do not have the capacity to handle what we have at this point, we could run into some serious problems, if I'm correct.
 And due to maybe fire, due to maybe transportation problems, due to maybe not having things online as fast as we thought we would, due to maybe having more biosolids and not having the capacity to handle it, we could experience a serious problem in the next six months to a year, if I'm correct. And what we have to have an understanding here is that I think this could be,
 something that really needs to have a lot of data provided on this because if we don't have the capacity and we're not able to transport in a reasonable manner, then what is the worst case scenario for Portland? Did we miscalculate on our calculations? And to me, this has been labeled a
 An emergency declaration signed September 11, 2018. So obviously I don't have a problem with this company coming in that I understand is currently on the site and beginning aggressively to maybe what I would call a catch-up phase. And I could care less what you have to pay them to get this done because it has to be done.
 And so, yeah, I have some real concerns on if they can't really get caught up in the manner that needs to be, what happens? What's the biggest problem that could happen because of this? And how serious could this get? So maybe I just want to have a little understanding on that. And as you know, it's been declared an emergency as of September 11, 2018. So I hope to get some answers on that. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Okay, Maggie, and again, keep it to the topic. Oh, about the level of caca generated by the city. Okay, I would like to bring up the engineer, the bioengineer of solids. That's okay. Just say what you have to say. Well, I think that if we're talking about managing the volume and dealing with having the capacity to deal with biosolids, he spoke about...
 the ability of digesters to manage biosolids, and I think that these digesters do a good job. And if we have 20,000 homeless people and we house them in tiny houses with...
 compostable toilets, very nice expensive compostable toilets that do an excellent job with the bioprocessing of digesting waste, we're helping to reduce the waste of the city and helping to manage the ability and the capacity of the city to deal with their waste.
 So this idea of taking the city property that I put offers on and putting little tiny homes that cost less than $8,000 with all the shower, the toilet, the sinks, and everything is doable. And it would help the city deal with their biosolids because it would reduce the volume.
 that the city would have to deal with, and it's already having trouble managing. It doesn't have the capacity. It has reduced capacity. And so this would be an excellent way to get the homeless into a more healthy environment and deal with the capacity issues that the city has in dealing with its solid waste. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Walsh? Yes.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We just, there is no way to stop this. You have to do this. So there's no way for us to sit here and say, no, you can't do this. However, when I look at the impact statement, I'm always interested in to see if there's any citizen involvement in this stuff. This is $7 million you're going to spend. There's zero citizen input. Zero. Zero.
 When it comes to citizen input, it talks about trucks being on the street a little bit more. What is that? I mean, come on, guys. You're spending $7 million and you have no citizen input on this? Nobody's sitting at a table that's an engineer that understands this stuff that we could get?
 and say, what's the alternatives? Somehow we screwed up or the environment screwed up or God screwed up. We got stuff up to the top. What do we do? You want to leave it to just one bureau? $11 million, $7 million? Probably $11 million when you finish. That's our objection on all of these things. We also would agree with Mr. Lightning.
 that these emergencies are so weird. You know, we don't understand how you come about an emergency. I know all four of you have to vote on it, and I know it goes into effect immediately so you don't have to screw around with it for a while. And obviously there is an emergency. We're not arguing that. We don't like the position we're in. We would ask...
 some pertinent questions of how we got here, that we have to spend $7 million on this. You know? $7 million is a lot of money to me. I don't know about you guys. It's a lot of money to me. I don't spend that on lunch or dinner. I've never seen $7 million. It's a lot of money. And you guys just...
 And the fact that you had a contractor on site and you're giving it to them without any citizen input makes me very nervous. How are we supposed to spread the wealth with all these contractors? And how are we supposed to make sure minority contractors are involved in this stuff? They could do a little bit of the work. In $7 million, there's got to be something in there, maybe a little sweep up or whatever. Right.
 But if you don't have citizen input, you have nothing. You have the Bureau telling you what to do with all money. And the people should get really upset over that. That's our objection. Okay. Thank you. Police, call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. The ordinance is adopted and we'll come back to order. Tracy? Aye.
 Could you read Item 1101, please? 1101. We're starting. 1101, increase transparency and accountability in city operations by requiring that employees disclose outside work. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, President Saltzman. Colleagues, I'm proud to introduce this item today on behalf of myself, Mayor Wheeler, and Commissioner Fritz.
 The resolution before us is yet another reform designed to strengthen transparency and accountability in local government. Here's the background. The city has a policy concerning outside work or so-called moonlighting. It states that employees can have a second job provided they do not, one, engage in an actual or perceived conflict of interest, or two, give so much time to their second job that they aren't fulfilling their duties as a city employee. Okay.
 As we have learned, the city's written policy is confusing and complicated, doesn't give employees adequate guidance to ensure they're following the rules, and places the burden on employees to decide if a potential conflict needs to be disclosed. And significantly, the consequences of breaking these rules can be severe. We can and must do better for our workforce.
 The resolution before us today is modeled after national best practices, from Dayton, Ohio, to the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, to the states of Nevada and Alaska, and even to Multnomah County in our own backyard. It pairs clear guidance with mandatory disclosure of outside work, and it directs that an updated policy, training materials, and a disclosure form come back to us within 90 days for review and adoption. Thank you.
 Now, in our research, we found jurisdictions that prohibit staff from engaging in outside work, but we are not proposing such a prohibition. In fact, a prohibition would put us at a competitive disadvantage in recruiting the workforce of tomorrow.
 With that, I'd like to invite my co-sponsor, Commissioner Fritz, to share any opening comments. And then we'll invite our city attorney, Tracy Reeve, and our chief administrative officer, Tom Reinhart, to briefly share their perspectives about this policy and how we can best support our employees. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. And also thanks to your Chief of Staff, Sonia Shmansky, for the work that you've done with my Chief of Staff, Tim Crail, on this policy. And thank you for your work on it. This, as Commissioner Fish says, is about transparency and accountability. And for the people of Portland to know how their public employees are spending their time if they are engaged in outside activities that earn money. Thank you very much. So with that, Mr. President, we'll turn it over to our Distinguished City Attorney, Tracy Reeve.
 Thank you. Thank you, President Saltzman, commissioners. I'm Tracy Reeve. I'm the Portland City Attorney. And I'm here to urge your support for this resolution directing my office and the Chief Administrative Officer to develop revisions to city rules and to clarify employees' and managers' responsibilities regarding outside employment.
 One of my responsibilities under the code as city attorney is to seek to ensure that city employees comply with the legal and ethical requirements of public employment by providing advice, direction, and opinions. This resolution would assist my office in meeting that responsibility.
 The city has been reviewing and clarifying policies and training in a number of areas pertaining to legal compliance, conflicts of interest, and ethics. For example, last November, this council passed a resolution regarding city boards and commissions that resulted in greater clarity and training on the rules pertaining to conflicts of interest for members of city boards and commissions.
 As another example, we also regularly provide guidance to employees and managers on obligations under state and federal elections laws. We recently issued an updated memorandum to all city employees clarifying those obligations. The city's rules regarding outside employment would likewise benefit from an update to make it clear to employees what their reporting obligations are and to clarify managers' roles in evaluating outside employment.
 Current Rule 4.05 puts the entire burden of identifying a conflict on the employee. Little practical guidance to employees on when they must report outside employment and no guidance for managers on what to do when employees do report outside employment are some of the problems that we think would benefit from an update to the rule.
 We believe that revising the rule to clarify that all employees should disclose outside employment and that nonrepresented employees should obtain written approval from their manager will benefit employees, the city, and the public in the form of greater transparency. Thank you very much. We have the Chief Administrative Officer of the great city of Portland, Tom Reinhart. Tom?
 For the record, Tom Reinhart, Chief Administrative Officer of Good Morning Council. I don't have much to add to my colleagues' excellent introduction besides the fact that anything that increases government transparency and credibility, we should be looking at. So I urge your passage of this. I also want to say that one of the three pillars of the Office of Management and Finance's strategic plan is adopting 21st century business practices. This is clearly one of them that needs to be reviewed and potentially revised, but
 I look forward to working with our colleagues in the city attorney's office and bringing you recommendations that we have. So with that, any questions from council? Colleagues? So the rules would require a sign-off by a supervisor for an employee's extracurricular work? Is that what we're doing? I mean, we will have to come back with the specifics of the rule, but the now therefore be it resolved section says,
 from Council would direct us to look at requiring written approval for nonrepresented employees, but not for represented employees.
 And the reason for that is, A, some of the collective bargaining agreements already address the situation, and obviously we would need to have further consultations with the unions about it if we were changing the rules in that way for represented employees. Also, the non-represented employees, not exclusively but on the whole, tend to be the more managerial supervisory level positions, the higher level positions. Okay.
 And is the intent to have the information posted so that the public can review it as well? I think one of the transparency goals would be in whatever format that that disclosure takes, it would be a public record. I can't think of an exemption from the public records law that would apply. Well, as you develop the recommended rules, et cetera, I don't think that the public should have to ask for public records requests. It should be posted somewhere so that it's available. Okay.
 That concludes our presentation. Okay. No other panel? No. Oh, okay. And by the way, I would like to publicly thank Tracy and Tom for the collaborative way that they've worked with the council to develop this resolution.
 And, Dan, frankly, this resolution is taking a little page out of your playbook where we sort of set the stage but direct that policy and written documents come back to council. So today we are teeing it up. We will have a second hearing when it comes back to council, and we'll have a chance to review and approve whatever recommended policy and documents this team brings back to us.
 And I guess the only other question I have is, you know, content neutral is a popular phrase these days. So will determinations about the propriety of outside employment be content neutral?
 But content neutral, you mean in terms of the actual outside employment or? Say I'm an exotic dancer outside of my job. Okay. I think that, yes. So the standard, the goal is to have more clarity and to have objective standards. And the only test will be whether it gives rise to an actual or perceived conflict of interest, which is a standard.
 you know, set forth under state law, or whether it is so time-consuming that it would interfere with the employee's ability to do their jobs. But there shouldn't be any judgment. Other than those standards, there shouldn't be any judgment about the type of outside employee. We anticipate, Commissioner Saltzman, that...
 There will be a very small universe of people that trigger the actual or perceived conflict of interest issue. There are plenty of city employees that have outside business activities that have absolutely nothing to do with their day job.
 It gets a little closer if there's any overlap between parties that they regulate in their day job and parties that they're contracting with in their outside work. And then the gray becomes things like actual or perceived conflict. That's where we think in those rare instances an interactive process with a supervisor is to the benefit of both the employee and the city.
 Okay, thank you. Can I add one thing, Commissioner? I do think that in conversations with my team, one of the interesting things that came up that I should mention is that with the changing nature of work and the fact that we have handheld computers that people can be doing business and creating their own businesses and running their own businesses on public transportation or walking around or at home, it does behoove us to really look at this because I think particularly as we attract and recruit the next generation of workers for the city's workforce, this will continue to come up.
 So the clearer we are around making sure that employees understand the expectations and that managers understand our role in educating and holding people accountable and increasing transparency, I think it's just a good practice for us to get ahead of. So I just wanted to add that. Okay. Thank you. Carla, do we have anybody signed up to testify? Yes, we have six people signed up. The first three are Shedrick J. Wilkins, Edith Gillis, and Lightning Super Creativity.
 I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins, and I would not want to see this become a witch hunt. Public employees were looking for the city, making extra money. It's hard for me to explain this, but sometimes when I look at the situation in the Philippines, there's a large Air Force base there. I believe that the United States Navy in World War II at the Battle of Midway
 beat the Japanese and allow the Philippine people to have a certain amount of freedom. But one could take the liberal position that if I work for Intel, and Intel as a second job makes computers that are sold to the Air Force, that I'm indirectly suppressing the people in the Philippines because of the Manila Air Force Base. Or if I work for Sony, Sony, if I sell PlayStations as a second job for a city employee...
 Sony is owned by Japan. So I'm working for companies like the Air Force or the United States Air Force, which oppresses the Philippine people. And it still goes to my opinion that the United States Navy beat the Japanese at the Battle of Midway after Pearl Harbor and allows the Philippine people a certain amount of freedom. And people who work for private companies here like Intel or Sony are not working in the interests of Japan. Edith, you want to go next?
 Hello again. I enthusiastically support ever-improving policy regulation rules and practices. I commend you for the good vocabulary, and I am hoping the good intentions in the actual follow-through on improved clarity, transparency, ethics, accountability, fairness, credibility...
 This improves the trust and the willingness of the citizens to cooperate, without which we cannot have a city working. I'm really excited about the possibility of Portland leading the state, county, and the nation with inspiring best practices as we did about the ban for the fossil fuel infrastructure, and I expect this to do with the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Initiative.
 I agree that we need to watch out for actual and perceived conflicts of interest and time to do the job. I want us to also include thoughtful consideration of those, not just hours, but the levels of stress and risk to workers.
 the employees and by them, especially those carrying weapons or used to forcing their will on others, police and security. Now I realize that what is stressful for one may be enjoyable or calming for another.
 But we have to be careful because over and over we're seeing horrendous terrorism and trauma and losses in our society because, for example, police who are working multiple hours. I want us to have a citizen review board that is respectful of confidentiality and workers' rights, but also of transparency.
 I want us to have posting the public records, especially of police and security, where they have increased rights and power and increased risk to society. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Leibing? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity XX1 PDX. I have some concerns on this. It's that, number one, from my position, I don't want to –
 them to be allowed to have any outside work or moonlighting. Some of the concerns I have is really coming down to the actual agreements that they're going to sign and from their other employer, exactly what are they bound by? What can they do? What can they disclose? And another concern I have is that also when we're dealing with nonprofits, if a city employee is also then
 affiliated with this nonprofit and we're giving them grant money and then they're taking their time also at this nonprofit
 I have some concerns on that as far as where that grant money is going, and then also in the grant agreements on the PR clauses on what can be stated negatively against the city, but then they're also being employed by maybe someone else. So I have some real concerns on that for those reasons. Again, like I say, from my position, I also want to have an understanding –
 If I'm a city employee and I'm moonlighting or have an outside job, am I allowed to do that by the charter? Does the charter have anything in there that says I cannot do that? So I'd like to have – Would you like an answer to that question? No.
 Yes. The Charter does not prohibit outside employment. The only class of workers or employees at the city that are prohibited from outside employment, as you know, are the elected officials. And part of the oath that we take when we're sworn in includes our commitment, our disclosure that we have no outside undisclosed business interests. So the Charter
 It contains a prohibition for elected officials having outside employment but does not have a provision that prohibits employees, which is why the city has customarily allowed it. And now what we're doing is just making sure that people understand what the rules are and that they are followed. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you for clarifying that. Another issue I do agree with Commissioner Fritz that this does need to be hosted for the public to have easy access. And again, just from my position, it's kind of the perception of the conflict of interest, kind of the perception of impropriety on this situation, which I think is an area that you can get into that,
 I would like to restrict that. I would like to have more of a clear understanding from that individual. Why do you need this other job? Is it because you feel you're not getting paid enough here? Is it, is it, what, what is the real purpose of this? Because if you're not making enough money to pay your rent, your other living expenses, then maybe the city needs to really look at that from that position also.
 and make some changes because it just really concerns me of the look itself and will it be monitored effectively enough, the review by the auditors or who's going to inspect this and who's going to watch this real close. I have some concerns on this. So I'm going to have to say I go against this. I want more transparency, but I don't want the moonlighting or outside jobs.
 And I think it's just too much of a conflict of interest. That's my own opinion. Thank you. Thank you. And there were three others? Yes, Joe Walsh, Charles Bridgecrane, and Maggie. Okay. It's going to take me a while to come home. But you can leave me the end. Sure, I can go first. Hi there. I would like to talk about...
 uh give us your name please oh i'm sorry maggie um so i would like to talk about this conflict of interest thing as it relates to uh the county liam frost works for deborah kufuri who's the uh you know joint office of homelessness and home forward and he's the housing policy advisor well
 He's an American citizen who is originally from Wales, and when he offered to help me find housing because I was criticizing the Salvation Army, I asked him to publicly state that he is not connected to the Salvation Army, and he talked circles around me, and then he disappeared for three days, and he stopped talking to me.
 And it seems to me that when you've got the Salvation Army who puts people
 People who are in wheelchairs outside because they have overstayed their number of emergency nights. And this person has to go to the hospital because their catheter gets infected. Because they're sleeping outside next to the door of Salvation Army. When you've got lice and bedbugs and kennel cough and MRSA in there and you've got...
 people with high blood pressure, diabetes, and walkers, wheelchairs, and all sorts of disability in here because the nonprofits, housing alternatives uses the same template as these faith-based units, which is we're going to put all the least...
 disabled into this subsidized housing and we're going to take the most disabled and we're going to put them in the shelter. That's why they're building this new shelter for housing alternatives. But back to Liam Frost, back to this idea that you should not be connected to a contractor who's got horrible human rights abuses in these shelters and then you're advising them
 the Joint Office of Homelessness, the head of Joint Office of Homelessness on housing policy. That is not good. You know, and then Ted goes in and does this. Everything looks good. Everything sounds fine. Here's your money. And there's MRSA and lice and bed bugs and kennel cough and people are crammed in like sardines. Oh, but it's all okay. Okay.
 You know, people, if you're not sick when you go there, you will be sick when you get in there. And then to leave a woman in a wheelchair outside at night, you know, she's probably got bed sores by now. She's been out there for two nights in her wheelchair.
 And, you know, it's just, you know, I tried to help this woman, you know, find disabled housing, but aging and disability needs to come in and help her. They're not doing it because no ombudsman is allowed to go in there. Okay. Thank you. Joe? Mr. Walsh? Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. No. No.
 You seem to be presenting an argument that doesn't have a problem. You haven't argued 30% of your workforce is working two jobs, and they're exhausted, and they're not doing their jobs. And that's what you found out. So this may be a good thing. Do you honestly think the cops are going to okay this? They are employees of the city still today, aren't they?
 It's the nonrepresented employees, not the represented. Oh, so we're selective. So we're taking a little piece and we're saying we can't get it through with the cops because they would blow their tops because some of them make $30,000 and $40,000 a year on overtime working for other people. No joke. Can I just clarify something? Don't interrupt me, please.
 You can say what you want afterwards. I know your attitude, Commissioner. You don't like us here. You don't like anybody saying, wait a minute. This is a problem that doesn't have... I mean, how many people do you know that are working second jobs?
 How many people are there? Are there three? So you're going to do an ordinance? You're going to do a resolution? You're going to clamp down on them? And you're going to make the supervisor say, yeah, okay, you can go. You can't go? First of all, I don't think that's legal. I don't care what your city attorney says. They're wrong most of the time anyway.
 Why would you get involved in this? You're going to vote this. Someone's going to drag you to court. You're going to lose. I'm telling you. One mocha. Anybody want to take a bet? One mocha. You're going to lose this in court. You cannot say to an employee, you cannot make extra money outside of your job. You can't do it. It's a violation of their rights.
 They have a right to do that. You have a right to say you're fired. But you cannot say to them, you cannot work two jobs. You can fire them. You can discipline them. You can do all that. And if it holds up in arbitration, you're good to go. I don't think so. I think you're screwing up big time. And you don't have a problem. What is the problem? Would someone tell me
 Just come on, guys. Tell me how many employees, Amanda, are involved in this. That's the problem. We don't know, and so this just requires... Don't know. So you're going to do this without knowing. It requires reporting. That's what we're going to find out. It does not prohibit that employees from doing outside work... You're going to do something without knowing what you're doing. That's what you're doing. You're the doer. You like that word, doer. It's like...
 Due diligence. I don't know who the hell came out with that one, but you're the doer. There we go. There we go. Thank you. Okay. Thanks, Mr. Walsh. Mr. Johnson. Good morning, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner. You're so wonderful. I want my gold back. It's still morning. Yeah, we're not even 11 o'clock yet. Imagine that. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecray Johnson. And along with Mr. Walsh's critique of the city attorney's office, I do want to note that...
 Ms. Reeve did say that, as was asked, I think, by Commissioner Schultzman, that this is content neutral. The only two, if this goes fully through, which there is a strong point that it's not a good investment of the city's time. I think you really sometimes overset the bar too high for yourselves, especially when you say increase transparency and accountability in city operations. If you're really doing that,
 you would have at least disclosed, you have some knowledge. I think that you actually have been under-informed by staff. You have an idea, a nebulous idea, of how many unrepresented employees and how many represented employees are moonlighting. And you've got a potential rule coming forth where you're going to be content neutral, where you're not going to interfere with their moonlighting unless they're doing so much of it that it impairs their work or...
 if they're working for Airbnb or Uber or Lyft, giving inside information on how those companies continue to be under-regulated and cause crisis capitalism to flourish in the city of Portland. So there is some need to be aware of that, definitely. But I think it's already covered under state ethics law and the existing 4.05. So when...
 As this process goes through, as Commissioner Fritz has asked it to be open, I think it's going to be a little bit sad when we realize this much energy is going into a very small percentage of the city workforce, and it's not really equitable. There's going to be a disparency problem because, as was noted, the represented employees, especially the police department, which is the most moonlighting entity in the history of the city of Portland, right now, moonlighters are
 Prancing around inside the Apple store with a city finance police car parked within one block just in case there's an emergency during their eight hours of overtime. So when you fulfill this, it should include reporting about that. If you're going to harass your lowest paid, unrepresented workers, you should also... Yes, I do believe, Chloe, that... Listen, you've chosen to go with...
 The people that work here, we don't even know, is this going to apply to PHC janitors? And also, shouldn't it be broadened to include employees, study contractors at transition projects? Mr. Johnson. Yes. Our unrepresented employees include bureau directors, which are often paid more than commissioners, as well as upper management.
 So the idea that we are persecuting low-paid employees who need to have second jobs because they can't afford to live on their city paycheck is absolutely false. Thank you. And once again, I'm in a position where I've read this.
 resolution and the testimony I'm hearing makes me think that you all have read an entirely different document because you are giving testimony on something that doesn't exist you read the agenda item I do that every week it's my job you're being disruptive I'm not speaking to you
 Mr. Johnson, please proceed. Now, therefore, be it resolved, there will be required disclosure of all outside work and compliance with state ethics law. Written approval in all circumstances for non-represented employees who wish to participate in outside work. Non-represented. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Commissioner Fish, my trustee chief has... Now we're having a recess because the police are going to come in and remove me.
 No, we're not. So, yeah, I do have a few more questions. Just before you do that, could I have an amendment we need to introduce? And that is my trustee chief of staff. Wait a second. We've got to deal with this. Why don't we take a three-minute break? Are we in a recess? Yeah, let's take a three-minute break. Go to item 1113. Okay.
 Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Sherry Matias from the Auditor's Office. Lee Munson from Peabody Sidewalk Repair. Mike Zeller. I'm a sidewalk inspector in maintenance operations. Thank you.
 And this ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. I received one remonstrance for this proposed assessment, which has been removed from this ordinance. Okay. Any additional comments? Okay. Then we'll see if there's anybody here that wishes to testify on this. Item 1113. Anybody signed up? Yes, we have two people. Kristen Riggs and Vlachev Karalu, I believe is the name. Vlachev-Slav.
 Okay, Ms. Riggs, welcome. And you just need to give us your name, and then you each have three minutes to testify. Hi, my name is Kristen Riggs, and I'm here in representative of the ownership for 1825 North Rosa Parks.
 Apartments LLC, we received the notification for the sidewalk assessment on Friday, and our ability to submit by the 16th last Tuesday is why I'm here today. So we're actually already replacing the sidewalk and just wanted to make a point to have...
 These additional fees and our inclusion are removed. Are you filing a remonstrance today? Yes, I'm filing a remonstrance. Your basis is that you're telling us that you got notice after the cutoff date for filing remonstrances? Correct. And we've already filed a building permit that will be replacing the sidewalk. And have you asked the auditor's office to remove you from the list?
 That wasn't a part of the instruction, so I could contact them. They're here today, and the other party that followed the remonstrance has been removed. Could you take a moment and just confer with them? Absolutely. Because we'll be guided by what they tell us. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner. My name is Vyacheslav. Last name is Karhu. I'm a property owner for 5800 Northeast Columbia. I believe, you know, I...
 The sidewalk was repaired, but it's wrongly, it doesn't need a repair. And if you look at this picture, there's nothing wrong with it. And if you go 10 blocks down the street on the same road, there is no sidewalks. And there is a bus station that, and there's people there. There's no buses goes on my street.
 Why channel city resources on something unnecessary when these resources can be channeled tracking down the people who set this building on fire? At the same time, there's a neighbor's building on fire was set. Two blocks down, there's another building was set on fire. Junkyard was set on fire. And yet, city of Portland looking for this mosquito somewhere, somehow. Yeah.
 Thank you. This is Northeast Columbia, you said? Northeast Columbia, yes. Okay. And we're dealing with the squatters, and we call the police, and they don't even show up. I come to my property, and they're shooting dope, and nobody's doing nothing about it. And this is – let me ask you a straightforward question for you, please. Why are we paying taxes? Sir, did you file a remonstrance? What is a remonstrance? Did you object when you got the notice of the assessment? To whom? To me.
 But whatever the document, did you get a document in the mail telling you? I got the documents, it needs to be repaired next thing I know, they'll do the job and that's it. And I got the bill right here. And I got the picture showing this sidewalk perfectly fine. I mean, there's a little part that was damaged. I'm okay to pay for that, but why fix it if it's not broken? So I think we should take that as another remonstrance. Okay. Bring the staff back up.
 This is a non-emergency, right? Yes. Yes. How many total assessments are included in this particular ordinance? This one has, I believe, 100. Okay. So we've had two people who have testified who I guess the council will treat as a remonstrance. What is your recommendation? I recommend that we take these two out and we pass the rest to second reading. Okay.
 Well, I would concur on that judgment. Okay. I am concerned, though, if the notices didn't have enough time for people to respond. I know sometimes I don't open my mail for a week. Is there a flaw in the process that people have not been given a few weeks in order to do a remonstrance? The process has stayed the same for quite a while. They do have, let's see, eight days once they receive the notice to send in a remonstrance notice.
 I would like you to look into this because this is starting to happen with increasing frequency. And that, as I say, you know, I often don't have time to look at the mail once a week. And then my time is mailed back. So I think that's a problem. We're looking at this larger issue. Those dates and times are suddenly coded. So this code would have to change. Well, we can do that. Yeah, we'll definitely look at that. Thank you.
 Okay, so do we need to make an amendment to formally remove those two properties? Yes, I will produce an amendment to the assessment ordinance.
 Yes, and file it with the council clerk. Okay. And I'm just concerned, though, that these two testifiers took time off work and were able to get here, again, with a fairly limited amount of time. In the 102 properties, there may be others who are still kind of lagging behind. Is there a way to extend it out or allow for –
 other objections to come in later? Well, Commissioner, one thing I just want to note is we're talking about billing people for sidewalk repairs that have already been done. So people have had actual notice that they've been assessed, they've been identified, the work has been done, they've gotten a bill, then they now have a chance to have an objection to the bill. It seems to me...
 That's different than being first advised that you may have a problem with the sidewalk. I'd also be interested in making sure we give people adequate time to object at that point. But according to this item, it says assess property for sidewalk repair. So the work has been done. Now the question is whether people object to either the quality of the work or to the cost of the work. But they've already had notice that the work has been done unless they're an absentee owner. Is that correct? Correct. And now they're told how much it's going to cost? Yes.
 They're told in the original notice, because I got one once, and they're told what the city's cost will be if the city goes ahead and does the work. That includes, well, the estimates for the cost of the repair, the permit fee, and the auditor charges 10% on top of that. So that's all. If I could just note that given the notice that I once received that gave me the option of either doing the work myself or myself,
 paying the city to do it, it was not a close call. So my neighbors and I got together. We hired a private contractor, and we did it at a fraction of the cost that the city was going to do it. Well, not a fraction, but a significantly reduced amount. But the notice clearly said if we didn't do that, then the default was the city would go ahead and do the work and bill us. Thank you. That's helpful clarification. Not having a sidewalk outside my home, I unfortunately am not in the same category. Okay.
 Okay, so this moves on to a second reading, and the two properties, owners that testified today, will be considered remonstrances and removed from this assessment for the time being. Okay. Do we need to do a motion? Do we need a motion for that, to remove those properties? For the remonstrance? Yes. That's correct, yes. Okay, so I second your motion. Okay. I just made the motion, and it was seconded by Commissioner Fritz, and we will vote on that motion. Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, thank you very much. And then, okay, let's move to our first time certain. Item 1095, request of Sally Fransman Cecil to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers.
 Do we want to call everyone up at once? Yeah, I think everybody signed up for the Gray Panthers. We have several of us. Thank you. I'll read the other two. 1096, request of Dorothy Holland to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 1097, request of Edith Gillis to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Okay.
 1098, request of Louis Balderas Villagrama to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 1099, request of Lou Church to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you all for being here this morning. And we will start with you, ma'am. And all you need to do is give us your name, and you each have three minutes. And there's a clock there in front of you. So why don't you go ahead and start, and please pull a microphone up.
 My name is Sally Fronsman Cecil. Can you take the microphone and move it over there? There we go. Yeah, there you go. There we go. Is that better? Yes. Okay. My name is Sally Fronsman Cecil. I am a member of Gray Panthers of Portland. I'm a member of the Gray Panthers of Portland.
 Gray Panthers is historically an intergenerational and intersectional organization, meaning that we work with a variety of people, not just elders, you might assume from the name, but with elders and young people on issues that are of interest to us all, not just things that you might think of as issues for elders.
 And I guess I feel like we're here today to hold the people of Portland through their representatives responsible to meet what we consider the social contract.
 That is not being held up for people, for elders at this time. I feel like people tend to think that, say, people on the streets are responsible for being there themselves, that they have chosen to be there or that they have drug and alcohol problems or some other kind of issue that would put them there. I'm here to speak a little bit for myself, though you'll probably see me more than once and hear my story today.
 I am fairly well educated, articulate. I'm the widow of a college professor, and yet my family is terrified that I will be homeless.
 They've brought me here on an emergency basis. I live in a housing insecure situation with a family member who may at some point go into nursing home or die. And when that happens, I will be homeless. My family figures they cannot rescue me any more than they have already done.
 Now, a lot of people seem to think that if you're elder that you have resources. I'm not sure exactly why this is because we have elders on the streets, but that isn't the case. I have more income through my Social Security than most people have. However, because I have that, I am not eligible for any of the safety net.
 I have all the expenses that somebody might have despite being in this insecure situation. I have medical expenses, thanks God, or covered by Medicare, which I support Medicare for all for that very reason. But at the same time, even having more income, since I don't qualify for things, it doesn't help me with things like my car and my insurance, which I have to have because I have to look for work.
 I can't live on the income I have. I have debt because I had to do an emergency move. I had to get rid of my house, which was pretty much literally falling down around me in Kansas. So I'm now here in Oregon.
 I don't know that I have anything more to say about that other than I think that people are not meeting the social contract across our society. They didn't build enough housing for us. They didn't anticipate it. And I think they actually determined, because they didn't know about better health care, that they thought we were going to die.
 Thank you. Thank you, Sally. Why don't we – you want to go next, ma'am? Yes. My name is Dorothy Holland, and I'm a member of Gray Panthers. And what I want to talk about –
 as of last time, is we have more developments with the Home Forward, and Home Forward is not coming forward to give us the right information that we need. They're saying one meeting...
 was for renovations to our building. And they kind of said, oh, well, it's going to be this way. And then they changed their minds and said, no, it's going to be this way. We're going to have to tear up your apartments and blah, blah, blah. And you're going to be out of your apartments for six to eight weeks.
 and you have to pack up your stuff completely. And a lot of us who've been there 20 plus years have a lot of stuff.
 But we'll help you do that, and then you'll have to put it in storage, and we'll pay the initial payment, but you have to pay so-and-so and so-and-so. Well, we don't have that money. I mean, that's why we're living in the housing that we're living in. So what do we do? And it's supposed to come under HUD, their Section 8 program, because it's going project-based.
 In any of the meetings that we've had, there has been no HUD representative there. It's all been home forward and all home forward's policy forward. And then they came into our apartment and took chunks of our floor and chunks of our wall to test for asbestos.
 Now, when we asked what the testing results were, they changed the subject entirely. So we don't know if we're living with asbestos or what, you know. And this building is, like, over 70 years old, you know. So in that time, they did have asbestos, and they did use asbestos as –
 insulation and walls and things. So we don't know, you know, and they won't let us. They're not coming forward and they're not revealing things that they should reveal. Not even in any of the resident meetings when we ask about it. They change the subject. So what do we do? You know, they should have
 some accountability to us. I mean, we pay our rent on time, you know, and everything, and some of us pay a lot of rent, you know, a big chunk of our check. And then when we get, like, a cost of living increase, like this last time I got $20 cost of living increase and Home Forward took 12 of it. And they're not supposed to do that. They're only supposed to take one-third, not all of that. So what do we do?
 Who holds them accountable? Thank you. Thank you for bringing this to our attention. Have you tried talking with the Home Forward Board or getting a message from them? I've tried to talk to Elise, who's supposed to be the...
 the head district manager, whatever, and she says, well, talk to your manager and let them handle it. But the manager is not coming forward. They have a board of citizen volunteers who help to oversee Home Forward. So potentially contacting them, sending a letter to them might be helpful. Well, I have no information on how to do that, and they won't give me that information. So I don't know how to do that.
 So if you guys know how to do that, I would appreciate that information. And then, yes, I would get in touch with them. I've got your email in the communications. I'll have my stuff sent. Well, I don't have a computer. Oh, okay. Okay.
 I've got a phone number, so we'll call you. My phone number should be on your information, or I can give it to you if you need it. Don't give it to me in public. Oh, okay. I'll just leave it. That would be great. Thank you. And then we'll get you the information as to where to send it.
 Okay, I appreciate it. Actually, I've got, I tell you what, I've got your address, so I'll mail you that information. Oh, great. Thank you so much. Okay, thank you. Edith, you want to go next? Good morning. I'm Edith Gillis. And when you're around as long as I am, you begin to see patterns, and you recognize and see that we go through developmental stages.
 Lou Church is holding up a poster because my print shop kid lost the flash drive in the originals.
 So it helps to have elders who keep working with people of all ages and across different interests and communities. And so with that teamwork across ages, you see that we have developmental stages as individuals. We have developmental stages in how we respond to trauma and loss.
 and in relationship, and in group dynamics, in community, and social movements. And one of the things we're seeing that when you have people who have found being a good citizen doesn't work, that the system, the official institutions are failing us, then there becomes folks who go into the next role of the reformer. When that doesn't work, they will then go...
 to the role of the rebel. Then they may decide, after these triggering events, as in police killings or showing that there's unfair treatments and preference of some people against the laws, then there may be a lot of folks rebelling, getting angry. And...
 they may make some actions and then it may seem like they failed because they didn't get the results as soon as they wanted, but actually more and more of the public is awakened and is committed and is making changes and now in the role of social change agent. And we keep going through these eight stages and these four roles. If you don't want people angry, then don't do the things that anger them. And what that
 what that includes is disrespecting their person and violating their needs. So one of the things that I've noticed as I've been phone banking and canvassing, I've been listening to folks across the continuum, everything from Tea Partyers who think that Trump is way too leftist and wimpy, and people who are thinking that Bernie is far too right. I'm with
 I'm with people across the continuum in all different labels and categories. And I'm hearing them speak without any prompting on my part. And I also listen to them carefully as I ask open-ended questions. What do you like about Portland? And what do you want changed? 100%. All these people...
 Whether they know anything about my bias or whatever, 100% of them say they're unhappy with the police. They're unhappy with the mayor and the city council not policing the police and holding the police accountable to protect and serve.
 and 100% of them want you to reduce the budget for the police and increase it for the services that the city is required to do. When you have that, we have trust, we have cooperation and teamwork, and you're more apt to get the funding, the volunteering, and nicer treatment. Okay. Thank you, Edith. Lou, I guess you're next. There you go.
 My name's Lou Church with Gray Pancers. I want to thank Dorothy, Edie, and Sally for speaking this morning. I was hoping Luis would come from Portland State. He's a student body president and a dreamer, so apparently he had other stuff to do. Student body president at PSU is a very busy and activist project at the moment. It would disarm PSU as a campaign. Thank you.
 Great Panthers advocates currently and in the past for elders, for social justice, for what Robert Kennedy once said was the quest to seek a newer world. As someone myself who worked with Bobby Gary when she was a Great Panthers organizer and I was a fundraiser at Interagency Food Bank, June Tenoy's old organization.
 Bobby Geary presented and advocated for emulating the Megi Kuhn model, the founder of Grey Panthers, to be an activist radical advocacy group.
 As Great Panthers, we look forward to seeing Joanne Hardesty join Amanda and Chloe on City Council as the first ever three-woman majority City Council in Portland history. A bit like having Dorothy Day, Bernadette Devlin, and Maxine Waters all in our City Council right here in River City.
 And while ballots are out, it isn't too late for our Housing and Police Commissioner, who looks to be absent today, Ted Wheeler, to join Amanda, Chloe, Alyssa Kenny-Geyer, Michael Dembro, and the activist unions and endorse Joanne Hardesty for City Council.
 This fall, we feel disarmed PSU and rent control in Oregon are vital campaigns and badly needed. We were disappointed to see both Newt Buehler and the Portland Tribune oppose the housing bond measure on the ballot. The Tribune in Oregonian endorsed Buehler for governor, while Buehler supports M105, the anti-immigrant, anti-sanctuary ballot measure. What planet is the Tribune and Newt Buehler on?
 Immigrants and housing are vital components of our community. Bueller and the Tribune are flat out wrong. As the pusillanimous patriarchal propaganda from Weinstein, Cosby, Trump, and Kavanaugh persist, Grey Panthers, at least in Oregon...
 are happy to support Joanne Hardesty for City Council, Kate Brown for Governor, to support the housing bond, the clean energy fund, and campaign finance reform on our local ballots. We also oppose the alt-right, bourgeois capitalist, and crypto-fascist statewide ballot measures, vote no on M103, 104, 105, and 106. Oregon belongs to all of us, and in our city we believe in the dream that is Portland, not the world's ongoing nightmare that's Trumpland.
 Okay, well, thank you all. Thank you, Portland Gray Panthers. Thank you. This is adopted. 1108. Amend contract with Central City Concern to increase the not-to-exceed amount by $375,742 to provide additional treatment readiness services, transitional housing, and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees.
 Again, second reading, vote only. Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Item 1111. Vacate a portion of the unnamed road east of Northeast 160th Avenue and south of Northeast Halsey Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. Thank you.
 Good to hear you, Daley. All right. We have Carl Aruta here from PBOT, another right-of-way agent. Yes, two in a row. Good morning. Yeah, I'm Carl Aruta with the – Districts or sections of the city? No, just different projects that we work on, yeah. Okay, cool. Okay.
 So this ordinance is a proposal to vacate a piece of an unnamed street off of Northeast 160th Avenue. This proposal was initiated, as they often are, by two of the adjacent property owners. The ordinance would vacate most of the road this...
 slide shows Northeast 160th Avenue and the road such as it is is mostly undeveloped, serves as a gravel driveway right now and the lines that I added in here show the approximate boundaries of the road heading east there. And the owners own, on this tax map, the owners own
 The parcels north and south of the road, and then this is most of the road that would be vacated here. This is 160th Avenue running north and south here.
 As part of the process, we contacted the usual city bureaus and outside public agencies and utilities. And mostly there were not many comments, but one result is that we will be reserving a walkway and bicycle easement across part of this.
 and acquiring a dedication, and that will eventually, when and if development happens in this area, create a new pedestrian and bicycle connection from 160th to 161st Avenue, which is down a little bit lower over here, 161st.
 And that actually is in the city of Gresham. On this map, if you can see, there was a bluish line in there that shows the city limits. And to the east of that is Gresham, and to the west of that is Portland. And so this area is a little different in that it is right up against the city boundaries. And so that when development happens there, there would be a pathway across there
 that bumps up against the boundary with Gresham. And so this map shows in the yellow area is what would be vacating. That would no longer be a city street. But then the narrower path there is what would be the walkway easement. And this north-south corridor here would...
 be dedicated and that would also be part of the walkway, bikeway. Again, when and if development were to happen in here, but would be acquiring those rights as part of the street vacation. Why isn't the place where the arrow is in the corner between the yellow and the new dedication, why isn't that
 shown as continued right-of-way? This piece up here? Yeah. Excuse me. So this piece is part of the existing road and is being left un-vacated, is being left as city right-of-way so that it will be part of the future walkway, pedestrian, bicycle way. Thank you. And would...
 Again, if there were a few more houses built, it would connect upwards towards the driveway that might occur to the north as an option. The total Airbnb vacate is about 14,000 square feet, and the zoning in the area is R10, if you're curious. I'll be happy to answer any other questions. Any further questions? Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any testimony? Yes, we have two people signed up, Charles Bridgecrane and Maggie.
 Okay. And, you know, Maggie, this is about a street vacation, so please testify to the topic. It's about taking it from one use and putting it to a public benefit. Right. Okay. And I'm all for that. I tried to come and put my money down for Ted on all these 30 properties with the water board for the public benefit of housing homeless people.
 So I had to go across to county and do it at county, and I've got these public records now. And I would like to have my offer accepted by you guys, and I would like to put homeless people on this offer.
 on all the properties, actually, but particularly on the three-acre property that is between Lombard and Willamette Street on the east side of the river. That is, there's a bike path, and it's 6631 Siskiyou Boulevard. And the reason I put the offer on the properties was that the housing, the shelter housing space
 The violations of the fair housing where the most disabled end up in the shelter housing and they get sick in there, I would like to take these people and put them on the three-acre property that is currently owned by the city that I put an offer on and have a healthier environment for these people and for the benefit of the citizens of Portland. Okay.
 Just like this guy wants to vacate this thing and have it publicly benefit Portland. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Lightning? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity. One of the issues I have is that when we're doing the vacation area here, and we're also going to allow a walkway easement and a bike path. Now, so I understand is that the property owner on both sides of this property owns –
 is the same owner. And what you're proposing here is that, is there an amount of money that's going to be given and exchanged on this vacation of the property? Because it's my understanding, currently does not the same owner on both sides of this property own this property in the center? Is that not correct?
 Or am I completely incorrect on that? Yeah, I'm not sure. We'll ask Carl to come back. Okay, because I just wanted to have a kind of an understanding, because it sounds to me like the same property owner owns both properties on both sides of this. And I was wondering where the motivation is or what was really agreed upon to do this? Because obviously they pointed up to 161st, but that won't be connected, but maybe down the line.
 So what is the motivation here of that property owner that owns on both sides of this? I can... And if someone could explain that, because I don't quite understand this. Thank you. So, well, if Carl could come back up and maybe I'll take a shot and you can elaborate. Right.
 This property owner does own the property adjacent to the street. They want to develop it. Yes. They are paying for its cost recovery project paid for by the petitioners. Right, yes. So it's a husband and a wife that own the properties to the north and the south. I'm not sure if they both own both properties or how they have it divided up, but it's a husband and a wife that own the two properties, and they were looking to potentially subdivide it
 one way or the other, if the city will approve it, to build a few additional houses
 And yes, under state and city law for street vacations, it's a cost recovery process. So they pay for staff time and other expenses, but not for the land because public streets, the adjacent property owners still theoretically own a small slice of the rights in the street. So when it's vacated, it goes back to their property. And I think in this case,
 the street vacation area. It's the county that determines where the street reverts when it's vacated. But I think in this case it's probably going back to the property on the south because that's where it came from in the 1960s when it was dedicated by the county.
 And I think part of the motivation on both sides is that if the land was subdivided and houses were built, they would build a private street or driveway that has different standards than a public street. And that without the street vacation, they would be required probably to build a full city street.
 with some kind of cul-de-sac or turnaround, and you'd have a PBOT public asset, that's not really providing a lot of public benefit other than to the handful of houses that were built there. And so both sides agreed that a private road with a walkway easement seemed to make more sense in this situation. And with this process, we were able to get the connection for the walkway to 161st also. Great. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. This is first reading. Yes. It's your first reading. Yeah, so it's first reading, so it moves on to second reading next week. Okay, welcome. All right. Hi. Glad to be here. Let me introduce the item. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. It's item 1100, Proclaim October 2018 to be Filipinx American History Month. Okay. Cool. Hi.
 Hi. Hi. So my name is Matt Lim. I work for the Bureau of Technology Services in the Enterprise Business Solution Division. And I'm also on the steering committee for FACE. That is the Filipino American City Employees Association.
 And today, for the month of October, we want to proclaim Filipinics American History Month. And so to start us off, we are having a live band play right here. Their name is Adobo Ni Lola, which means Grandmother's Adobo. And we've got Jonah, Jordan, and Juice. So if you guys want to go ahead and play, I guess go ahead. Okay.
 Hey guys, thank you for having us. We are Dovin and Lola. Today we're going to be performing an original Filipino song called Tell Me Where It Hurts by the band MYMP. We hope you guys enjoy. I hope you enjoy.
 Listen, because this magic value leads up left Looking for your eyes, if you're not left or right How come you're not by my side? All the time at the forefront of my mind My love is blind, but I don't need my eyes To see a connection, I even read the signs It's all eternal, upgraded to eternal Started with the Father, places for eternal Without your voice, I'm living life Promise every second with you Reason not to lose, tell me where we're at We should be better, we should be better
 It hurts, don't tell me I'll love you if you love me Turn the music on I'm close, but the sound Will be sad as she yawns I'm wanting over you So there's a fence and a lawn But I can wordsmith Way better than Sean As soon as I say sin Cause I plan to hold your hand Without you I'll walk There's no reason why I wait
 The whole dark in this sand If I'll be the rice, then you can be the sand It'll never be bland You can take it as a promise When life is mundane, somehow you still astonish If you were gone, I'd crack your gana Ran off with my heart, you my number one robber Sweet heist forever, everlasting gobs Why do I bless you? Guess I'll do Those good times And I'll see And I'll see All the time At the forefront of my mind
 Thank you very much. And that's the original piece of music? Oh, no, it's from original Filipino music. Okay. And we got just one drum solo. It's going to be super quick. Okay. Heads up. A little profanity in the track. Heads up. Listen, man.
 I already even got you a dime of peace, man. One of the Beyonce, man, good times, man. Is that true, man? I just want to know. I mean, shit. To be honest with you, man. The bad things. I was like, man, I'm not going to tell you to see no more. I'm going to tell you to see no more. I'm going to tell you to see no more. I'm going to tell you to see no more.
 I love you.
 Thank you very much.
 Okay, Matt, do you have some speakers also? Yeah, we're going to do a five-minute recess. Oh, okay. I thought we were going to do that after the proclamation. Yeah, let's finish the proclamation, then we'll let the band break down. We'll take a five-minute recess for the band to break down. I guess you guys can go and introduce yourselves. Just go. All right, so I'm Justin Katigbuk, and I sit on the board at the Filipino American Association of Portland and Vicinity.
 We are a nonprofit organization on 90th and Stark. Can we just introduce ourselves? Yeah, we're just introducing ourselves. My name is Angelica Lim. I'm the former chairperson of Gabriela Portland, which is a Filipino women's organization, a grassroots organization here in Portland.
 I'm Emily Rice. I work as a senior IT manager for the Port of Portland. I used to work for the city of Portland for over 10 years, so I'm happy to be back. And I also serve on the board for the Foundation of Philippine Progress, as well as a member of the ICHRP, International Coalition for Human Rights in the Philippines. Thank you.
 Oh, okay. So a little bit about myself. I basically was born and raised here in Portland. Actually born in California, but 20 years spent here. Went to middle school, high school, and college. I was involved in a college organization, PSU Caibigan, Portland State University, and
 And it's there when I learned about my identity as a Filipino and the history about my family. And a little bit about me and my family. My parents migrated here to the States in the 80s after Marcus implemented martial law. My dad told me that he wanted to move here to the States for a better life.
 And because at the time there was not a lot of opportunity for him and he thought it was better for us to be in the States and go to college and just for a better life in general. And PSU Kaibigan really helped me develop what it means to be Filipino and Filipino.
 Taught me, you know, about my history. And when I was in middle school and high school, I always had trouble understanding that side of my life, right? And it's important that we have programs and grassroots organizations like Angelica and Emily are part of that are leading those programs.
 things. And I don't think without those organizations I wouldn't have been here today, and even like serving my community for almost six, maybe six years already, both in college and now after I'm done. And yeah, I'd like to thank the council for having me here today. Thanks, Justin. Yeah.
 Hi. Thank you, commissioners, for having us. So, like I said, my name is Angelica Lim. I actually have a kind of migration-immigration story, too, as well. Just like a lot of Filipinos here in Portland, I migrated from Alaska, born and raised in Juneau, Alaska. I decided to plant roots here because I...
 had a son in 2006 and decided that Portland would be a really great place to raise him. I think that the proclamation today is imperative in the sense that it invites
 the city of Portland to really engage with the Filipino community. As the former chairperson of Gabriela Portland, which I mentioned earlier is a Filipina organization, we really do our best to organize around issues that impact Filipino women. And so that has to do with Filipino women here in Portland, in Oregon, and also across the United States, and Filipinos who immigrate from the Philippines also.
 I don't know if you knew this, but there's about 6,000 Filipinos who leave the Philippines every day. Half of those are women looking for, quote-unquote, a better life in the United States and Saudi Arabia. And what they sometimes come to find is that when they migrate to the United States, they are met with intense discrimination, intense racism, and exploitation around the work that they end up doing. So here in Portland alone, we have many Filipino women who are...
 undertaking domestic care work and being exploited with wages. And so a lot of what Gabriela is intending to do is organize with Filipino women to solve their issues.
 I raised this as a mother. I raised this as a Filipina, which is a Filipino woman. I raised this as a concerned citizen that I think a proclamation comes at a really important time where currently in the Philippines many people are experiencing the war on drugs and extrajudicial killings from President Duterte. Currently Senator Merkley actually condemned Duterte's actions. And so with the city's proclamation on Filipinx,
 American History Month, I think that's an engagement and a commitment for the city to actually take up understanding the impact that the United States has on the Philippines and why Filipinos migrate to the United States. I think that actually also holds the city of Portland accountable to really engage with the history. So, um,
 Education, like Justin was saying, in public schools, understanding how many Filipinos are in the city of Portland and also in Oregon, and what kind of jobs do we take up. You'll know Filipinos as nurses, doctors, accountants, janitors, and that is part of our rich history of contributing to this country.
 We're also talking about the labor history too and how Filipinos have had an impact there. I think that if you didn't know this, Filipinos are the third largest Asian population in the United States and yet we are still very unwell known. So I think that this is also an encouragement for the city of Portland to really take up an understanding of the history of migration, migration patterns all the way from California through Oregon to Seattle.
 It's an honor to be here. I think that right now I feel a little emotional to understand that having a son, having a Filipino son here living in the city of Portland, I can say to him that his city actually supports his life, supports his identity, supports his existence, and supports his future. And I think that this proclamation also speaks to the accountability for Filipino migrants, Filipino mothers, Filipino students.
 we've come a long way as Filipinos. We have a large population in the United States, a large culture of vibrancy, but we also have a lot of healing to do with the relationship between the United States and the Philippines. So I think that the city proclamation is actually acknowledging that healing but inviting us to build a stronger future. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Emily Rice, as I mentioned, and it's with great joy and pride that I'm here to celebrate this occasion with my former city colleagues as well as members of my community. A little bit about my story. I was born in the Philippines and I'm from an indigenous community in Luzon. My parents moved to Oregon when I was less than a year old, seeking an economic opportunity that they didn't have under the martial law by then President Ferdinand Marcos.
 Growing up in the Portland metro area, I witnessed the pressure my parents experienced to assimilate into the majority white American culture. I witnessed my mother being ridiculed for her Filipino accent and enduring racist and sexist comments, devaluing her humanity as an indigenous Filipina. My mom did everything she could to protect me from experiencing those painful things. But for her, that meant I grew up not learning my family's languages. Thank you.
 Even without the languages, I felt a deep connection to my heritage and culture. I didn't see many other Filipinos in my school or represented in the society. In high school and college, I tried to learn more about the history of the Philippines and of Filipino Americans. My textbooks didn't have much to offer me, but I was fortunate to have a high school teacher help point me towards good sources on Philippine and Filipino American history.
 I learned about the Filipino-American War at the turn of the 20th century, following the Philippines' brief independence from Spain. I learned the tactics and weapons developed, including waterboarding in the Colt 45, which were used against Filipinos, and the courageous resistance by Filipinos struggling for freedom in their homeland.
 And just across the street from the Portland building in Lounsdale Park is a statue commemorating the American soldiers who died during the Filipino-American War. But what it doesn't mention is that for every one American soldier killed, there were 50 Filipinos who were killed. Over a quarter million Filipinos were killed as they struggled for their freedom.
 I learned about the Lewis and Clark Exposition held right here in Portland at Giles Lake, where over 20 indigenous Filipinos from the same region of my ancestors were brought, likely by force, to be put on display here in what was essentially a human zoo, along with other indigenous people. They were brought to show Americans attending the expo that Filipinos were savages who needed to be uplifted through American colonization in the Philippines.
 I learned that there are very painful moments in Filipino-American history. As I learned about these things, however, I also learned about hope. I learned about people power and powerful resistance of the Filipino and Filipino-American people through organizing against repressive governments, against systemic oppression, racism, sexism, xenophobia, labor exploitation here and around the world.
 Filipino-American organizers were an instrumental part of the U.S. labor movement in the 20th century, and they're a treasured part of our legacy, which lives on to this day. Filipino-American organizers advocate not only for fellow Filipino-Americans, but also for black and brown people in our country facing racism and xenophobia.
 Filipino American organizers advocate in solidarity with indigenous people in the Philippines and all around the world who face land grabbing and the destruction of their ancestral lands. Filipino American organizers work to uphold human rights and end the flow of U.S. tax dollars for further militarization in the Philippines.
 Filipino American organizers advocate for Filipinos in the Philippines suffering in a society of extrajudicial killings, which have been normalized under President Duterte's drug law, drug war. As a board member of the Foundation for Philippine Progress and a member of iCHIRP, I'm proud to make an impact in my community here in Portland and throughout the world by continuing in this vibrant tradition of Filipino American organizing.
 I'm grateful that there's more Filipinos Americans in Portland today than there were when I was growing up, and I'm also grateful for this proclamation. My hope is that people continue to learn our history. More people will honor and adopt the spirit of power, people power, and community organizing that Filipinos and Filipino Americans histories have lived out for centuries. Thank you. Well, thank you. Thank you, Emily, Angelica, and Justin very much. Appreciate it.
 And I will now read the proclamation, and then my colleagues may want to make some comments, and then we'll gather for a picture right in front here afterwards. Whereas the city of Portland is proud of its diversity and draws strength from the rich cultures and traditions of all community members, and whereas Filipinx American Heritage Month is an opportunity for all individuals and organizations to recognize the contributions of Filipino Americans
 to the development and defense of our country, as well as the cultural, civic, and economic life of Portland for over 150 years, whereas Filipinx Americans come from a complex and diverse mix of many languages, belief systems, and ethnicities, including Bikolono, Cebuano, Ilocano, and Hokkien, and whereas Filipinx Americans in Oregon
 are presiding over the adversity of exclusion, incarceration, and displacement. And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 2018 to be Filipino American History Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to recognize, celebrate the vibrant history, cultures, and contributions of our Filipino American community. So thank you. Applause
 Are we going to be up here at any comments or we can... Take a picture. Take a picture. Okay, let's all get up here. You can come through the barriers and we'll get a picture. Yeah. And then we're going to take like a five-minute break to have a fan breakdown. Yeah. Somebody got to... All right. Yeah.
 Okay. You can't see the camera. The camera can't see you. Okay? All right. Smile. One, two, three. One, two, three. Keep smiling. One, two, three. Cool. Thank you. Ready for council? Yeah. Good morning. Good morning. The council will come to order on October 24th.
 2018. Carla, could you please call the roll? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Saltzman? Here. Okay, Mr. Attorney, please read the statement. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meeting so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You can also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or on the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. What's that? If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. Thank you. 11.10. Thank you.
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Southwest NATO Parkway, Southwest Salmon Street 2I405 improvement project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Mr. Eudaly? Thank you. We have Marty Maloney here, who I believe his title is right-of-way agent. Right.
 which I really like that title for some reason. Thank you. Welcome, and I'm going to let you take it from here. Great. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney of the Peabody Right-of-Way. Pull the microphone a little closer. Oh, my sorry. Yeah. The agenda item is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for the needed property rights associated with the Southwest Natal Parkway Improvement Project
 The property rights in question are needed for ADA ramp and traffic signal upgrades at various intersections along the project limits. I would like to add that all affected property owners have been informed about the city's needs for the property rights, and we're invited to attend today as well. If council has any questions at this point, I can answer them. Questions? Okay. Thank you. Is there any public testimony? No one signed up.
 Okay. This is an emergency ordinance, so we will call the roll. Udaily. Thank you, Marty. I vote aye. Fritz. As always, we're very careful when we are considering using eminent domain, hoping that we'll be friendly. And also, these acquisitions are all very, very small. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ordinance is adopted to the regular agenda now. Item 1106. Aye.
 Accept a grant in the amount of $105,060, appropriate $35,000 for fiscal year 2018-19, and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for the Domestic Violence Enhanced Response Team to be partially reimbursed for a police bureau sergeant through September 30, 2020.
 This is a second reading. Vote only. Please call the roll. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ordinance is 1109.
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $391,694 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, fiscal year 2018, local solicitation to assist the Portland Metropolitan Area law enforcement and criminal justice community
 community to prevent and reduce crime and violence. Okay, this is a second reading. Vote only. Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We resume its deliberations on item 1101.
 So if I may continue. Commissioner Frist, did you want to? It turned out that that short recess was helpful because I was able to confer with the lead sponsor. And so I'm just going to state my concern on the record rather than proposing an amendment. And that is that it's not intended that these regulations would apply to seasonal workers. Yes.
 so that when you come back with the rules, we don't need to know what people are doing the other three months of the year when they're not doing this, even if they're nonrepresented. Thank you. So, Commissioner, are we on the record? Yeah. Yeah. So thank you for flagging that issue. We'll take a look at it. I want to make sure we get it right, so we'll come back and brief you on what we learned. That concludes our presentation. Yeah, I have some additional questions, so maybe Ms. Jermanski should also come to the table.
 Since you gave me the answer during the break, I just want to put it on the record. So the resolution states that the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association and the Portland Police Association are exempt from this, but it doesn't say anything about the Portland Firefighters Association. So I was wondering about that. So the Portland Police Association. Tracy, bring it down a bit. Pull the microphone down. All right.
 Portland Police Association and Portland Police Commanding Officers Association already have greater restrictions on outside employment that are provided by city law that's generally applicable to city employees. They have to affirmatively get permission, and there's very limited types of outside employment that they can do. It's the most restrictive in the city other than elected officials.
 Portland Fire does not have anything more restrictive than general city law, and so that's why they're not carved out, and police are. So Portland firefighters are subject to these rules? Yes. Okay. Yes. I mean, that's the current intent. Obviously, we'll bring the final rule back to council. And if I could just say, we've tried to be cautious here, Deanne,
 I'm careful about this. And, in effect, we're phasing it because there's some open questions about the level of consultation we may have to have with our labor partners, and there's some open questions about what are existing practices and protocols. And so we don't want to trip any of those wires. And so what we're saying is...
 Everybody is going to have to disclose whether they have a conflict, but we're going to be focusing in the first phase on nonrepresented employees where we'll do a deeper dive, and then we'll figure out how we address other employees over time. Okay. And my other question was, does it require written approval for outside work? For represented employees. For nonrepresented. Excuse me. Yeah. Nonrepresented employees.
 So what happens if that written approval is not given and there's a dispute, I guess? How is that? So we haven't currently envisioned how that would happen. As I mentioned, the intent is that the standards governing that decision be as clear and objective as possible.
 good things that we should be discussing before we come back to you is, you know, what would happen? Does there need to be an appeal mechanism? How would that work? But that has not yet been sorted out. But, for example, I don't think it would be –
 a big lift to just provide that the Bureau Director has the final say. I mean, so there could be an appeal to the Bureau Director. We anticipate this coming up rarely. Yes. But I think Dan's point is if you're dissatisfied with your supervisor's
 review of the matter, is there some higher authority? And I think we should strongly consider having that be the Bureau Director. Yes. Because I think this is going to be a rare instance. Yes. And I concur that it would be appropriate to have that decision, if there's a dispute, as to the appropriateness of the decision to have that decision made at the Bureau Director level. Is that something fair game for the Civil Service Review Board, too, or whatever that's called? Yes.
 That would be possible. The Civil Service Review Board definitely has authority over many classified service employee appeals. There are a few nonrepresented employees who are civil service exempt, so we would need to look at whether they would fall through the cracks.
 Yeah, I just think it's probably going to be rare, but in those rare circumstances where it happens, it's probably going to be explosive. So maybe something more impartial than a bureau director or a step beyond the bureau director might be worth taking a look at. We'll take a look at it. Yeah. Great feedback, and we will definitely consider that. Okay. Thank you.
 Any other questions? I have some questions. First, I just want to clarify a few things that I think are being misunderstood. This is a resolution, not an ordinance. It's directing the CAO and the city attorney to review and revise our current policy as necessary and to develop a clarified rule and training materials. Correct. And those will come back to council for review and approval. Okay. Okay.
 I do want to say that other than a conflict of interest where someone is using...
 their knowledge or connections or resources that they have at the city to benefit them in their outside employment, or they are participating in that outside work during work hours, I don't think it's any of our business what their job is, what their second job is. So...
 I'm not sure if I'm reading this correctly. We are going to, or we are considering requiring disclosure of all outside work of non-represented employees, and that written approval will be required in all circumstances. Yes.
 The current proposal is that all employees, represented and non-represented, would have to disclose if they had outside employment. But only non-represented employees would need the written approval. And is that, at least in part, because for representative employees that would be part of the bargaining? Might be.
 We don't know enough to answer that question. Okay. And we don't want to make a definitive statement on the record on that. Yeah. But that... It's a valid concern and question. Yeah. It's why we have...
 My chief of staff has been talking to all of our labor partners about this and consulting with them. That's to be determined whether we'd have to go out and bargain. So, I mean, Commissioner Saltzman brought up an example of an exotic dancer. Perhaps we have city employees who have outside work that is legal and legitimate and there's no conflict.
 They simply don't want their supervisors or bureau directors or commissioners in charge to know what that job is. I guess I'm thinking I would rather see a disclosure of outside work, sure, than maybe a checklist where...
 If there are red flags that come up in that checklist, then the full disclosure happens. If their work has no conflict of interest, is happening outside of business hours, et cetera, then I'm not completely comfortable with requiring full disclosure of everyone.
 So there are different possibilities. Multnomah County, for example, has all employees disclose whether or not they have outside employment. It's just a yes or no question. And then there can be follow-up if needed to determine what that is. So certainly for represented employees, that would definitely be a possibility. I think the...
 more high level the position is, the more it's important to take a look at what the outside employment is to determine whether there's an actual or perceived conflict. And so we have to evaluate how would the manager have enough information to make that decision versus protecting employee privacy. And so I agree 100%.
 We haven't settled on a proposed recommendation yet, but those are competing concerns to grapple with. And it may be rare, but I actually think it may be more common than people realize. And I do want to point out to everyone in the room that we're not giving specific examples because these are sensitive HR issues. We're not going to give you the name and circumstance of, you know,
 situations that have arose that have prompted us to want to
 be more thorough about this, but I guarantee you if it came out in the news that a highly paid public employee was moonlighting and somehow benefiting from their position here or working during business hours, that the public would be outraged that we had no protections in place to prevent that. So I do in general support this. Can I? Marisol? And I'd also want to point, I have one more question. What if it's a bureau director?
 Who has the outside? Who do they report to is the question. The commissioner in charge. All right. And there are, in fact, bureau directors that have outside employment. Yeah. I'm aware of some instances where they have absolutely nothing to do with their day job. And I want to thank my friend and colleague for the comment she made a moment ago because –
 What she said, in effect, was we are contemplating improving our protocols and strengthening our mechanism for enforcing conflicts of interest, absent a scandal or an audit. And we are sometimes criticized for being reactive to the moment. And one of the things that I'm proud of here is that we've had the opportunity to take the time to canvas how other cities are addressing this
 and forward-looking cities that recognize that increasingly the workforce of tomorrow is going to have side work, that you're competing against people that, particularly as the work week shrinks or as people become contingent, they are going to have outside business interests. We owe it to them to have a rational system for making sure they're aware of what our conflict of interest rules are, that they don't run afoul of them, that they get adequate training, and that in those rare instances when there's a conflict,
 that there be a process for trying to resolve that. That's what this is about, and I appreciate you calling out that we're doing this, again, without a scandal or an audit driving it, and we're doing it upstream, which I think is where we ought to be more often on these kinds of matters. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much, and Carla, please call the roll. Udaily. Aye. Fritz. Thank you all for the work and for the discussion. Aye. Fish.
 So I have a few thank yous. First, I want to thank my chief of staff, Sonia Schmansky, who's been working on this for quite some time. And I also want to call out our summer intern, Sheila Panyam. And some of you met Sheila when she was here. She's a University of Washington undergraduate. But I think most important, she was a Lincoln graduate, and she was a member of the national championship We the People program.
 And that's how we learned about her. And she spent the entire summer doing research, looking at other cities, counties, states, and the federal government for best practices. And she was very resourceful. And when we found out that Dayton, Ohio, was really the national leader, and Dayton of all places, we—
 She got in touch with their city manager and managed to get copies of their written policies and their deliberations. So a big thank you to Sheila for the work she did. I think few interns have had the kind of impact she's had, and she really drove a lot of the research. I want to thank my co-sponsors for their collaborative work on this and support. And I want to – one of the people who testified made a comment about –
 This may not be a good investment of the city's time to ensure no conflicts of interest. I would say respectfully that there are few things more important for us as leaders of the city than to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided. I think that's one of our most important responsibilities. And what I came to appreciate when we did a deep dive around this is that the combination of policies that were less than clear –
 The absence of training, even regular, much less regular training of our employees, combined with a system that was basically an honor system that you disclosed if you thought you had a conflict of interest, but you were required to do so even though, in my judgment, you probably didn't have enough information to make an informed judgment. All of those convinced us that this is a problem that we need to get in front of.
 And I'm therefore particularly grateful both to the Chief Administrative Officer and the City Attorney for the work that they've done to help us get to this point. And we look forward to seeing your work product in 90 days. So thank you all. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Resolution is adopted. And we will move on to...