good morning everyone welcome to the october 26th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll fritz here fish here saltzman here hails here as you
 Good morning, everybody. I understand Commissioner Novick will be joining us. He's under the weather, but he's going to join us a little later. Can I switch places with you? Yeah, that's right. Yeah, let me put a barrier up. Ben, we'll get to the official business in a minute, but we have one item here before we start our official calendar, and that is we want to take a moment and recognize Desiree Williams-Ragid because she is a star. She's a star.
 And here's how she's a star. On July 15th of this year, the White House celebrated 10 Champions of Change for Climate Equity. Our own Desiree Williams-Regie was among those honored as a Champion of Change for Climate Equity, and she was invited there to the White House. She's the equity specialist with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, been a longtime leader for the Bureau, for the city, and for our community. She's been instrumental in building equity into the core of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's work.
 The 2015 Climate Action Plan is a great example of this. It drives home that we don't succeed on climate action if we aren't also successful on equity. Desiree helped city staff engage with community organizations to rebuild the Climate Action Plan to address equity. That wasn't easy, and our work on this front has really only begun, but it's already led to some profound changes in our plan and our programs and our policy.
 So we appreciate Desiree as a climate equity champion. It's gratifying to see the White House does too. And those champions who were honored at the White House have actively worked in their communities for public health and socioeconomic equities exacerbated by a changing environment.
 So I just want to give her a chance to come up and speak about this, but I'll just say on a personal level, one of the most teachable moments for me on the whole subject of climate equity was that amazing invitation that I got to go to the Vatican and meet with Pope Francis on the subject. And he said about his encyclical that people say this is an environmental encyclical, and it is, but it's really about people and the impact on their lives and society.
 Obviously, that's exactly your perspective. So we're very proud of you and we wanted to give you a moment here as well as a moment in Washington, D.C. to talk about your passion. Thank you so much. Can you get a little closer to the mic? Yes, I will. Mayor Hales and city commissioners, thank you for having me here today to receive this acknowledgment. To be recognized by the White House for the work on the Climate Action Plan and to be able to represent our city at the highest echelons of our nation's government was an immense honor.
 As I was thinking of what to say today, two words came to mind, and the first is hope. While in DC, I was invited to share about our work in Portland,
 I spoke of how critical it is to connect the issues of race and the environment, how gentrification is a climate change issue. The challenge for us today is to create a livable city for all, a city that is green that does not push out its people of color or its poor, thereby essentially increasing their climate burden as others reap the benefits. Because we know in truth, in this global race, to reduce carbon emissions, it will not be a net win if our progress is at the cost of safety, health, and opportunity for our most marginalized communities.
 I share that institutional racism is a professional competency, that we must, it is in fact an absolute imperative, that government be able to understand how policies, practices, and programs serve to perpetuate disparity and actively work against the outcomes we seek to create as public servants. The prosperity of our cities and our nation depends on our ability to no longer be blind.
 I spoke about our definition of equity and how it operates as a corrective mechanism to longstanding injustice, how focusing on institutional racism is the tool we use to think clearly and in a more sophisticated manner. It is more than just diversity and inclusion. It is a commitment to creating sustained, better outcomes for communities that for so long have received just the opposite and in turn create better outcomes for all.
 The reason that hope is a word that comes to mind is because after the event was over, I met with members of the audience. So these were members of local government, nonprofit staff, White House staff, and there was even a group of students from Howard University. What stuck with me in their eyes and their words was a profound sense of hope. Some embraced me, held my hand, even grasped onto my arm to say thank you.
 To hear the work that a city like Portland is doing on climate change and equity, and more specifically institutional racism, gave them hope. And I realize that our climate action plan is giving people hope across the nation, that the work we do in government can be different. I saw the value of our honesty and courage. As our panel moderator Mustafa Ali from the EPA said, let's have real talk about real issues and create real solutions.
 That is not to say this work isn't hard and that we won't trip over ourselves along the way, but it is the right path, and this is the journey that we need to be on now more than ever. This is the kind of innovation that cities are hungry for, and we, just as we have been with sustainability, are in a leadership role in this country to reimagine and recreate what success looks like. The second word is gratitude. The work is deeply personal for me. It is not just about a story within my lived time on this earth,
 It is a product of generations of racial struggle. Of slavery and civil injustice on my African American side, the impact of colonialism on my Filipino. It is the work to prevent the inheritance of racial struggle for my children and children's children as they are concurrently dealing with the inheritance of climate change.
 What I'm grateful for is the opportunity to have this moment in time, in this place, to be doing the work I do. I'm grateful to work with such incredibly talented people at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. It is a privilege to work every day with such intelligent and passionate people. I'm grateful to work with Susan Anderson, who has been a trailblazer in climate change work, and that I have the opportunity to continue and participate in the climate planning legacy that she has initiated for this city.
 I'm grateful for the Climate Action Plan team, Michael Armstrong, Michelle Krim, Kyle Deisner, Ingrid Fish, and Taryn Evans, Tim Lynch from Multnomah County, as well as the many other staff who contributed and committed to the integration of equity into the updated plan. This process instigated deep learning for all of us that continues today.
 I'm grateful to our teachers in the process, the community organization representatives, Vivian Satterfield from OPAL, Duncan Huang and Christine Nguyen from APANO, Rose Heiber, Amanda Kelly-Lopez from Wisdom of the Elders, Les Shannon and Cassie Cohen from Groundwork Portland, Claudia Rana-Colenn from Upstream Public Health, and Demias Venosa and Julian Meyer from the Coalition of Communities of Color.
 I'm grateful for the support that City Council has given to the plan creating the space for deep work to happen on both carbon emission reduction and racial inequity. I'm grateful for the opportunity to be an ambassador for this great city and for our equity work. And lastly, I have gratitude for work that on a daily basis gives me hope in a climate that is definitely changing. Thank you. Ms. Ray, thank you very much. Questions from the KS? Yes.
 Questions or comments from your... I wonder if each of us could impose on you and get a copy of your speech. Absolutely. Yeah, I think that would be a good thing for us to post. That was very well said. Thanks so much, Desiree. And I think...
 one of the questions I would have for you is how do we through things like what you've just done obviously at the White House and through C40 hopefully we continue that. Absolutely. How else do you see ways particularly people to people as opposed to official to official how we might
 spread good ideas from one city to another. I mean, Bill McKibben was just here Sunday night, sort of the army of one out there trying to tell the world about climate change. But obviously he has allies, and you're one of them. But how can we get grassroots work going in other communities based on what we've done here and maybe learn some from them too?
 Well, absolutely. I think this work has been a part of, I think, a changing tide in the City of Portland, and the groups who participated in the Climate Action Plan equity process have taken their own initiative to really move forward on climate justice and environmental justice work here in the city, and are now being looked at.
 Verde, led by Alan Hippolito, and Tony DeFalco's work in looking at sustainable economic development that looks at climate-neutral communities in places that are traditionally underserved. This city is setting examples across the nation, and I just came back from the Urban Sustainable Directors Network annual meeting today.
 and again, share the work that we've been doing here, and to see that government staff are looking to create those new models, and that this is spreading. It's spreading like a really great virus, not probably like the one that Steve Novick has.
 But something that's really positive and what that's doing, our impact with government staff is having them think differently about the way that they do their work with communities and looking at how do you empower? How do you know when to actually move out of the way? When do you know to work side by side and in partnership and take away sort of the hierarchical nature of things and really work arm in arm on such topics?
 challenging, challenging issues together, and how do we advance as partners in that. So it's happening here. It continues. It continues. The work continues in the community, and I am really just so pleased to see what's happening across the country as well. Well, thank you very much. Well, I appreciate the chance to bring you into our chambers, not just the White House's
 public rooms and uh and celebrate this as commissioner in charge of the bureau planning sustainability i'm very proud of the work that we're doing very proud of you as one of our employees just have a small token i want to give you um from our from the council for our esteem we have an official gift that we give to um
 VIPs around the world. Thank you. This is a scarf that was created by the Portland Garment Factory with the image of the Tilikum Crossing on it, which is a symbol of our sustainability efforts. I was privileged to give the first of these to Michelle Obama, and it seems very appropriate that we give one to you. So thank you. Job well done. Thank you very much. All of you, thank you very much. Great work.
 Okay, we're going to move into our regular calendar in a moment. We have, it looks like, four people signed up for communications with the council, followed by the regular agenda and our consent agenda. Okay.
 I have no request to take items off the consent calendar. Is that right? Okay. Basic rules of decorum, folks. Welcome to the council chambers. If you want to speak on one of the calendar items today, just let our clerk know. We'll typically allow three minutes for individual testimony. It looks like we won't have so many people today that we'll have to shorten that. We follow the rules of decorum here, which is please don't disrupt anyone else's testimony or use profanity.
 you will be considered disruptive and asked to leave or excluded if you engage in those practices. We also like to make sure that people can be heard and not be intimidated. So if you agree with someone's point of view, feel free to give them a wave of the hand or a thumbs up or some other positive hand gesture. If you disagree with someone's point of view, a polite hand gesture to the negative is all right as well, but we ask other than celebrating events like we just did,
 that we not applaud or make verbal demonstrations in the council so that everyone feels like their views can be heard. With that, we will proceed please with item 1180. A request of Julie Reardon to address council regarding placing a neighborhood polluter on the do not buy list. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 Hello, my name is Julie. I live in southeast Portland. I'm a volunteer with South Portland Air Quality, founded in response to the identification of toxic hotspots by the U.S. Forest Service Moth Study earlier this year, which showed elevated levels of nickel and arsenic in the neighborhoods around precision cast parts.
 In conjunction with a public comment to the Socially Responsible Investment Committee, I'd like to address City Council directly to formally request that it divests its $4.8 million in holdings from precision cast parts and that the company is placed on the city's corporate securities do not buy list.
 The Oregon DEQ has since monitored the air around Precision, and recent results show levels as much as four times higher than health-based benchmarks for nickel, arsenic, and hexavalent chromium, exposing more than 10,000 people to toxic air. The Oregon Health Authority has launched an environmental health assessment to determine how toxics found in the neighborhood surrounding Precision have impacted the health of our community.
 More than 35 years ago, they dumped over 21,000 cubic feet of toxic waste, including radioactive, into the Johnson Creek landfill, which was unlined and currently being looked into for leachage. Three studies in 11 years of Johnson Creek show increasing levels of nickel, hexavalent chromium, and PCBs downstream from their outfall.
 In 2014, Timet, a subsidiary of Precision, was given a $13.75 million fine for illegally making 84,000 pounds of PCBs per year, the largest fine in the history of the Federal Toxic Substances Control Act. That same year, 20.5 tons of toxic waste was discovered in the drain pipe beneath Precision, which leads directly into Johnson Creek.
 Their labor practices are also controversial. In 1998, the National Labor Relations Board arranged a settlement for a former employee who had been wrongfully terminated for attempting to unionize. Investigators found precision, had issued rules against the distribution and discussion of pro-union support, threatened employees with termination, and relocating the plant to Washington if they voted in favor. However, they allowed anti-union supporters to use company resources and distribute on company time.
 In 2001, an employee died after falling into a vat of caustic acid, and since 2008, OSHA has issued precision at least 62 serious violations, nine of which may have resulted in death. OSHA investigated complaints from employees include respiratory protection, materials handling, and fall protection.
 Their market practices are questionable due to their high volume of acquisitions over the years. In 1999, the Federal Trade Commission filed charges against PCC due to the acquisition of Wyman Gordon. FTC alleged that by eliminating competition in these highly concentrated markets, the acquisition would have allowed PCC to exercise market power and increase prices.
 When the city of Portland made history by choosing to divest from Walmart, Commissioner Novick was quoted as saying, We care about working people. We care about the environment. We care about human health and money talks. Precision Cast Parts has committed toxic trespass, fostered a negligent work environment, spent decades cornering the market, and mistreated union supporters. To take taxpayer dollars and invest them in a company which exploits our community is adding insult to injury and does not truly reflect the values of our city. Thank you. Okay.
 Thank you very much. You brought this at a good time because obviously we have that coming up on the council calendar in the next couple weeks. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Let's take 1181, please. Request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding concerns about mayoral transition. Hobbs, come on up. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs.
 On the 12th of this month, I came down to City Hall just to say hello, then leave. What I saw was a quiet group of people and thought, oh, they're okay, and went to leave.
 Two steps from the bottom of the stairs, the front door of City Hall, I stopped and looked up, wondering what was happening, as I was now hearing panic screaming. What I was witness to was brutal assaults by Portland police officers as they were pushing people down the stairs after being given the order by you, Mayor Hales, to clear the building. One young man was pushed so hard at the top of the stairs. He
 He ended up face down, unconscious, at the bottom of the stairs, having landed at my feet, and I was not allowed to help him or even check to see if he was still breathing. I saw a woman startled by something behind her, and she turned her head and watched as pepper spray hit her in the face.
 Once out of the building, I watched people fighting not to fall, two people falling and getting trampled and worrying the entire time about the unconscious young man still on the stairs. If this is an example of improved policing, I am badly frightened and transition.
 I know that Mayor Ludwiler could opt not to take on the position of police commissioner, but I would ask that during discussions that you discuss what happened.
 One thing that is also not being brought into the discussion is Multnomah County Sheriff's deputies were also involved. We were pushed out the door by Portland Police, but then we were pushed to the sidewalk by Multnomah County Sheriff's deputies.
 I know people were very taken aback by my reaction, but at that point, having just gotten pushed out the door by the police when I was told to move by the sheriff's deputies,
 I said no. Next thing I know, I've got a nice stick in my chest pushing me back. When it ordered to the sidewalk again, I said no, was pushed again. Friends came out of concern for my safety and got me.
 I know Commissioner Fritz, you saw the picture that ended up a lot in the news of me helping a young lady that got pepper sprayed on the transit mall. That is normally what I do. I am not one to be confrontational. But I was so overly appalled by what I personally witnessed happened in that back door. Thank you, Sarah. Thank you very much.
 Okay. Let's take item 1182, please. Item 1182, request of Steve Unger to address council regarding need to revisit Airbnb and short-term rentals impact on housing shortage in Portland. Come on up. I emailed copies of my slides, which you could print out. I'm not sure, Steve, if we got those. Thank you.
 Okay. And I deserve to go through by slide. Slide one. About two years ago, City Council developed a new ordinance to help regulate Airbnb and short-term rentals in Portland. Since then, the issue of housing availability and rising rents have become much worse, especially in central Portland and close-in neighborhoods.
 Unfortunately, the short-term rental ordinance 1.0 has failed to regulate Airbnb, especially Airbnb host-absent entire-place rentals, which convert long-term rentals to short-term vacation rentals. And Airbnb has been unwilling to help. Slide 2.
 The housing shortage affects both affordable and market-rate housing, especially in central city and close-in neighborhoods where rents have risen dramatically and people have been forced to move further out to find housing they can afford. Slide 3. One culprit is Airbnb host-absent entire-place rentals, which are really urban vacation rentals. According to the website InsideAirbnb.com,
 Airbnb has over 2,000 entire place listings in Portland, over 60% of all their listings. And 40% of Portland Airbnb hosts have multiple listings, even though the current law limits most short-term rentals to a homeowner's primary residence. Slide 4. Significantly, entire place rentals on Airbnb affect some neighborhoods greatly, while others not at all.
 Slide 5, Portland's attempt to regulate short-term rentals has failed. There are now over 3,000 Airbnb listings in Portland. Over 2,000 are host absent entire place listings. And of the 3,000 listings, less than 400 short-term rentals have been licensed in Portland. Slide 6, what caused this failure? Slide 7, what caused this failure?
 The Short-Term Rental Ordinance 1.0 focused on the number of bedrooms rather than the type of listing. It allowed landlords to rent entire apartments. It allowed homeowners to rent ADUs. BDS compliance lacks resources. And most of all, Airbnb refuses to help.
 Slide 7. There's a lot that Airbnb could do to help Portland manage short-term rentals, but Airbnb continues to refuse to do so. Airbnb will not provide any city with contact information for their hosts. They will not take down listings that do not display a city permit number. They will not take down entire place rentals after they are listed for rent for 90 nights in the calendar year.
 And when Airbnb quotes statistics on impact on housing, they give misleading citywide averages rather than data on entire place rentals by zip code or neighborhood. And Airbnb consciously pits private room rental hosts against the city for political purposes.
 Slide 8. What needs to happen is to amend the current ordinance. Host resident private room rentals should continue to be encouraged because they do not affect housing. The focus should be on the listing service and the entire place rentals. If Airbnb continues to refuse to help, the city should increase the lodging tax on entire place rentals from 11.5% to 100%.
 Since Airbnb already collects and remits lodging tax, this would effectively price Airbnb and fireplace rentals out of the market without violating Internet freedom of speech. Steve, thank you very much. I appreciate you bringing this to us. Thank you. Mayor, apropos of this, I have a copy of the complaint that Airbnb filed against the mayor of New York and the attorney general. And in it, Airbnb takes the position under federal law
 both the constitution and statutory law local jurisdictions are preempted from requiring them to enforce any local rules as a operator of a platform it's a sweeping challenge to the ability of local governments to hold airbnb responsible for any local rules and regulations and it effectively takes the position that it is exclusively a concern between the host and the guest
 In light of that, because the net effect of the claims in this lawsuit is that we have no recourse under their view against Airbnb for any of the community standards that we've established, I'm going to ask the city attorney to give us an opinion on this.
 Furthermore, I think we have to, as a Council, come together and talk about the implications of this lawsuit because this is the nuclear card. This is effectively saying that our regulations cannot be enforced against them on any basis.
 claiming protections under the First Amendment and preemption under federal law. And if that's truly their position, then the implications cover every city and state in the country. And I would hope we'd have an opportunity to discuss that in light of our efforts to get them to comply with our rules.
 Steve, thanks for raising this issue, and obviously we're looking forward to seeing both the complaint, if you wouldn't mind distributing that, Commissioner, even before we get the city attorney's opinion. So timely. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's take 1183. Request of Leslie Goss to address council regarding Bureau of Environmental Services Terwilliger Boulevard sewer project. She called and is not able to make it.
 All right, then let's move to the consent calendar again. I don't believe we have any requests to take items off, so let's take a vote, please, on the consent calendar. Is it printed? Novick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Mayor, I just want to acknowledge that in the consent agenda, we're appointing Catherine McLeod, who has previously been considered for a position and is very well regarded, so we congratulate her for that appointment to the Fire and Police Disability Retirement Board. And there's also an item...
 in which the Bureau of Environmental Services is accepting a $400,000 grant from the United States Environmental Protection Agency to address brownfields. And I just want to thank the professionals at the Bureau for their great work in securing this grant. And as my colleagues know, a centerpiece of our comprehensive plan going forward is converting brownfields to productive use. And this is a small step in the right direction. So I want to thank my team. Hi. Thank you.
 Oaksman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move to item 1184, please. Adopt the fiscal year 2016-17 fall supplemental budget and make other budget-related changes. Okay. Andrew Scott, please come walk us through this proposal. Walk us, yeah. Sorry, didn't mean the bad pun. Okay.
 But you are actually walking now, so that's an improvement. Yes, I got rid of the crutches, so that's a good step forward. And I'm here, Andrew Scott, Budget Director, and I'm here with Jessica Kennard, the city's Supplemental Budget Coordinator.
 I'm going to do a very, very quick recap. We did have a work session on the fall supplemental budget last week. We went through in detail the requests that are on there. I'm going to talk a little bit about, again, recap what's filed, and then there are some amendments that have been passed around that I think we'll discuss today as well. So just as a reminder, the –
 We did have an $8 million excess balance carryover from last fiscal year. In the bump that, as it was filed, that has been $4 million of that is set aside for capital projects. The other $4 million went into general fund contingency projects.
 As filed, the ordinance funds $4.7 million of capital projects, so exceeds the 50% financial policy passed by council. It also funds $3.7 million in new requests, which would leave about $1.64 million in unrestricted contingency for the remainder of the year.
 In terms of position changes, there are 81.88, so just under 82 positions being added, the bulk of those in Transportation Bureau Development Services and OMF and then scattered throughout other bureaus as well.
 And then I do want to just remind you what we did talk about last week. The bump does include an adjustment to the current appropriation level target for the Portland Housing Bureau to address the IGA, the Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County for the Joint Office of Home and Services. So it increases Housing Bureau's budget by $3.5 million, which will, of course, be incorporated into the forecast that we issue in December.
 okay questions i i have one i just want to make sure this is in the record and that i understand it correctly i'm very happy to have included in the proposal the vision zero appropriation for outer halsey it was my intent in doing that and i think the commissioner in charge is understanding that those dollars from the general fund will be matched by systems development charge dollars and that the complete project will be built not just
 part of it. Yes, and Mayor, the supplemental budget does include a budget note to that effect.
 Mayor, I should add that I was at an East Portland Transportation Forum a couple of weeks ago, and we heard strong community support for the Halsey project, so I think people would be very happy. That's great. All right, thank you. Other questions? I know we have amendments to talk about, but other questions for staff? Okay. Then maybe we should take amendments and have you two standing by, and then we'll take testimony. Mayor, I have two amendments to offer. Okay. And these have been discussed with council offices. The first is a...
 I move to adjust the supplemental budget as follows. Increase the position authority in the Water Bureau by 3.0. Regular FTE, including one environmental specialist, one laboratory analyst, one and one laboratory coordinator to address the increased workload related to lead testing in water. The Bureau will fund the positions by reducing the water fund,
 contingency by $297,444 in the current year. Ongoing funding for the positions will be included in the annual budget development process and rates update with impacts to rates offset by other rate reductions. And this would also require updating Exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. And I make that motion. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Okay. And let's keep going. If you have another one, I think you're sure. Here I have a second amendment.
 And, Mayor, this is one co-sponsored by you, the Mayor, and me. It is to allocate $20,000 in unrestricted contingency to special appropriations to repair damages to the Portland Mercado food carts. And we would update Exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. And I have some, first of all, I'd like a second, and then I want to explain that. I'll second that. Okay.
 Okay. Is it 20 or 25? We're asking for 20. It was originally 25, but it looks like 20 will make a difference. 20. Mayor, on this amendment, the Portland Mercado is a project of Hacienda, CDC, and other community partners and has been funded generously by the Portland Development Commission.
 Recently, the food trucks were vandalized, and someone broke into the food trucks, damaged the doors, stole property, did other bad things. A number of food trucks were knocked out of business for a couple of days. As part of the rebuilding, there's extensive damage to the food trucks and to the area.
 They have started a Kickstarter campaign and are receiving private contributions to help repair. I understand people are contributing between $5 and $500 towards this cause. But the reality is these are hardworking immigrants, small businesses, who can't afford to be out of business for one or two days. And it is shameful that someone chose to damage their trucks, which is their livelihood.
 What we're proposing, Mayor, you and I are proposing that we set aside the $20,000, that we ask the Portland Development Commission to determine the extent of the losses, less whatever insurance provides and private fundraising, and that this money be used to help with the repairs. And, of course, it would be my hope that not all the money would be necessary to be expended.
 I spoke yesterday to the executive director of PDC. She's happy to play that role to determine what the extent of the damages are and then to oversee the distribution of these funds, and then it would be my intention to report back to council how these funds were expended.
 Thank you. The only thing I would add to that good summary is that I was out at the groundbreaking for the first of the four projects in Lentz that are finally implementing the Lentz Action Plan last Sunday. And there was a great community gathering of all these folks that have worked for years on Lentz. I was joking with Ray Heights, some of you know as an activist in that neighborhood, that when he and I started talking about these projects we both had dark brown hair.
 But nevertheless, after all this time and all this planning, they're finally happening. And so it was this great celebration. And there were a bunch of people there from the Asian Health and Services Center who were talking about how wonderful the mercado is. So here we have the Asian community celebrating the Latino community's biggest accomplishment in community development. So the fact that it has that kind of community support, Mr. Fish, means that we should step up and help them make sure this place stays great.
 Okay, those two amendments are before us. I just had a question of the sponsor. Sure, please. So it is your intent that this is truly a one-time emergency appropriation, not to become an ongoing process?
 Shadow appropriation? Yes, and Commissioner Salzman, thanks for raising that. And it's also an issue that our independent budget officer cares a lot about as well. This is a purely one-time grant to help some local small business deal with an extraordinary occurrence. This is not intended to be a recurring budget asset.
 It is for purposes of emergency repair, so it's stated. Thank you. I appreciate the question. So we'll take action on the first of these and put it before us, and then we can move on to the rest of them. So other questions? We'll take testimony on everything, but we're going to put them all on the table then. We'll put them all on the table and take testimony, and we can adopt them in order. Okay, let's take the next motion, please, on amendments. Yes.
 Mayor, I move to make the following adjustment to the supplemental budget as proposed. Increase the Bureau of Programming Expenses and the Portland Bureau of Transportation by $150,000 to provide miter repairs to recreational vehicles lived in by the homeless, allowing them to relocate or, at a minimum, make their vehicles safe for habitation.
 and to provide resources for dismantling of certain RVs. If approved, those dollars be used to recycle derelict RVs with little or no salvage value that are cost prohibitive for owners to recycle. As a result, these RVs are often sold or auctioned for very minimal amounts and repeatedly cycle through the tow yards and back onto the streets of Portland. These vehicles are not safe for habitation, cannot be rehabilitated, and pose an environmental hazard because of a range of fluids and substances that leak from them.
 PBOT estimates this funding will allow the Bureau to dismantle 75 to 100 vehicles in the first year or 800 to 1,000 per vehicle, with diminishing numbers in the following years. Based on initial projections, PBOT plans to allocate $30,000 for repairs and $120,000 for dismantling and recycling. I'll second that. Second. Okay. Just as a clarification, none of the vehicles that people are actually living in, regardless of whether they should be living there,
 they're not going to be towed and squashed. Any other?
 These are vehicles that have already been towed, I think. They've already been towed. That's right. There's somebody, staff here about this, but we got a presentation about this. My understanding, good question, Commissioner, let's make sure we understand this. My understanding is the vehicles involved are ones that have already been towed and that are coming out of a tow yard empty of people. My question is, are they empty of people before they are towed to the… Good question, and I don't know the answer to that. So…
 Is Dave Benson here? Yeah. Dave, are you here? Are we going to do a presentation on this? Well, it looks like we ought to at least have questions before we put the amendment before us. So let's get those questions asked and answered. Dave Benson, Bureau of Transportation Commission. I'm sorry, I didn't hear your question over in the gallery. Okay.
 Are any vehicles towed to the tow yard that still have people in them? Are people ejected from them? No. I know our towers, when they go out for an abandonado, if there's people in the vehicles, they will not tow them. Thank you. That's all I needed to know. All right. So that amendment is in front of us. Stand by in case there are more questions after testimony. Now, Commissioner Saltzman, I believe you have an amendment. Yes.
 I would move to make the following adjustment to the supplemental budget as proposed. Amend one regular full-time equivalent currently requested as a regular position to limited term in the Portland Housing Bureau's budget. This position will provide data collection and analysis services for the Joint Office of Homeless Services and was intended to be a limited duration request and update Exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. Yes, sir. Second. Thank you.
 Second. All right. Mayor, did we have a second on Novick's amendment? Yes, I did, and he did too, so we have two of them, so go ahead. All right. Okay, other proposed amendments to put on the table before we take the testimony? I don't have a proposed amendment, but I just want to make it clear what's happening by adopting this budget. As you'll remember, Parks asked for $1.6 million as a match for $7 million in FEMA money for repair of things that got destroyed.
 dislodged in the floods and the rains. The City Budget Office and the Council, by adopting this budget, has directed Parks and me to use $1.2 million from the sale of the surplus properties to the Housing Bureau, which I had been planning to use to either
 either buy, acquire property in park deficient areas or build a park in a park deficient area. Instead we've been asked to put that towards fixing the problems from the floods. And because the amount that we got from the sale to
 the Housing Bureau is $1.2 million, that leaves $478,641, which we don't have a match for, which means that we would be leaving $1.4 million from the federal government on the table. We wouldn't be able to do the projects. The children's make that quite clear that, in my opinion, we should be repairing things, and we'll need to come to council to let you know what's not going to get repaired.
 So I don't think that's an outcome that I would like, but I guess I don't understand the timeline. So by when must we put up all those match funds in order to gain all the federal dollars that we would be matching? My understanding is there's 18 months to put that up, but I'm not sure when that 18-month window starts. The point is I don't know where I'd get the other nearly $500,000. I mean, it can come back in the spring, but I'm not sure.
 I think Mr. Fritz has done an admirable job framing that concern, and I think we have time to address it. And in the interim, I'd also want to know if we have any flexibility with the windfall of SDC revenues we've received, whether there's some adjustments we can make in the budget, because one of the –
 One of the great benefits of this bull market is we're getting huge amounts of systems development charges to address something you and I care deeply about, which is building parks in East Portland. So I'd want to know how that balances out with this request. Well, thank you for bringing that up. We have already allocated $6 million of system development charge money to doing some work at Park Lane Park, which is one of the community's greatest projects.
 desire out there, we would still need about $20 million for that, which we don't have. We've also allocated money for various other projects. And obviously, we can't use system development charges for doing repairs.
 So it might be useful to know that date. Is it July? Is it January 1 of 18? When is that date? It would be useful to know that. And remind me again what the match ratio is. How many dollars? It's 3 to 1. So it's nearly 1.5 million. In my opinion, and I suspect the budget office might agree with this opinion because I know how they think about money, it would be crazy to leave that kind of match unsaid.
 unrequited. So one way or another, I think the city should make sure we fund fully our side of that equation so that we get $3 for every one that we spend, because we don't get those opportunities very often. The question is just when do we have to spend all those dollars in order to achieve that match? But we might need a budget note in order to make it clear that we're
 Well, maybe we don't have to have a budget note for council intent. But anyway, it would certainly be my hope and expectation that we do that. We can get back in terms of when that timeline is up. And in the city budget office analysis, we actually suggested that parks take some existing maintenance money in order to ensure that we get the match for those repairs, which, of course, would delay existing maintenance projects. So there is a tradeoff there. But we felt like the tradeoff was manageable within those existing resources. Right. Well, we've got the boilers that were not funded in this bump either. Yeah.
 And I do want to return to the $1.2 million from selling the park property to housing. I thought we were being entrepreneurial and collaborative and would then help everybody out by having that money available for new parks. As I say, I know I don't have the votes for it, so we'll just move on. All right. Thank you. All right. Other amendments, suggestions, or requests of staff?
 All right, then let's please... Actually, Mayor, I would like to ask Andrew, what's your response to Commissioner Fritz's concern? Do you think that...
 What we're doing in this bump is appropriate. We can wait to get the match later on. Or do you mean, I don't want to put you on the spot like this, but can you give the argument for putting us in the situation we're in now? Yeah, just specifically around this issue. Yeah, we absolutely think we should capture all of the FEMA money that's available.
 When we looked at the entirety of all the requests on the table, including those from parks, you know, in our view, it was better to take the money from the existing sale to make sure we got that match, which there is a tradeoff there, as the commissioner noted, is not, you know, expanding the park system.
 On the larger issue, one of the things that we've raised is the ongoing concern that as we expand the park system, we're shifting more general fund to operate and maintain those parks. So we just want to be really clear about those decisions. But we suggested taking that funding and then reallocating existing funding. So I don't want to overshadow. There are tradeoffs in that, but we felt like those tradeoffs were the best way to repair the damage from the storm and then continue to work on those other maintenance issues as we move forward.
 Andrew, this is for me the first time this issue has been flagged, so no one has brought this to my attention before today.
 And if that's known as brought it to my attention. And if this is something the commissioner in charge feels strongly about, then I agree with the mayor. I'd like to know what our options are going forward and what the timeline is and then whether we have other options. And it sounds like we have enough time to come up with a creative solution. Commissioner Fletcher, I think you missed the work session. I think you were a little traveling. So we did discuss that at the work session. I'm just saying it's the first time it's been brought to my attention.
 Again, my philosophy, and I think it's reflected in this proposal, is that when we get a match opportunity, we should step up and do it. If it's otherwise an investment that the city would want to make, we're doing that with the Halpern sequence in this proposal because the time is right now. Either we do it or we don't. When that, we should not...
 pass that milestone with this opportunity without funding the match. But the question is, how long does the council have? How many more budget exercises will we go through before it's too late? And I think there's at least two. I think there's the spring bump and the next general fund budget, but it's worth checking.
 And I'll just add from what I know from the Bureau, Ryan Kinsler from the Budget Office. The project managers indicated that I believe it's 18 months from the time of the event that they would need to make a claim with FEMA for the reimbursement. So that would be June of 2017 that they have to the timeline. They've also indicated, the Bureau has indicated, that the 1.2 million, the current estimates are an estimate. It could be less. It could be substantially more. So, yeah.
 The full $1.6 million might not be needed after everything's all signed up. Mayor, can I make a proposal? Sure, please. Because this is a really good conversation. Why don't we drop a budget note that says in the spring bump – what's the next bump? Yeah, it'll be the spring bump. Spring bump. That in the spring bump, we would ask the Budget Office to come forward with options for how we can capitalize on this FEMA match. Okay.
 and work with the then commissioner in charge on developing options for how we can fund it. Does that capture the spirit? I like that idea. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. All right, so that's some consensus about that. Let's please do put that in the match. Obviously, that's before June. And just like we did with the Halpern sequence this time, we flagged that before. Now we're paying for it. It would be the same kind of a process. Thank you.
 Okay. Good discussion. Appreciate that, Commissioner Fritz. Any other questions? All right. Now let's move to testimony, please. We have five people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Reedy Gregg, and Mary Eng. Okay. Come on up. Okay, Mr. Johnson, make your first. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name has been cited as Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and
 And in the context of this budget, it's a modification. It's important that we note what's really not a proud Portland tradition. In addition to abuse to protesters from police, we have a shameful tradition of compelling people to sleep outside on sidewalks, bridges, tents. For those who are really attentive, this discussion comes with a 48-page PDF.
 And while we are making strides and we have a joint office with the county working on homelessness, we know that the de facto policy of this city is for 1,000-plus people to lay on our sidewalks and lay under our bridges with almost nothing, sometimes a tarp. They can't get that from any city agency if they don't have a tarp or a blanket. They have to just hope that the Portland Rescue Mission hasn't run out.
 If the temperature gets to around 33 degrees, we might find some volunteers that will open buildings that they can go into until 7 o'clock in the morning or maybe some places for a full day if it's really super cold. So when we talk about this budget modifications and adjustments, it's important that we don't be overly congratulatory to ourselves about what we are accomplishing because what we are accomplishing is...
 deliberately, willfully choosing to treat local people worse than we treat society.
 refugees in foreign refugee camps and emergency service centers in Haiti, in people fleeing Syria. They have tents. They have camps with water brought in. The reason they don't have trash piling up and creating chaos in the Lentz neighborhood is because government agencies and NGO agencies service those people by providing them with hygiene facilities and trash disposal
 which we don't do. We will intentionally this year keep about 1,000 people from having any safe, hygienic place to live. We've tried. Hopefully, we'll be able to look back and say, well, it was a smaller number this year than it was in the previous year. But the truth is, we're choosing not to allocate
 services, resources so that the hundreds of toilets that are in Veterans Memorial Coliseum and Moda Center that don't get used many nights of the year won't be available to those people. We haven't found a way, so let's just not be overly congratulatory, and let's admit that the Portland way, as talked about by Ellen Osinatch in front of Judge Simon, is not always such a great way. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next. Go ahead. Thank you.
 Thanks so much for including us. I'm Randy Gregg from the Halpern Landscape Conservancy. I just wanted to briefly say thank you for including us in this budget. The $1.5 million, we believe, will be extremely well spent. We have increasing momentum with our efforts to restore the fountains and to kind of bring them back to life.
 in an increasingly growing neighborhood, more population, more businesses coming in, more buildings coming in. We have a growing embrace from the neighborhood. In fact, there's a branding campaign of the major businesses there to rebrand the area as the Fountain District. So there's a real embrace of the plazas that hasn't been there for quite some time.
 And then also, I just came back from the American Society of Landscape Architects, where we did a presentation on our efforts there. And we had about 250 folks in the room from all around the country. And one of the preeminent architects, landscape architects of our time, Laurie Olin, who's done much work here in Portland, got up and talked about just how important these fountains have been to the profession.
 to influencing a whole generation of landscape architects to make more playful urban spaces. And so I recognize some really tough choices that you all have to make, and thanks for this vote in restoring these important resources to us.
 And lastly, I really want to thank the staff of Parks. We've worked through some really, really difficult budget choices, and they have been so fantastic to work with. It's been a hard grind, and we've got an established budget, and we're ready to roll. So thank you so much for your efforts. Thank you, and Karen and others who've worked so hard to get people to make commitments to match our money. Thank you. Okay.
 Next. Go ahead, please. Hi, counsel. My name is Mary Rose Lenore Eng. Eng is Norwegian for meadow and German for narrow.
 and Chinese for something too. So I just want to thank you for this microphone, for this timer, which reflects that I have two minutes and 43 seconds left. Thank you for Carla, all the work she does. Thank Robert King for always being so fantastic and kind to me and gracious. I want to thank our beautiful city attorney, Judy Prosper,
 We endured a very tough meeting last night. I want to thank you, Mayor Hales and Ms. Fritz, for being present for Mr. Simon. I want to thank the Mercado for really spicing up Lentz. I think it's so beautiful. I love the beauty of it and the beauty of
 Latino activist movement as I knew it in Los Angeles. When my own family had abandoned me, I felt like the Latino community opened their arms to me and treated me so kindly. I want to thank Ms. Laura Vanderlin, who is of Mexican nationality originally before she came to America and had some beautiful black grandkids.
 and black daughters. And I think in some ways we've got to realize our multicultural landscape involves very complicated families. I have black cousins. I want to thank Abel Gordley for her work on the co-op and congratulate her on her Portland Development Commission house that she's obtained from her...
 or house sale. That's very interesting. Some people are viewing it as a kickback or cashola. I'm not going to make a decision on that yet, but I want to point towards Angela Grebin. Angela Grebin is working with open government, and I noticed your open data transparency initiative, and Angela Grebin would like you guys to give comments.
 Laura Vanderlind's iPhone back, as well as unblock her on Twitter, because open data means that if we have an emergency like we did when I was scheduled to speak and was actually on a bus when that explosion happened downtown, you want to be able to reach your citizens. They may be looking towards Twitter. That may be their main agenda. So with budget...
 Make some budget for your own investment in your own spirits. I suggest yoga and meditation. I suggest you resign. Once again, Charlie Hales on the O'Day shooting. I'll go with you to Europe if you want to run away with me. And we can go to the Tate. I love the Tate Modern. I love the Tate Galleries. We could...
 I don't know, do something humanitarian, go rescue refugees in the Mediterranean. But there's a point where city leadership requires dedication to the principle of riot prevention. And when you push people too far with not respecting their need for good leadership, you have to take accountability, sir, for the things you blame on other people when you pepper spray amputees and babies and children and women. And I don't condone rude or...
 Poor behavior, but I do recognize that we have a Standard of decency that we need to ensure for all members of this community including Our g4s guards including Michael Cohen who I understand has been exposed for having some background problems and some brutality here Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead, please Yes, my name is lightning. I represent lightning watchdog PDX on the Mercado food carts
 I have a problem. My understanding, you said that was a grant. And my problem is that if the insurance comes through and covers all the costs, will the grant be reimbursed back to the city? My understanding – It's this net of insurance. So it's a pool of money. I don't want to interrupt you. No, that's fine. Thank you. It's a great question, as always. They have – some of the small businesses have insurance. Others don't.
 So the idea would be for those expenses that are not covered by some other source, we would provide the grant money to help them. And while I've asked for $20,000, I anticipate that we won't expend the entire $20,000. And we'll have PDC administer it so that there's a report back to council about what was a covered expense and what wasn't.
 Okay, very good. Now the issue on the Portland Parks, on Commissioner Fritz's position on this, is that in my opinion, with a match of three to one in dealing with FEMA, and as you know, things can come up that can change funding all the time. I mean, new administration, other disasters in other areas, and
 In my opinion, when you have a three-to-one match, you want to move in on that immediately because that opportunity can disappear. And you don't want to hesitate. You want to put up that funding, and it sounds like you're able to do it in some manner, but to extend this out, in my opinion, could jeopardize success.
 the overall ability to get that money in the future. And that's just my opinion, because things change all the time on getting funding. You want to move on that fast, get that into place. So my position is to try to move some funding in that area immediately and then focus on that FEMA money. Issue number two on the RV situation,
 It's my understanding when an RV is towed off the streets, it goes into the tow company's property. And basically, it's kind of their problem. And as you know, when you get into the salvage scrap of RVs, they're not really something like snits or steel or it's really going to have an interest in. But there's a lot of headache into that in RVs.
 insulation, environmental issues, and all that other stuff that can come into play when you step in position on that. In my opinion, set it aside to the tow companies. That's your problem. That's what you specialize in, and you handle it, plain and simple. Keep the city out of that entirely. The other issue, again, on transportation, and it's nothing real negative here,
 I don't like to see a lot more employees being hired at this time. I think we're in a bubble that we're going to see that when new administration takes position. And we need to be very cautious right now and begin to look at thinning out the labor force and not adding more. That's my opinion, but I think within the next six to 12 months we'll see the reality. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Yes, my name is Robert West. I'm with Film the Police 911, and I want to bring up the RV issue. A lot of these RVs that the police are towing and meter maids are towing are actually owned and operated. They're people's homes, and just because they're not there at the time of the tow truck doesn't mean that they're just abandoned. People can't afford to put them in.
 on private property and stuff like that, you're losing a lot of RV space, and they're putting different things, building small houses and stuff like that. So as you squeeze out RV space, people wind up with RVs out on the street. You're giving the police and you're giving the meter maids open cars to go out and just tow these vehicles, right?
 We shouldn't encourage tow companies, police, or meter maids to tow these people's homes. If I were to go over and remove your home, you'd be very upset. And these people get upset too. I mean, everything they own is in their RV. It gets towed, and then they can't get a hold of their personal property, and they lose everything. And that's not right.
 That's not fair. And some of these people that live in RVs actually work and stuff like that. What the city calls abandoned is someone's home. And at no point should the city put out any kind of money to dismantle or take someone's home. Unless the city can show for a fact that someone's not living in there.
 And that's what I wanted to bring up. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, others? Janice Thompson and Joe Walsh. Come on up, please. Go ahead, please, Janice. I think you're first. Janice Thompson, Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. I'm here with some suggestions related to the bump process and the utility bureaus.
 You know, it's taken me a little while to sort out this process. It's been doable, especially since, you know, oftentimes, more typically, there's minor tweaks coming up. It's a little bit more challenging this time with the relatively atypical addition of several positions in the Water Bureau's bump program.
 requests. And if it's challenging for me, it seems like it's fair to say it's probably even trickier for the pub with their monthly meeting schedules. So I've got three suggestions. One is more proactive discussion by the utility bureaus about bump requests in general, but especially if they're kind of atypical or more on the atypical end of the spectrum.
 with both CUB and PUB. Sharing the CBO analysis of the Utility Bureau's request with CUB and PUB, I mean, last Thursday I was watching online. I couldn't be here in person, though I understand that PUB representatives were, members were, which was great. But for example, I couldn't
 Online, various information that was being discussed wasn't up yet. And then also have CUB and PUB, as has been occurring in the regular work sessions, also be a participant at the bump work sessions, kind of akin to having the budget advisory committee, whose oversight has a little bit more of a general fund focus, was at your meeting last Thursday. Okay.
 Like I say, I was definitely listening. I know some pub members were here as well, but not in a way that provided an opportunity at that point to ask questions.
 Mayor, if I could just respond, and thank you, Janice, for all three suggestions. On the first two, we have to do a better job, and the excuse can't be that the pub meets monthly. And while this is not a structural change of any note to our budget, I think any change that appears in a bump should be reviewed by the pub. So I agree with your first two suggestions. And Mayor, on the third, I think
 I wish I had raised that during the bump because we did have the co-chairs here of the pub. And I would hope that with the next administration that we formally invite the co-chairs and the representative of the cub to sit at the table akin to our citizen budget folks when any bump requests involving the utilities is discussed. And I would hope that that's something my colleagues would support. Thank you. Thanks very much, Janice. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We object to the process that you go through. When you do the amendments, you completely confuse everybody. You're the only ones that really know what's going on, because you've looked at the amendments. I hope that you've had some conversations about the amendments. But then you put them on the table here, and you go through two or three amendments, and then you take a vote.
 And nobody knows what you're doing. That's why you get an F on your transparency. That's one of the reasons. And that's so simple to resolve. You know, if you're going to do amendments on the budget, especially the budget, and you want people to understand what you're doing, then hold it over for a week or so.
 and then have another conversation where you have community input. So the community gets some time to look at it and try to figure out what you're doing. Mr. Walsh, we discussed all this. Wait, wait, wait. There should be no separation between you and the community. And up here, when I sit here and I listen to you, that's a thought that goes through my mind. They think they know more than everybody out here.
 And that's not true. You know more than I do, obviously. But you don't know more than everybody. So give everybody a chance to talk to you. So when you do these amendments, hold it over. I don't know if you're going to vote on this today. That's what you usually do. You listen to us. Three minutes is up. Boom, red light. Get out of here. Vote aye, aye, aye. You sound like pirates. That's what you always remind me of. Aye, aye, aye, aye, aye. Five ayes.
 Hold it over and let the community come in and talk to you because we are in trouble. We all acknowledge that. We're all struggling trying to figure out how, in God's name, we bridge the gap. And the gap is getting bigger, not smaller, throughout the whole country and here, here especially. I had one of your staffers ask me last week, Joe, can we hold a meeting without a demonstration? Yes.
 And I said, it's up to the mayor. Stop being a jerk. And you will not have demonstrations. Do you see demonstrations here today? You have not been a jerk yet. So please, Mr. Novick, Commissioner Novick. Mr. Walsh, I just wanted to tell you that we discussed all of these amendments except for the Mercado proposal at a work session last week. I also wanted to say that I appreciate you referring to us as pirates because I think that's the most complimentary thing you've ever said about the city council. Okay.
 Okay, we can't attend all these meetings. The public cannot attend them. They see this meeting as the most important because you take the votes. Okay, so you can't say to me, well, we did it on the work session. You know, we don't have the time to do it. I'm retired. I don't have the time to follow all the committees around. We can't do it.
 We are here, and I know that's at a disadvantage because there's so much work done before you even get it. However, this is a community speaking to you, not just me, but a lot of people. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. Anyone else on this item?
 All right, so first we ought to take action on the amendments as they were proposed. So let's take Commissioner Fish's first amendment, which is this. Ma'am, you may not interrupt the council meeting. If you interrupt again, you'll be excluded. You will be excluded if you interrupt. Okay, let's take Commissioner Fish's first amendment, which is the three positions in the Water Bureau. Take a vote on that, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I thought the parents went R, not I. Aye.
 Thank you, colleagues. Aye. I just wanted to thank the Water Bureau and Commissioner Fish's office for providing me a detailed analysis of this amendment. Aye. Aye. Okay, now I'll take up the second one, which is the Mercado emergency repairs, $20,000. No, thank you.
 aye fritz hi fish i want to thank my colleagues on this and i also appreciate the feedback that the mayor and i got we will administer these funds wisely we will provide an accounting and we will make sure these funds are net of other funds that the aggrieved small businesses receive from insurance and other sources this is our our way as a body however to forcefully speak out against someone who would vandalize
 the trucks and the small businesses of immigrant entrepreneurs, it is shameful. And I'm proud of this council for stepping up.
 Hi. Hales. You know, there was this, obviously, last week while we were having this council meeting, we had this huge disaster in northwest Portland, and I'm happy to see our city bureaus coming together to work on how do we respond to that. So when we have a situation in our small business community like this, one way or another we ought to try to be there, and I appreciate this. Mayor, can I just also acknowledge that?
 Driving back from the site visit to report to you, your office immediately said, co-sponsor, you want to move on this. And thank you for your leadership. Thank you. It was a good piece of work. Aye. Okay. Let's take Commissioner Novick's amendment with respect. Most of the other questions about it, there was testimony, which I think we can answer as we vote, but very good points made. Commissioner Novick's amendment about the RV program. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. The point was raised here that I think I want to emphasize that that is we ought to be exercising and I hope and expect that we are great sensitivity about what happens when we do tow somebody's vehicle, whether it's their automobile or their RV. And I expect and will hold people accountable that we do that. Once one has been towed, then what I believe the intent of this program is is to do triage and say that one can be repaired and
 used as housing for people that are desperate for housing good that's what we should be doing the ones that are beyond repair are the ones that should be obviously recycled so that's our expectation about this program it's a little bit of a pilot project obviously the council is going to want to hear back about how it's working as a program and how it's working for the people affected but I think it's worth a try thank you aye okay
 Commissioner Saltzman's amendment, one FTE added to the Housing Bureau's budget. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. And that's all the amendments, I believe. So then let's take a vote, please, on the fall supplemental budget as amended. Novick. Aye. Bish.
 Well, thank you, Mayor, for your last full budget submission and for many of the things that are in it. It is an emergency ordinance, so I will be voting for it despite some of the concerns I've raised. I'm particularly pleased that the council agreed to continue implementing the policy that I led, dedicating 50% of all ending fund balance and one-time money, which this is, to capital projects in transportation parks and emergency prep.
 preparedness, it's really important to see these maintenance needs funded in the bump and disappointing to see that many others still need funding. I'm particularly grateful that there are funds for additional park ranges to help patrol along the spring water corridor in East Portland.
 I was concerned about the better NATO seasonal, because it seemed like $350,000 for one summer of temporary bollards seemed a bit high. So thank you for your staff letting me know what it's for. It's actually for five years, so about $70,000 a year. I am still a bit concerned that the administration
 administrative costs and outreach and contingency are almost $150,000 so that's over 40% of the allocation. So that's still of concern. And obviously I'm glad that the Halperin partnership has been forged and that you've been
 been able to get the property owners to pitch in so that lovely resource can be preserved and maintained and glad for the 1.5 million. What I've been doing when I get requests from affluent neighbourhoods to fund something and to partner with parks, I try to find the money with system development charges or other things to at the same time provide improvements in neighbourhoods that don't have parks. So I am disappointed that the council is choosing to
 basically to take the money from the sale of the property to housing, which we'll be bringing to you on November 16th, taking that money as the match for the repairs in Forest Park and elsewhere, which then leaves me with not the $1.2 million that I was hoping to get to put to Parks in East Portland. But thank you again, Mayor. I appreciate your partnership. Bye. Yes. Mayor, I want to join Commissioner Fritz in acknowledging this is your last official budget act
 And thank you for the skillful way you've handled this and other budgets. I think for a casual observer, this seems to be relatively drama-free. But we have to make tough choices around competing requests and values. So I want to thank you. I thought this was a particularly effective budget modification process. I want to thank Andrew and his team because they do all the hard work and make it look easy. Thank you.
 I want to thank my colleagues for the discussions we've had and the consensus that we arrived at, and I want to thank the public for helping to shape this. There's a number of things in here that I really care about. I'm pleased that we're carrying over money to help Dan fund Winter Shelter. Winter Shelter is a basic service we need to fund, and the partnership between the city and the county is bearing fruit. I'm really pleased that Steve is getting some money to make progress on Vision Zero. You don't –
 have to just be one of the two people up here whose lives have been touched by tragedy to understand that Vision Zero has to be at the center of what we do as a city. And people should have an absolute right to expect that the sidewalks and streets are safe. And Steve, you've been a champion for Vision Zero, and it is an audacious goal, and it's a goal that will be very hard to reach.
 but it's a goal that we'll get closer to if we make these kinds of investments. And I particularly appreciate all the community partners who educated me about the benefits of Better NATO on a seasonal basis and the imperative on an equity basis of going out to East Portland and addressing this challenge where people are dying at an alarming rate.
 I want to thank our friends from the Halpern Conservancy. What Commissioner Fritz and I and all of us who had the honor of being commissioners in charge know is that the needs of our system outstrip our ability to pay for them. So when public-spirited individuals and companies come forward and say, we're going to contribute through a partnership for the benefit of our city, we need to embrace that and say thank you.
 And I deeply appreciate that Commissioner Fritz is investing the bulk of our resources in the places that have gone without for so long. And one of her legacies will be a developed park system in East Portland that 10 years ago was a dream, but there was no real path forward.
 But it is also important that when we have a masterwork like the Halpern Sequence that we invest in maintaining it. I believe it will be another destination place in our city when it's restored. We can't do this without private partners. Randy, thank you for literally writing the book. Karen and Randy and all the partners, thank you for raising the money. And I also want to acknowledge something Commissioner Fritz said.
 It was under her leadership that we took the step of saying 50 percent of these funds would be dedicated to major maintenance. And that, of course, responded to a public that said we're not investing enough in maintenance. But it was the kind of symbolic and substantive gesture that has borne fruit. And millions of dollars is now going to major maintenance that otherwise wouldn't have. And I think we owe her a debt on that. And finally –
 On the Mercado, the one question I've received in the last 24 hours in terms of pushback is, why would we invest in the Mercado, this group of small business people and not others? The answer is we do invest in others. Under this mayor, we have invested a ton of money through the Portland Development Commission in supporting small business, access to capital, storefront improvements, investments in infrastructure. That's all in aid of small business.
 You've also increased funding for the Venture Portland, which helps the 50 neighborhood business districts prosper. When there's an emergency, we always step up and ask what we can do, as you indicated, along 23rd Street. And I thank you and Dan for the prompt way you were on site and that you were reaching out to folks. So the Mercado is a project of this city. It's part of our core strategy of equity and opportunity.
 And when someone vandalized those trucks, they struck at the heart of something we're trying to do, which is to give people that have been shut out a chance to prosper. And the modest investment we made there in helping new immigrants chase a dream is something we should be all proud of. And this modest investment is a way of saying shame on the person or persons that tried to prevent them from earning a living. And I'm proud to be on a council that would act to remedy that wrong. Again, Mayor, thank you for your leadership. And Andrew.
 The ending fund balance is just under $2 million. You said you wanted us to keep a reserve. We could have spent that money, but we've shown the discipline of keeping it in a rainy day account if we need it down the road. And I'm pleased that we've done that in this budget as well. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Well, some people say budgets are boring and they might be to many people, but I have, like Mayor Katz did, put a lot of my time and effort into the city's budget during the time that I've served the city as mayor. So this is my last opportunity to do that and I'm very proud of this one, even though it's obviously the smaller element of the budget process compared to the big annual budget.
 And that's consisted of both emergency response, the first big budget we worked on was one that was $21 million in the red when we started. And we have done well together, I think, in trying to make these budget decisions. So I want to thank my colleagues for good work. And you're right, it sometimes appears like there's no drama about the budget, but there is, because as you can tell, people are passionately concerned about serving the community, and we do that in lots of different ways.
 and there's never enough money to do everything that we want. I also want to second the commendations to you, Amanda, for having this policy here that when we have extra money, we spend at least half of it on capital investment. That's just good management, and you put that into our DNA as a city, and it's very good that that's how we operate. I'm very proud of some of the elements of this budget, the fact that we are –
 restoring the halpern sequence with people that have worked so hard to make that happen you know the the parks and fountains of our city they may happen to be located in one particular neighborhood i have a particular love for laurel hearst park i don't live in that neighborhood anymore but that's where my kids first wandered around a city park so whenever i go there i see my kids on cardboard sliding down the hill in the snow
 And so that park is a treasure for everybody, whether they live in that neighborhood or not. And it's the same with the Halpern sequence. So I think it's a proud moment when we invest in those places that make Port One, Port One.
 I'm very happy that we're fixing the Southwest Community Center roof, although frustrated that we had to because when I was the parks commissioner, we passed the first bond and you helped us pass the second one, Commissioner, that started reinvesting in our park system and every time I go in one of those community centers, I say that was good work and they're always full of life and activity and so we've got to make sure that that sticks around.
 Putting that building right is something that we simply must do. I'm very happy about Better NATO. And by the way, in terms of community involvement, I want to thank the hundreds of people who let us know that that's a priority for them in this city. It really helped, I think, make the case that having more safe places to bike and expanding the public realm for bicycles in this city is something that we're still committed to. And Better NATO, this version of it, is a step in that direction.
 And then finally, this investment in Vision Zero is something that I really want to commend you, Commissioner Novick, and the Transportation Bureau for making a priority. You know –
 Gang violence is still a serious problem in this city. Although it's down 20% from last year, we've had 1,069 shots fired, 39 people wounded, two people killed. We've had, I think, 15 homicides in this city. But we've killed 34 of our fellow citizens with cars. And that's the number one threat to public safety in our city. We had Fawn Langanus, the mother of Fowl and Smart.
 here at this table a few weeks ago talking about the hole in her heart from her daughter's death on Hawthorne when she was run over by a reckless driver. So Vision Zero is real and it's human and it matters. And that's why I'm very proud that we're making that investment as well.
 budgets are how you put values into action. This is good action, and I'm very proud of it. Thank you all very much for our work on this. Andrew, you have been a pleasure to work with. You get to work with really smart people.
 at this table, and you're one of them. And the folks that you've assembled in our budget office are the best in the business, as it was just, I think, validated by the Bloomberg Foundation in the recognition for the work that we're doing on data and open government. But just the quality of analysis that goes into this budget process, the coherent philosophy about spending money intelligently, well, and prudently that you have
 represent every time and every meeting, public or private, is something that's a real asset to the city. So I want to commend you and the city budget office for serving us and the whole community very well. Finally, my own staff has worked a long time on budget issues, finding time to do that in the midst of everything else. So Tara and to all the folks in our office, thank you for good work as well. I'm very proud of this day. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you very much. Okay, let's move on, please, to the next item on the list, which is another happy moment, 1185. Accept Salmon Safe certification for the City of Portland. Okay. Come on up, Ms. Anderson. And let me say that, again, this is a proud day for us as a city.
 In 2013, I made a pledge at World Environment Day that we would become a salmon-safe city. And now we've done it. We're the first salmon-safe certified municipality in the country. We've made a commitment to do what we do in terms of public works and investments and maintenance in a way that actually protects the fish that is the symbol for many people of our part of the world.
 Certainly for Native people it is and for the rest of us as well.
 So I want to thank our bureau directors who are here and the staff who have been working on this and getting us to the point that we're the first and the best, and it's always nice when Portland is in that place. So thank you very much, Susan. I think you're on first. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Council, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and with me are Leah Treat, Transportation Director, and Jane Beccari from BES, my partners on many different projects here.
 Today we're pleased to bring you this report on the City's Salmon Safe Program, BPS Act
 As we often do on a lot of different kinds of projects, as the convener, the nexus, and we worked with staff from several different bureaus to get through the certification process. More than a dozen different people from several different bureaus were involved. I'm going to briefly list all their names quickly, just their first names from the different bureaus. And if you're here, could you stand up or wave or something so council can recognize your hard work on this effort? So the list includes Caitlin and Melissa from BES. I'm just able to hear you.
 Mike from Water Bureau, Rich Grant from Transportation, Greg and Sean from Fire, Don and John from Fleet Services, Stacy and Larry from Procurement, Jamie and Sarah from Facilities, and from BPS, Debbie Bischoff and Roberta Jortner.
 In addition, Mike Abade and the Parks Bureau has been working on Salmon Safe for years. And maybe even back when you were on council originally, when they first came out with Salmon Safe, it was something that the Parks Bureau at that time embraced. They're seen as a model across the country.
 In addition, I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that this effort was made possible in part by a grant from the Spirit Mountain Community Fund. And so we want to thank Spirit Mountain. Again, another partnership where we looked at we wanted to do this work, but we wanted to build some kind of partnership with the community in order to be able to do it. So the report that you have in front of you was completed by Salmon Safe, their science team.
 did interviews with our staff, they examined city policies, our programs, they went out to various sites and facilities, and together we all identified various ways and options to improve our policies and practices. The report outlines how each bureau is going to focus on different practices, everything, and they'll talk a little bit more about it, from stormwater runoff to water efficiency, pesticide reduction, water quality,
 protection, and other work. So again, the five bureaus that were participating were BES, Transportation, the Water Bureau, Fire and Rescue, and OMF.
 You know, I think we're going to see this certification pay off in some really specific ways. One of the things it's going to do is allow us to walk our talk. We spend a lot of time working with other companies and industries throughout the community. In terms of resource conservation and watershed health, we need to be able to say we're actually doing what we're telling other people to do. This will help us to be more transparent, and it will provide some very clear standards.
 So to close, I just wanted to say that, again, SAM and SAFE has been an opportunity for the bureaus to work together. We've learned a lot together, and I think it's another opportunity where when that happens, the people meet and they actually begin to form relationships within advances the work in those bureaus as they begin to share information on all sorts of different kinds of practices. So I'm going to turn it over to Leah and then to Sam.
 Great. Thank you. Leah Treat, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And we see Salmon Safe certification as an opportunity to further improve the environmental safeguards that PBOT already takes during our operations. My bureau currently meets the majority of the Salmon Safe requirements, but we see the biggest return on investment for this program in improving our facilities. In particular, we're looking forward to developing a site master plan in coordination with City Fleet to upgrade our maintenance operations facilities.
 Many of the conditions for salmon safe certifications would be addressed in our site master plan and the subsequent development, and the master plan will include a comprehensive stormwater management plan for the maintenance yards. Thank you for the opportunity to speak on behalf of Salmon Safe.
 Good morning, Mayor Harold and commissioners. For the record, I'm Jane Beccaria. I'm the Watershed Services Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services. On behalf of BES, I'm really pleased to be here today to celebrate Portland certification as the first and hopefully not the last San Jose City. The San Jose certification, as Susan explained, provides an independent third-party validation that the way that we do business is protective of the environment so that we don't create problems for future generations.
 Imagine if we had this kind of certification when the city built its first combined sewer and we made a decision to have overflows go into the Willamette. So we're pleased that San Jose has recognized leadership, the value, and the benefits of our work to date.
 How Portland can talk to business directly impacts both the Willamette and the Columbia River watersheds, including the salmon that swim past the city and swim up to the headwater streams and then pass back through the city towards the Pacific Ocean. Environmental services is responsible for managing wastewater and stormwater treatment and –
 waste water treatment and the overall health of our watersheds, making sure that we continually protect public health, water quality, and the environment. The SAMSIF report commends our current efforts and identifies opportunities for improvement in enabling us to strengthen our commitment to environmental leadership.
 BES has worked very closely with Salmon Safe to meet the requirements within the current work plans and business model that we have today. In other words, Salmon Safe conditions are ways for us to improve existing plans and programs and to have better outcomes for salmon. They are not new or extraneous efforts. One example of this is Condition 5, which requires an objective assessment of our in-stream projects.
 BS will update the model that we have used in the past and we're intending to update in the next five years. However, as a result of the SAMSIF report, we are proposing to accelerate the update of this model and to use it differently this time around in a way that complements and informs our stormwater system planning efforts and prioritizes coupled stormwater and in-stream improvements.
 Moreover, we will use the results to fine-tune our adaptive management efforts so that we're constantly improving and using rate payer dollars more efficiently.
 Environmental Services is looking forward to working with San Jose and our sister bureaus to improve stormwater planning and prioritization, project evaluation and monitoring, and erosion control coordination. These recommendations converge seamlessly with the ongoing efforts that we have to use repair dollars wisely. San Jose certification will keep Environmental Services striving to operate and plan ahead with sustainability and low-impact goals in mind.
 We also hope that Portland's San Mesa certification will encourage other public utilities to employ business models and incorporate sustainability and good watershed practices. San Mesa is a point of pride for the community and also enables us to meet our regulatory mandates, especially as they become stricter in the future.
 Adopting stay-at-home practices today will hopefully become conventional and guide our business practices in the future. We're really proud today that our city has received the certification, and thanks so much for your time. Thank you all. Questions for this panel of leaders inside city government? Just a preview, Mayor. We have a time certain scheduled for, I think, the day after the election.
 everyone will be exhausted from late night parties but we'll be presenting an update and a close out on the Crystal Springs initiative and I think there's no current initiative of BES that more clearly frames the focus now on salmon and the health of our salmon and the dividends to our watershed and our community so we look forward to that
 you're here thank you thank you all very much we have another panel here of dan kent from salmon safe and jim bruno from willamette valley vineyards welcome nice to have you here good morning good morning i'm dan kent executive director and co-founder of salmon safe
 Congratulations today to the City of Portland, the first city in the world to complete a comprehensive assessment with an independent third-party verification organization with the goal of reducing its impacts in its watershed.
 Working at sites across the city for more than three years with our independent science team to evaluate the operations of city bureaus with respect to impacts on the Willamette River, we saw firsthand the commitment of city workers to ensuring that Portland does its part to protect our urban watershed.
 I want to extend Salmon Safe's appreciation and also the appreciation of our independent science team to the five service delivery bureaus that were mentioned by Susan. And we're the core implementation team for this project. And also to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for coordinating with Salmon Safe and our science team over the last few years.
 And I want to thank you, Mayor Hales, in particular, for your World Environment Day challenge to the city to follow the lead of Portland Parks and seek salmon safe certification across core facilities and operations.
 Salmon Safe has been here before in front of the council in our long-time work with Portland Parks, as was mentioned. But just as a reminder, we're an environmental certification organization focused on water quality protection and habitat conservation. Salmon Safe provides rigorous third-party audits of an organization's watershed impacts, and we also provide the framework of an environmental management system for reducing those impacts over time.
 For Portland, our work started with the comprehensive gap analysis of citywide programs, policies, and plans related to environmental management and then expanded to bureau-by-bureau inspections all
 all across the city, looking at sites ranging from streets under construction to operations yards to motor pool fueling stations to fire station equipment washing to graffiti removal and countless other practices and sites that have the potential to contribute polluted runoff to the Willamette River.
 Today we are honored to present the salmon safe cross bureau certification report which you have in front of you. The report includes conditions for certification that are the actions that the city will take with respect to continuous improvement. That means further efficiency with respect to water conservation for example and many other examples of ongoing improvement in environmental management.
 Portland is the first city to achieve salmon safe certification, but the impact of Portland's commitment is even greater because it joins a movement in the private sector.
 Salmon Safe started in the late 1990s, working first with vineyards in the Willamette Valley, and we're now working with more than 300 vineyards and wineries from British Columbia down into the Rogue Basin of southern Oregon. Jim Bruneau, founder of Willamette Valley Vineyards, is here today to talk about his work with Salmon Safe over nearly two decades. Thank you.
 In our work on the urban landscape, salmon safe principles have been embraced by leaders ranging from Nike at its world headquarters campus to Gertie Needlin to Lewis and Clark College to Portland State University. In Seattle, developer Vulcan is working to develop an entire district of the city, a whole neighborhood at South Lake Union, applying salmon safe principles in large-scale development.
 As we've worked through this first-ever third-party assessment of how a major city impacts its watershed, we've realized that Portland is just the beginning. Every city impacts its watershed, and it is our intention that Portland can serve as a model for other West Coast cities that will be challenged by Mayor Hales to also achieve salmon safe certification. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bruneau, welcome. Thank you for having me.
 for this opportunity to speak to you. My name is Jim Bernal. I'm the founder of Willamette Valley Vineyards, just south of Salem, but in this market area. You know, Salmon Safe has been leading this environmental sustainable effort for nearly 20 years. And over that time,
 As he's mentioned, there's now almost 350 vineyards from British Columbia, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, and now so certified through several different certifying agencies that are scientific third-party audited organizations. One is called LIVE, Low Input Viticulture Enology. That's the largest. But there's others like Oregon Till. That's an organic certifying organization. And also Demeter.
 which is a certification for biodynamic practices in the vineyards. But all these lead up to preserving and maintaining health in the soil and also in all of our waterways and in our habitats. In addition, we also have worker provisions that provide for safety and involvement in the decision-making that relate to our practices.
 I did bring a few examples just to show you how we tell this story. And the reason why I wanted to come today was because this is a big deal. This is a really big deal. Because when Portland, the city of Portland, takes this step to tell the world of the commitment that you're making, it helps all of us who are following these practices and trying to convince people of their value. It gives us a great way of telling that story. The...
 Years ago, people would buy products or services based upon price and value. But more and more, people are making a choice based upon price, value, and values. And the largest part of where we get support for our products and services is entrepreneurs here in the Northwest and in Oregon. It comes from people who travel here and experience Oregon firsthand. And now they'll be able to make a decision to travel again.
 to America's only city that is salmon safe. So thank you so much. Thank you. So what do you have in your show and tell bag? The product itself. This is a neck finger that we use. Plus, you can turn the bottle over. All right. I don't think we'll drink this right here right now, Jim.
 So the label says salmon safe on the label. This wine has been created using healthy agricultural practices that help keep our rivers clean enough for salmon to thrive. So we should be looking for that label on the wine that we buy, should we not? Here, here. Mayor, I wanted to add that over this time, over this last 20 years, Oregon, as you know, produces actually a fairly small fraction of the world that's produced in the nation and actually what's consumed in the nation. But Oregon.
 The reviewing organizations like Wine Spectator magazine, even though only about 1% of Oregon wines are the ones that are reviewed in the Wine Spectator magazine, over the highest percentage of scores above 90% of the scores in Wine Spectator approaches about 20% of the wines reviewed.
 So these practices not only are important to our health and to all the health of all living creatures, but actually following these practices leads to quality, and it leads to a much better outcome for consumers. That's great. Thank you both very much. It's an honor. Thank you so much. Yeah, let's suspend the rules. I think this is a big deal. Okay, we may have some folks that want to speak on this resolution before we take action. Do we have anybody signed up? One person, Mary Eng. Okay, Mary, come on up. Thank you.
 Howdy. Howdy. What was your company name, sir? I just wanted to thank you very much. That was the background. Lammet Valley Vineyards. Valley Vineyards. Lammet Valley. Thank you so much for your presentation. You know, there's a little funny joke I have to tell you.
 Because I'm a police brutality activist, I was framed with a false weapon so I could be beaten up on the steps of City Hall. That was a corkscrew. So now we have the missing ingredient of the corkscrew plot. Of course, the DA had to drop the charges because it was a fake sting to get revenge on me for being an ADA advocate. So I find it hilarious because I love organics, even though I'm not a drinker. And I don't bring corkscrew. You can search my bags if you want.
 to. No corkscrew in there. But we do worry about alcoholism with the police chief, and so does the DOJ. And that's kind of an interesting coincidence. And I don't know which one of you drink or have drinking problems, but I do want you to show some seriousness about your job and seriousness about tourism. We had an international boycott of
 Portland, declared by Sean King, a pretty famous activist who's on a lot of media channels due to the brutality out there. So out of one side of your mouth, you may be talking about biodynamics and water preservation and respect of the salmon. I just want to really put out there that I am vegan in diet. I don't eat cheese, milk, meat.
 honey, I don't believe in eating animals. Sometimes wine processing really needs a higher level of certification to be certified vegan because some of the clarification processes with wine make it actually not vegan. So I want to say that...
 just because you're vegan or go to VegFest or support vegetarianism or nonviolence in your way of living doesn't mean that you can't understand and respect the spiritual aspects of the relationship with the land and the water and the salmon that was...
 arising in the indigenous people who were colonialized and exploited through this nasty pattern of dominance, destruction, industrialization, pollution, and bioaccumulation. And the principle of bioaccumulation is that every bit of smog or lead or toxics or pharmaceuticals that are in our water and our air...
 will soak into organic matter so that if a fish eats another fish that has bioaccumulated toxicity, you have toxic buildup. And right now we have a system of overfishing in our oceans that has not replenished the stock. So I have 29 full seconds. I thank you so much for not being rude today, Charlie. Thank you.
 What got into you? Did your city attorneys talk to you? Who do they work for? I mean, who is the city? Are we the city or are you the city? Because we are ultimately their actual clients. We, the people of Portland. You represent us and you are our servant. And we have asked you to resign for your failures of leadership. Not just say you haven't done good things. And I want to be positive. I said I love you and I said resign. So I'm saying resign and I love you. It's in your best interest. Thanks. Thank you. Go ahead. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the points that I like being brought up was on the salmon safe certification toward new development projects, such as Paul Allen at Falcon Real Estate, who has a real concern on the environment, on the salmon, and enjoys his very beautiful yacht, the Octopus, that he enjoys quite a bit out on the ocean. But...
 The reality is that when people begin to focus on this and understand that we need clean water, clean air, and we need to focus on that because in the past we have had entities and businesses begin to put profit over protecting the environment. And from the City of Portland's position, I'll use an example, is that when we're talking stormwater runoff,
 such as at the Willamette boat ramp. We need to focus on these properties and also understanding when we're allowing things to go into the water and when we're talking dredging, the city can make a stand and understand best practices aren't to take contaminated silt from the Willamette and dump it into the center of the Columbia. When you allow that to happen and do not speak up, that is not salmon safe.
 You have to stand up and speak up and say it may cost more money. We might need to go to the Oregon Marine Board and get some type of a grant. But you do not pour pollution into the river. Society is stepping up now. We're not putting up with it anymore. We're not happy about the Superfund cleanup. And by the way,
 The Superfund cleanup. Get ready, Governor Brown, because I'm proposing to drop the whole bill on you. And you can pay for all the submersible land projects.
 pollution, and then worry about getting funded down the line. But you can take care of your submersible land since you own it and pay the whole bill. And I'm not talking $1 billion. I want you to pay $10 billion for the Portland Harbor Superfund cleanup, and you figure out where you're going to get that money. And, again, we need to stop...
 polluting the river. Stop allowing the city of Portland to get permits to remove toxic silt from the Willamette and dump it into the Columbia and then get your salmon safe certification, which I think you should have it pulled for those type of actions. And that is you, Commissioner Fritz, allowing that to happen, not speaking up, and stopping you from polluting this beautiful,
 Thank you for your time.
 The 12th of this month, police beat and pepper-sprayed women and shoved them downstairs, including one that was missing a leg and injured a lady that had brain surgery. And like Keith Davis has said several times, this city is known to be the number one city for child trafficking ever.
 So instead of having the police do what they're supposed to be doing, which is enforcing the laws, you send them against peaceful protesters in riot gear, and you beat up women and children, and you pepper spray the women and children. That's not cool, you know. And, you know...
 You might get awards and say how salmon safe this is, but the women and children of this community are not safe. They're not safe under your command because you don't know what's, you know, you're the police commissioner, and you just allow the police to brutalize women and children, and you think that's good? You don't put any money forward to, or very little money forward to stop child trafficking in this town?
 I'd be ashamed of myself if I were you. In fact, nothing I have to say is you should resign, Mayor. You're not doing nothing. You took the hat of police commissioner, you know, and you're not doing anything. All you are is a conflict of interest between the mayor's office and the police department.
 And this city is a standing joke. People are going to sit there and say, yeah, it's salmon safe, but yet you brutalize women and children and disabled people. I've brought up several times about the parking of disabled people along Waterfront Avenue. Business owners sit there and park.
 two hour three hour spots and not in spots where you know they exempt plates where they can park with exempt placards when they got exempt placards in their car and then when someone that's disabled wants go down enjoy the water front or go down by the fire department or go down by the piers they got a park
 Five, six, seven blocks away because these business owners are taking up these spots that disabled people should have. Charlie, you need to pay attention to your city, not sit up in the mayor's office and kick it with just the richy rich people. You need to see what this city is about. You needed to go out there and experience getting pepper sprayed like these women and children were. Thanks very much. Next, go ahead.
 Yes, I wanted to talk about the runoff that goes into our rivers and our oceans. And I was here on the 12th when you had a cluster of people that were being pushed out the back door. And...
 I'm going to talk about pepper spray and chemicals and that running off into the river. But before I get to that point, while all the pepper spray was going on in here and in the stairs, there was a cluster of people and I was outside and I was watching. And I honestly thought that I was watching a murder happening before my eyes. Yes.
 There was a young man being trampled while people are being also simultaneously being pepper sprayed. Pepper sprayed. Pepper spray all on the street. They're using it all on the street. It's running into our oceans. How does that affect the fish? I don't think you care. I mean, if you don't care about people having chemical weapons deployed on them, I just really doubt that you care about Salmon Safe City anymore.
 Or you're trying, but it's such a joke. It's such a joke that you sit here and you're acting like you're doing something nice and you almost murdered somebody. I think that was the intention.
 There's a woman, her name is Sarah Long. She was sprayed with pepper spray and she's sitting outside. It's on video and she's suffering for like 15 to 20 minutes straight. You hear it on the video and the police are just surrounding her, you know, safe city. That's a joke.
 There's chemical weapons sprayed all over the city in a place where we have rain and it rains on that chemical, runs into the oceans. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me?
 Give me back my phone. I had my phone taken away. I was let off at midnight after there's absolutely no, I have been arrested twice for asserting my First Amendment rights. I was left to fend for myself. After midnight, I was released, a woman, without anything because my bags were stolen. My phone is stolen. You all still have my phone, even though there's absolutely no charges against me. It was a false imprisonment, I think. I don't know.
 I don't really know why I was ejected and put in jail. I was taken out of this city hall domestic violence style without anybody. No, I still have two seconds. Don't interrupt me. Actually, you're done. Mr. Wilkins, go ahead. Give me back my phone. On this issue last week, I talked about students making their own bottled water. Put your name in the record, though. Oh, Sheprick Wilkins. Sheprick Wilkins.
 My view is it will take thousands of years to clean up the Willamette River, let it flush naturally. Lightning talks about $10 billion. I don't think it will do any effect. My own view is – Folks, do not interrupt. Go ahead, please. In 1996, there was a flood in which President Clinton came out of Maravira Castle. It almost flooded over the banks of the Willamette River.
 We also dipped into the Columbia River well water for the first time, and then there's accusations there's radon. About that time, or maybe Hanford, my daughter got bladder cancer. My thing is I think at that time they should have issued a warning that pregnant women and young children should not drink the water and drink bottled water.
 Okay. I don't believe in this idea that you can, we, we, I'm sorry, like we have contaminated the water. We're never, it's impossible to clean it up and we should spend more money making sure when children are young, they have a sensitive immune system. We're bigger, we're adults. My daughter was conceived or she was just born when we had drank in this water. Okay. I don't, it,
 I think we should make a science in Oregon, since we like water and we have a low population, of filtering water. I make a joke that I drink beer because it comes from Wisconsin and they boil it and it's got fluoride in it, but that's okay. I mean, I'm just saying that's pure water, and the Bull 1 water is not pure.
 filtered. It's unfiltered. So just drink bottled water and I'd like to encourage high school students to make distilled water that's pure and give it to the fountains or something. Stop deciding that you're going to have pure water if it's possible. And it's not a local problem. All major rivers in the United States, like Michigan, are contaminated. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Anyone else? Alright, then let's take a vote, please, on the resolution. Novick?
 I really appreciate the work of the bureaus and of Salmon Safe. I just want to call out some of the plaudits that Salmon Safe gave to the Bureau of Transportation at page 13 of the report. PBOT employs significant management practices and programs that are innovative and consistent with Salmon Safe standards, including an innovative stormwater wetland treatment system recently installed on a two-acre section of the Albina Storage Yard,
 the Sunderland facility, a well-managed facility for bulk composting large quantities of leaves from street sweeping and on-site stormwater treatment through a swale and rain garden. There is minimal input of herbicides, fertilizers, and irrigation in green space areas. There is good coordination and partnership with other bureaus and jointly managed sites. So I think we can all be proud of our bureaus. We really appreciate the work of Salmon Safe. We appreciate the existence of Salmon Safe.
 And I also want to say that although salmon, of course, are the symbol of the Northwest, we all care deeply about salmon. We also do care about other species. And I hope that sometime in the near future, a Be Safe certification organization will arise to applaud the city for efforts such as Commissioner Fritz's efforts to ban neonicotinoids for the use in our parks. Hi. Ma'am.
 You may not interrupt. Please, no more interruptions. Let people speak, whether they're here as citizens or members of the council. Please proceed. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and congratulations. This is fabulous. I didn't realize we were the first salmon safe city. It's...
 the kind of thing that would come to council if you were running for re-election. Yay, well done. And I want to reflect that you were able to get this done in partnership with your bureaus as well as all the other work that you've been doing because you've been dedicating yourself to the work that you were elected to do. So I want to thank you for that. I was a bit...
 confused at first because I thought, well, we've done this before, haven't we? And then, of course, he explained that, yes, indeed, we have done it for the Parks Bureau. Jim Frasiscone was the commissioner in 2004 when we first did it. Commissioner Fish got it re-certified in 2012. And so it's fun to be passed on such a legacy of great work in the parks
 and then have this partnership between the other bureaus. I want to particularly thank Roberta Jordan, who's back from retirement because she cares so much about this and she spent her career doing good things for the city. And so I thank you all very much. I actually, I know that Roberta's retired because I went to the retirement. I've learned not to say thanks to anybody else because they are retired because if I haven't been told by my staff, I tend to make mistakes that people then tell me that they're not retired. So...
 So if any of you are also retired, thank you for coming back. And thank you, everybody, for this. It's good to celebrate that we actually do do some things right so we can have a salmon-safe city in the midst of a super fund which we're all committed to cleaning up. I also want to thank...
 the Willamette Vineyard for the gift of the wine, which the Mayor and I will accept on behalf of the city. As you all know, we have very strict lobbying and gift rules, and rather than be rude in asking how much this has cost, we will donate it to a community event so that everybody in the community who happens to be at that event can enjoy it. Thank you very much. Aye. Yes. Mayor, I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz said, and thank you for putting an ambitious marker on the table and leading this effort.
 And I want to tell you how proud I am of the work of the two utilities, the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services, for stepping up and being part of this effort.
 And it has become ingrained in their culture to think about these issues. Sustainability, salmon safe, these are not ancillary to their mission. It's core to their mission. And I love that comment that the gentleman from the vineyard said, that our competitive advantage in the future is price, value, and values. And I love the – I've thought about that. I haven't heard it stated so succinctly.
 We know, for example, the utilities that people tell us good value trumps price if they get good value. Now we're saying values in addition to value and price. So that's a good outcome. We're proud to be part of this, and we will continue this work.
 even as you move on to the next challenge in your life. Thank you. Hi. Saltzman. Well, I also want to congratulate Mayor Hills for bringing this home and getting Portland to be the first salmon-safe city. It's quite an honor. And I also wanted to commend the five or six bureaus that are involved. And while...
 Water and sewer and transportation and parks seem like likely suspects. Having Portland Fire and Rescue also be part of the salmon safe and think about things like runoff when they wash their vehicles and how to keep that out of our storm sewers is also an important part of being salmon safe. So I appreciate Portland Fire and Rescue being at the table too. Pleased to support this. Aye.
 Well, I want to thank my colleagues because this has, as you just mentioned, been a multi-bureau effort. So each of us has had people working on this challenge and on being the best. And I appreciate that very much. I also want to say, I've used this phrase a couple of times and I'm going to embarrass her again. This is typical Susan Anderson. And that is, when I say typical Susan Anderson, it means that we're doing something better first, but
 but we're doing it in a way that brings people together. And I'm not quite sure how she does it, but she does it again and again, and I appreciate her very much in this work. I also want to thank Jackie Dingfelder, who was a member of my staff, who was a big proponent of this, along with Zach Lemoski and Brian Worley, who are there still advocating for this in our office. It is good that Portland sets...
 the tone for other cities. I've seen that happen. I've seen that happen in transit. I've seen it happen in lots of progressive policies
 causes. So Dan, we appreciate the fact that you've put us through a very rigorous analysis and that we've passed and that now we get to pass it on. Well done all around. Thank you all very much. I understand Dan may have a plaque that he wants to present to us. Is that right? So maybe we could get the Bureau staff who worked on this to come join the Council and take a picture together. Please. Come on up. Thank you, sir. We're doing a bus site campaign for the city of New York.
 I have. I have. Cool. Thank you. You all have seen these before me. They eventually serve. They came from a really good highway. Oh, no.
 uh... uh... uh... uh...
 Okay, Ms. Vanderland, could you please move aside so we can take a picture of these folks? Thank you. Yeah. I have no idea how very independent this is. I don't know. That's fine.
 Our jaws are dropping. Congratulations, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. Women and children in Portland are not safe. Women and children in Portland are not safe. Women and children in Portland are not safe. Okay, Ms. Vanderlind, I'm going to have to recess. You're excluded. I told you not to interrupt, so you're going to need to leave now. Thank you. Recess. We didn't recess. Okay.
 Just for a second. Just for a second so she can leave. One minute, Joe. You need to do a... We'll wait for you if you do a quick break. Not necessarily. Charlie, I have a...
 Ready to get back to work? Is that right? Okay, we're back in order. Dan mentioned, by the way, that this plaque was made from a recycled highway sign, but he was at some pains to point out that it was legally obtained. I don't think it was a sign. You can see it was a highway sign. Pretty cool. Right under the rivers were...
 he or she belongs okay let's move on please to the next time certain item which is 1186. appoint a pool of community volunteers to be available to serve on the police review board good morning
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Constantine Sevier, director of the Independent Police Review. I am here to forward the auditor's recommendation of a pool of community volunteers to serve on the Police Review Board. There are 13 folks who will be recommended to you. The Police Review Board, briefly, serves as an advisory body to the chief of police and the police commissioner. Here, serious disciplinary cases involving police officers and
 all officer-involved shootings in custody deaths. The Police Review Board also makes policy recommendations to the Police Bureau and the Chief, as well as training recommendations. So, according to City Code, the Auditor's Office, particularly the Independent Police Review, serves as the city agency that...
 gathers the community members so that council can appoint to the police review board. And the diverse group of individuals before you today is the result of the extreme efforts of Irene Konev in our office. It built upon some prior recruitment cycles of going all over this community to get community member volunteers at work
 reflect the diversity in this community we have folks who are poets librarians attorneys several individuals who help the most vulnerable folks in our society we have eight women so i'm really impressed with the quality of applicants that we can present to you and i'll just
 read their names. I believe you have their background information. I'm pretty sure you read it already and you are impressed as well as I am. The 13 individuals that we are presenting to you today are Bruno Amici, Ysara Asensio, Austin Battelden, Jeff Bissonnette, David Denneke, Bridget Donegan, Emily Duquette, Svetlana Glinka, Laura Orr, Rianna Orizaga,
 Joe Pugh, Lisa Rogers, and Lindsay Short. And just in the interest of time, I'll cut my presentation short. Can I make a request? Can we match names and faces here? Oh, yes. Even if it just means having people stand if they're able, just so that we can. So can all the PRB applicants stand up if you're here right now? We are here. Welcome. Thank you very much for your willingness to serve and for being here today. Thank you.
 Okay, questions for Mr. Sevier or for... So could you just, for people watching, tell people what the Police Review Board does and what these volunteers will be doing? So, great question, Commissioner. So the Police Review Board most simply hears fully completed misconduct investigations and makes recommended...
 findings and proposed discipline in misconduct cases and in officer-involved shootings and custody deaths. These community members before us today will serve individually as part of a community member pool. The Police Review Board has five voting members. There is one slot allocated for one community member. In officer-involved shootings, use of force cases, there are two community members that serve.
 And then are the others just advisory on the policies, or is that the only function that the folks who are applying for, we're going to approve today, is taking turns to be on particular board reviews? Yeah, so the way it works is basically on an individual case, the police bureau will review,
 put together the five voting members and the community members who are here today. It's just each one of them serves on a particular board.
 And how is it selected which one serves on a particular review? Oh, so that is done randomly with the review board coordinator. So a lot of it is based on availability of community members, and that's actually one of the biggest struggles of, one, getting volunteers and then having people kind of serve for their three-year terms. A lot of the boards are in the middle of the day, and it's –
 um can be anywhere from a two hour to four or five hours so the fact that we have so many community members who are willing to give up a significant part of their workday i believe uh most of the community members who are volunteering for this particular three-year term um are fully employed and or have obligations with their family like being full-time mothers about how much time would they be given in advance to know that they were selected for a particular board about two weeks
 Okay. And is there any attention paid on the selection to making sure that there's a balance of women and men and racial diversity on the board? So I believe one of the reasons why the auditor's office was given the...
 of gathering the community members was so that we would do a pretty diverse and wide-reaching selection of community members. So one of the things that Irene does and other IPR staff members do when we are doing our outreach events is trying to go to particularly events that are aimed at women and particularly our non-profit
 new and emerging Portlanders. When you go back, let's say, six or seven years ago, we had a police review board, particularly on the community member side, that was overwhelmingly retired individuals and overwhelmingly white, and it didn't really reflect our community. And particularly on police oversight issues, I think there's important...
 aspect of making sure that all Portlanders are represented on the police review board because we all as Portlanders have a stake in the success of the police bureau and holding officers accountable. And these community members, as you've seen by them standing up, really are a very diverse group of individuals. I appreciate that explanation. I'm also wondering when you're going to seat the five voting members and you're
 somebody's picking the one, is their attention paid to who the other four would be? So the five voting members, that's determined by city code. So the involved officer's commander is one of them, IPR director, assistant chief who's in charge of the branch, and a community member and a peer officer member. So those are the five voting members of
 of a police review board. I'm sorry, I'm not being very clear, but although that was good information to get out to. If you look at, does the person appointing whichever one of the volunteers gets in on a particular case, look at, well, we've got four people with these demographics, and could we please make sure that we've got somebody who matches, for instance, either the appellant or the officer? Oh, to my knowledge, I do not know that answer.
 And you and the auditor are currently in process of looking at the police review board process and bringing back something to council? So the police review board process, no. So as we're all aware of, there was a focus group that looked at
 variety of changes to the accountability system. So what the auditor proposed was a relatively narrow attempt at fixing, particularly issues revolving around the earlier stages of the administrative investigation process involving IPR, the Police Bureau's Internal Affairs, and then the appeals stage involving the Citizen Review Committee. The only change to the
 the Police Review Board would be to allow community members to be able to be present during the fact-finding section of the Police Review Board and be able to speak at the Police Review Board, which they currently do not. I thought at one point there was a suggestion to put more of this as citizen review committee on the board.
 So that was part of the option of possibly merging the Citizen Review Committee's appeal function with the Police Review Board. There was significant public feedback on that. One of the biggest issues was the Police Review Board is not a public body, so there is not ability to comment publicly. The city could choose to do that, but it would face significant issues from the –
 employee side of possibly that being a mandatory subject of bargaining. And so that's where
 I guess, the decision makers within the city left it. Well, thank you. And thank you for just explaining to people watching at home in very clear language what all of these roles do. And thank you all to the volunteers. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. So let me follow up on something that Commissioner Fritz raised. And I'll have to step carefully here because I'm talking about a real case. So obviously I won't get as specific as I might. Folks, please do not interrupt me or anybody else. Commissioner Fritz raised the issue of...
 gender balance on these panels. There was a recent case involving sexual misconduct by an officer. It was a male officer, and the entire panel that reviewed it was male. What are we going to do about that?
 So the police review board, that is something that is within the police bureau. So the auditor's office's role is in recommending to counsel the citizen volunteers. From a global perspective of making sure that all aspects of our accountability system reflects our community, I think that's part of the conversation that we have been having for the last year.
 year or so, particularly around changing the accountability system. Going forward, I think that's a conversation that I think we should have as long as you're mayor as well with the future mayor, because it's going to be a long-term conversation.
 conversation. Part of it is the way our accountability system works is that ultimately the decision rests with the chief of police and yourself as the police commissioner. The community has certain parts where it can kind of participate, but there's a lot of it that rests within the police bureau.
 Police Bureau is not as diverse as our society is. The Police Bureau is overwhelmingly male. Part of that is making sure there are more Police Bureau commanders, assistant chiefs who are female because when you look at who the five voting members are on any police review board, three of those slots are Police Bureau slots. There is one IPR slot, there is one community member slot.
 You know, on the IPR side, two-thirds of the managing folks at IPR are female. If you look at the police bureau, it's not going to be two-thirds. It's going to be 80-something percent the other direction. So I think part of it is starting with the police bureau. Well, I want to flag that issue. It is both a police bureau issue and a structural issue and a practice question.
 But in that particular instance, if there is an allegation of sexual misconduct, the one person that we do have ability to make sure that both sexes are involved is to choose one of the females from this volunteer group and make sure that in those particular cases that there is somebody who looks like and identifies with the appellant.
 Sure. That's a good suggestion. Thank you. That might be something to put into the policy when we bring it back. Yes, ma'am. A good thing to put into the policy. Thank you. Okay. Other questions? Thank you. Okay. Let's take public testimony, please. We have seven people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Shedrick J. Wilkins, Joe Walsh, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I'm Shedrick Wilkins.
 And I wouldn't mind being on the police reviewer board. Something has changed my mind recently. A month ago, Joe and I sparred around about the issue of blood testing people after a car accident. And Mayor Hales says that those, what, 33, 34 homicides by cars more than guns or whatever, 15. Yeah.
 So it is possible that if people are going to be blood tested, they may resist the police, they may try to flee the police, and it might be necessary to have additional police officers to restrain this person or chase after them, whatever, to give them a blood test, which I insist is unlawful.
 Joe disagrees about certs and seizure, but I don't agree with that. Actually, this week, some guy in the United States crashed a truck and killed 10 people and himself. And they don't really know if he was... I do agree with this. This is coupled with the idea that we now have recreational marijuana. Some people are blindsided. They think they're better drivers if they're high. And it...
 Unlike alcohol, if you're high, let's say this. If you have a fender bender and you almost have a heart attack, you should be stressed when you're driving. Deciding that you're totally relaxed is ridiculous. Your blood pressure should go up. So I have a problem with people who smoke or are on Prozac. I don't think if you're on Prozac, you should drive a car. You should be stressed. That argument.
 So I'm saying that because of this, I've now changed my mind and I support the police contract because we'll need additional officers to support blood testing. So I agree with the mayor, Amanda Fritz, and the police contract. And you can boo me if you want, but I'm saying to this too that people who – No, actually you can't, folks. Keep going. People here –
 who generally oppose a police contract also do not want blood tests. Think about that one. Okay, thanks very much. Who would like to be next? Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice for the record. Once again, we take issue with the process.
 We all know in our hearts and our brain that we are in serious trouble, and our mechanisms are not working as far as the police department is concerned. So we should redo them. My understanding on this is you have five members, and one is a community member. Is that accurate?
 So it's, you know, four votes and then you have this community person that's sitting there with the cops. And they probably have their guns because they always carry their guns in these meetings.
 That's not a good environment to have truth and understanding of what is going on. So you should redo it. And one of the ways you can redo it is to set up the Charter Commission. You promised us, Mayor, when you came in that you would do that. You never did. And it takes the mayor to do it. You really have to institute the Charter Commission. So maybe you could say to Ted Wheeler when he's coming in to think about that and look at all of our commissions, all of our committees,
 Because they're not working. We know that. And whatever we're doing is not something we should continue to do. Because what I said last night is really accurate. We are one incident away from a riot that will tear this city apart. And we're all fighting to stop it. That's what I do. I fight to stop it. And if I anger people in the process, too bad.
 Because I've been in riots. I grew up in New York. I've been in riots. I know what a riot does. It's really scary, and it's really damaging. So we need to redo everything that we've been doing as far as the police is concerned. Look at it. And if it takes a charter change, make the charter change and give it to the people and let them vote on it.
 You have to get this city involved. It's not. You have a very small group of people that come here week after week after week. We don't get paid for this, by the way. We do this on our own. It's because we believe in what we're doing. Whether you like it or not, we believe in what we're doing. And we will continue to do it, even with dead wheelers.
 Charlie, Commissioner, you have to make the changes. If you keep doing what you're doing, this city is going to be in serious trouble with one incident. And, Mayor, you almost caused it last week. The way those cops came after those people, I missed it, but I watched it on video. It was awful. Thank you. Mr. Johnson, go ahead.
 Good morning, commissioners. For the record, I'm being identified as Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And it turns out, you probably can't see this out there because of the weird lighting, but it looks like I'm seated in what was the seat of that guy who's been charged by the Oregon Department of Justice Criminal Division with a misdemeanor for shooting people in the back or some events related to that. Okay.
 I regret that I'm not really prepared, so I don't know who these other two gentlemen testifying at that time are. I can't tell you that that's Carla Love Moore, and that's Joe Walsh, a very diligent citizen. And on the next tab on my browser, it says Byzantine Portland police. 14,900,000 results, the top result being hopefully from the United States Department of Justice. You remember them? We talked with them yesterday.
 Ellen Osenach, the city attorney, talked about me. I don't think she got to mention me by name and my cup of water. But we still have a Byzantine Portland police system. We had a proposal to, I don't know, some thought the auditor wanted to streamline it. It certainly wasn't the straight to gulag type of streamlining because it was really more impunity and more emancipation.
 I'm not as prepared as probably some of the following presenters. I'm hoping that Mr. Handelman has chosen to testify on this, and he'll talk to us about why when we recruit citizens, that's not what we mean. We mean we're going to recruit lawyers and business owners. I didn't even take notes about the exact number of people, but some people think there are certain situations in this country that are a mess and that –
 Maybe we should draw more clear lines to the percentage of attorneys that... Oh, look, they're missing. They're missing from the city commission. I'm up here talking about attorneys having an excessive role in government, and attorney Steve Novick and attorney Nick Fish are not quite participating in public government at this moment. Beautiful. Perhaps they've gone to Salem or to... Their eyes are probably on the prize, the Senate. The point is that...
 At least this is not called the Citizen Review Committee. Our current Citizen Review Committee is staffed by a former prosecuting attorney, was a 12-year prosecutor, DA in Michigan. So we're not really getting citizen involvement. We're gleaning some high-level people. The police don't prosecute those people for their crimes. The police troll among the poor and people of color and cause their problems there, and then their conduct is judged by...
 There are some interesting people on this panel. I'm impressed with a couple of candidates, but I hope Mr. Handelman will speak more comprehensively to the problem of the pool that's before you. Thank you. Thank you. Next. Mary Eng, Dan Handelman, and Kenner Swain. Go ahead. Ms. Eng is asking if I would go first. I'm happy to do that. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm with the group Portland Cop Watch. Thank you.
 The pool of civilians that we are talking about rotates onto the police review board one at a time. So in other words, it is a misnomer to call it a board since the members never talk to each other. Also, since the police review board's hearings are not open to the public or the media, or as yet to the person who was harmed by the police, they never interact with the community. Because a CRC member rotates onto seven member boards, no two PRB members ever sit together.
 Portland Copwatch sent a second inquiry to the Bureau recently about why their July 2016 PRB report hadn't been posted, and they quietly placed the highly redacted case files online last week.
 I don't know why, if they're so proud of this and they were so transparent, and this is the excuse that you give of why the public is shut out, that we get this report, that they don't put out a news release and inform people. When we wrote an email asking where that report is, we didn't even get an email back. The Mercury published something about it. That's how we knew it was published. And as I've said before, we like to play police review board report mad libs because it's so highly redacted, you don't have no idea what they're talking about. So we put in Kim Kardashian's name and other names.
 Anyway, the PRB is such a secretive body, we have no idea how many members previously appointed are continuing. The PRB used to have 19 or 20 members, and 13 are being nominated. There are nine females and four males. Six are current or former attorneys. And while it sort of helps to have a legal analysis of serious police misconduct cases, the PRB is reviewing them for policy violations, not legal ones, so standards are much different.
 The question of how many people are in the board civilian pool is not held by the supporting paperwork, which states these nominees should fill vacancies of expired terms, quote, bringing the total to 13, but there are only 13 names before you today. So I'd like to hear an answer of how many total members there are in the pool. In addition, the auditor seems to have created new authority for the bureau with the ordinance stating the police bureau will select citizen members for the police review board from a pool of volunteers recommended by the city auditor and appointed by city council.
 The ordinance says the members will be nominated by the auditor and appointed by the council, not that the Bureau has any say in the appointees. One of the applicants' biography states that she's looking forward to representing all voices not currently at the table for a safer community for all. The PRB members have no mechanism to communicate with the broader public about what they're doing.
 they never hold public meetings the hearings are confidential and names are not used in the meetings in the reports the board is composed of three or four police a manager from the ipr and the prb member crc members who have served on other boards as mr walsh was saying have reported feeling uncomfortable that it's a room full of police this is probably amplified for the non-force related prbs where civilians are there solo the simple solution to speeding up crc appeals would be to allow prb members to rotate onto crc panels
 They have the same training, and on that note, their trainings used to be public, and in fact used to be posted online as videos for the public to see. Can I go on for another 30 seconds or so, Mayor? May I as well, in the interest of equality, or only him? He's representing an organization. Thank you. Similarly, so the community is not even invited to those trainings anymore where we used to be.
 So I do want to just say that, you know, it was brought up that part of the problem with having PRB meetings in public has to do with the contract. Your 10 days to rescind your vote on that has passed, but I still would call on you. You suspended your rules to push everybody out of here. You suspended your rules to leave this chamber. You suspended your rules to change the order of the agenda. You can suspend your rules.
 revoke the contract it doesn't go into effect into the 11th and we urge you to rescind the contract right away so these changes can be made to the oversight system that are urgent okay thank you miss anil missing hi I'm
 City Council, nice to see you. My name is Mary Eng. Dan Saltzman, I want to commend you on your style of presentation. Whenever the mayor is absent, your manner of treating citizens has been nothing but respectful, so far as I've seen. And I think you deserve a lot of credit for that because I think when you show respect, you receive respect back. And my mom kind of taught me about the theory in psychology is the looking glass self. And if you're looking for the worst in people, you can bring out the worst easily. So I really thank you for that. And for these applicants or candidates
 Nominees, I want you to keep very much attention to the latest report from the DOJ. It is a very dense document, a lot of very heavy acronyms, but there's...
 some very interesting points regarding the utilization of a neo-nazi to harass Jewish people at the police accountability meeting with the citizens review committee it's very coded language but you can find this on page 107 regarding using a neo-nazi to assault the accountability process I'm
 I'm very thrilled with the DOJ assessment. They are moving forward. And I've been on a letter-writing campaign, speaking at city council, facing direct retaliation, including being bruised at this chamber.
 So I have a process under review. John Rhodes at Internal Affairs, he's investigating the brutality that was applied to me for being, as a trained paralegal, an advocate for police brutality victims. So you must know that there is direct retaliation and intimidation tactics, including positing a weapon on me so I might be killed. And Mr. Hale's work...
 won't let me know if he and Engstrom conspired, if he, Engstrom, and Chandler conspired, if Waltz and Engstrom conspired. So we've got a lot of possibilities as to who came up with this dodgy excuse to beat me up.
 But it is very fishy, and you've got to be prepared for that. Because when I talked to John Rhodes at Internal Affairs, he said, oh, Todd Engstrom would never do anything like that. And you know what I said to him after he had covered me with bruises is, well, I've heard a lot of things about you, Todd Engstrom, but you're...
 a perfect gentleman, which was a stretch of the truth because he was not treating me like a normal Swedish man because in Sweden we have gender equity. So I asked him, well, are you Swedish? And I said, I'm Norwegian. So then I was kind of like, well, these American Scandinavians really aren't up to par on gender equity.
 This is quite unusual, because I've actually studied policing memoranda from Sapo, from the Swedish police, because I find their progressive ideas about gender balance very important. And I have to make it known that on our cohab
 A testimony last night, we went after Marshman's choking of his son, his stalking of his ex in police uniform. We went at it for... Rosenbaum and Watson were so exhausted from Jonas Geisler and the citizens that we kept after them. No woman in her right mind would go to a police force that involves a child-abusing, choking stalker for a chief back-to-back with a shooting scandal with alcoholism. And a cover-up. Okay, next. Good morning. My name is Kenner Swain, and...
 Pardon me for turning my back, but there's a reason for it. I'm sorry, we can't hear you on the microphone if you do that. I'd just like to say as a citizen that it's very stressful to come to these meetings. I'm fairly new to Portland and hear all the rude interruptions that I've heard. So I'm a citizen. I'm not an elected official. No one's paying me the big bucks to sit here and say anything. These usually are open meetings.
 And so pretty much everyone gets a chance to sit and have their say. I do feel that there's some, so having said that, it's also disheartening. It was disheartening to not have an open public meeting when the contract was finally voted on. And I think having taught high school in Chicago for several years, having worked at a psychiatric hospital preaching sermons for a year,
 If you are being paid the big bucks or the medium bucks or whatever, it's your job to keep control of the room. And it's difficult. But it's your job, in my opinion, to arrest people. Maybe not to use pepper spray, but to try to keep public meetings going.
 So maybe it is an idea. If it's too far outside the box, maybe you could cancel the contract and take heed of Commissioner Novick's objections and say, we have an emergency and maybe we could do something to reconsider. I don't advise anyone to resign. Everyone should finish their term, in my opinion. If you're being paid, you should do that. But this particular issue, the Police Review Board does, it seems to me to be, I don't know how it's related to the Citizen Review Committee.
 but it seems like it's going down the wrong direction toward less transparency. It seems that way from what I read. I don't know if the media is distorting things. I appreciate being able to speak without interrupting and editorial comments. I really wish people would have enough respect. I feel like sometimes... Let's have a recess! No, let's have a recess! Hey, we have one. Recess! Hi, Mr. Johnson, you're excluded. I really feel like... We're recessed until he's excluded. No school is twice as limited.
 Right now, police 911. Johnson, Mr. Johnson, go ahead and leave, please. All right, I'm sorry. We're going to have to. We'll come back. Chambers, 911. Hold on. I'll get it right here. Okay, Mr. Johnson, you're excluded. You're going to need to leave. Yeah, the police get here just like we had to do this crap three weeks in a row, and nobody gives a shit about the fucking people. Get out now! We don't need police from here. At least they were here before. I'm glad we have less police presence than we did the past two weeks. Okay, as soon as we have a quorum, we'll resume.
 Okay, so is Steve coming back? We can proceed with three of us. All right. All right.
 someone's taken off the street right away and they get interviewed right away. They only get 48 hours. We're going to finish this item. So if the police are standing on their constitutional rights, great, stand on their constitutional rights and they should be the same as the citizens' constitutional rights. Yeah, it's just a couple... So that is a subject of mandatory... That's a next step. Just that versa term thing, Steve. And it's just that versa term thing. Can you hear it and go on it later? Sure. So...
 Commissioner Salt is not coming back. Oh, yeah, no. I want to give you a chance to finish. Can we just give them three minutes? Yeah, we'll start over because I think we all... I got 38 seconds. You got more than that. So, again, our apologies for the interruption, and please proceed. I would almost apologize for having made methodological remarks that might have provoked some people, and I'd just like to repeat that I apologize
 appreciate your holding open meetings. You know, I lived in Boston, I lived in Chicago for 20 years. The meetings didn't seem to be quite as open. So that's an important part of keeping a civic culture going. And so I don't know nearly as much as many of the people who testified about what really is happening and what really needs to be done. But just a couple of comments on
 And these are rhetorical questions. First, how is this new entity similar or different, I wonder, compared to the CRC and the independent police review process?
 So that's just a question on the table for me. Is it going the wrong direction in terms of transparency? The Portland Mercury and some other people seem to indicate that in terms of transparency, it could be going the wrong direction. Let me interrupt you for a second because there are some proposals that the auditor has made for changing the structure of this. That's not what's before us today. This is just a pointease to the current structure.
 So that's a separate discussion that's been postponed because there was a lot of opposition to those proposals. So this is just people being appointed into the current structure, not changing the structure. If I understand, Mr. Sevier, I think he's still here, but I think that's what's before us from the auditor. Right. Okay. And then I'd also read that apparently the police chief or police union had advised police officers not to show up before meetings of –
 I guess it was the Citizen Review Committee or a previous entity. So to me, that would be an important issue, not in terms of the powers, if any, of this new board. But I think that's an important thing, whether if you have the police chief or the police union or the new mayor or you as head of the police bureau.
 at least encouraging or mandating police officers to show up? They are required to show up. So just, again, a clarification. This board serves internally. It's part of the internal review with one citizen of the volunteers that we have here today as well as others who have been participating and will continue to participate. The Citizens Review Committee is all done in public right now, and that's a separate process.
 Okay, so my two overarching points, and I'll try to be brief, are, as Mayor Hales said two or three weeks ago at the very end of a meeting before whistling, said no good deed goes unpunished. So I hope that this new entity doesn't make that proverbial wisdom true. I hope that whatever this new thing is...
 gives the lie to your remark that no good deed goes unpunished, which is often true, often true. You know, I do think that speaking of which you were talking about the 48-hour rule, and I do hope that that, I hope that citizens are interviewed on average on the same timeline as police when there's a legal case or a murder or an act of violence. I mean, to me, that's the main thing. In the police contract, the thing that struck me most was
 The police said, we're going to stand on our capital C, capital R constitutional rights. And I thought I spent one morning at the Bundy trial and I thought, now we have the police. Sounds to me like they're talking like Ammon Bundy, who has probably a political future. But that's another story. And so.
 To me, the overarching issue is, is there a monopoly on the legitimate use of force and violence? And that's what I mean, you do want that. You need people to serve and protect. And that's the role of a state to have a monopoly on the legitimate use of violence. So there is a thin blue line on the one hand. But then citizens have been testifying, I think, and protesting to make the point that there's a huge gray area there.
 of legit is it is there legitimate violence going on is there illegitimate violence going on and so i'm sure that you need to keep holding public meetings in so far as you can if folks please don't interrupt in so far as you possibly can you need to keep on holding public meetings to talk about the issues of legitimate versus illegitimate violence and you don't have a civic discourse if there's not respect for everyone having their say
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you both. Could I just, Mr. Swain, thank you very much for your comments. You're welcome. Well, both before and during the recess. Yes. Yesterday we had the status report conference with Judge Michael Simon about the Department of Justice settlement agreement. And one of the things he said was that we need to have a conversation about how we have conversations. That it's gone, that because people are worried and concerned about individual actions that the council takes,
 We haven't had a community conversation about how do we continue to have respectful disagreements. The council is very committed to having open meetings. We're concerned about what happened on the 12th, and the mayor's ordered a full investigation. This police review board would be part of the review of holding officers accountable if mistakes were made. And that's why it's important to have these community volunteers who take it in turns to be on that committee. And
 And then there are the other internal affairs, which is also completely internal, and the Citizens Review Board Committee appeals. So there's been a lot of discussion since I've been here. I've been in Portland for over 30 years now, and we're continually looking at how can we do police accountability better. What's important is, to me at least, is that the contract and the agreement that we've
 the agreement was that the police are accepting the discipline guide. So in the past, appeals have gone to arbitration, and the arbitrator has said, it's past practice that you didn't fire Officer Y for doing this, so you can't fire Officer X for doing it either. Now there's a standard discipline guide which the police have accepted, so if either Officer X or Officer Y does something, the standard discipline is such and such. That's a huge step forward.
 There's also the... I mean, Mayor Hales has fired 12 people in the police bureaus while he's been in office. Chief Marshman has fired four people since he became chief, which is not that long ago, and those people are going to stay fired. So...and then the issue about the 48-hour rule that you raised,
 Because community members rightly called out the body camera draft in the public hearing that we had with everybody having a turn to testify, they called out that the draft camera policy is in no way, shape or form what would be acceptable. The mayor then said,
 proposed an amendment that said that, no, that's not the draft policy. It could be, but we're going to... He's going to... The auditor is going to convene a stakeholder committee to look at what would be a best practices body camera policy. That recommendation will...
 come to the council for a full public hearing. And I will absolutely be looking out to make sure that nothing in that camera review or camera policy means that officers can delay artificially the investigation of their actions. And we also have to remember that, yes, indeed,
 Everybody in this country has the right to freedom, to protections under the Fifth Amendment. And if they choose to not speak, then they can choose to not speak if it's a criminal investigation. If it's other kinds of reports, then their commanding officers can ask them to...
 to speak and to tell the truth. So now I know that my colleagues have been very, very kind in letting me explain this because there's been so much misinformation about what's in the contract, what's not. And it's definitely a conversation that we need to have. But I agree with Judge Simon. First, we need to have a conversation about how to have conversations because we continually have counsel disrupted and that means that other people can't get to speak.
 Thank you, Commissioner. I'm almost finished. I'll just say if you're firm, fair, and consistent in dealing with the council meetings themselves and the mandatory bargaining over the unresolved issues, if you're firm, fair, and consistent, like a good instructor, things will come out okay. I'm sorry. Some of the things that were said were not accurate. I just need to go on the record and correct them.
 Are you willing to hear what I I'm sorry? What was your question? Well, I feel like what Commissioner Fritz Just said was inaccurate in itself. Well, you can disagree with her, but we're not gonna have a debate between the two Well, you can just check our fact sheet on our Portland cop watch website and you'll see why that was inaccurate Check ours as well. Thank you. Go ahead whoever's next. That's all who signed up Okay, are we ready to take action on this resolution a report? Sorry? Is there a motion to adopt a report? Okay, roll call please. No, sir. I
 I really appreciate the willingness of folks to serve on our volunteer boards, commissions, committees, et cetera, and especially this one, which is such a time commitment and such an emotional commitment on such controversial issues. So I really, really appreciate your service. Aye.
 You are courageous people. I'm surprised you're not rushing up to push your name off the list. This is the kind of thing that you will be dealing with because Portlanders do care passionately about having a police company. I don't like to say police force because that's already a framing.
 and officers who serve the community and who do good things. And I appreciate your willingness not only to sit here for three hours and hear the concern from the community, but also then to volunteer to be on the board. Particularly thank Irene Carneth for your fantastic outreach, and also I don't know if it was you or Mr. Sevier who wrote the impact statement, but it's absolutely outstanding in terms of impact.
 telling community people who want to know about this, what the process was and how we got to these nominees. So thank you very much to all of you. And thank you to Mayor as Police Commissioner. Aye.
 anything else well thank you for serving because we do depend on citizen volunteers for all kinds of things in this city we're actually immersed in the comprehensive land use plan for the city right now we have these crazy volunteers who are on the planning commission who spend a ridiculous number of hours doing that so we have literally dozens of these kinds of citizen roles and there's real power in it in this case it's really kind of a particular kind of power because it's a power over one individual's life and career
 as each of those cases goes through the process. And I'll tell you, you know, I've had to do some difficult things as a boss and as a mayor. One of those is visiting wounded firefighters or police officers in the hospital, like I did this week with Lieutenant St. John's, who was the hero of the incident on Northwest 23rd Avenue and who took the brunt of the blast because he was about 20 feet in front of the building when it went off.
 And I didn't really know going into this job how difficult that would be. And then the other thing that is difficult is those recommendations that come forward from the chief and having been reviewed by the Police Review Board for people's discipline come to my desk. And I read them word for word, page after page. And some of them are pretty complex.
 disheartening to read. And in a few cases, including one that's underway right now, I've rejected them because the police review board process didn't recommend a sufficient level of discipline. So it works. This process works as long as everybody involved is acting in good faith and taking their responsibilities seriously. And I know you will as volunteers. So I want to thank you for that. And the city will be better for it. Thank you very much.
 Okay. We're going to try to get one more thing done here and then take a recess until 2 p.m., and that is we're going to hear Item 1198 but not take action on it.
 1198, amend contract with Versaterm Inc. for the computer-aided dispatch system used by the Bureau of Emergency Communications to change the not-to-exceed amount from $7 million to $9 million to cover the maintenance charges and the purchase of additional licenses and interfaces for the four years remaining on the contract. Commissioner Novick.
 colleagues our 911 system runs on the computer-aided dispatch system affectionately known as the cad the cad is the backbone of the service boeck provides dispatching first responders to help people in emergencies this ordinance extends the contract the city has with versaterm for our cad and lisa turley and world morley from boeck you're here to explain the item further good afternoon welcome council good afternoon so my name is merle morley and i am the technology systems manager for the bureau of emergency communications
 We're here today to ask the council to amend the existing contract between the City of Portland and Versaterm to increase the total not to exceed price under this contract from $7 million to $9 million. This contract consists of three terms. The first initial term was the implementation of the computer-aided dispatch system, which had a total cost of $4.2 million. The second term was for a guaranteed support of five years commencing after the initial term.
 to be paid annually. This had a total cost of $2.4 million, and it covered the support through the fiscal year of 2015. The third term was for the optional one-year support periods in either single or multiple year increments upon mutual consent of both parties. So we have chosen to exercise the optional one-year support clause for the duration of the 10-year contract period, but the current contract does not have a high enough dollar value to extend support for the entire period.
 So with the average annual support cost of the system being around $632,000 per year, we are asking council to increase the contract limit by $2 million. This will cover the annual support as well as technology advancements for the duration of the contract. Thank you. Makes sense. Questions? Thank you both. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Thank you.
 Okay, we're going to continue that until 2 p.m. I just have a comment because we're going to be going. Thank you very much for bringing this forward. We'll vote on it this afternoon when we have four. I think a different way to explain it might have been that when we put the contract forward in July 3rd of 2009, I was in charge of the Bureau at that time, but in my defense I'd only had it for four days, that we just didn't.
 Maybe didn't do the math quite correctly, because this was always envisioned that it would be a ten-year contract.
 It looks like a lot of money right now, but that's actually what we're planning to spend. And again, thank you for implementing this system. Thank you for all the work that you do as the very first of the first responders. Thank you. And Lisa Turley, BOAC Director, I wanted to thank you personally, Amanda, Commissioner Fritz. You have been a rock-solid supporter of this sometimes difficult project from day one. So thank you so much. You're welcome.
 Good work. Thank you so much. Let's go ahead and take action on our two-second reading items, just so we'll have only a couple things held over to this afternoon. Let's take 1199, please. Authorized contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Woodlawn King Alley's sewer rehabilitation, project number E10698, for $3,780,000. Okay. Roll call, please. Roll call, please.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hale? Aye. And the other second reading item, 1201? Should we announce that 1200 is being referred back? Yes, sir. Oh, yeah. No, I'm sorry. 1200 is being returned to Commissioner Saltzman's office without objection. I'll do that. And then 1201. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, and we're recessed until 2 o'clock, at which time we'll vote on 1198 and go to our time-certain item immediately after that. Thank you. Are you set? Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the Portland City Council for October 26th. Would you please call the roll?
 Novick? Here. Prince? I'm here as a point of personal privilege. I'd like to just point out and thank the operators of the cameras and the producer of the Portland Community Media for the way they covered this morning's testimony. When the person was doing her own testimony, they were showing that the stuff that she was handing up, that that was broadcast as a measure of free speech. And when her turn was over and we were supposed to be concentrating on somebody else, the
 Written papers were being handed back and forth, and the camera operators and the producers did a fantastic job of helping the viewers at home to concentrate on what was going on. So thank you, Portland Community Media. Great. Nice work.
 Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everybody. We have one item left over from this morning that we'll deal with briefly, and then we'll move on to the afternoon item. But first, I want to make a motion about a special procedural exception here, and that is I want to move to allow subcommittee
 Sarah Anderson to participate by phone during today's council hearing. In consideration whether to allow a person to testify by phone, council should do so on a content-neutral basis considering the following circumstances. One, prior attempts at personal attendance at council meetings to provide testimony. Two, distance traveled or other evidence of good faith in a significant undertaking. And three, extenuating circumstances that prevented attendance in person to provide testimony.
 Council, if they adopt this motion, will find that this person has traveled across the country, a trip of over five hours by plane, to attend a prior meeting. She was unable to attend the meeting, however, due to unforeseen circumstances beyond her control. Council canceled the meeting and reset it for two weeks later. Rescheduling travel to attend this meeting would impose an undue unreasonable hardship due to significant costs of time and effort to travel back again. So I would move that we allow Sarah Anderson to participate on that basis. Second. Any discussion? Second.
 Let's take a vote, please, on that motion. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Thank you very much. Now we have one item left over from this morning. We've conducted the hearing on 1198, and it is an emergency ordinance. So unless there's any further questions or discussion, we can take a vote on it. Novick. Aye.
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, thank you. Now we're to the afternoon's item, which is item number 1202. 1202, authorize a surtax to the city's business license tax to...
 publicly traded companies subject to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure and reporting requirements if a subject company reports that the ratio of compensation of its chief executive officer to median worker is equal to or greater than 100 to 1 under the Commission's pay ratio disclosure rule. Commissioner Novick. Thank you, colleagues and guests. Thank you.
 A couple of years ago, I read about the United States Securities and Exchange Commission's new rule for pay ratio disclosure, which was required by Congress as part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill. The new disclosure requires publicly traded companies, in other words, the companies that sell stocks underregulated by the SEC, to report the ratio of the compensation of their CEO to that of their median worker.
 That means that for the first time we will get hard data from all of the country's largest companies about how much they're contributing to the growing gulf in income disparity between the super-rich and everybody else. It also means we'll finally have a tool to begin policymaking to address growing income inequality, which is bad for our economy and bad for democracy. The surtax proposal that is before us today is an example of the kind of policy that is now possible now that the new SEC requirement is in place.
 I think we've managed to make the connection. Keep coming, please. Welcome, Sarah. Thomas Lanham from the Revenue Bureau is here to describe the mechanics of the surtax itself, and we have a few people here to provide invited testimony. But first, I want to show just a few slides to illustrate the problem of income inequality and why it matters. Before I do that, I also want to state for the record that this proposal will come back for a second reading and vote during the council meeting on December 7th. That fact is included in the impact statement, but I wanted to state it for the record that that is my intention.
 So with that, Katie Shriver, please show the first slide. Okay, here we go. This graph from the Economic Policy Institute shows the big picture of how much income inequality has risen since the 1970s. There's been a dramatic difference in the increase in pay for the super rich and the rich compared with everyone else since 1979. Second, it's really...
 increases in income for the richest of the rich, the top one-tenth of 1% of income earners, that is mostly driving the growth in extreme income inequality. This next graph from economist Thomas Piketty's book Capital in the 21st Century shows that today in the United States, the top 0.1% hold between 7% and 8% of total income. In the 1970s, that figure was about 2%. Piketty's research shows that
 The extreme compensation for top executives is not just a dramatic example of, but a major driver of this level of extreme income inequality. In fact, he estimates that 60 to 70 percent of the members of that top one-tenth of one percent are top executives at large firms.
 In addition to income inequality, there is wealth inequality. Wealth is important because it gives us a foundation for prosperity and keeps us going when times are bad. But increasingly, wealth is concentrated among, again, not just the top 1%, but the top one-tenth of 1%.
 That tiny fraction of people in the United States, one-tenth of 1%, has 14% of the nation's wealth. And that's a conservative estimate. Some economists estimate that the top 0.1% has even more wealth and that their wealth might equal the wealth of the bottom 90% of income earners in this country.
 Wealth inequality becomes even more striking when you look at the racial wealth divide that is shown in this chart. The wealth of the 400 richest Americans on the Forbes 400 list, that's the bar furthest to the left, compared with the wealth of all black American households in the middle and all Latino American households to the right. That means the 400 richest Americans have more wealth, a lot more wealth, than 16 million black American households and more than 15 million Latino American households. Can I try to call in with my phone?
 Those numbers are stunning, and I think they're stunning for all of us. But why do they matter? Here's just one illustration from a New York Times Magazine article titled, Who Gets to Graduate? If you have a high SAT score, but you're from a poor family, your chance of earning a college degree by age 24 is 44%. Well, if you're from a rich family, it's 82%. The gap is even bigger for students who earn low SAT scores.
 52% of these students who earn low scores go on to earn a four-year degree if they're from a rich family, but only 8% of low-income students with the same scores earn a degree. Obviously, inequality begets even more inequality, and so on and so forth. What this growth in inequality means, what the fact that the vast majority of the income and wealth over the past 40 years has flowed to the top means, is that there's more and more people in the middle who are struggling to get by.
 They have mothers and fathers working two jobs to try to earn enough money to keep a roof over their kids' heads. If you had seen equitable growth in income and wealth over the past 40 years, we would have a different country. Just doing a simple math exercise, if the income of the top 1% were reduced to the already pretty large percentage it was of total income in the 1970s, you could give everybody in America a 10% raise. Right.
 The surtax that I'm proposing would give companies an incentive to narrow the economic divide within their own firms by reducing CEO pay and or by raising their workers' wages. Of course, this reform alone will not close our nation's economic divide, but it would send a powerful message that our community is ready to take a stand against the extreme inequality that harms all of us. Now, I'm under no illusions that what just Portland does will have dramatic impact on the behavior of the Fortune 500s.
 But what we've seen over the past few years with local minimum wage campaigns, with paid sick leave, is that a progressive idea that starts in one place will spread to others. If other state and local and state governments, as well as Congress, begin to use this SEC information to drive policy…
 We will see change as shareholders recognize the collective effect of policies like this proposed surtax. We know that California and Rhode Island have considered policies based on the SEC disclosure, and Republican Congressman Mick Mulvaney from South Carolina actually authored an amendment designed to prevent the U.S. Export-Import Bank from subsidizing a U.S. company that has CEO pay more than 100 times that of its medium worker pay.
 and just last week staff from a member of the san francisco board of supervisors which is san francisco city council called my office to inquire about the surtax proposal before us today together we can make a difference on this issue before asking mr lanham to come up and explain the mechanics i do have an amendment to propose the ordinance before you has a statement that is somewhat out of date
 It says, now, therefore, the council directs item B, the city budget office will increase the ongoing current appropriation level target for the Portland Housing Bureau by $2.5 million starting July 1st, 2018, to support the joint office of homeless services efforts to help people move off the street, out of shelters, and back into permanent housing, as well as services that help people avoid homelessness. Thank you.
 When I proposed this surtax, there was a $3.5 million gap between the commitment we had made to funding homeless services in the coming years and the amount that we spent in ongoing funds this last year on homeless services. And I proposed that the approximately $2.5 million that we expect this surtax to raise would help to close that gap.
 In the meantime, in the context of the fall bump, we actually have already raised the Cal target for the Joint Office of Homeless Services by $3.5 million. So technically, the proposal that I had here is no longer necessary.
 However, in the broader picture, we know that we are looking at potential budget deficits next year. The city budget office has already told us that we should have suggested that we ask your public safety bureaus to anticipate 2 percent budget cuts and other bureaus to anticipate 5 percent budget cuts. And I know, speaking as the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Emergency Communications, that that bureau could not tolerate a 2 percent budget cut. And I'm sure my colleagues feel the same way about their bureaus.
 So, although given what we did in the bump on homeless services, the funding funds in this proposal is no longer targeted to a specific service, raising this additional revenue will help us bridge the gap between our revenue and our demands in the coming years so that we will not have to make cuts in critical services. Thank you.
 I'll second the amendment, but just to be clear, it's not going to help us with our deficit next year because it wouldn't happen until the 18-19, right? We expect that next year it might raise a little money, but yes, because the disclosures won't kick in until 2017 and won't really be reported until early 2018, we don't expect the full $2.5 million approximately to kick in to 2018. That's absolutely correct. Thank you.
 All right. So we've got the amendment on the table. Do you want to wait and connect the hearing and then act on the amendment? Any other questions, suggestions, any other staff presentations you have? And I know you have, we hope we have, Ms. Anderson on the phone as invited testimony. We need to test that. Ms. Anderson, are you there? Hello? Hello?
 I understand she can hear us, but we can't hear her. All right. This is Sarah Anderson. There we go. It works. Thank you, Sarah. Welcome. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, first I'd like to ask Thomas Lanham to come up and provide a report on the mechanics of the tax. Okay. And Mr. Lanham actually has a small amendment to propose as well, I believe. All right. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'm Thomas Lanham with the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, and joining me is Terry Williams. Terry?
 We have some other staff here as well, so if you have questions, I'd be happy to answer those. I'm just going to talk at a very high level about the mechanics of this thing. But before I begin, let me thank you all for passing an ordinance in 2015 allowing for parental leave for employees. My son, Francis Morgan Lanham, was born on August 12th, and I availed myself of the full six weeks. And that was just a wonderful time that I never would have taken a full six weeks off.
 had that not been in place. And so we had one heck of a summer. Thank you very much, especially to you, Commissioner Fritz. You're very welcome. And thank you for setting the standard as the Director of the Revenue Bureau to show all of your employees, whether male or female or other gender identities, will take that time with new children. Thank you. Thank you. So the ordinance before you today imposes a business license surtax on publicly traded companies doing business in Portland.
 The surtax applies only to those publicly traded companies reporting CEO to median worker compensation ratios of 100 to 1 or greater to the SEC as required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The surtax would potentially apply to approximately 550 of the 92,000 businesses that we have operating in Portland today.
 The proposed surtax is 10% of the business license tax liability. So in essence, it's a tax upon a tax and would only apply to those publicly traded companies with, again, 101 or greater ratio. And the surtax rate would rise to 25% for those companies that had compensation ratios of 250 to 1 or greater.
 The computation of the tax is very straightforward. A subject taxpayer with a business license tax liability of $1,000, for example, would owe an additional $100 for $1,100 total if their ratio was 100 to 1 or greater, but less than 250 to 1.
 So the mechanics of the administration of the surtax will be very low burden, both for the taxpayer and for the revenue division. They're low burden for the taxpayer because they're already required to report this information to Dodd-Frank and to the SEC, rather. And we are not asking them to modify in any way that reporting. And the ratio calculation is...
 could be reported on existing tax returns for the revenue division. So we're estimating approximately half of an FTE worth of work, mostly just in confirming the reports that they're published on the SEC website. The proposed surtax is estimated to yield an additional $2.5 to $3.5 million in general fund revenue when it fully ramps up in fiscal year 18-19.
 And this estimate was based on recent actual business license tax filings for subject taxpayers. And we estimated the CEO compensation pay ratios computed by a third party. So that concludes my remarks. I'd be happy to answer any questions, and we'll be available throughout the hearing to answer questions that might come up later. Thomas, could you mention the amendment? Yes, I'm glad you pointed that out. My notes tell me to do that, but I just didn't do it.
 So this is a very straightforward technical amendment. So under now, therefore, the council directs, we just want to put in some language that makes it clear that we're coming back in the 17-18 budget process to make some adjustments to add this new program should it pass council.
 So under now, therefore, Council directs, add new language, C, the Revenue Division, correction, the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services and the City Budget Office will prepare necessary adjustments to the Revenue Division's budget in the fiscal year 2017-2018 budget process. I'll second that for a discussion. Would you expect that with starting in the calendar year 2018, or would there be some work for a person to do?
 in the last half of 2017? The work will begin in the last half of 2017. As we really begin to publish information about this, we'll be getting, fielding taxpayer phone calls, and we'll have to probably publish some administrative rules for clarity. So there will be work in 2017-18. And then there'll be notices we'll send out as well, and then need somebody to work on that. So do you have an estimate of how many staff FTEs would be needed to staff this tax? About a half. A half an FTE? Okay.
 And then remind me, is your bureau somewhat overhead funded and somewhat not, or you're all general fund? All general fund. There's a mix of other interagency revenues from water and BES and other bureaus that we collect from. So I appreciate Commissioner Novick putting – since the Housing Bureau's budget is going to be taken care of next year, this is not going to be targeted. It's going to go into the general fund bucket, and the general fund bucket pays you, so we don't have to worry about –
 making sure that the administrative expenses pay for it, because it will. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, I appreciate your seconding the amendment. I don't think I actually moved it, though, so I move the amendment. It's moved and seconded. Not necessarily in order. Other questions? So you mentioned the –
 How did you arrive at your estimate of $2.5 million? We took – Sort of a simulation? Well, we took – so we took actual tax filings for subject corporations that we identified, publicly traded companies, and we took their actual tax filings that we received in either tax year 13 or 14. Then we took a third-party analysis of estimates of the compensation ratios –
 for each industry or sector, and we have retrofitted that back to those individual taxpayers. So it was built line by line. We feel that it's a pretty high confidence, certainly on the 2.5 side of the range. Is the Economic Policy Institute, is where we got the data from, to do the CEO ratios based on industry? Are they an advocate for this, or are they impartial?
 I don't think that they have actually endorsed this concept. They, I mean, again, we'll have much better information because we'll have comprehensive information on the ratios next year, but a variety of nonprofit analytical organizations have been trying to estimate these ratios over the next 30 years, and we have some degree of confidence. Okay.
 Our auditor, who's here today, Jason McKay, did review, you know, for reasonableness, the numbers that were published by EPI, and we found them to be reasonable. Okay. Thanks. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Thomas, and thanks for all the work that your office has put in on this issue over the past year or so during which we've been talking about it. Happy to help. Thank you.
 I'd now like to ask Sarah Anderson from the Institute of Policy Studies in Washington, D.C., to present testimony by phone, as the mayor indicated. Okay, thank you very much. I really appreciate this opportunity, and I also appreciate all the hard work that the Revenue Department has done on this proposal so far.
 First, I thought it would be helpful to say something about my background. I work at the Institute for Policy Studies, which is a nonpartisan think tank in Washington, D.C. And over the course of the past 23 years, I've done extensive research on executive compensation. I was also very involved in pushing for the new SEC regulation that will require publicly held corporations to report the ratio between their CEO and their median worker pay.
 The Portland surtax proposal being considered here today is exactly what many of us who worked hard for this federal disclosure rule hoped would happen.
 By linking this new metric to local tax policy, you have the opportunity to use public policy to narrow what has become a very dangerous economic divide. And I believe you would set a precedent that would inspire many other cities and states, and maybe even the federal government, to take similar action.
 I believe this third tax is not only important because it addresses the problem that Commissioner Novak has already covered on inequality and economic unfairness. It's also important because our current extreme gaps between CEO and worker pay are bad for business.
 On the CEO end, executive compensation encourages behavior that may boost short-term profits and executive paychecks, but is harmful to workers, consumers, and the broader economy in the long term. The Wells Fargo scam is just the latest example. For years and years, top executives raked in tens of millions of dollars in stock-based pay that was inflated by criminal activity.
 Outrageous pay packages also encourage the reckless behavior that led to the 2008 financial crisis. And this perverse short-term reward system is a problem throughout corporate America, not just Wall Street.
 Secondly, when companies have extreme gaps between their CEOs and their workers, it undermines employee morale, which in turn can reduce productivity and increase turnover rates. There's a lot of academic research on this, and I'd be happy to provide sources in writing, but this is why Peter Drucker, the founder of modern management science, believed that ratios above 20 or 25 to 1 were bad for business. That's why Whole Foods has capped their pay ratio at 19 to 1.
 But of course, not all business leaders agree with this, and I'd like to spend just a few minutes responding to three arguments that you may hear from lobby groups representing large corporations. The first is that this surtax would drive companies away from Portland.
 This is a familiar argument from the local living wage fight, and yet cities that have adopted significantly higher minimum wages have not experienced layoffs for slower job growth. And the surtax is even less likely to drive companies away, because unlike the wage increases, the surtax would almost exclusively affect very large corporations that consider many factors when deciding where to do business.
 Moreover, let's face it, change needs to begin somewhere. And if there's a lesson in the living wage campaign, it's that reversing our nation's extreme inequality will require bold action outside Washington, D.C. A second argument we often hear in the CEO pay reform debate is that government has no business meddling here, that CEO pay is strictly a shareholder issue.
 Well, the financial crisis should have put an end to this argument. And that's just the most dramatic example of how CEO pay affects all of us. Lawmakers have as much responsibility to encourage less risky CEO pay practices as they do to protect us from harmful chemicals and labor practices.
 Finally, I know that some have raised questions about why the surtax applies only to publicly traded corporations, and I think that's just a practical matter since the new SEC Disclosure Rule only applies to publicly held firms. But even if it did apply to small firms, they're unlikely to ever have to pay it.
 Let's do the math here. A company with median worker pay of $25,000 per year would have to pay their CEO at least $2.5 million to be subject to this tax. I looked up how much the average salary of chief executives in Oregon make, and it's $168,000.
 Finally, to sum things up, let's look at the three ways that businesses with pay gaps of more than 100 to 1 could respond if this surtax is adopted. First, they could lift up worker pay, which would benefit the economy by boosting consumer spending. Second, they could lower CEO pay, which would reduce incentives for reckless behavior and free up resources for job creation, research and development, or other long-term investments.
 And three, they could make no changes in pay whatsoever, which would result in more revenue for Portland to address the needs of your most vulnerable residents.
 Any of these, in my mind, would be extremely positive. And in conclusion, I just want to emphasize that by adopting this third tax, you would be setting a historic precedent, one that addresses a key driver of extreme inequality, which is a broken CEO pay system that benefits the very few at the expense of the rest of us. And I truly believe your action would inspire similar policies elsewhere in the same way as the living wage campaigns that are spread around this country. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Sarah. I appreciate your coming out here before and being back with us this way today. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you for doing individual meetings with each of us when you were here before. It must be very satisfying having done the underlying policy work in D.C. to now see Commissioner Novick and possibly the City of Portland putting it into action just as you had hoped.
 It is truly exciting. And as many of you know, we don't see a lot of progress here in Washington. So we were thrilled last year to see the SEC finalize this disclosure rule. But I think the next steps will be taken at the local and state level to really put teeth into this disclosure and make it meaningful. Although I will mention that there is just recently.
 There's been a bill introduced in the U.S. Congress that mirrors very closely your proposed third tax there in Portland. Other questions for Sarah? Thank you very much. Do you have other invited testimonies to you? Yes. I would like to invite Tom Chamberlain and Jeff Anderson of the House of Labor to come up. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Tom Chamberlain, and I'm the president of the Oregon AFL-CIO.
 We're a federation of unions that represents over 135,000 working men and women in Oregon. While our members are fortunate to have a contract on the job, we also pay a lot of attention to those folks who don't. That's why you see the AFL-CIO focusing in on an agenda that increases the minimum wage, retirement security, banning the box to give ex-felons a fair shot at a better life, housing, health care, and job creation.
 As my experience, I testified in front of you many times, and as my experience always bears fruit, that my testimony changes because you've got a real good foundation of what this does. I just want to add a couple of things. In 1960, the ratio between CEO pay and the typical worker was 20 to 1.
 According to the AFL-CIO Executive Watch, today, Oregon CEOs, the ratio is 327 to 1. And a report by the University of Oregon Labor and Education Research Center focused on the fact that 25% of our workforce today earns less than $12 an hour. Our economy is changing.
 And if you're a worker, perhaps not for the best, because what you're seeing is more and more low-wage jobs being created, which is going to have an impact on how we generate taxes, how we provide services. And when we have low-wage workers, we know that services are more in demand. If you're a low-wage worker, it's very hard to take care of your elderly parent or a disabled child.
 Often in the past we were able to take care of folks like that in the home. Now we have to rely on the government to provide those services. We have to start thinking creatively about how to capture new revenue, and I think this is a very creative way to do that. I would ask you to do one thing, though, and that's to focus this new revenue on those folks who need it most, the jobless, the homeless, those disabled.
 We stand in support of this measure. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning, Mayor and members of the Council. My name is Jeff Anderson. For reference, I'm President of the Northwest Oregon Labor Council, and I'm Secretary-Treasurer of United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 555. Local 555 is comprised of 25,000 members, primarily in the retail industry throughout Oregon and southwest Washington, with a little over about 12,000 in the Portland metro area.
 We stand in support of this concept because it's really about moving to what we would call a point of self-sufficiency. Self-sufficiency is the idea that you don't have to rely on government to provide you the basic necessary means to support your family, that your job provides the economic means
 to a self-sufficiency. And one study, it's about a year and a half old, that we were looking at on the minimum wage discussion, showed that in Portland today, self-sufficiency would be about a $17-hour job.
 What we know is that since the late 70s, as President Chamberlain has brought forth, is that there's a disparity in the income. The income has become much broader and wider between the top and the bottom. And one document I'm having passed out shows that CEO pay has grown 90 times faster than the typical worker since 1978. This information all but buttresses and supports uncertainty
 President Chamberlain's comments about this disparity, I call it moving from a shared economy to an indentured workforce economy. And we see it just in my membership, which we're unionized, we have benefits, we move to a higher level of self-sufficiency, yet that deficiency is there. If somebody working in the retail industry under our contracts, the average income
 uh hours reported is about 122 hours a month well that's not 40 hours that would be 173 in a month that tells you that we have a part-time built-in system and i was looking at that i was looking at a top-end rate of a non-food clerk that's making 12.90 an hour and that's about 7 000 less than what the self-sufficiency would require in the city of portland to make your ends meet
 It's picked up by the government. You're subsidizing, in essence, as policymakers, you're subsidizing the private sector to privatize and produce bigger profits. And it just seems like we need to start incentivizing companies that reinvest in our society. Over the last 20 years, the city of Portland has lost over 40,000 manufacturing jobs worldwide.
 And that's, in fact, I would say it's over the last 16 years based on data that's within the employment division. So we need to have a reinvestment policy that incentivizes companies.
 not to be incentivized in the short term and provide the export of jobs, whether they leave the country, leave to another area. But at the same time, we need to take the incentive of saying, we could be the next Wells Fargo, we could be the next Qualcomm, we could be the next Enron, and incentivizing short-term gains and disinvestment in local communities. It's with that we support this measure. One of my members...
 who was here a couple weeks ago, who has breast cancer, survivor and struggling to take care of herself and her family, has the difficult time of not just the hours and the irregular hours, but the short income that it takes to make all ends meet. It's with that I encourage you from United Fund Commercial Workers to support this endeavor. Thank you. Thank you. Jeff, I have a question for you.
 Our guest from the Institute for Policy Studies said that – Not related to me, by the way. Said that if we adopted this approach, it might help raise worker morale and it might boost productivity. So you represent a lot of people who work in our community. How might that happen? Yeah.
 well give an example i won't say the name of the employer because really this is a policy about not goring a employer but setting a practice and in the model uh in 2015 the ceo of one of our employers was compensation was 11 million 128 thousand dollars that's why a typical part-time worker working 122 hours is getting the equivalent pay
 of about $19,000 a year in retail. If you think about that, how far can you go, just basic needs after taxes, paying rent in the city of Portland today? Right.
 We know that there's a crisis taking place. So anything, and it's not a gotcha policy, but it's certainly a message saying we need to have a community investment. If you go back in the day, companies were part of communities, were part of that community ingrained up and down, worker to at all levels.
 Today, that's not the case. So if there's something that moves and sends a message that policymakers across this country are going to start working on the income inequality in that band, I think it's a real positive step. And Portland could be the actual leader in establishing the right practice, the right thing to do doctrine.
 I can also answer your question, Commissioner Fish, from my personal experience. I left city government and took a position in the private sector now 20 years ago, 15 years ago, and joined a company called HDR Engineering. At that point, there were 2,700 employees. And one of the reasons I joined the company was that it was employee-owned.
 and I particularly like that model of corporate ownership, and all the stock was held by employees. And, in fact, no one was paid stock as bonuses, only paid in cash based on the prosperity of the company. But the company was entirely owned and remains entirely owned by the people that work there.
 And our CEO pay was, I think, about 10 times the average of the professional workers in that company. And during the time I was there, the company grew from 2,700 employees to 8,000 and only had one year in which profit fell below 15%.
 each year. Now the company is about 10,000 employees. So it obviously proves that that model leads to prosperity. And I was happy about that on a personal level. And it certainly has helped my family and helped me put a couple of kids through college. But from a morale standpoint, it was even more profound that everybody worked a little harder than they should
 Your success was my success, and it created an atmosphere where we all knew the CEO was only paid a little bit more than the rest of us, and in fact, most of the executive staff were still required to have billable hours. So it just created that egalitarian culture there.
 created a very powerful work ethic that drove the company to considerable success in the marketplace. So I would say it was a win-win proposition. It was a win for the shareholders, who in that case happened to be the people that worked there, but it was also a win in terms of what it was like to work there. And it was a great experience. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. From the House of Labor. Thank you both. That has a nice sound to it. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Mayor, we've also invited Marion Haines from the Portland Business Alliance representing the loyal opposition. Okay, come on up. Marion, are you persuaded by the arguments you've heard today? Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council. I suppose thank you for that introduction, Commissioner Novick.
 I probably am the outlier of the people that have been invited to speak to this issue, but I thank you for the time nonetheless. The Portland Business Alliance represents over 1,850 small, medium, and large businesses in the Portland area. We focus on advocating for...
 economic prosperity throughout the region. I would note that about 80 percent of our members are small businesses, and that way we're very much like the chambers of commerce that you see in communities all across the country. We do oppose the proposed business income tax surcharge based on pay ratio between CEOs and median workers. Growing income inequality is an issue. We agree with that.
 during the last legislative session, sat down at the table with some of our colleagues in the unions and came up with a framework for an increase to the minimum wage. We were happy to do that. It was a challenging discussion, but we think it was the right thing to do, and we were also okay with creating a differential in which people
 the number in Portland was higher. We recognize that Portland, its cost structure and its economy is different than Ontario or some other communities across the state.
 We also, about a year ago, produced a middle-income jobs report because of growing concerns that we were seeing growth on both the high end and the low end of the job scale and not as much growth in that middle-income category that has been the focus.
 to the American dream and getting ahead and being able to put your kids through college. So we certainly understand the issue. Our approach to how to address it, I think, would be different than what's been proposed. And we don't think that this proposal will actually get us very far down the road on addressing what is a big global national issue.
 The ordinance does acknowledge that if other jurisdictions follow Portland's lead, then maybe some changes will happen, but there's no guarantee that that will happen. Something similar to this has come up in California. It was rejected. It didn't move forward. We don't believe that there is a nexus between the Dodd-Frank rule requiring disclosure of the ratio of pay and the city's business income tax.
 In many cases, those CEOs, those decisions are being made in other states and other parts of the country that really has no rational tie to the business income tax here in the city of Portland. Thank you.
 The Dodd-Frank rule with the ratio is primarily intended to be used by shareholders in making decisions for their investments when they're comparing similar companies. It wasn't originally intended, I don't think, aside from maybe what some of the advocates hoped for, to be a tax policy tool. It was an informational tool for shareholders.
 And because it was not built for tax policy, it doesn't necessarily treat all businesses equally. It does include only publicly traded companies, and not all publicly traded companies are even included in it. I would disagree that the ones that are not publicly traded are not included are all small companies. There are large S-corporations, LLCs, things like that that are not included.
 included in this. I have heard from members, including those that have looked at their numbers, that will not be impacted by this proposal, that do have concerns about the
 The perception that it will create in the city for businesses, many of these businesses that we're talking about, the 500 on the list, employ thousands of people in the city. They make charitable contributions in the city. They are a part of this community, and many of them reflect that in how they operate and how they interact with the city and nonprofits and things like that here. Okay.
 It's also impossible to know, and this has been noted until the rule has been put in place, who is impacted. We don't know what companies and industries will have to pay, in what amount or what that impact might be. What this does at this point is impose a cost without any benefit because, again, we don't think that this will have an impact by the City of Portland's action on corporate pay structure. So, in a sense, you're…
 you're not buying anything for the cost that you're imposing. And I would argue that this is different than, say, a sick leave or something like that, which we had struggles with at the time but worked on the policy to try to make it work as well as it could. But in that action, it had a meaningful impact on the workers in the city that you were trying to do something for. This is sort of a stab –
 at trying to hope something will happen, trickle down the road, depending on the actions of a whole bunch of other people. So it imposes a cost. It creates a challenge perhaps for some businesses without any kind of meaningful benefit.
 benefit for the people in the city of Portland at this point. So we would urge you to reconsider this proposal at this point. We think there's better opportunities, better ways to provide opportunities for Portlanders. Heard a little bit from our friends in the union community about manufacturing, needing to support those types of things that can really grow middle-income jobs, increase people's opportunities for their families. And we really think that's
 That's in the city's wheelhouse, and that's something where a meaningful impact could be made. So thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate Commissioner Novick inviting you to participate, even though he knew you didn't support this. I also appreciate you acknowledging the problem that CEO pay is up 997.2% since 1980, and typical worker pay is up 10.9%.
 So I appreciate you acknowledging the problem of income inequality. You said in your testimony that your approach would be different. What would your approach be? Well, our approach, if...
 Coming from an action that the City of Portland could take would be, like I said, doing things to encourage manufacturing, doing things to encourage middle-income job growth. We've made some progress with the gas tax and making needed investments in the transportation system, but ensuring that freight can move efficiently, things like that. I don't have a full list off the top of my head, but there are actions that,
 I think that the city could take that could increase opportunities for people here now You know of anywhere in the country that's taking that approach where the income inequality gap is narrowed I'm not going to defend the income inequality gap my what my suggestion is is that there are Actions that the city could take that will have could have an immediate benefit to the citizens in the city whereas this will impose a cost and
 without providing any real benefit to the workers or to actually addressing that income inequality gap, which has grown and is something that we –
 Mayor, if I could just make one comment. I appreciate Steve inviting you, and since we're in the baseball season, I just want to thank you for batting. On my scorecard, I think you're batting 600. I think you supported the gas tax. We deeply appreciate your support for the housing bond. And it sounds like you have a philosophical disagreement on this tax.
 But your support particularly on the housing bond was important. Yeah, we appreciate that. No, again, I think the dilemma for me is that, you know, the city's booming.
 You know, the city's in an economic boom unlike any we've seen. Unemployment is way down. City revenues are actually up. You know, all the indices, including the number of cranes on the horizon, you know, are positive. We got 1,000 people a month moving here, in part because the local economy is so great. And yet this pervasive problem of income inequality is not ameliorated by those general trends.
 general trends or those averages, if you will, don't do anything about the distance between the top and the bottom of that average. And if prosperity and trickle-down would solve the problem, we'd be trickling down all kinds of benefits on working people right now. But it doesn't seem to work out that way, and we've kind of conducted an experiment in the last few years of Portland's recovery to show that that alone –
 won't solve the problem. General prosperity, we had a lot of new middle-wage jobs. They happen to be software engineers as opposed to manufacturing jobs, but nevertheless they're really great jobs. And yet for the low-income workers in the city, there's been really no progress. So I think that's the economic dilemma that we as economic policymakers are facing is that it's just general prosperity and hope aren't going to solve the problem.
 mr. mayor I we were we're actually going to be up
 updating our annual economic checkup that we do. And some initial numbers are showing that we're seeing wage growth both in the low and the middle income end. Quite large numbers, larger than has been seen in the decade. And frankly, in Portland, those numbers are climbing higher than any of the comparator or peer cities that we use. So I think I agree with you that we've
 that we've had a lot of success. There has been a lot of job growth. We're seeing wage growth now, which is absolutely terrific. And my only point is that I don't think because as you said, we're seeing all this prosperity. We haven't seen a lowering of the income gap, that it's not something that the city has any control over. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much.
 Do you have other invited testimonies? I think that concludes our invited testimonies. Okay. Other folks that are here that would like to speak? Two people signed up. Peter Miller and Carly Edwards. Okay. Come on up, please. Great. Thanks for listening to me today. My name is Peter Miller. I'm a retired software engineer, and I am not a real CEO. Okay.
 You can play one on TV, though. But I really support this idea. I think it's an idea whose time has come, and with this new information from the government that provides this kind of metric of the CEO pay, I think it's a perfect opportunity. And I'm pretty sure if Portland adopts this, it's not going to be the first or the last city, certainly, to adopt something like this, because I think it's a...
 It's the tax that fits the crime. You know, it's a very simple, easy-to-understand tax that has a direct impact and will help the city get some money back from these rich CEOs and corporations that pay them these exorbitant amounts.
 I was just thinking of a Wells Fargo CEO who just walked away. They think he's going to walk away retiring in so-called disgrace with $200 million in cash stocks and all the benefits from being a CEO of a large company and making that kind of disparity. And Elizabeth Warren said to him, CEO Stump, you squeezed your employees to the breaking point so they would –
 customers and you could drive up the value of your own stock and put hundreds of millions of dollars in your own pocket. And I think it was mentioned by Sarah Anderson and the disparity creates these kinds of opportunities for desire for malfeasance among our CEOs. Looking here in Portland, I have a friend who's a night baker.
 and he's worked at that job for many years, very stable employee. And a couple things, I help him do his taxes every year, and as a retired software engineer, I'm in the middle income, and he's not. And I...
 he pays a lot more percentage of taxes than I do, simply because people who have more money can take advantage of all the deductions and all the things that – and the CEOs are doing that big time. So by bringing – forcing them to bring the money back down and to the level of more middle-income people, I think the governments will see an increase in tax revenue in some way because the money is being sucked into these –
 you know, the 0.1 percenters, and they tend to pay fewer taxes right now, unfortunately. So I really appreciate this. I think this idea would spread like wildfire, and thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Peter, and I want to note that you were here to testify on October 5th, and this hearing was originally scheduled, and we appreciate your persistence in coming back on the rescheduled day. Thanks. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you for addressing this issue, commissioners, and in particular thanks to Commissioner Novick for his leadership on this issue. My name is Carly Edwards, and I'm the state director for the Working Families Party. Our political party represents 11,000 registered voters and roughly 30,000 supporters. Thank you.
 They're working people, parents, small family farmers, and this is exactly the kind of common sense creative policy that our voters and supporters are interested in and that invigorate them. A lot of our voters are sort of disenfranchised voters, first-time voters, people just getting involved in democracy and the process of civic engagement, and these are the kinds of creative ways that they're looking for government to be able to address the things that they care about most.
 One of the things that we hear about our voters and supporters talk about is their kids going to college. Our voters and supporters are folks who are worried about keeping a roof over their head and being able to put food on the table. And being able to send their kids to college is something that's very important to our folks. And, you know, this is something that we think that is along the lines of the issues that they care about. Yeah.
 In a past life, I used to be the affiliate leader for the Hotel and Restaurant Workers Employees Union here locally. And when I hear about this policy, it makes me think about the largely women of color who are moms who work in hotels and that they are working for barely over minimum wage, while CEOs of Hilton, like Christopher Nassetta or Arnie Thornton of Marriott, make millions. At one point when I was with the union...
 workers of the Hilton downtown actually voted to authorize a boycott that eventually cost almost $2 million in lost revenue for the hotel. That meant lost shifts for them. That meant lost tips. That was a hit. And that's how hard those workers had to fight to be able to get a wage increase with those companies.
 And so this is the kind of common sense policy that we think that workers and our supporters absolutely will be seeing as a step in the right direction. I think that the testimony we heard earlier, it's very hopeful that this could have an impact of
 of lifting the bottom to be able to close that inequality gap. And, um, should CEOs and their boards have hard conversations that don't result in those kinds of increases for their workers? I think that there's a really excellent common sense, um, ways that this is addressing, um, being able to, to have, uh,
 action that the city can take in the form of the surcharge. So we're very supportive and enthusiastic of the policy and are very grateful that we have such committed leaders who are taking on this issue. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for either of you? Thank you so much. Appreciate you being here. Anyone else wants to speak on this item? Come on up. Good afternoon. Yeah, Mr. Shedrick, a little history or something is that
 When there's good economies, like you say right now, we can sometimes consider the leaders of corporations as gods, and they're running things, and only they should run their corporation. And they're like artists, like Steve Jobs, who do no wrong, and this is where the income comes from. But there are downturns, and I think given the debt and the stock market, there will be eventually downturns.
 and sometimes good government has to get involved. The case was, I guess, after the Great Depression, there was a General Motors strike in 1935 in which Franklin Delano Roosevelt was expected to send in the FBI and bust up the strikers. He did the opposite. He actually supported the strikers, managed their problems, and aided the CEO.
 So he investigated the situation and found out the striking workers had rights, like Commissioner Novick is suggesting. Thank you. All right. Anyone else want to speak on this? Thomas. Questions for staff? Yeah. Thomas. Or Terry or both. Terry, come on back up, please. So what is the definition of executive compensation? Is that taken care of in the –
 SEC, you will make a comment. I had sent a memo. Let me pull it up. It's pretty all-inclusive. It's defined by the federal government. It's defined in – it's my understanding it is defined by the regulations that the SEC adopted. It is. That's correct. And it includes – Okay. That's all I need to know. Okay. And so what is – give me an estimate of what a 25 percent surcharge would be on the largest business income taxpayer in the city of Portland. That's it.
 Do you have examples? Oh, right. We do have examples. We have some examples where we didn't necessarily – we took – it's not like the largest, but we've got a couple of different industries and some examples of what those might look like to discuss. So we can do that for you. So we have one here. A large bank pays the city of Portland currently. This is not exact. This is not an actual taxpayer. I want to be clear about that. It's a conglomeration of –
 This is sort of a median impact to this industry. A large bank pays the city of Portland currently $250,000 in tax. The CEO to median worker pay ratio for this example is 1,000 to 1. They would be above the 250 to 1, therefore subject to 25%. So their surtax would be $62,500 for a total of $312,500 tax owed.
 Another example, a large beverage company currently pays the city of Portland $100,000 in tax. The CEO to median worker pay is $175 to 1 in this example. This would be above the 10%. This would hit the 10% surtax. So their surtax would be $10,000. And the total tax due would be $110. And I could go on. What was the ratio in that first example you gave? 1,000 to 1. 1,000 to 1.
 And we've looked at some ratios that are well above 1,000 to 1 and verified those with media reports and other ways of benchmarking the data that we did get from that third-party source I mentioned earlier. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, thanks. Other questions?
 I have a question for the sponsor. I'm really surprised that there are so few people here, either in support or opposition. And I'm wondering, had you been able to hear it on October 5th, were you expecting there would be a lot more people on both sides? Yes, we had a number of people from some of the organizations represented here who were prepared to testify. It's just hard to get everybody back again. Ms. Haynes, presumably that's the same for the Portland Business Alliance, that you had people who were planning to come in on October 5th and weren't able to make it today? No.
 Yeah, thank you. I'm just calling it to everybody's attention because this is another problem with the democratic process in our city if people can't rely on when things are going to happen. So thank you very much, Nate. Thank you for your perseverance and for getting your testimony in by telephone. I was...
 I'm sorry I was spoiling for a fight, but I was really looking forward to some vigorous debates of the more polite and reasoned kind than we sometimes get on other issues. So thank you very much for all your work on this. Thank you. Thank you both. I have a couple of questions to Commissioner Novick.
 So I guess maybe I'm maybe the biggest skeptic here on the dais. And not that, you know, I'm not an apologist for inequality in pay, but I have a hard time really believing this is going to really influence behavior at the level we're expecting in terms of reducing CEO pay or increasing median worker pay. I mean, just looking at the two examples that were given, an incremental $62,000 business license liability on a $250,000 bill,
 for a thousand to one ratio or it's just you know i'm not i'm hard-pressed to be persuaded this is going to influence the type of behavior we want i i'd get it there's the global movement there's the national movement there's portland first i get all that stuff um but as a practical matter if if this does not influence behavior are you going to come back and say well let's increase the ratios let's jack it up to 100 or up to 50 and i guess my philosophical
 Concerns are I don't really support sort of designer taxes and that's what this is. I mean, this is a designer tax, it's well intended and it's got a good intended outcome, but what's to stop us from coming back and saying, well, let's do a business license fee surcharge based on carbon emissions, based on the number of the lack of women and minority in the workforce of a particular company or companies. So where does it end?
 Well, Commissioner, we do have any number of designer tax provisions. We give tax breaks for creation of affordable housing.
 There is the home mortgage interest deduction, which Commissioner Fish raises occasionally, which is originally suggested as a way to promote homeownership. We have a tax deduction for charitable contributions, which is designed to – I mean, the city doesn't, but the city federal government – MR. Right. That's my point. There's federal and state things, but not much at the city level. MR.
 The tax code has often been used to promote certain behavior and also to signal disapproval of certain behavior. In the 1960s, it partly was a matter of greater union bargaining power, but the fact that the average CEO in the 1960s made only 20 times what the typical worker made was partly the result of sort of a societal consensus that it was inappropriate for CEOs to be making these vast signs. I think that part of what we'd be doing here is sending a signal that as far as we're concerned,
 these vast disparities are not appropriate. And I do think that there's every reason to believe that this proposal would be duplicated in other jurisdictions. There's already been national attention simply to this proposal. Robert Reich put up a Facebook post about it. Sarah Anderson. So I'm just saying, but if it doesn't influence the behavior in the way we want, are we gonna come back and say, well, let's jack up the ratios because people aren't responding. And I guess I would also point out many local governments do not have a local business income tax. I mean, Portland,
 or Multnomah County in Portland are the only ones in the state of Oregon that have such a tax. And nationwide, most cities do not have income taxes because they have sales taxes. If I might join the discussion, in Portland, the council has dedicated the Airbnb taxes to the housing fund. So we've already got one so-called designer tax. I don't think it has influenced how Airbnb operates. I guess my question is, what if it doesn't influence behavior? Excuse me. Yeah.
 I think this is an appropriate tax because it does touch the richest of the rich, and whether it changes the behavior of the companies and their shareholders is less important to me than whether we have enough taxes to cover the services that people want, including housing.
 In response to your question, Commissioner Saltzman, I think that the key thing in terms of the effectiveness of this is that other jurisdictions follow us. If other jurisdictions do not, I would not conclude that we would make a huge national difference simply by increasing the surtax. Other questions or discussion? So we should take action on the amendments today so that this then comes back on December 7th ready to vote, is that right?
 Yes. Okay. Oh, and I should note that the city attorney has discovered a scrivener's error in finding number four. It says data from the Economic Policy Institute's with the apostrophe S, which the apostrophe S shouldn't be in there. So I ask unanimous consent to correct the scrivener's error. I have no objection to that. That's fixed. Okay.
 Now we'll go to the amendments that actually have substantive impact, and the first is Commissioner Novick's proposed amendment to delete, if I get this right, we're deleting Section 7.02.500 sub B, right? Okay.
 So further further discussion about that I got that right no, that's okay So we're not deleting anything in the city code itself. Oh, we're deleting that in the ordinance, right? So that would have been seven oh two five zero zero so P But now it won't because we're not going to include that language. Oh
 I would defer the Commissioner in terms of the substance of the – By the way, the Mayor's amendment just substituted a carbon tax for this. That was very skillfully done, but thank you, Thomas, for catching that. Was that right, Steve? We're simply not including that? That's sub B now? That's sub B. Okay. All right. Now we're clear on the actual impact of that. So let's take a vote on that, please. No vote. Aye. Aye.
 I've lost track of how many amendments we have, so I'm going to make my comments on this one in case I missed the last one. And I wanted to thank Commissioner Novick and your staff for bringing this forward. I do think it looks like a way to pay for needed services that the city has promised. Originally, you intended it to be paying for the gap in the Housing Bureau's budget to fund the Joint Office on Homelessness, so I applaud that original intent. And now, because we're finding that money this coming year in the budget, I'm sure there will be some other changes
 needs of the city that need to be funded. I also would expect that if Measure 97 passes, we will have a discussion before the vote on December 3rd to decide whether there should be what effect that measure passing might have on whether or not we should pass this one. Just putting that down as a marker since they both would tax large corporations.
 It's a generalization of two very complicated issues. Thank you very much for your work. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Ailes? I'll just make a couple comments on this one as well. I think we have a second amendment to deal with. I think this discussion about what impact do we have is interesting and worth having, but I think it's also notable that earlier today we were recognized as the first salmon-safe city in the country.
 we expect other cities. In fact, I've already heard online from Mayor Gregor Robertson in Vancouver, B.C., and Mayor Ed Murray in Seattle that they're going to try to catch up to us and also be salmon safe certified. But if you look at issues of climate action, where we adopted the first climate action plan of any city in the country, streetcars, where we built the first one,
 marriage equality where we adopted a domestic partners ordinance long before the term marriage equality was even in general parlance. Ban the box, living wages. Lots of times there have been cases where some city started it. I'm really proud that more often than not that's Portland. And then it became a movement that then changed the national dialogue. And I think that could happen here. Again, from my own experience, there's a way to run a company that's both socially responsible and profitable.
 and a 1,000 to 1 ratio between the CEO and employees cannot in any way be described as that. So you tax things that are antisocial in some cases, and that's what this would be doing. Aye. Okay, the second amendment is to add the language in what will now be subsection –
 B, right, it would have been C, that says the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services and the City Budget Office will prepare necessary adjustments to the Revenue Division's budget in the fiscal year 2017-18 budget process, right, proposed by the Revenue Bureau. Any further questions about that?
 Roll call on that, please. Novick? So I'll take the opportunity to make my closing comments on this amendment. I want to thank everybody who participated today, especially Sarah Anderson, Tom Chamberlain, Jeff Anderson, Carly Edwards, Peter Miller, and Marion Haynes.
 This surtax accomplishes two goals. First, it's a step towards narrowing the income gap nationally, and I do think it's likely that other jurisdictions may join Portland and enact similar policies based on the new SEC requirement from hopefully created companies. Together we can make a difference, encouraging companies to have fairer, more equitable pay structures. I'm glad the Mayor brought up the example of climate, because that's another example where what Portland alone does in terms of reducing carbon emissions is not going to prevent global climate change.
 but setting an example and doing our part has been and is still significant. Second, this proposal will help us balance our budget. The City Budget Office told us last week that we'll have at least $11 million in new ongoing budget needs beginning in 2017-18. While the forecast is, I hope, likely to help with some of that, we'll need to identify resources or make cuts to make up the rest. This proposal raises a relatively small amount of revenue, just $2.5 to $3.5 billion annually, we estimate. Okay.
 but even though it's a modest amount it could be a big help towards balancing our budget mr. Fritz pointed out the city won't realize any significant amount of revenue from this proposal until the 2018-19 budget that's absolutely true but also point out that since we budget our five-year basis this proposal will help us balance over the five years we enacted now as already noted we set the second reading and vote for December 7th so appreciate everybody's efforts of participation and look forward to continued discussions
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you all very much, and this will come back for second reading on December 7th. Thanks for adjourning. That's the surprising thing I felt like. It will not be a day to do that.