okay all right good afternoon everyone uh and welcome uh to the uh october 22nd meeting the portland city council would you please call the roll novic here here fish here here here
 Welcome, everybody. We've got four items. I believe it's a total of five items left over from yesterday's calendar that we were unable to deal with because we ran out of time. So we're going to take those fairly swiftly this afternoon and then move to our scheduled time certain items. So would you please call 1079, and do you want those two together, Commissioner Fisher, separately? Sure. 1079, 1080? Okay.
 1079, authorize a contract with HDR Engineering, Inc. to provide planning services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Facilities Plan Update not to exceed $576,200. And 1080, authorize a contract.
 contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant Influent Pump Station Transfer Addition, project number E10669 for $562,000. Mayor, I'll tee these up and then turn over this to Pat Gibson. The Bureau of Environmental Services completed the current Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant facility plan in 2010.
 Since then, the treatment plan has completed some significant improvements to treat the increased wet weather flows. The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, or DEQ, is requiring us to update the 2010 facilities plan by December 30, 2021.
 The first item we'll take up is a budget request to complete the update of that plan. The second item that Scott will brief us on has to do with a contract, is to authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder.
 For construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Influent Pump Station Transformer Edition, blah, blah, blah. This ordinance authorizes a contract for a transformer addition project on a facility that pumps wastewater into the Columbia Boulevard Treatment Plant.
 Since this is a family program, I've kept the other details out. The program, this project will provide redundant electrical services to the pumping facility to ensure it can continue operating in the event of a power failure. Scott, take it away.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And Scott is mountain biking in Utah, so I'm Bill Ryan, Mayor, Commissioner. Bill, shame on you for coming here and posing as Scott Gibson. Bill Ryan, welcome. Thank you. I sent him away because last time you said, tell Scott we miss him, last time I filled in. I'm Chief Engineer of the Bureau, and with me today is Muriel Gaysa-Teufel.
 She is a senior engineer, she's a supervisor and project manager, and she will tell us about the facilities plan update. Thank you. Thank you. I have a presentation on that ordinance. So the Columbia Boulevard Treatment Plant, sorry. We've got it. It's here anyway. I'm not sure if it's up on that screen. I'm trying to get the next page, so.
 So the Columbia Boulevard Treatment Plant is the main wastewater treatment plant that the city owns and operates. It's located along Columbia Boulevard in North Portland. Thank you, Carla. Thank you.
 The treatment plant treats on average 60 to 80 million gallons of wastewater that is conveyed to the plant. But during wet weathers, it can treat up to 450 million gallons per day. This is a really big peaking factor from average flows to peak wet weather flows. For that reason, the treatment plant has a unique wet weather and dry weather treatment configuration. So it has a primary treatment.
 and then a secondary treatment train. This is just a schematic, I won't go into details, illustrating the two different trains. So dry weather treatment and then wet weather treatment. In 2010, when we completed our last facilities plan, we looked at alternatives for expanding secondary treatment process.
 In 2011, that's when the city entered into a mutual agreement and order with DEQ, the Department of Environmental Quality. The mutual agreement and order stipulated conditions that we had to comply to. There was a compliance schedule attached to it. The city has met all the requirements of the compliance schedule to date. Updating the facilities plan by 2016 is one of those requirements that we have to meet.
 Other requirements that we've met since the MAO was implemented in 2011 included large investments to capital facilities. So we've made improvements to secondary treatment at the cost of $16 million, and then we've made improvements to our primary treatment for wet weather flows, and that was about $5 million. So after the completion...
 Oops, I'm sorry, I'll back up. The importance of the facilities plan is to lay out capital investments for the planning horizons. Typically that's 20 years. This one will look at a 25-year horizon. The picture here shows the limit of the property currently owned by the city and reserved for the treatment process. So the property is within that yellow boundary.
 In 2010, before we entered into the MAO with DEQ, we looked at
 alternatives to expand secondary treatment, which is what TQ is asking us to do, push more flow through secondary treatment as opposed to doing secondary and primary treatment during wet weather. So we looked at alternatives to do that, and the response was, or the outcome of that study was to add a lot of facilities across the railroad tracks here and North Portland Road. So the
 Initial capital costs to do these improvements is significant because of the railroad crossing and the North Polo Road crossing, which you can see in that red box here. So really the objectives of a facilities plan is to develop alternatives and engage into that discussion with DEQ and the EPA to meet the Clean Water Act conditions. So as an outcome of the facilities plan is to recommend the long-term capital improvements plan.
 So when we completed the secondary process improvement in 2014, we started up that system. Then we initiated the process to write an RFP for consultant selection and, you know,
 starting the steps to meet our compliance schedule with DEQ. So we started an RFP, engaged into a selection process, and HDR was selected competitively. We received four proposals and interviewed three teams, and the ordinance today is to initiate that contract.
 Here's the overview of the tasks we're asking the consultant to do. They'll do a regulatory review and analysis, which is focused on wet weather treatment and compliance for CSO plants and things that have changed since the MAO was put in place, and prepare a no-feasible alternatives analysis, which is also a requirement from the MAO.
 It will look at evaluating the performance of the newly improved facilities. It will provide a basis of planning update for flows and loads projections based on population growth, aging facilities, and regulatory requirements in the future. So ultimately, it will look at biological treatment expansion alternatives.
 Some other tasks include a master plan update. We will have public involvement, as always, and ultimately will lead to an updated facilities plan update to submit to DEQ with a no-feasible alternatives analysis.
 There are some optional tasks included, which are sustainable return on investment evaluation that might help in differentiating some of the alternatives we will look at. Effluent hydraulics, mainly focused on how we operate our outfalls for the treatment plant. And then a traffic analysis might be needed as part of the master plan.
 So the base contract with HDR is just under $500,000, which is what we had budgeted. A typical facilities plan is about $1 million. That's the typical fee we have for our facilities plan. This one is a mid-year cycle, and it's $500,000. The optional tasks add $76,000, and then the total contract would be $576,200.
 The total budget for the effort is estimated at $731,000. That includes the internal BES cost. And the submittal of the facilities plan is required by December 30, 2016. That's a little...
 less than 14 months from now. And delays in authorization of this contract will adversely affect compliance with the MAO. And we are hereby requesting an emergency ordinance for initiating this contract.
 After the facilities plan update, I wanted to give you a little outlook on what would come after this, because there are other requirements in the MAO. We would submit by December 30, 2016. DQ will then have 90 days to provide a response and tell us or let us know if necessary.
 We require expansion of the facilities, after which we would submit a schedule the next June, and expanded facilities would have to be operating by December 31, 2021. So I will leave it here for the authorization request. Okay, great. Thank you. Questions, anyone? Mr. Salzman? I just had one question. Did you say that DEQ or EPA wants us to do –
 secondary treatment only? Because I thought you had to do primary treatment before you got to secondary treatment. Yes, we do. We always do primary treatment, but during peak wet weather flows, we split. We have an enhanced primary treatment process. So we have a normal, what we call dry weather primary treatment. When we get peak wet weather flows, those facilities are overwhelmed. So we go into enhanced primary treatment, but it doesn't go through biological treatment.
 Enhanced primary means we're using chemicals for increasing the settling. And so the goal is to get all of that to secondary production?
 Treatment, is that? That is what DEQ wants. That's what we're looking at. Yes, exactly. And to give perspective, in 2014, 89% of all the flows coming to the plant have been going through secondary treatment, and 11% have gone through that enhanced primary treatment process. Okay.
 other questions i just want to note muriel you've taken a mind-numbingly complicated matter and you've reduced it to a five-minute presentation that even i can understand even if i don't recognize the guy sitting next to you so congratulations thank you thank you both thanks very much i'm here we'll go to the you want to take a vote on this and go to the second matter or do you want to take the second matter and do two votes we can go ahead and take the second matter while you're here so all right so this time i'm going to recognize bill ryan don't do that
 Go ahead, Bill. I think it's the second reading. Oh, Muriel can probably second read more on the… Yes, this is for you. Oh, excuse me. The second is the second reading? Yes. I'm sorry. So we have an emergency under the first and a second reading, so I think we're done. Thank you both. So no need for explanation on the second reading. Okay. Thank you both very much. Is there any testimony on item 1079? If not, then we'll take a vote, please, on that emergency ordinance. No vote? Aye.
 Thank you for an excellent presentation. It's good to see so many senior engineers in both Environmental Services and Water Bureau being women who are serving with distinction. Thank you. I think this is another example of how busy, Council, your utilities are going to be in the next five years, maintaining and upgrading our system. And we appreciate the support that you've given us in this endeavor. And thanks for an excellent presentation. Thanks for the presentation. Thank you.
 thank you hi and 1080 please roll call no thank you okay now 1081 please amend sub recipient contracts with the Portland community reinvestment initiative and reach Community Development Inc for two hundred and ten thousand dollars for home repair services results
 Thank you, Mayor. This amendment amends two existing contracts that the Portland Housing Bureau has with Portland Community Reinvestment Initiative and Reach Community Development. It's adding money that Mayor Hales led the charge to bring to the North Northeast Housing Strategy, the $20 million in additional tax increment funding that council approved last January. And this funding will be used for greatly needed home repairs for low-income homeowners.
 so they can hopefully stay in their homes rather than sell them that's great thank you okay questions um anyone here to speak on this item
 not it's an emergency ordinance so let's take a vote please no big great program hi hi I appreciate Commissioner Saltsman you and the Bureau just moving this initiative into actionable pieces quickly and obviously the community wants that and more so thank you all right 1082
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Gresham for $968,818 for the Home Investment Partnership Program. Mr. Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This authorizes our annual intergovernmental agreement with the City of Gresham. This is for $968,000, which is Gresham's portion of the home funding, which is a federal funding formula for housing assistance.
 determined by population and other criteria the city of gresham intends to use this to fund tenant-based rental assistance development of affordable housing and down payment assistance to low-income home buyers so just in case anyone's wondering if this is not us spending portland general fund on gresham it's us being a conduit for federal funds to gresham yeah
 Okay. Anyone have any questions about this item? Anyone here to speak? And if not, we'll take a vote, please. Novick? Aye. Riggs? Aye. Fish? I just want to make one observation. The two principal funding sources we get from the federal government are Community Development Block Grants and the HOME Program. It's been a long time since Congress was able to adopt a budget, so we've been operating under continuing resolutions.
 This past year, the Committee of Jurisdiction and the Senate voted to essentially defund the HOME program, which will not happen because it would otherwise get a presidential veto and we're back to continuing resolution. So the good news is it will not be eliminated, even though it's one of the two most effective tools we have from the federal government to help leverage affordable development in our community.
 The bad news, though, is it is each year being reduced by sequestration. And so it is steadily declining, even though the need is increasing. So I wish, frankly, in a perfect world, we weren't talking about cuts to home and CDBG. We were looking elsewhere in the federal budget for cuts, but that's the hand we've been dealt. Aye. Heltsman? Aye. Mills? Aye. Okay. Now we have one more item left over from yesterday's calendar, and that's 1083. Okay.
 amend contract with Catholic Charities to add $50,000 to house chronically homeless women for a total not to exceed $160,000. Commissioner Saltzman again. Thank you, Mayor. From our 2015 point in time homelessness count, we know that on any given night more than 1,000 women experience homelessness in Multnomah County, including more than 560 without basic emergency shelter or transitional housing.
 Without going into too much detail, this funding within this amendment will allow Catholic charities to help 10 additional households headed by women to move from homelessness into housing. And this doesn't represent an increase in funds. It's really a reprogramming of funds from joined to Catholic charities serving the same population.
 so i urge an option okay thank you very much anyone here to speak on this item if not then it passes the second reading next week oh sorry about that um yeah no it's not an emergency okay let's move on now to uh the scheduled items for this afternoon starting with 1084. accept engineers report on oregon health and science university skybridge and tunnel encroachment commissioner do you want these two read together or separate um actually i think they're separate okay so i'll turn it over to you and to the bureau
 Well, I just, I'll give a little preview. OHSU is requesting permission to construct two structures, a bridge across Southwest Whitaker connecting the existing Center for Health and Healing North to the new Center for Health and Healing South, and the tunnel under Southwest Bond connecting the Center for Health and Healing South to guest housing.
 is to connect the existing Hospital 4 and surgical suites at CAH North with new surgical suites in search of covering CAH South. The sky structure is exclusively reserved for private transport of patients to and from surgical suites.
 And the tunnel will be used for the transfer of materials and waste. Only OHC employees will have access. The tunnel will keep patients' families completely separate from the transfer and delivery of materials and supplies, as well as the extraction of waste and ensure a sterile patient environment is maintained. So with that introduction, I'll turn it over to Kurt. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. My comments will be brief, but I did want to frame today's discussion. It's been approximately 10 years since a skybridge has come before the City Council.
 One of the tasks that I actually say no to pretty strongly and pretty firmly in my day job is proposals for sky structures. I believe the mayor made comments back in May expressing his concern around sky structures, and I've actually used those comments to help inform proposals that come our way. So we actually have two sky structures here before you today. There's been a lot of work that's gone on behind the scenes to get those here today, but I want to highlight the fact that we have a –
 a rather old, antiquated 1982 document that strongly discourages these sky structures. And the bar is set extremely high for applicants to propose a new sky structure in the city of Portland.
 The primary reasons for doing that is we want to keep our streets active. We want people on the street. We want our retails to thrive. We want people not above, not below, but at the ground level in our streets. So that in short is the reason behind this document and why the bar is so high for these sky structures.
 I've asked my staff today, Fabio for OHSU and Mr. Haley behind me for Portland State, to keep these brief, but there has been a tremendous amount of work and conversations to get to this point. So although brief, very important presentation, and then I think you'll hear why the bar is high and how they've reached that bar from both these proposals today. Thank you.
 good afternoon council for the record fabio de freitas from pibot so i'm here to present the engineers report for ohsu's major encroachment for both the sky bridge and a tunnel concerning blocks 25 28 and 29 in the south waterfront district
 Just a general overview of where we are. No doubt the council is aware where we are. South Waterfront, so we're west of the I-5 freeway, south of Ross Island Bridge, and we're here talking about blocks 28, 29, and actually 25 as well. An aerial perspective of the South Waterfront District again in the area that we're talking about.
 You'll see currently there is a surface parking lot on Block 28. There's an existing below-grade parking lot on Block 29, and there's the existing Center for Health and Healing on Block 25.
 so this is a good overview of the site and general project description on block 28 we have the proposed mixed-use building including above grade parking on block 28 the new chh south building on block 29.
 And importantly, the connection for the tunnel is between Blocks 28 and 29 below Southwest Bond and the SkyBridge connecting the two buildings on Blocks 29 and 25 over the Southwest Whitaker right-of-way.
 This is just a graphic representing the connection of the SkyBridge between the proposed CHH South to the existing CHH North building. You'll see they're outlined in yellow. At the third and fourth levels, the SkyBridge is proposing to connect the two buildings. Thank you.
 In plan view, again, we're talking about levels three and levels four of the existing building on the north side and the proposed building on the south side. One of the policies that we had to consider was in relation to the Sky Bridge was its relationship to the right-of-way and proximity to the corner, wherein the policy actually suggests that sky structures should be closer to a mid-block location. Okay.
 It's very impossible to do in this consideration and in this situation due to existing facilities within the existing CHH North building, wherein the only connection point that could be made was here towards the intersection.
 Just some quick images now of the proposal. In front of you is the proposal for the SkyBridge, with the building on the left side of the slide, the proposed CHH South building, connecting to the existing building on the north side of Whitaker. A closer perspective of the proposed SkyBridge, you'll see that it is a two-story structure. There's two levels to it.
 Dimensionally, we're talking about 38 feet from the grade of the street to the bottom of the structure. The height of the structure itself is approximately 33 feet and the overall width of the structure is approximately 26 feet. Why does it need to be a double-decker?
 Again, because of the connectivity between the functions and operations of the existing CHH North building to those similar functions in the proposed building. I'm sure the applicant can provide you with more detail. Can I just ask a clarifying question? If they're developing both Block 29 and 28, currently the parking for Block 25 is at Block 29.
 connect to the building, Block 28 as well? Will you have access through that parking to both buildings? There is no proposal for parking garage connection below grade. So there will be the existing separated garage structure under existing Block 29, under the new building, and a new garage above grade, actually, on Block 28. And has that – I was just actually there yesterday getting my flu shot –
 One of the great amenities here is when you go to OHSU, the clinic there, you can park and take the elevator straight up. So you're saying that you can theoretically continue to park at the existing place, but it will not give you access to the new buildings? No.
 You'll address that in your comments? You're talking about the parking under the CHH now, right? There is a great amenity about being able to park and access the health care facility. A lot of people are in wheelchairs or whatever. So maybe the technical team or sponsor will address that later. Just a section of the SkyBridge again demonstrating its two levels. The connection for the tunnel between Blocks 28 and 29th below grade, below Southwest Bond.
 And the tunnel, again, in section view, you'll see the top of the tunnel is approximately 18 feet below the street grade. The tunnel itself will have a continuous 12-foot height within. That concludes my presentation about the project. I just want to identify that, as Kurt mentioned, we did a thorough analysis of the policy document.
 So we have a number of standard policies that we had to consider, including a number of area-wide policies and standards that we had to take into account. Staff identified that all the policies are met and satisfied, all of the standards, including some very stringent environmental standards, which we received support and documentation through a number of different agencies.
 technical reports that were reviewed throughout the city were all satisfactory and met the policies as well.
 I should note, for your purposes as well, there is a design review element to this project that is in process. The applicant filed their application for their design review several weeks ago. I believe its current status is that it's incomplete, though the applicant filed some additional information this week.
 So our design commission will be considering the two buildings as a whole. However, there has been a public hearing in front of our design commission in relation to the SkyBridge structure itself, and they have blessed the proposal for this single sky structure. I should also stress that the project initially began with two sky structures connecting all three of the new buildings.
 The design commission urged the applicant to rethink that option of two sky bridges. The applicant has done so, and before you today, your consideration is one sky bridge and one tunnel. Thank you.
 The last thing I think I'll highlight that council may find of interest, this 1982 document actually references different parts of the city. South Waterfront, as we know it, did not exist in 1982. So we tried to apply this as best we could. You keep talking down that report. If you look at the small print, it was authored by Charlie Hills. Not quite. How is this helping your cause? I waived it a lot, but it was done before I got here. Okay.
 I brandished it like a weapon. I seem to remember in other encroachment situations, we charge for use of the right-of-way. Are we doing that in this case? We are. One of the things we did was we moved the lease discussions and lease agreements out of the council discussion, moved that back to PBOT, and that's something that our right-of-way section does very methodically with the applicant looking at land value and lease values in the area. That happens separately, and it is happening? That is happening.
 So now that I'm looking at the right slide on page two, so you have the proposed sky bridge is in yellow. So that connects the existing building with the new building. And the tunnel connects it to the building to the east. And the tunnel, therefore, connects the garage. You'll hear more from the applicant. It's more of a goods and services loading, a movement of material, not a movement of necessarily people or vehicles. Okay. Okay.
 Because because block 25 and 29 do share parking they do right Okay, okay any other questions for our team. Thank you both very much. I think we have a presentation from the applicant Good afternoon. Hello Oh
 Mayor Hales, members of the commission, it's a pleasure to be in front of you today to testify on this matter. My name is Brian Newman. I am the Associate Vice President for Campus Planning, Development, and Real Estate at Oregon Health and Science University, and I'm joined by David Stasek with Zimmer Gunzel Frasca.
 We're here, as you know, seeking approval of two major encroachments for our new acute care outpatient tower that will begin construction next year, the Center for Health and Healing South. One, as you know, a tunnel under Bond Avenue, which I'll get into more detail to answer Commissioner Fish's questions, and another sky bridge between CHH South and the existing Center for Health and Healing. We're prepared to give...
 substantive testimony and support as far as programmatic justification for the SkyBridge, as well as the level of design excellence that we think will enhance the public realm. I just want to acknowledge, we understand that SkyBridge is well not prohibited or discouraged. We're not asking you to lower the bar. We feel because of our programmatic justification and the design of what we're proposing, we more than exceed that bar. The design commission, when endorsing our proposal,
 was very careful in their write-up and in their comments to make sure that they weren't creating a precedent-setting decision that others could easily follow, whether the others are OHSU or anyone else. And so we took that very, very seriously, and we worked in an iterative fashion with the staff and with the design commission to get what you see in front of you as good as it could be for your approval today. Let me start by talking a little bit about the OHSU strategic plan.
 Maybe you can just click forward for me. Thanks, David.
 So we call our growth into South Waterfront and the programmatic elements of that the cascade of acuity. As you know, Markham Hill is almost out of all the developable land. We have very few remaining sites. We've prioritized those sites for inpatient expansion, for tertiary and quaternary care. And we're moving outpatient care more to the waterfront and beyond. And a big change in health care right now is this changing mode of care from inpatient to
 to outpatient, things that were inpatient, like bone marrow transplants and hip replacements, are becoming more and more outpatient procedures and reimbursed on an outpatient basis. And because of that, much of this care, while outpatient, is high-acuity outpatient care. And so what we're talking about in South Waterfront is a high-acuity outpatient facility.
 Let me just orient you real quick to the blocks. You saw this in Fabio's presentation. We refer to the six blocks from the tram to the waterfront as OHSU Commons. It's really where OHSU over the next 20 to 30 years is going to be building a major medical center right here in downtown Portland on all six of those blocks and possibly Block 33 along the freeway as well.
 Block 25 is the existing CHH North, our flagship outpatient facility that opened in 2006. CHH South is on the parking garage, so it's connected to that below-grade parking garage directly south. And then, of course, the guest house is to the east, and the guest house is something I'm extraordinarily excited about and proud of.
 proud of. One of the biggest barriers to care for people who come from outside the Portland region, and 50% of our inpatients come from outside the Portland region, as high as 60% in some service lines like cancer, one of the biggest barriers to care is not just insurance, which has led
 has largely, for a lot of people, been addressed with the Affordable Care Act. It's access to housing for people who are here for weeks at a time, and many of our outpatient transplant patients are. If they can't get affordable housing, they can't get care. And so that guest house, if you will, with 76 units of housing, much of it free for those people who stay there is to meet that need.
 The program stacking is as follows. CHH North is our specialty clinics, but CHH South, and then combined with the surgical floor in North, it's not a medical office building with day surgeries. We call it an ambulatory hospital, and we do it for a reason. It's going to have 15 operating rooms, a whole floor of invasive procedures with 14 procedure rooms, and a whole floor of invasive procedures with 14 procedure rooms.
 It will have two floors of extended stay care, so 48 patient rooms, bigger than a lot of community hospitals. And these patients will stay overnight up to 48 hours because that's now the threshold for billing under outpatient care. And then we're topped by a six-story cancer center for the Knight Cancer Institute. So it's highly competitive.
 It's specialized. It's high acuity. And it operates like a hospital 24 hours a day and built to eye occupancy, the highest seismic, structural, and life safety standards that exist. And so it's built at the same level as a hospital in case of an emergency.
 Now, how do you fit that into Portland's 200 by 200 foot blocks? A lot of our program wants to be on one floor. They like large floor plates. We love Portland's 200 by 200 blocks like everybody else. One way to do that is by vacating streets and creating super blocks. And actually, as we've done studies of our peer institutions, like...
 like the Dana-Farber in Boston. Their new facility, and this is a new facility with a similar program as ours, superimposed on our site, is almost four blocks large. The next one we looked at, Memorial Sloan-Kettering, in the most urban place in the country, Manhattan, downtown Manhattan, is as large as three blocks. And then finally, the Mayo Clinic Gonda Building, which recently opened, is also much larger. Now, we are not asking for a street vacation and making a super block,
 But in order for us to fit our program in a way that we committed to doing in expanding in South Waterfront, it requires some flexibility, again, but setting that bar high and meeting it. So the third and fourth floors, as you can see, are really that essential connection between north and south for procedural and surgical care. And the next slide, I want to really get into more specifics to answer Commissioner Fritz's question.
 The fourth floor is where those 15 operating rooms are, as well as our pre-op, stage one recovery, stage two recovery, all accessible to our care teams, which we have interdisciplinary team care, all on that section. And so there's...
 So there's a corridor that's behind the red line for infection control, and patients are actually being wheeled on gurneys. And these are not people who are going to be on the street crossing as pedestrians. So this is not an activity that would happen at street level. And then the third floor is really connecting our diagnostic imaging, which we're making a major investment in, with our image-guided procedures. That's GI, it's interventional radiology, it's bronchoscopy.
 pulmonary bronchoscopy. And then finally, it's cardiology, our cath lab. And so having that connection as well, where patients can get between diagnostic imaging and our procedural space is very, very important. And again, these are patients being wheeled and transported. But it also is an important connection for sterile processing and material flow that serves all of these procedural areas. Next. Next.
 I want to turn my attention to the tunnel. Now, the tunnel is not for the public, and it's not for parkers, whether they're OHSU employees or not. What we have done with the support of the design commission and staff at the city is really look at centralizing our dock function. So rather than having a large dock in every one of our buildings, we're building one large dock on Block 28 on the east side.
 It'll serve all three of those blocks and future blocks as well with a future tunnel system that will also be extended, although we're building phase one of that tunnel to the west to connect it to the CHH south.
 And so we did originally propose a skybridge. That was going to be mixed between material and patients' parking. And back and forth with the staff and design commission, you know, they acknowledged that those patients are ambulatory, and we had a harder time justifying the connection above grade. And so we agreed to drop that in lieu of the tunnel. But, again, the tunnel is not for patients or parkers. It's really back of house connected to our dock, right?
 And those patients that do park there will cross the street. Many of our patients will be directed to below the grade, below the existing building, so they can still park and come up. But some of our patients will cross the street. Okay.
 So the tunnel is – go back – in section is there, and we're going to be boring under as opposed to cut and cover, so we do not interrupt surface traffic or transit operations during construction. So we actually have to start construction as early as this January to get down 30 feet to make that connection since we're not doing the SkyBridge. Let me close before I give David the opportunity to talk about the design by saying we have done our homework when it comes to outreach –
 We've had two open houses that have attracted 300 neighbors to our facilities to talk about the proposal. We've made a presentation to the South Portland Neighborhood Association's Land Use Committee. We've met and presented at least three times to the Mirabella, our closest neighbor to the southeast, to this new building. And we've met one-on-one with anybody who's asked us to. We've tried very hard to answer every single question that's been presented to us. And all the feedback with...
 with this refined proposal has been very, very positive. And so we're enthusiastic about that. And we're hoping that you'll find that this also meets the bar that you set very high to justify these connections. Thanks, Brian. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, good afternoon. I'm David Stasek with Zimmer-Gunsel Frasca Architects. My very brief design discussion today is going to be focused on three key areas. Scale. Okay.
 vision, and detail. And so I'm going to start with some scale slides so that we can understand how this building and how this project is going to relate to its neighbors in the South Waterfront. This first slide represents the new 15-story building, CHH South, and its relationship to the Mirabella, its 30-story residential tower neighbor next to it. You can see that at 15 stories and almost the same size of CHH North, that these buildings are the kind of minor players in the skyline of the South Waterfront.
 This view shows you a view, it's kind of a west elevation that shows the relationship of the bridge in scale to CHH North and the new building CHH South. And you can see it is a double height bridge. It is 38 feet above the street. And you can see it is spanning the Whitaker right-of-way, which is 62 feet.
 If we want to talk about design vision, OHSU has set a very high goal for the design vision of this building and this bridge. Its aspirations are light, bright, and uplifting, and we're going to achieve that with a very light material palette of a lightly tinted blue and silver colored glass along with vertically oriented textured metal panels. So again, the material palette will be very light and bright.
 How does this relate to the bridge? The bridge has not been conceived as a simple tube between two buildings, but more of an expression or an extension of the lower floors of the new building. The third and the fourth floor will be extending out from the new building and reaching out to meet CHH North. The two levels of the podium and the bridge will be light and open, and it will allow daylight to enter the building. It will also allow views to and from the spaces.
 If we peel some of the building away at the bridge, we can kind of see how we're going to do this. We're going to span between both buildings with plate girders. And what this allows us to do is have a column-free span between the two buildings. So there'll be no columns in the bridge space. It will be just the curtain wall and the glass there.
 The other thing that these long-span beams will do is allow us to suspend the third floor of the bridge with hang rods. So you can see how much thinner the third floor of the bridge is in that illustration, and that's because we're suspending it. So that's not actually spanning between the buildings. So again, we're maximizing and trying to minimize the thinness or make the bridge structure as thin as possible.
 The other thing that Brian mentioned when he was walking through the floor plans is that this bridge is divided down the middle. It's divided down the middle to help separate that kind of procedural and surgical space from the more family and caregiver space. And that's divided down the middle with a full-height glass wall. The glass wall will have a translucent film up to about six feet, so it will provide some privacy back and forth from those two spaces. But because the film stops at six feet and it will be clear glass above that, that allows light and views through the bridge. Okay.
 At night, we're going to try and use lighting to emphasize the warm wood walls and the fascias and the ceilings of the bridge and of the podium floors of the new building. And by placing the bridge at the intersection, you know, closer to the intersection as opposed to mid-block, it actually helps identify that new northeast entrance to the new building as well as provide some shelter over that entrance.
 As we zoom in, we can see the openness and transparency of the all-glass facade. We can see the warmth in the wood of those ceilings and those materials. And we can also see the lightness and the skinniness of that structure. You almost don't even see it there. So in closing, this bridge is a very crucial and integral part to the success of OHSU's mission in the South Waterfront. And we think it will be a very warm and welcoming addition to the South Waterfront neighborhood. Thank you, and we'll take any questions. Okay. Thank you very much. Questions?
 So thank you for – it looks like an absolutely splendidly beautiful building. And Block 29 will overlook one of the great parks in our park system. So let me go back to what I tried to raise inartfully before and just have you respond to it. And I'll use an example. So I get all my family care medical services I get from the existing facility, Block 25.
 And recently I raced to an appointment, parked in the parking structure, walked safely to the elevator, took the elevator up, went to another elevator, took it up to the family doctor, and was told I had gone to the wrong facility. Uh-oh.
 So, and that happens as you get older. So I went down to the ground floor, went out the entrance, got on the tram, didn't have to cross. There was no hazards along the way. Tram drops me off, and I walk out the exit into a building to my doctor's appointment. Yeah. So it was all protected. It was all safe, and I didn't have to cross any intersections. Sure. Okay.
 And I think I'm probably not atypical of someone who, coming to this complex, is going to park wherever I can. And you're going to have parking at Block 28, but you could just as easily park at Block 29. As I understand it, though, the way this is configured, if I'm going to the new facility in Block 28, I'd have to cross the street to get there. That's right. There's no protected place. And that's partly because the design commission discouraged you from putting a – Skybridge. A skybridge.
 But I'm wondering, since the idea here is to have connectivity, what is the barrier to having some connection from the parking in Block 29 so that you could access either building and the health care services?
 Is it a cost issue, or is there some other technical barrier? The last point, though, the question you made, what's the obstacle to doing what? I'm sorry? If you park at block in the existing parking structure, but you want to go to the new building. Oh, you'll be able to. So thanks for clarifying. So the below-grade parking structure under the one you parked in last time you were there, well, that is a two-block parking structure. It's under.
 under Blocks 25 and 29. So it's a two-block, and we built it to anticipate a future tower on Block 29. So you actually enter on Block 29 and drive under, right now, Block 25, which is CHH North, right? So there will be two elevator cores in that parking garage, a low-grade parking garage, that will bring you both up to the existing CHH and the new CHH South.
 So if you continue to park below grade, you'll still be able to use either of those elevator cores. So you've got me. That I understand. Okay. That part I do understand. Great. But I can't get to Block 28 without going upstairs, out the door on a rainy day, crossing a busy street and going in. And the beauty of what you've accomplished in the existing structure is you don't have to do that. You can park there.
 And everything is protected. Yes. Including the trip on the tram if you go to the wrong place for your appointment. There's a lot of people within OHSU that have a similar kind of concern. And what we're trying to do right now below blocks 25 and 29, it's a mix of employee parking and patient parking. We're moving all of those employees out, and they will be parking in block 28. So all of the parking below CHH North and South is going to be patient parking.
 Now, we will still need some patient parking in Block 28, and we're going to do as best we can to direct people there that we know from their pre-work before they register, well, when they register, that are ambulatory, and that won't be a challenge for them from a physical access or a convenience perspective.
 But you're right, they are going to have to cross the street, those small group of patients that do park in Block 28. One of the reasons we had a proposal for a skybridge initially was to avoid that. We understand that this is iterative, and it was a harder justification to the design commission and to staff to justify that skybridge connection. And so we dropped that in order to make sure we had a stronger case for the other skybridge, which is absolutely essential. Okay.
 And then there's another need, obviously, for the dock, the central dock, to connect, which we're doing by a tunnel. So I'm not trying to avoid your answer, your question. You're absolutely right. There will be a minority of patients, or, you know, it's not a small number, but there will be patients that will have to cross the street to get into CHH South at Park and Block 28. Okay.
 It sounds like you've thoroughly vetted that as an issue, because what struck me is if it was just a passageway at the parking level that would allow the people to walk into the – you could allow someone who parks at Block 29 to either go to the new structure to the east or to the structure to the north. You mean making a connection at the parking level? Yeah. Well, we talked about that and patients parking above grade.
 It was just a question of how far out of direction do we want to send the patients, because then they would have to walk through the parking garage once they got to the other side of the tunnel. And so I think for a lot of different reasons, and there's others as well, we arrived at this conclusion.
 The other question I had is for your architect. The housing above Block 28 is on the north end of the building running on an east-west axis. And I'm just curious, when you were considering all the various permutations of where you put the housing, what made that the most appealing in your design? There were a couple of reasons that we did that. One of the first reasons is so that by sliding that tower to the north and sliding the new tower, the levels above the podium of CHH South,
 To the south, a little closer to Carruthers Park, that actually kept some views for CHH South over that now fifth floor terrace that was the space that the tower could have been in. The second is to maintain as much south-facing terrace on the top of the parking structure for those terraces.
 folks in the guest housing. So we have a completely landscaped and hardscaped terrace that's an elevated terrace that overlooks the south and it's facing south and has views of the river. And lastly, it was to get the patient housing as far away from the Mirabella Tower as possible so that we could maintain the kind of breathing space between those urban structures. Great answer. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who's here to speak on this particular item?
 And this is not an emergency ordinance, right? So the way this is structured is that we'll get council questions answered by staff and maybe make some comments and then schedule this for second reading in a week. So comments, concerns? I do have a question for staff and for the commissioner.
 I certainly appreciate the proposal here, and as a former worker at OHSU for 22 years, we're very fond of our tunnels and sky bridges and connections and such. So, it'll just feel like home to have one of a tunnel or a sky bridge and a tunnel.
 My question is about the 1982 policy and about other perhaps less well-connected facilities, such as Russellville, where we don't have patients going back and forth, although I know the reason I asked my question about the second floor, it certainly makes sense where you have surgical rooms and recovery rooms to have a connection, but the second floor doesn't seem to have quite that compelling need for connectivity. I'm fine with it.
 I also think that seniors who are living at Russellville and who need to cross a very small one-way right-of-way should be allowed to have a sky bridge there so that they don't get rained on, because there's no...
 public happenings happening in that right-of-way. There's no shops for them to shop at, besides which they're holding onto their walkers and in their wheelchairs trying to get to activities. So what is the process for another entity in a different part of town to come and ask for something which is needed for their residents and clients?
 Great question. Thank you. Remembering back to 2005 when the Cherrywood Village Sky Ridge was here, my younger days at PBOT, this room was full of a lot of interested parties, residents of that facility, and they made a very compelling case to council, and I think other entities like that could go through the process that's been there. There were comments made by the council, and I believe Mayor Katz at the time, that said,
 There should be an encouragement to allow these special circumstances to exist, and that has resided at least in my mind and unofficially there. I will say that this document needs to be updated. I'm trying not to highlight that as a work plan that council is going to ask us to take on right now, given the other volume of work, but that document certainly needs to be updated. The maps are out of date. The city has changed, and I think capturing your comments is something that would be
 and why isn't it updating in that document. But certainly, Russellville could make an application like this and make this case and go through the criteria, go through a commission, work on a design, and bring a proposal to council. Colleagues, I would hope that if that happened, that we would be as accommodating for a lesser-known entity as we are being for OHSU. Thank you very much. Well, up to a point. So I'll make some comments.
 know maybe the document needs to be updated but the philosophy of lively public realm and wariness about sky bridges is I think still justify and actually did you say it's been ten years since we've had since 2005 so given the amount of construction in the city in the last ten years if we haven't had one for ten years I'd say we're operating at about the right pace
 that these ought to be rare and exceptional because we do have a lively public ground. So the philosophy behind that document is not outdated, which is that a lively city happens at street level, and that's why our whole design regime is so much about the first 30 feet of a building. So I'm happy that this is a rare exception. And I think in order to pass the test, the proposal has to rise from being an internal convenience to being a public property.
 to being a necessity or serving a public purpose. And I think this one passes the test, my version of that test, because, again, we've got a community interest in a lively public realm that we've tried to capture in the policy and in making this a very high bar. I think OHSU and their architects have done a good job
 of both meeting that requirement and doing it in a way that uh that the design does honor the public realm i particularly appreciate that that the transparency even though this isn't a design case here before the council that the transparency of the skybridge is carried into the whole floor plates of the building because it does make it clear this is a this is a public
 way that's connected to what's happening at the street level so I think you've finessed both in design and in how you've been measured in your use of the tool here in a way that certainly as these guys know I had some concerns about this and I just want you to know that I think you've met my standards for when this is appropriate so thank you for doing a great job.
 Mayor, let me just, as a consumer, let me just say that I agree with your comments. And if there was an example of a particular use where having the maximum circulation seems to me to be in the public interest, it's in a health care setting. Thank you.
 Because, as I noted, the alternative is people having to go on the street level to cross to other buildings. And I'm struck every time I go to this particular area how many people arrive in wheelchairs or have other barriers. So the idea that it's internally structured in a way that you can seamlessly go throughout the campus without actually having to cross the street or go outside is one of the charms of, I think, how you're designing this campus. Thank you.
 I agree. I think that's a bar that's higher than the mere convenience of connecting one office building to another just for the convenience of employees, for example. I also have to note that while it's not necessarily before us, it does look like a spectacularly beautiful building. Okay. Any other questions for staff? If not, then this passes the second reading next week. Thank you very much. Okay. Item 1085, same subject. Thank you.
 I accept Engineer's report on Portland State University's SkyBridge extension encroachment. Mr. Novick? In this instance, PSU proposes to demolish a segment of the existing SkyBridge connecting the School of Business Administration and Education to the SkyBridge across southwest Montgomery. It will be replaced with a new SkyBridge that will be much shorter and less prominent. We're actually reducing the amount of SkyBridge here, as I understand it.
 Mayor and Council, Kurt Kruger again with transportation. My comments that started the last one are still applicable to this one, although I will note that the mayor's comments about our target of one per 10 years will drastically be reduced in half here shortly. Twenty years from now, the council's going to have another hearing like this. Thank you, Councilor Russell. I think we're moving this one in the right direction. We're getting shorter, as will our presentation be on the sky structure as well.
 good afternoon bob haley with pdot development review we're here for the city engineers report on an above-grade sky structure for psu this little drawing kind of gives you a outline of all the seven buildings that are connected with existing sky structures they began as early as the uh 1960s i think there's one that's even predates the 60s i think there's a 57
 So this was even in long before even the old document that Kirk keeps dusting off now and then in front of us. And then what you also have is these are values that PSU has identified that the SkyBridge will provide for them. Decreases travel time between buildings, provides a safe and more comfortable alternate routes.
 It provides alternate evacuation routes. It allows for efficient provision of utilities. PSU, as you probably know, is also a licensed franchise with the city, so they do have some utilities that are strung underneath these sky structures. And it supports a distributed parking system
 and it's centralized shipping and receiving. Similar to where OHSU had stated they have one super dock and then this tunnel will be used for moving goods, PSU has a central loading on their southern campus and they use these sky bridges for delivering goods and services above level, so at least it's preventing conflict with pedestrians as they're moving those goods between buildings. There's also additional values to individuals with various abilities.
 A number of the buildings and existing buildings on PSU's campus do not have ADA entrances to them. They have elevators that are not ADA accessible or in awkward locations. And there's about a 12-foot grade change from, I think, northwest town to southeast across this one city block. We also received two letters of strong support, one from the Portland Commission on Disability.
 And we received another one from the PSU's Accessibility Committee, talking about the value that this provides. There is about 85%, I believe, of their student population. The classrooms for these are served by this sky bridge, and they have a 10-minute change between class and their schedules. So a lot of people with disabilities would be unable to make that 10-minute change, and they've highly utilized this sky structure system.
 This is an existing – or a photo of the existing sky structure. The sea circle is the one that will be removed. It's about 107 feet long from the existing school of business and out to the existing sky bridge, which is remaining, that runs parallel on Montgomery, just over the sidewalk. The school – the business administration school is expanding out over this plaza area out to the property line. There will be another plaza, I think, on the corner there.
 This is just another view from Montgomery. There's one more view looking east on Montgomery. And that's again, the structure will come down. This is a little illustration that kind of shows
 I think, are we getting this on here? I guess not. You can see the longer structure running north and south. On the right side is the structure that will be removed, and the new SkyBird structure that's replacing it is moving a little closer towards Broadway, and it'll only be 7 1⁄2 feet into the right-of-way, connecting, I believe, to an open second or third floor open plaza on the right.
 on the expansion of the business college. This is from Street View, and again, that's just a seven-and-a-half-foot piece shaded in light. It's about 12 feet wide. It's open to the air. The new structure will... And this is an elevation of the new expansion of the school, and you can see the small segment that will be replaced.
 The design commission wanted them to really lighten it up and not have it as heavy as the existing sky structures are. So this one will be made of thin steel and translucent panels with a mesh grate. And then the last slide is just a little bit closer. That's what you're approving today is that one little segment connection to the existing sky structure, which remains. And that's the end of my presentation. If you have any questions, I'll be glad to try and answer them. Questions? Okay. Thank you both. I see the applicants here.
 Good afternoon, Dan.
 So my five-minute presentation will now be about two minutes. So that's the benefit, you all, of our lack of coordination. I don't know if the phone does. It doesn't usually work out that way. Thanks. You get extra credit for that statement. Yeah. All right.
 So, as mentioned, we are removing a 107-foot connection. It is going down this Saturday. So if you have any interest in seeing a SkyBridge come down, we welcome you on Saturday. And what we've designed and shown the Design Review Commission is this 7-1⁄2-foot or so section that you have just seen that just reconnects the expanded school business to our SkyBridge system.
 And it's particularly important because the School of Business building is in the heart of this SkyBridge system. And so for people to travel.
 around the loop, keeping this connection there is particularly important. The building right across Montgomery from the School of Business, our University Services building, for example, which is on the fourth floor at the Skybridge level is where our advising and career services is. The main entrance to that building, University Services building on Montgomery, does not have an elevator. So those using an elevator have to go around to a side entrance
 travel through a loading dock area to access the elevator. So that's just one example of why the SkyBridge system continues to be important for us and why we'd like to reconnect the building with this connection. So thank you. Does the current 107-foot SkyBridge have an inspirational saying on it? It does not. Only the two across Broadway do. That's fine. I just didn't want to be losing anything inspirational. Okay, any other questions for Dan? Great, thank you very much. Thank you.
 So, yeah, again, this comes back for second reading next week. Other comments from council members about this one? Again, I appreciate the careful application of policy and common sense. It certainly makes sense to put a little bit more skybridge in order to have a lot less. So we appreciate what PSU is achieving here.
 So I'm this also passes my test I'm glad Kurt that my various fulminations about sky bridges are quoted by you But what's more important is that we've got policy that's been around for a long time That's worked for a long time regardless of who's in these chairs and 20 years from now when they have the next hearing like this I'm sure it'll still be true. So this passes the second reading. Thank you all very much and we're adjourned