Good morning, everybody. The council will come to order. And Carla, could you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Saltzman? Here. We're going to start our meeting with a flag-lowering statement. Today, the flag of the city of Portland is lowered in honor of two-year-old Reginald Harris, Jr. Reginald, known to his family as Big Dog and Little Reg.,
 Died October 10th from a lethal dose of methadone a few days shy of his third birthday. He is survived by his mother, Shayla, father, Reginald Sr., and many friends and family mourning his loss. This was a horrible, preventable tragedy to cut short the life of a vibrant young boy, described by his grandmother as a hero and by another family member as the life of the party, adding that his favorite line was, You need help? You got it.
 It is painful to read about this and so much more painful for his family. Our thoughts are with them in this horrible time. I'm reminded that we lowered the flag just seven weeks ago for two deaths, one of another young boy, Reginald's age, a different toddler whose life was cut short from abuse. He was powerless to escape. This is all of our tragedy, and we must do our part to bring attention to these cases, honoring these young people's short lives.
 and dedicating ourselves to making Portland a safer place for all children. This marks the 14th time we have lowered the city flag since passing a resolution in 2009 to recognize and honor children who have died from abuse, neglect, or other violence. Do we have any family members here? I don't see anybody. Well, in that case, I would ask my colleagues that we all observe a moment of silence in honor of Reginald Harris, Jr. Thank you. So we will...
 Move to our communications, 1203. Request of Stacey Denton to address council regarding a movement vilifying the city for clearing out the Springwater Corridor. Mr. Denton here. Okay, well, let's move on to the next item, item 1204. If Mr. Denton shows up, we'll take his testimony when he shows up. 1204, request of Gustav G. Page to address council regarding pigeons and the spikes they land on and amputation.
 Mr. Page. Okay, let's move on to 1205. Request of Stan Herman to address council regarding city violating ORS 830.035, costing him $1,500,000 and restore an 1890 warehouse. Mr. Herman. Oh, okay. Welcome. If you'll just give us your name and then you have three minutes and there's a clock in front of you that will keep track of the time.
 My name's Stan Herman. She has some handouts for you. I've been here the last five or six weeks just getting to learn your process and so forth, and I just want to say one thing about you guys up there. You've got a tough job, and a lot of people don't respect you, but you guys work hard. I know you do a lot of decision-making and fact-finding ahead of time, but it's been interesting being here the last five or six weeks watching you. So you do a good job. Thank you. But...
 I actually gave everybody a handout, too, for an alternative for homeless people. I put that on your desk a few weeks ago. I didn't get a call back from anybody, but if that's something you want to discuss later, I can open that back up. But I own a piece of property on the river. I think, Mandy, you might have been there one time, 77,000-square-foot warehouse by the Fremont Bridge. I got hit by Ross Island Sand and Gravel about 08.00.
 I've been begging and asking people from the city who's got the authority to investigate this hit and run.
 You will have on your handout there a list of all the people I've talked to, and everybody denies responsibility to investigate this hit and run from the Coast Guard, the Montmorency County Sheriff, city police, state police, harbor master, fire and rescue. Nobody has stepped up and said, hey, we've got authority. So I had to bring in that RRS number and say, hey, you guys have been in violation of this thing, and I just don't get any attention on –
 on who's going to do the investigation. And I know it's been going on for years, but I've got to bring it to your attention now. Anyway, since then, it's collapsed a little bit. I've been shut down. I've got probably $200,000 in city fines and so forth. And I need to move on with this project. With that being said, you know, there's a little bit of lemon there. I'm going to put some sugar to this lemon, make it lemonade. In your packet, you'll have some information on what I want to do with this building,
 It's a great opportunity for the Parks and Recreation to put canoes and kayaks for kids in that building. I have a nonprofit group that I've started a couple years ago. We're starting to raise money for that project.
 canoes and kayaks for kids in your packet. You'll have a picture of the canoes and kayaks. You'll have a little bit about what we need to do to save this building. It was built in 1890. It's the last working warehouse on the Willamette River that's savable and usable and workable, and we could put it to good use for the city and the community. So you have a little bit of historic information in that packet. You have a
 A little bit about what the Parks and Recreation is looking for, you know, promoting the river use, boating, recreation facilities they're looking for on the Willamette River and so forth. So there's a little information there. There's some architect drawings on what the building could look like. You may be familiar with the PT boat and the LCI 713. They wish they could be in front of that building to get a little bit more exposure. Mr. Herman, when did you acquire this building? About 05, 06. Okay.
 So 2005, 2006? Correct. And when you bought it, did you have a vision for what you were going to do with it then? No.
 No, I had a piece of property in Lincoln City that I sold, and I said there's not a better opportunity to buy something downtown on the Willamette River, so I 1031 into the building to postpone taxes. You don't avoid them, you postpone them. And I see in the packet that you've given us that you reference a zone change to CX. I'm sorry, what was that? You reference a zone change to CX?
 Was that request put in in the comprehensive plan? It was. It was, yeah. I did that as well. And is it currently industrially zoned, industrial marine? Industrial, yeah. Yeah, my unfortunate experience on another piece of land is it's almost impossible to change an industrially zoned property to anything else because of the rules that the state has set up on industrial lands and because of our comprehensive plan.
 So that piece of it, as I say, I know from my experience having tried to do it on a different piece of property, it just can't be done. So it is difficult to know how to follow up on the information that you've given us. I see that you did talk with Gillian Detweiler in the mayor's office, or was that when she was in the Portland Development Commission? I've been in the Portland Development Commission, and it seems like maybe I wasn't providing enough jobs and so forth, but I didn't really get their attention either.
 So that didn't go very far. Since the main request here is about police officer action, I would suggest that you would talk to Rachel Wiggins, who's sitting right over there from the mayor's office, and see if they can follow up and at least get you an answer. Okay.
 I just think it would be a good opportunity for the city for parks and recreation, for boating and canoeing for kids in that river. I'm at River Recreation. I'll ask my staff to look into that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Herman. Any more questions? No. Thank you very much. Now you know why I've been hanging out, huh? Thanks for your kind words earlier. Okay. Item 1206. Request of Crystal Alinsky to address council regarding selection.
 Morning. Well done, Carla. I really appreciate that. Just give us your name, Crystal, and then you have three minutes. My name is still Crystal Elinsky, and I represent 10,000. That's as many people who are – well, they probably got a similar story. But here are your – this was from last time, actually. You'd think that these people who actually make them would take these back. But there you go. There's my bottles for the day. These ones they use in Hungary, you know, in Eastern Europe. And you reuse them, and you have –
 You have pumps everywhere. You know, until they try to get to some places that have gypsies. And then they shut the pumps down. That was horrible. But we should have pumps. I mean, we've got the Benson. Anyway, on to my topic. So it's selection time.
 This election includes ballot measures. The fascinating topic in and of itself is two of these measures that the media aren't covering, the fact that they're redundant. We've already had them before.
 97 is a bit like 66, 67. And I'm going to muffle the numbers so maybe you remember, Amanda. 2182 is similar to 28192. So that is the voter-owned elections and getting big money out of campaigns. Yes.
 So back a few, maybe five election cycles, 66-67 was supposed to tax the rich their fair share, but details on implementation were murky and ultimately never got sorted through public mass amnesia and, of course, the...
 government laziness sort of took over, and we never heard about it again. And then 2092 was supposed to make that voter-owned elections more permanent that got Eric Sten and Amanda Fritz elected, and...
 Unlike other measures that I've known ever since I started voting, when you change a constitution, you usually vote yes, but in this case it was flipped and it was just too confusing. So complete opposite to the common sense and for overwhelmed voters, it's the kind of trickery that makes people unable and or unwilling to vote. Speaking of big donor financing, big business spent the most in Oregon history for this 97%.
 More than Monsanto and Kraft did to stop GMO food labeling, and more than Philip Morris did to stop the cigarette taxes going to the schools. I remember thinking, huh, if tobacco had just given that money to the schools in exchange for pulling the measure off the ballot, they could have called it a day and appeared less evil. But I guess they're smarter than me. They probably got a tax write-off.
 Now, they paid big numbers. I know probably more than the Nines. Chuckie Holes isn't here today, but the Macy's Nines got a $9 million loan from the city,
 he let it go. And then I know that it's a lot less than what Moda paid to get their name on the Rose Quarter. And I was wondering if I could have just a couple more minutes since I wanted to hear about the pigeons this morning. Your time is up. Thank you. Thank you.
 But if we could have more people show up to this in the morning and sign up as we go, 930, for communications, I would be really appreciative because I think we should have more voices. And as far as the selection, I don't know if Steve Novick's office is spending as much time on his campaign as Nick Vicious did. I understand he's being recalibrated.
 called now, but back then they spent all their time on his campaign, and I think that the voters would like to know that. Whereas Charlie Hills, he's made decisions. Thank you, Crystal. Crystal, your time is up. He's made decisions. Please take your cans with you. And now he's not running again. He has to make a start, and more things are urgent. Could you please take your cans and bottle with you? No, no. Like I said, it's largely yours. If I have to go to this one.
 Could you read item 1207? Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address council regarding freedom of speech. Last communication. Morning, just give us your name and you have three minutes. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 pertaining to the affordable housing bond measure 26179 like i say my position is a yes vote on that one of the concerns i will state is that when the discussions on the bond number one when certain properties currently out there are being purchased i would like the since there will be no debt on these properties i would like the property taxes still to be paid
 Now, the reason why I say that, let's just say, use Joe Weston as an example. If you buy 100 units from Joe Weston and there's no debt on that property, and it's the understanding that people will move out down the line that are currently at market rent, there will be a considerable amount of cash flow. And with no debt, I think that the property taxes should still be paid,
 go into a general fund and then be divided between all the different bureaus. And the reason why I say that, I don't think it's going to be, in my mind, justified that you'll be paying 50% of the overall gross income, net income, on these properties toward maintenance and repair. And I want that to be looked at because I think, then again, the taxpayers and the public are
 definitely win by those taxes still being paid, even though we're using bond money to purchase those properties. And again, it can be divided up in the bureaus on what they want to do with that additional tax revenue off the property tax. And I think, in my opinion, that's the way it should be done. Issue number two on the Clinton Foundation, I still want to have the Clinton Foundation completely separated and removed from the White House. Again, I'm not going to
 With the special government employee rule, the agreements that have been signed to allow certain people in the White House simultaneously to work at the foundation, I think is inappropriate.
 due to the fact we currently have three FBI investigations, one on the Clinton Foundation alone, two on the public servers, and three on, of course, Anthony Weiner on his sexting. So we currently have three FBI investigations going on. I want this Clinton Foundation removed and separated from the White House. Again...
 My position as FBI Director James Comey has a great reputation. He's an ethical, honest, trustworthy individual. He will prevail over Hillary Clinton, and in my opinion, she will end up being elected possibly, and she will be impeached, and Mr. Comey will stand by that and remove her out of office. Thank you. Thank you.
 well good morning everyone sorry i was late i just wanted to report back i was at a community meeting that's still underway on northwest 23rd of course two weeks ago today we got the news during city council meeting about the explosion there and commissioner saltzman
 was on scene right away with the fire bureau who did a great job. And just a quick assessment, I would say that I'm very pleased with not only proud, but pleased with the city's response as an incident responder. We were a little slower coming out of the blocks, I think, as a post-incident support network for that neighborhood. Okay.
 And so that's why I convened all the bureau directors that were relevant to that question last week and got us working together. And then, of course, PBEM's Jonna Papethamu has stepped up to be our project manager for Northwest Palladium.
 23rd Recovery. So she's on the job. She's literally there conducting that meeting this morning. The gas company's there. Lloyd Clark Park Pipeline is there. Just want to alert my colleagues here. I think there's work for all of us to do to think about how do we deal with the next two months
 You know, what do we do? Do we have a different parking scheme in northwest Portland for this holiday season? I don't know, but the subject came up. Do we put some walking controls there because actually there was one incident of looting? I think so. So I'm going to talk to the police chief about that. So we might want to think about what do we do to flex and support over the next couple of months? What's the community going to do in terms of...
 fundraising and support for people that have been made homeless, for people that have lost their jobs, and for small businesses that are struggling to get going again. So I think there's a lot of questions about the near term, the next 60 days, say, and then there's the next
 year or two, while there's going to be a lot of construction and reconstruction in a very walkable pedestrian district that's going to be difficult to manage as well. So just a quick update. John is on the job. She's doing a great job. She's connected to all the relevant folks at
 various bureaus that are going to need to be helpful, whether it's BDS on permits or police on walking patrols or transportation on parking and pedestrian circulation. But I'm really pleased that she stepped up and that DBEM is leading that effort for the city, and I think we're moving forward nicely now.
 So just came from that meeting and just want to let people know that it's going well now. So I appreciate everybody's good work. Okay, let's move to its consent agenda. I think we've had one item pulled to regular, right, 12-12? Is that correct? Two, and 12-13 as well. Any others moving to regular agenda? Okay, so let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar as well.
 Bavaros. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, let's move to time certain 12.08 and 12.09. 12.08.
 Approved findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize procurement using the alternative contracting method of construction management general contractor and authorize payment for construction related to the Portland open space sequence restoration project. And 1209.
 declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct park improvements in the Portland Open Space Sequence Local Improvement District in partnership with the Halprin Landscape Conservancy.
 Okay, so this is the long-awaited launch of this joint venture between the city and a bunch of property owners to improve some great community assets. We have a formidable team here to walk us through these two ordinances. So I'm not sure who's on first, but take it away, whoever is. Okay, good morning, Mayor Hales and members of council. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the Parks Program Development Program Manager, and with me is Sandra Birdsaus, the Capital Project Manager III.
 Larry Platt, Purchasing Manager, and then Andrew Eby, Local Improvement District Administrator with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. We're here today to request council authorization pertaining to the restoration of the Portland open space sequence. That's an ordinance to approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the alternative contracting method.
 for construction manager general contractor, CMGC, and to authorize payment for construction of the Portland Open Space Sequence Restoration Project. We're also here for council to declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings. So a little bit of history about the Portland Open Space Sequence. Fifty years ago, the Portland Development Commission redeveloped a 55-block area of the city as the first large urban renewal district. In what would become a tradition of making...
 public space a part of Portland's urban fabric the PDC set aside three full blocks of parks and the adjoining streets for parks and garden line pedestrian walks and
 To design the parks and walks, PDC hired one of the most visionary landscape architects of the time, Lawrence Halpern and Associates. From right to left on your screen, we have the Source Fountain, Lovejoy Fountain, Petty Grove Park, Ira Keller Four Quart Fountain, and the adjacent pedestrian malls shown in light green.
 Collectively called the Portland Open Space Sequence, they changed the history of American urban design, actually, pioneering a path from passive parks to more participatory, dynamic parks. The historic street grid was retained as a framework for the South Auditorium Redevelopment District and Helpman redesigned the first two spaces, Lovejoy Fountain and Petty Grove Park, shown on the screen here.
 and then integrated a tree-line gridded pedestrian promenade between them. Halpern and associates designed the sequence between 1962 and 1970, and the idea was to echo the mountain landscape, in particular the dramatic rushing alpine landscape of Lovejoy Fountain, which you can see in the upper part of your screen, and the quieter, more contemplative rolling hills of Pettigrove Park.
 Halpern also pushed to design the third fountain, which is the source fountain, and in 1966 did that and was later commissioned to design the Ira Keller Forkert Fountain, also shown on your screen on the left. He described the entire force sequence, pour plaza and fountain sequence as a watershed metaphor for the high Sierra landscapes. So they can be seen as precedents for subsequent Halpern sequences throughout the country in other cities such as Washington, D.C.
 As the first new downtown public spaces in Portland in decades, they've inspired many generations of parks in Portland, such as Tom McCall Waterfront Park, Pioneer Courthouse Square, Jameson Square, Director Park, and others. The Conservancy successfully nominated the Portland Open Space Sequence to the National Register of Historic Places, and in 2013, the sequence was designated on the National Historic Registry District. Thank you.
 the conservancy is now pushing for the national historic landmark designation which is a higher designation and that will help it recognize its international significance and the architects associated but now we have 50 years of aging that we're trying to address a lack of maintenance funding and we're here because that needs to be done the conservancy has been actively working over the last 15 years
 to increase awareness of the sequence as an important city and national cultural resource, and they've been working with area property owners now to participate in a local improvement district to help restore the crumbling sequence. The Portland Open Space Sequence Restoration Project will make critical repairs to the four parks' infrastructure, restore key elements to the original design intent, enhance nighttime security and safety, enhance site accessibility,
 install energy-efficient electrical systems, and improve site drainage and plumbing. Restoration of the sequence is funded by a voluntary local improvement district and the City of Portland General Fund. The current low-confidence estimate for construction costs is approximately $2.4 million. The overall project budget, including project construction, design services, insurance, bonding, project management and staff costs, contingencies, and escalation comes to $3.85 million.
 The two council actions that we're here for today for this project that we'll be discussing are, first, an ordinance to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorized procurement using the alternative contracting method of construction manager, general contractor, and authorized payment for construction related to the project.
 Second, a resolution to declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct park improvements in the Portland Open Space Sequence Local Improvement District in partnership with the Halpern Landscape Conservancy.
 Okay, good morning. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. Portland Parks and Recreation, in conjunction with Procurement Services, is requesting an exemption from the low-bid competitive process used in most standard construction projects. The ordinance requests an approval to use the Construction Manager General Contractor, or abbreviated CMGC, method of competitive bidding. This is still a competitive process, which engages the constructing contractor significantly earlier in the overall project process.
 while design documents are still being developed. The process allows the constructing contractor to have usable input into the document development and bring to light potential problems and solutions earlier in the process in order to design them out of the project. Thank you.
 The exemption being requested allows the city to engage in a competitive bidding process authorized under ORS 279C-3352 and Portland City Code 5.34 and pursue a CMGC competitive bidding process. The council, through its Parks and Recreation Bureau, is required to make certain findings in support of this competitive process. These findings are listed in the body of the ordinance and actually on the slideshow, too.
 The Bureau, in conjunction with Procurement Services and the City Attorney's Office, has determined that the requirements of the findings have been met and the project is available to be approved for the CMGC process. The CMGC process generally allows the City to increase participation of DMW-ESB certified contractors and subcontractors as the City is negotiating the guaranteed maximum price for GMP and other attributes of the resulting contract as the project is being developed.
 If you have any questions about that CMGC process, I'll do my best to answer them. I think it might be good to – you've done it here, but maybe go up to a little higher altitude, and that is why do we do this? Why do we go to the CMGC process on some projects versus the traditional competitive bidding? What's the justification for going down that path, and why do you think it applies here? Sure.
 The standard typical low bid is design, bid, build. Basically, you design your project, you bid it, then you build it. And anything that's kind of in the middle...
 problems, issues come up, you know, handled by change order. In a CMGC process, what we're trying to do is to bring the constructing contractor into the actual process significantly earlier. We try to get the GC into the process at about 30% completion of the documents, so you've got a great deal more time and effort. The general contractor is actually there participating in the development. He's working with the architects.
 If they're coming up with a thought process that may be particularly difficult in a location, things can be brought to light ahead of time. You can work with that system. We generally look at these for projects of significant either – it's kind of one of two things, either looking at them for significant dollar value or where we really believe that getting that constructing contractor involved much earlier will benefit the project significantly.
 I have a follow-up question on that. Given that this is a historic sequence and given the specialty nature of this,
 is it likely that the contractor will have a specialty focus on this kind of work, or is any contractor technically considered for this kind of work? That's an excellent question. And part of the process in the CMGC is we use what's called an RFP process, a request for proposals, rather than just getting a low bid that says, okay, I'll bill it for $6.19. It's designed around –
 Give them the project. They have specs. They're going to be part of the whole design process. So we use a process where they see where we're at. They bring to us proposals. It's still a competitive process. So we're getting people involved. But part of what they present to us is their qualifications for actually doing the process. So we do tend to get much more specialized people. Thank you.
 I know that on the two parks in East Portland, which I think both of you were very involved in, in choosing the contractor, there was a lot of emphasis on using local contractors and trying to increase above normal the number of minority businesses, women-owned businesses. Is that part of the specs for this one? No.
 So, like, for example, for the bond project, Pioneer Courthouse Square, we also did a SAMGC process. We did not have a community benefits plan per se, but we had the targets that we worked with procurement on, and we did many different outreach events, and we're ending up at about 39%, which is pretty high relative to our target of 20%, so we're pretty happy with that. So I think we can do that same kind of thing with this project as well. I wanted to hear. Thank you.
 and what I expected to hear, too. It's I know that we're all learning how to do this better. And in answer to your comment to your question, Mayor, I think that more and more we need to be looking at this kind of approach because it does save money and it's in the long run and it makes a more qualitative bidding process or application process rather than just whoever can do it for the least money. Mayor Redekopal Yeah, I think and also
 i agree with those comments but also it also helps to control cost at least in my experience um involved in this using this tool for the portland streetcar the original 55 million dollar project and frankly the message to the team the cmgc team was very clear not just from me but from don magnuson who was this wonderful
 first chairman of Portland Streetcar, Hank, who pounded on the table. You got $55 million, that's it. You're never going to get another dime. Don't ask the city for any more. Don't ask the property owners for any more. Same kind of situation where we were forming an LID. So some of our money, some of private property money. And so it does help clarify everybody's understanding that that's the deal. If you have to change some specifications to stay within the budget, do that.
 So I think it equips you as managers with whoever you select as the CMGC contractor to pound on the table as needed. Other questions? Andrew. Thank you. Andrew Abbey. I am the city's local improvement district administrator. Just to briefly walk you through the LID component of this.
 The Halpern Landscape Conservancy and the City have been in discussions about a local improvement district as a possible partial funding mechanism for the restoration of the sequence since August of 2012, so it's been about a four-year discussion. There has been an extensive public outreach effort with the Halpern Landscape Conservancy since December 2012.
 The Conservancy has also had extensive outreach with property owners who to date have tendered their petition support to date individually and of their own accord having determined on their own the amount of their LID contributions. I really want to emphasize that. So this is not a traditional LID based on front footage or square footage of property or anything of that nature.
 We just said, here's how many equal shares and $100 lots that we need to raise, and we went to the property owners and we asked them to tell us how much they would like to contribute to the LID. So valid petitions from owners of property within the proposed LID were filed with me, and I've reviewed the petitions and determined them to be valid. They were filed as Exhibit A to the resolution before you today.
 This is a historic LID in the sense that Portland Parks and Recreation is the responsible bureau for the proposed improvement. So what that means is Parks Bureau is identified as the capital project owner for this LID, which would be the first one in the history of the City of Portland if you give final approval to the LID next month. So there is a recommendation in the resolution to move forward with LID formation proceedings. The advantage of the LID leveraging –
 The Conservancy funds include, provides a funding mechanism for property owners to join together to invest in the restoration of the sequence. And as I mentioned, it's a voluntary equal shares apportionment methodology. And then the contribution can be financed for up to 20 years following final assessment. It should be noted we have some very generous contribution amounts here. Thank you.
 Moving on to the next slide, here's a map of the LID. I do want to emphasize that the Conservancy has continued discussions with other property owners, and any property owner within the boundaries of this LID map could join the LID at a later date. And I'll talk more about that on the next slide.
 So as shown in Exhibit B, we do have $1,268,800 in petition support received to date. So far, we have written commitments of another $275,200 in pending petition support. So...
 Just to briefly clarify the mechanics of this, if council approves this resolution today, the auditor will provide notice to property owners in the amount of $1,544,000. That is $606,000 short of the $2,150,000 that we're aiming for on the LID. The auditor can only notify the properties which are identified in this exhibit.
 What we would be coming back with on December 7th is an amendment to add additional properties into the LID, and in some cases, depending on what people voluntarily want to do, would increase the amount of the LID contributions. So we have...
 three or four properties in the mix, we'd be bringing those to council on December 7th with an amendment. Andrew, you said that it's, I guess, unprecedented for the city to be in the position it is in this LID. So if we're making history, can you just flesh that out a little bit as to why it may be, it's on the one hand unprecedented, but it is not something that gives you any heartburn? Yes.
 Yes, be pleased to do that. So the vast majority of LIDs that we do are street LIDs that are administered by the Bureau of Transportation. We've done a few water main LIDs over the years for which the Water Bureau has been the responsible bureau. We've done a couple of sanitary sewer LIDs for which BES is the responsible bureau. Park improvements, by their general nature, offer pretty systemic and community-wide benefits. So, yeah.
 When we look at park improvements, those are improvements that are typically built by the community at large. When I was first approached with the idea of...
 partially funding this through the LID, the mechanism, the parameters that I laid out were that we haven't done this before, but I'm certainly willing to, you know, have an open mind, take a fresh look at this. And that resulted in us discussing this both with procurement services in terms of the procurement aspects of this, which is well beyond my area of expertise. But the other piece of this, we're just making sure that what we were funding through the LID met the state requirement of it being a capital improvement.
 So without getting too deep into the weeds of this, we wanted to make sure that we weren't just funding maintenance, that we were truly funding a capital improvement that met the definition under state law, and then most importantly, that we were really looking to the property owners to come to us and willingly be part of funding this capital improvement. I did not want to be in the position of,
 of trying to determine what everybody's individual amounts are and then having to make the case for it. It just made much more sense to me that we had a group of willing property owners that were willing to step forward to have them tell us how much they wanted to contribute. And this is phenomenal financial leverage. I mean, we've got the $1.5 million in general fund. I am not a Parkey, although I hope to be an honorary Parkey when this is all done. You're already an honorary pilot, so that's the next logical step.
 But, you know, my sense of the situation is that we have a severely depreciated series of assets here that at some point the Parks Bureau would have to fund some sort of upkeep and replacement. So I was just happy to join in the effort to try to cobble together these assets.
 different funding sources, so we weren't relying on any one funding source. We could put together multiple funding sources and really have significant financial leverage. So, Andrew, not for today, but perhaps at some future date, I'd like to better understand the lessons of this creative use of an LID in terms of its application for other challenges we have. The challenge of –
 Keeping pace with capital spending is not unique to parks or to transportation or to our utilities or any bureau. And this seems like a very innovative solution to a problem that's eluded us for a while. So thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. So I certainly appreciate the Conservancy for their ongoing work on this project, as well as looking after the sequence. I'm concerned about the $606,000. It's my understanding that the $1.5 million that the Council allocated for budget adjustments is dependent on the whole project getting done. So where's the $606,000 going to come from?
 I think I could probably have the Conservancy better address that. I guess the one clarification I would like to make to Council today is that if you approve this resolution, you're not actually forming the LID. So there is no commitment to actually build this until Council approves the subsequent LID formation ordinance. So this is a very necessary first step, and I would just also add that I think the Council knows we're in a pretty hot real estate market here. The velocity of real estate is pretty high with properties turning over. So...
 Speaking strictly as LID administrator, I have a certain sense of urgency of getting these pending lien records created and kind of going on to the next step and kind of...
 dialing in what we've gotten to date. It's just a challenge, again, with property ownership turnover, and I think that kind of factors into the $606,000. And just piggybacking on what the Mayor mentioned about the streetcar, it was quite a stretch for us to get to $1.5 million of general fund to allocate to this LID, and there isn't any more from the city. So I just want to...
 be very clear that we're very appreciative of the partnership, and I know that you'll work to make the whole thing happen as well, our community partners. Thank you. Anything else, Andrew? Any other questions for our team? None. Thank you all very much. Let's turn to, I think they're probably representatives of the property owners here and any other public testimony.
 Shows six people signed up the first three please come on up our Don's Stats be Charles bridge crane Johnson and Karen Whitman come on up. Good morning and welcome. I think you're on first on Okay. Good morning. Miss mr. Mayor and council. My name is Don Stassi 2309 Southwest First Avenue. I
 I am a director of the Halpern Landscape Conservancy. I'm an architect and urban designer that has been involved in the rebirth of Portland over the last 40 years as a professional within the city. The Halpern sequence was actually established just before I came back to town after I'm the fourth generation. I'm a fourth generation Oregonian coming back to Portland to work.
 I am standing in for Randy Gregg, who is our president, who could not be in attendance today, but I'm also supported by a number of fellow directors who are in the audience. Would you guys all stand, please? Good morning. Welcome. As you can see... A round of applause, man. Let's hear it for him. I've labored long to get to this day, so thank you. And...
 I think the staff report to you all was really excellent and covered an awful lot of bases, I think, that I may have covered. Since this was first, this concept of the voluntary LIDA was introduced by Commissioner Fish about three years ago, we realized that this is really a pioneering effort in a lot of ways. Thank you.
 in the same way that we originated public-private partnerships as a way to originally build the Auditorium Renewal District, which has now been kind of our mode of operation as we've rebuilt Portland. I think this is another innovative step towards moving in that direction, and I especially applaud the...
 uh commissioner fish's question about let's find out how this works and how it can be applied to other kinds of projects as we go forward with with the city um we have been continuing to to develop the um gating support for our overall concept and commissioner fritz we appreciate very much the uh grant of the 200 000 which allowed us to go a little bit further into looking at
 the underground as well as what was on the surface that we saw. So we now have a very good picture, I think, of not only the infrastructure of the place, not only the aesthetics of the place, but the infrastructure of the place that is a part of it. And I want to thank the Council as a whole for the inclusion of the $1.5 million from the general fund as far as moving this project forward.
 In the end, what we will have is an improved open space sequence, but this surely isn't the end of our efforts. We will get this particular part of the project done, but we will continue to improve the area both as...
 as an open space sequence, but also a very important part of the city and a part of the armature. Last thing I might like to say is that as a part of the efforts of the business owners in this particular area led by John Russell, we've now developed an overall idea for this area to become the fountain district.
 much like the pearl but being giving it a brand so that any new development that occurs within the district will also recognize the idea of The fountains of the water and those kinds of things is an important part of the urban infrastructure With that I would like to introduce Bob Nito. Let's let's take these first three folks and then we'll bring Bob up. So go ahead Karen Good morning commissioners
 To the point, I hope that you have no problem approving this LID. We've done some other creative things with LIDs. I think among some people there are concerns that LIDs can lead to a form of gentrification where we only finance open space for LIDs.
 and parks for wealthier neighborhoods. So we always need to be mindful that when we have constructive LIDs, that we see that as almost freeing up money to improve parks and recreation services in more distressed communities.
 We've talked about Halpern's sequence a few times when I've been in Canada, and yet I never knew that it connected south from Keller Fountain. When you go to Keller Fountain, I don't think there's currently any signage or exploration. I didn't know there was an architect named Lawrence Halpern. I didn't know I could walk blocks south, so I hope that…
 And simultaneously with the approval of this LID and moving forward with this project, that there might be some work between the Conservancy and Parks Department to already begin increasing public awareness. For those people who are viewing at home, hopperconservancy.org. It's on the Internet. Just search it around. But...
 I think I will let City Targets Landlord Bob Nadeau come up and take my seat, and we'll move on with the presentation. Thank you. Thank you for your support. Good morning, Karen. Do you want to go next, or do you want to call Mr. Nadeau? Yeah. Bob Nadeau, who's the treasurer of the Health and Landscape Conservancy. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. I always seem to get the less-
 Emotional, dramatic? Dramatic, emotional, whatever. I always get the money end of the testimony up here, and I want to address Commissioner Fritz's point about the $606,000 first. First of all, thank you for the comment that there's no more money coming from the city. It is important to where we are right now in terms of this capital campaign.
 and thank all of you for the commitment of the $1.5 million because it says this is a city, Halpern Landscape Conservancy, property owner partnership, and you've definitely pulled your share of the load, and we all recognize that, and I think the property owners recognize that. We have $606,000 not signed up right now. Two properties represent $425,000 of that right now,
 Mayor Hales has been very, very helpful because he can open doors with institutional investors and corporate out-of-town owners that don't answer Randy Gregg's or my phone calls. They don't even answer Karen Whitman's phone calls. Oh, wait a second. That's a mistake. Now, wait a second.
 But they do return the mayor's calls, and he has been opening doors, and he has been very gently twisting arms. And one of those two property owners is one that he's talking to, and the other one is a property owner that –
 So both of these are typical of the – you know, the easy ones were the local property owners, the usual suspects who signed up right away because they understand the benefit. The hard thing is to talk to somebody in New York with Goldman Sachs or a pension fund in San Francisco that doesn't understand the need, doesn't see the return, doesn't –
 probably has never even seen the property, and finally says we have a fiduciary duty to our shareholders or the pension fund that we're representing, and so we can't do anything but maximize the return on the property. I don't know who made the comment about this being a hot market, but I will give you one example. We sold the contribution fund,
 to the LID three years ago to a property owner who owns an apartment project next door to our property. We resold it two years ago after that property sold, and we just sold it for the third time thanks to Karen Whitman about two weeks ago. So what we need is we need this deadline. We need to be close to the end.
 We need to go to these three or four properties. The other property that we're dealing with right now is, and I don't want to disclose them, obviously, but it's under contract. So we have a seller who's in and a buyer who's out. And now they're pointing fingers at each other going, you didn't tell me about this before we did our due diligence. And so we're going back and forth. I think we will get them back.
 We will get some others. We have a property that's going to be worth around, you know, in the 50s, 60s, $70 million when it's built, but it's not even built yet. So we're talking to an owner that is going to make an investment on a property that they haven't even rented the first apartment to. So these are – the last ones are always the hardest ones, and I think having the deadline –
 and being able to say, we have all the other contributions we're going to get, and you are our guy and gal, and we need you to sign up, is what will get us over the top. So I would like to say one other thing. Please, go ahead. If you can. Yes, go ahead, please. Well, Thank you.
 i'd like to thank commissioner commissioner fritz and the park bureau staff mike abate and especially san roberto's who has worked with us for four hard years down in the weeds uh figuring out the real details of this andrew abbey who has helped us in calculable he was we've sort of pioneered something that nobody's ever done before
 and I'd like to thank Commissioner Fish who first put the little the idea of a voluntary LID in our head and also for coming up with the name Fountain District which I think four or five years ago you coined and now John Russell and the neighborhood is fully adopted so we thank you for the name and we thank you for the idea I want to thank the mayor I've been on two other
 campaigns like this in my career. The first was with Mayor Katz on the classical Chinese garden, and she championed that and really kind of took it on after my dad passed away, and we got that one built. And then the other one was with Commissioner Khafouri, who desperately wanted to see her last, in her last term, to get the Simon Benson House moved, and we did that by hook and by crook.
 And by God, Mayor, we are going to get this one done. We are. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for your leadership. Karen, welcome. That was good. You got the emotion in there. He's not just the money guy. No. I'm Karen Whitman. I'm the Executive Director of Halford Landscape Conservancy, a 608 Southwest Arboretum Circle in Portland.
 I am here to read a letter from Randy Gregg, so I do get a little bit of the drama, and it, along with Anna Halperin's letter, is in your packet.
 To the members of Portland City Council, thank you so much for your continued support of our efforts to restore the Portland open space sequence. I apologize for not being able to attend. At a recent national convening of the American Association of Landscape Architects, I offered to the 200-plus architects and advocates an overview of the public-private partnership that is enabling our $3.85 million project.
 Not only is this a locally precedent-setting effort, but it has national interest, in particular for modern-era landscape.
 We have earned a profile of the project on the Cultural Landscape Foundation website launched this week in conjunction with the opening of the major exhibit of Lawrence Halperin for his centenary year at the National Building Museum in Washington, DC. The Portland fountains are prominently and beautifully represented. We're already receiving inquiries by other groups working to restore modern era landscapes.
 But for many of us, this effort is personal. At the conference, I shared the stage with Laurie Olin, one of the most prominent landscape archonnex of his generation, who eloquently spoke of how our fountains influenced his move from designing buildings to making urban landscapes. Before our presentation, we spoke with Portland Parks and Recreation Director Mike Abate, who shared how the plaza simply inspired his own move to landscape design and a move to Portland.
 Our fountains have drawn many of our most talented landscape architects to move here, and for native sons such as Doug Macy, co-designer of Pioneer Courthouse Square, it empowered them to boldly set precedents of their own. The reason we take these fountain plazas personally is because Lawrence Halpern did. He carefully filmed, drew, and studied rock formations and waterfalls to craft abstractions of their fundamental nature for the city."
 inspired by his wife, legendary choreographer Anna Halperin, he shaped them into performance spaces that lured people to play. In the months after Larry died in 2009, Anna, still going strong in her mid-90s, came to Portland to make a dance in his memory in Lovejoy Plaza. Music
 As gentle rain fell, the dancers waded into the waters, and the audience joined them in an enchanting living memorial. She was moved to write a letter of support of our efforts, and this is her quote.
 As I reflect about this spontaneous event, I think we are not asking to save the fountains from neglect. We are asking to save a place, to find joy and inspiration as a community, perhaps even a spiritual connection to peace with the natural world and to each other. Thank you for your support. And I want to add something.
 On a personal note, I am a big believer that we have a model in the making, a historic model, thanks to Commissioner Fish's point. I want to thank my board, who are a very hardworking board, our LID partners, and so many others who stepped forward because they really believe in this. And I also want to thank Bob to thank Mayor Hales, who...
 contacted us asked us how he could help and he's made a big difference we're so close with your help we're gonna get this done thank you thank you very much the last two I show signed up our crystal Alinsky and Carol I'm Lutz Kiko come on up please Mary Hales I just want to remind you we do have a substitute exhibit be to swap out for you okay thank you
 Okay. Yeah. I will be brief. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Due to a potential conflict of interest with Commissioner Saltzman, I would like him not to be part of the vote. Thank you very much. Okay. We do have a substitute for Exhibit B for Item 1209. Second.
 Is there a second? There is. Let's take a vote, please, to accept the replacement exhibit B. What does it do? Andrew, what does it do? It is an exhibit, so I don't know. Commissioner Fritz, Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. So what the exhibit B does is it lays out the properties that are
 The Halpern Landscape Conservancy is approaching to help fill the $606,000 gap. There's a bit of a shift in those properties. There isn't any change in reflecting the petition support tender to date. It's just simply a more clear picture of where we're headed on filling the gap. Thank you. It's a revised prospect list.
 Thank you. Okay. So then the first of these items is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote on that, please. And I'll make some comments on this one, and maybe others might want to as well. Do you want to do the roll on the exhibit first, the substitute exhibit? Sorry, I thought we had to. Please go ahead. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Schultzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Now the vote on 1208, please. Novick?
 This is a wonderful and inspiring partnership, and I'm just so impressed by all the work everybody has done on this and is committed to continuing to do. I wanted to respond to Mr. Johnson's concern that LIDs might be sort of a vehicle for gentrification of the park system. I actually think it's precisely the opposite. In New York, I think they've been very successful in getting the private sector to step up and help fund LIDs.
 expansion and maintenance of the iconic features of the parks of New York.
 and that means that more of the city general fund money can go to support parks in areas of New York that are analogous to, for us, East Portland. So I think that partnerships like this are critical to the survival and expansion of the park system, and I hope that this will inspire people in other places, but will inspire similar efforts in the city in the future. So thank you so, so very much. Great. Thanks.
 When Mayor Hales generously and kindly assigned me the Parks Bureau in 2013, I started the practice of trying to every day go into a Portland park, even if it's just one step or cutting across direct to a park in order to get to a lunch at the Sentinel. And I stand there and I think, I own this.
 And I want everybody to think that they do own our parks. All the citizens and taxpayers of Portland own our parks. And this is actually a fantastic example of yes in my backyard. This is the people who perhaps benefit the most by having properties that are in greater value because of the helper in sequence saying, yes, we're going to help take care of it.
 It's also an example of how once a parks commissioner, always a parks commissioner, because Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fish have certainly done a lot of work, particularly both in instigating the process and then in bringing it home with his personal intervention. We have invested parks major maintenance funding in this project.
 for the Halperin sequence in the recent past, and thanks to Director Abate and all of our team at Parks for also recognising that this is an amazing sequence. I first started...
 I had lived in Portland for over 25 years before I set foot in this place. Again, after being assigned to Parks, I went to a concert in Lovejoy Fountain. And then in the fall of 2014, I started taking much more seriously the diligence of getting 10,000 steps per day. So I would get off the bus at the...
 Development Services Building, and discovered quite by accident one day when the lights were not cooperating into how quickly I could get to City Hall, that I could go down and cross on Harrison. And then there's this amazing sequence that I had never seen before. And I particularly remember one morning, I think it was right around Valentine's Day, I can't remember, there was a heart in petals, which I'm going to charitably feel like the person who did it
 picked up the petals off the ground rather than ripping them off the rhododendrons. But it was a beautiful heart, and it really made me almost cry. And I was looking at it, and one of our park staff was just there at the curb, apparently intending to do maintenance and kind of looking bewildered. And so I took it as my executive duty to tell her, don't clean this up right now, it's lovely, and we want to have more people see it. Yeah.
 So I want everybody to feel that they own this park. Yes, it's downtown, but if you haven't been in it, make it a trip. If you have small children, take them on the bus in the Max and take them downtown. That could be a wonderful experience to look at this jewel that's hopefully going to be even more of a national historic treasure. Thank you to the property owners who have put this forward with this amazing partnership. Thank you.
 And I do appreciate that you have also all been involved in other good works in partnership with our parks. But the fact of the matter is we couldn't do this with major maintenance money from the parks. It would take more than we have in that fund to do just this project. So we do need your help. And thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you to all the park staff too. Bye.
 Mayor, point of order. Dan and I are former parks commissioners, and we ask that we suspend the rules so that you may have the privilege of speaking next. Oh, well, that would be fine. Thank you. I'll take it. Because we are a group of parkies here, and I think Steve is eager to join that number someday, but not before Amanda's ready. Thank you. I'm glad you added that. Okay.
 You know, a couple of personal notes here that I want to add, but first just thinking about how Portland does things. This really is a model for the future, but it's also a model that we've proven.
 We've used these kinds of partnerships, whether it was the Portland Softball Association surcharging their members $15 a season for 10 years in order to accumulate half a million dollars to partner with the Parks Bureau for building the Delta Park softball complex. That was a fun one because the leader of that effort stayed on the board for 15 years because he'd gotten a bylaws provision inserted that said,
 that insisted that the money go to that purpose and you wanted to stick around until it actually got done, and it did. To building the streetcar, to building airport light rail, lots of times we have proven that we're a city where people will step up from the community and from the private sector, either with lots of small contributions like Pioneer Courthouse Square itself or that softball field, or partnerships like the Rob Strasser Foundation that built the first...
 turf field at Delta Park
 The list goes on and on, and it always requires personal leadership from people in the community. So to those on this board that have put that leadership in, thank you. It was Michael Powell on the streetcar. It was Bill Nadeau on the classical Chinese garden. There's somebody stepping up, and you are those people, and we must have that kind of help from the community in order to get these things done. So thank you as a Portlander.
 Thank you. Because there's never enough public money. And it's actually better that we do it this way. Yes, we all own this park. But there's something wonderful about people investing in their neighborhood and insisting that they have stewardship responsibility for their neighborhood. So I think that has great power for the maintenance of these places over time.
 Then the two personal notes. One, a small confession. My wife drags me to a lot of art things, and I am not a modernist when it comes to art. I'm kind of an antiquarian. And when it comes to art and architecture, occasionally I will be wowed by a modern building.
 And there's some here in Portland that I'm impressed by. But I kind of like old ones like this. And the same thing goes for art. I'm more into representational art than abstract, and sometimes I simply look...
 and puzzlement at what the artist was trying to accomplish when Nancy makes me go to one of those things. But another exception is Lawrence Halpern's work because I'm an avid outdoorsman. I moved to Oregon in part because of access to wilderness and spent so many happy times with my children teaching them how to backpack and getting to that first waterfall at Wakala Falls that's only a mile and a quarter up the trail or maybe later...
 climbing Hamilton Mountain and standing under the spray of that waterfall. And Lawrence Halperin got it. There's something magical about the modern design of these fountains that absolutely captures the essence of a wilderness waterfall.
 or a wilderness spring at the source fountain. So it's a masterpiece, in my opinion, as a very amateur art critic, a masterpiece of design and deserves to be properly cared for. And then finally, when I moved to Portland in 1979 and started exploring the city, I discovered this sequence. And to me, this set of fountains is a big part of what makes Portland, Portland.
 So I'm so happy that this partnership has come together. We will get the job done and put it right. Thank you all very much. Aye. Oh, I can't gavel it yet. I'm used to winging that gavel right after I vote, but my colleagues get to vote first. Yes. Amanda and Charlie have said everything that needs to be said today, so I'll just add five thank yous. To Lawrence Halperin for creating what the mayor, I think, aptly called a masterpiece and for citing it here in Portland.
 and for it being in the same league as the Lansu Chinese Garden and the Japanese Garden and the other great civic treasures that we enjoy. To Randy Gregg, who in 2008 worked with PICA, TBA, and the Third Angle,
 new music group and staged an event, which, Mayor, was the first time I learned about Halperin. And it was through that merging of art and dance and celebration that a relative newcomer to Portland learned about Lawrence Halperin and his story. So I thank Randy for doing that and literally writing the book.
 As a former parks commissioner, I want to thank the Conservancy, as the Mayor and the Commissioner in charge have both noted. We can't have a world-class park system without world-class partners, and everything that we do involves a public and a private partner, and this is a shining example of that.
 I want to thank the city team, and starting with the Parks family, and we have royalty here today. We have Charles Jordan's son. We have a former assistant director. We've got all kinds of people here, and including, excuse me, Zeri, you're hiding back there, Zeri Santner. We have royalty here. And then up to the present, where we have the folks that are doing the hard work in the Bureau today under Mike's inspired leadership. And four of us up here are either past or present. Past.
 or present parks commissioners, and it's a great honor that we've all had to be part of this family. And thank you. And, Andrew, Abby, we just expect excellence from you every time you do an LID, and today is no different. And then, finally, I just want to say something about closers. One of the features of our form of government that you either like or don't like is that over time lots of people get to have a hand in the sausage-making.
 And you hope that as time goes by, there's some continuity, but there is no guarantee of continuity. So what we hope is that a council one day embraces an idea and a future council nurtures it. But here's the bottom line. Nothing that we ever dream of comes to fruition without a closer.
 And today, on this side of the dais, those closers are named Charlie Hales and Amanda Fritz, working with Micah Bate. So I want to celebrate the fact that they brought us to this point because today is a milestone for our city, working with all of our partners. And I'm deeply grateful to my colleagues. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Thank you all. It's done. See you in a month.
 or a few weeks. Okay, let's move on to 1210. Oh, excuse me. We've got to vote on the second one. Sorry. 1209. Sorry, I'm not doing a very good job of following the agenda this morning. We now have to vote on 1209. No, thank you.
 So I realize that in commenting on the glories of public-private partnerships, I neglected to comment on the glory that is the Halperin Sequence. It is a wonderful place to be. It's a wonderful place to have in walking distance of City Hall. So as Amanda said, we can get our 10,000 steps by going to a beautiful space within walking distance of the city. I also just wanted to say...
 commissioner fritz this is a big day for you but mayor i know that this is very precious to you and i'm also acutely aware that you're with us for another couple of months and i'm going to miss you very much only partly because you're the one person i can count on to laugh at my stupid jokes i will do that and it's really wonderful to see you uh be able to enjoy
 This declaration of an intent to form a local improvement district. Aye. Thank you. I agree, Mayor. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I'm very excited about this partnership to preserve and restore the Halpern Fountains. Thank Commissioner Fish for coining the phrase fountain district and the idea of this voluntary partnership.
 LID formation. So I'm very excited about that, but I am also, I want to, for the sake of transparency, I will recuse myself from voting on this as my family is one of the voluntary property owners that is paying into this LID. So I don't think I technically need to recuse myself, but I think for the sake of transparency, I will, and I would also note my sister serves on the board of the Portland Open Space Sequence, so I abstain.
 I appreciate your recusal. That might be a first and a historic one where someone has recused themselves because they're voluntarily giving the city money. Appreciate that. Thank you very much. Okay, 1210.
 accept the year one bond oversight committee report on the $68 million parks 2014 general obligation bond? Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This one I really do take a lot of pleasure and ownership in. Thank you to the voters who in 2014 overwhelmingly passed the Fix Our Parks bond measure. As we just heard, we don't have nearly enough in the Major Maintenance Fund of Parks to take care of all of our over 200 facilities
 and it passed with 74% of Portland voters in favour, which is a record. And so part of that was that we set up an oversight committee with each of the council nominating to the board to watch over how we're spending the money. The purpose of the committee is to review the work of the Parks Bureau in carrying out the promises and projects of the bond. And the council...
 accepted the first annual report on the bond that the staff prepared, but the bond language also requires the Bond Oversight Committee to produce their own annual report. So I'm very happy to welcome, as Commissioner Fitts said, Parks Royalty, in your own right as well as in your father's, the Chair of the Bond Oversight Committee and Portland Parks Board Vice President, Dion Jordan, who will present the committee's report.
 annual report. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and City Commissioners. Definitely good to see you all. As I said earlier, I am the chair of our bond committee, a committee that you've helped select and helped put together. And I will have to say this is probably a group of the smartest, most considerate, thoughtful people that I've had a chance to work with.
 But don't turn your back on them, because if you miss a meeting, they'll make you sit up here by yourself. Nevertheless, I trust that you have before you a long and short copy of our report. I won't go over it in its entirety. I will allow you to do that in your own time, but instead I'll highlight some of our main objectives, outcomes, and also our recommendations.
 The purpose of this report is to reflect on the progress of Portland Parks and Rec as they carried out their first year of the parks placement bond in three categories. Adhering to the language of the bond, the fiscal accountability, and also transparency. Our first major objective as an oversight committee was to make sure that the Portland Parks adhere to the language of the bond. In other words, that they would do what they promised to do.
 One of the things that were promised was to maintain the current tax rate, and we are happy to report that that promise is currently being fulfilled and that the tax rate has remained consistent. Other assurances that were mentioned in this bond include fixing and improving play areas, pools, trails, bridges, community and art centers, restrooms, and other deficient park structures, including cities of Portland's very own living room known as Pioneer Courthouse Square.
 In addition to this, Portland Parks would help eliminate barriers of accessibility to people with disabilities.
 And we, the committee, are in agreement that Portland Parks has adhered to the language of the bond. You can see for yourself in both the short and the long version of the report that currently seven sites were underway in phase one, as were three trails, two pools were completed, 16 deficient park structures are underway, one barrier to accessibility for people with disabilities, and Pioneer Courthouse Square is to begin in 2017.
 Our second major objective was to maintain fiscal accountability to ensure that the bond dollars are clearly and separately tracked, as well as ensure integrity, accuracy in the financial statements.
 We, the committee, believe they have fulfilled their charge to maintain fiscal accountability. They have taken great care in both tracking bond dollars separately as well as being transparent in providing information on expenditures with both the oversight committee and also the public.
 Portland Park has shared openly that some of the most significant work during the first year was the hiring of staff, the creating timelines and priority of projects, refining project scopes, predicting project costs, and scheduling construction activities.
 Portland Parks in carrying out this charge has noticed a trend in the bidding climate, as mentioned earlier. Due to Portland's growing construction climate, they received fewer bids than expected for their projects. In some cases, they had to re-bid projects altogether. And as a result, this trend could affect both the schedule and the budget of the project.
 Although this trend has not been detrimental, it is expected to continue. And if it does, there will likely be impacts on the cost and the scheduling of each project. For this reason, the committee unanimously recommends establishing and provide a wide contingency fund. This fund would ensure that Portland Parks has the resources and flexibility to ensure that the projects delivered will be fulfilled immediately.
 according to the bond. The third and final objective I'd like to share with you today is around transparency. Although our committee has not been charged with evaluating the efforts of Portland Parks and their transparency with the community, the bond committee is very interested in matters of equity and transparency. It is for this reason that the committee has chosen to review and advise Portland Parks in this category.
 It will ultimately be up to the community whether or not Portland Parks has fulfilled their charge to be transparent. However, we at the committee applaud Portland Parks and Recreations in their efforts in this area. Their efforts in being transparent include 40 public meetings, 95 yard signs, over 5,000 postcards, briefings with us, the oversight committee, as well as updates that can be found at the parksplacementbond.org.
 It is our recommendation that Portland Parks use a measure to demonstrate not only their efforts to be transparent, but also the effectiveness of those strategies. Measuring the effectiveness of all efforts will reduce the cost of eliminating ineffective strategies. Seeking to improve outreach will also help build trust within the community.
 These are the highlights of our first annual report, and we are pleased to submit it for your acceptance. We also want to thank Megan George for her hard work in helping us prepare for this report. The Bond Oversight Committee will continue to meet throughout the remaining of the years, and the Park Replacement Bond will report back on an annual basis. So I wanted to thank you and also take a moment to acknowledge members of the committee who are here. They'd be so kind to stand.
 Oh, they got my back now. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Thanks, Dion. Please, Dan. Were there other people? I have some questions. Oh, sure. Yeah. I'd like to invite the community to come and we might answer any questions that you might have. Well, your recommendation for establishing a program-wide contingency fund, and I see there's a checkmark saying it's complete. So was that done? Yes.
 And what does a program-wide contingency fund mean? Yes. I guess that's the other thing. May I answer that question first? Good morning. This is Aerie Santner, and thank you very, very much for allowing me to be part of this committee. Each project, as the staff report that was given to you a couple of months ago, has its own contingency fund. But as Dion noted,
 Because of the economy, thank goodness that the economy in the city and construction climate here is very robust, we have not been getting a lot of bids or good bids. And we recognize that some of the projects are easier to deal with, but others are far more complicated as Grand Pool Park demonstrated.
 And what we're suggesting is that for the next set of bonds, the amount that once the bond is sold, a certain percentage, and that is up to the Bureau to decide, be just set aside as an overall contingency fund. And then as they develop their own,
 projects, that project would have its own contingency fund. This is just in case that some of the projects are...
 cannot meet the budget that they had established. So it's setting aside funds from the bond issues. Exactly. So it's all within the bond. It's all within the bond issue. And if they're fortunate that not all of it or any of it are used, then it could be used again for the projects that have been either built and parts of them have not been built. So it just then insurance...
 To make sure that the, I think the committee's interest is that the promises that were made to the public are kept. So by having this overall contingency, at least we can deliver the minimum that was promised. Thank you. Great explanation. Thank you. Happy prospect that such a thing might be the case. But at the end of the completion of the listed projects, if there's remaining contingency fund,
 What happens? Well, let me just remind you that this is only the first phase. So we're spending the first $48 million in this space. That will leave about $20 million. We're going to be assuming, I'm very much hoping that I will still be the Parks Commissioner next year. And so we'll have a citywide process to look at of all of the $300 million things that
 $300 million worth of maintenance that needs to be done in the city, which we have less than $2 million per year to address, what are the top priority of the community for that $20 million? When we first identified the projects for this first phase, it was literally the stuff that was either broken or about to break, the most urgent. So we did hold community meetings, and we heard consensus from the community that, yes, this was a good package to put forward.
 So whatever contingency is left over, we'll go into the second phase. And at the end, there will be nothing left over at the end because we certainly have far more maintenance needs than we have the money available. Good. That's helpful. Thank you. Okay. Other questions for Dionne or Zeri or the rest of our volunteers here that Mary has?
 Mary Ann came back for a victory lap as a volunteer. Yeah. That's pretty impressive. Mr. Mayor, if I may, I want to tell you what a fantastic job this Parks Bond team has done throughout this process. And I want to personally thank Mary Ann Kasson for setting up the system such to make it possible
 A little bit simpler, as you all know, implementing such a huge capital improvement project is not an easy task, but it has made it a little bit easier. And then also, we decided to have an independent scribe. And Megan George is a graduate student from PSU's...
 Hatsfield College of Government, and she was involved in the master program for public administration. And she helped the committee to develop the report that you see, and we want to thank her for her effort. Great. Thank you. Well, coming from you, that's very high praise, so I'm sure they appreciate hearing that. Thank you very much, Sarah. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you.
 Are there other committee members who want to speak, or we'll turn to general public testimony if there is any. Anyone signed up on this item, Carla? I have two people, Charles Bridgetrain Johnson and Crystal Alinsky. She may have left. Johnson, do you want to speak? Come on up.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, as you heard, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and I want to thank all the park staff that worked so hard on helping this publicly chosen extra tax money go to making Portland stay wonderful. Since we did have the recent discussion about LIDs, which I don't know if during the whole LID talk anybody ever said anything,
 local improvement district. Right, true. So for those who didn't know, we're not dealing lids. We're dealing local improvement districts where people voluntarily, in cooperation with the government, associate to finance the goodness of their own communities. I didn't very much involve myself in this process, but I am curious if Commissioner Fritz knows off the top of her head, percentage-wise,
 what part of the expenditures and maybe even staff time went into the Pioneer Courthouse Square project as part of the overall, and how the current financing for the redoing of Pioneer Courthouse Square as far as public donations and private donations maybe breaks out compared to the historical record. Thank you.
 as we're stated in the bond measure it's 10 million dollars for pioneer courthouse square thank you thank you very much okay uh without further testimony then let's take a motion please for accepting the report second further discussion roll call please novick hi
 Thank you. I'm really proud to have been involved in this whole process. I mentioned in the previous item that it was kind of the Mayor to give me parks. I didn't think that that was actually the case in 2014, once I'd figured out how much of a deficit we have in maintenance.
 and then was asked to lead the bond measure campaign. Let's have the worst fundraiser on the council address this concern. So I'm really grateful to be a part of having
 brought it home and I need to start by thanking those who passed the bond measure, not only the 74% of Portlanders who voted for it, Amy Ruiz who ran the campaign for us and the fundraising committee which was basically many of the people from Pioneer Court House Square Board and others who made all the phone calls requesting money and raised, I think it was over $300,000 to do the campaign that we did to explain to voters what this was going to buy, what it was going to
 And so I'm very, very grateful both to them and to the Portland Parks Foundation. Nick Hardick, who's now with the Audubon Society, was the executive director at that time, and it literally could not have been done without him.
 happened without that support. And also without the support of Commissioner Fish because I did the first 60 days of the going out to parks and other meetings to tell people about what it was and Commissioner Fish picked up the last 40 days and so I really appreciate him as was
 previously mentioned by Commissioner Fix bringing it home. And then it's another great example of community members working with our city staff to get the job done. Thank you to Mary Ann Cassin, who brought
 Director Abati, brilliantly, I think it's one of your finest accomplishments while you and I have been working together, persuading Mary-Anne to come back to lead this measure, having led yours when you were Commissioner of Parks some time ago. It's really another example of how we work together. Thank you to the committee, Dion Jordan, Karen Loper-Tracy,
 Cologne and Don Grotic as well as Sari Santner and special thanks to Don Grotic who is David Douglas School District Superintendent. He's now with Davidson and I understand that the replacement will be from the David Douglas School District.
 Thanks to Lauren McGuire as well, who's done an absolutely fantastic job too. This is a lot of work, everybody. And there's some positions that have been paid for with the bond money, as was anticipated. There's also a lot of work that's going on with our regular park staff who are finding time with everything else that they're doing to make sure that this is successful so that hopefully we can go out again in the future to ask citizens, taxpayers and voters, please help us continue to do this.
 I'm very proud that over the four years that we've done four budgets with Mayor Hales, we've more than doubled the amount of major maintenance funding that is ongoing. So we are able to address a few more things before they actually break. We all collectively share that challenge, not only with parks infrastructure, but with transportation, our city buildings and such. We need to get ahead of investing in maintenance so that they're,
 the infrastructure that we all need and value, continues to provide services to the citizens in time to come. Thank you very much for Huja Bhatt as well, and my staff who has been my park's senior policy advisor for the past year and has, again, just done a wonderful job. Thanks to everybody. Hi. Yes. Excellent report. Thanks to the Bond Oversight Committee. You know, I'm like a lot of people in Portland. I have...
 two kids that have grown up in the park system. One is 23 and another little guy is 12. And if we didn't have a world-class park system, it wouldn't, you know, all the kinds of choices that that system provides, they would not have the same quality of life. And so I would say as a parent, I'm enormously grateful. And then as a former parks commissioner in charge, one of four up here, I'm just so proud of the parks family and all the people who do such great work. And,
 Commissioner Fritz, this was one of, I think, your three or four singular achievements on the council was getting support from the voters for this. And this report, I think, confirms the promise you made that the money is being spent wisely. So thank you all. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank the Bond Oversight Committee for their outstanding work. It's really a great report, very simple, clean, easy to read, and with recommendations about how to improve things. So I appreciate that very much. I particularly want to single out Zeri Santner, my nominee to the committee, for her work, and Dion Jordan for taking the job as chair. But it shows we are being accountable to the voters about how we're spending this money and making sure that our parks are better for that. So pleased to vote aye.
 Well, there's a lot of continuity in the room here today. People have cared about parks for a long time and gotten a lot of good work done together and obviously more ahead with the implementation of this bond measure and other efforts, Commissioner Fritz, that you and the Bureau have underway. Thinking back in my first month in public office back in 1993, I met with –
 Charles Jordan and David Judd, who told me about the condition of the park system then, and perhaps it was a rash thing as a new elected official, but I said, well, why don't we do a bond measure? And as it turned out, we hadn't done one in 50 years, and as it turned out, Portlanders, if we made a case for a good package of projects, would approve them, and they did, and that led to now...
 subsequent efforts, including you stepping up as you did in this case, Amanda, you doth protest too much. You may be not the most eager fundraiser, but no one would protest
 put the effort into the community outreach that you did on this effort. You know, you were out there day after day, meeting after meeting, in direct democracy with our citizens making the case for why this should be passed. So bravo, and now the work continues. And I appreciate this committee very much. Again, there's a lot of walking around knowledge on this committee. And, in fact, speaking of continuity, Ken,
 Ken Richardson didn't necessarily know that it went with the job of being superintendent, that he had to be on this committee too, but we appreciate you being here today. And David Douglas in particular deserves a little honorable mention here. In that first bond measure, then-Superintendent Ron Russell agreed to the kind of outlandish suggestion that we build a community center on a middle school site.
 in a David Douglas middle school at Floyd Light. Of course, that's where the East Portland Community Center is. So David Douglas, we have good working relationships with all our school districts. David Douglas has stepped up to be a partner on all kinds of parks projects, Lincoln Park, Luby Park, all those other parks that accompany David Douglas schools are now anchors of their neighborhoods just as the schools are. So we appreciate you and the district being a consistent partner for us.
 this is good work in a difficult bidding environment. So I think Deon was correct to point that out, that this is going to require excellent management. We have it. We're going to deliver excellent results, and we appreciate citizen oversight by people that care a lot, know a lot, and are looking over our shoulders. Thank you. Aye. Good work. Thank you all. Why don't we move to the items that we pulled from consent –
 And take those. We have a time. One more time. 12-11. I'm sorry. Boy, I'm just not doing it. Absolutely. Early morning meetings, Mayor. That's what happens when you show up late for a council meeting. All right. Item 12-11. Yes, I see Drew and others are here. So let's actually follow the agenda and do 12-11.
 authorize an agreement with Oregon Sports Authority for national and international sports marketing activities and event recruiting services, and provide for payment. Well, Drew and Susan are here to present this. I just want to say, in setting it up, I go to U.S. Conference of Mayors meetings, and I see the gigantic sums that other cities put into sports.
 and I don't actually agree with that approach. I don't envy it. I'm actually glad that we don't write $100 million checks to billionaires in order to have a sports team downtown. But a lot of cities do that, and they think it's a good investment.
 Um, I don't agree that debate's going on in Las Vegas right now, as a matter of fact. And, um, again, I'm really happy that Portland has a tradition of having sports be part of our community life and having good partnerships with our sports organizations. Uh,
 but not breaking the piggy bank of the public treasury in order to have that happen. So thanks to good management, that's how we do it here. But there are times when sports can really add to the economy of the city, and that's why this proposal is in front of us. And we saw that with the World Indoor Track and Field Championships.
 So, Doug, again, thank you for that because that was a great illustration of how powerful sports can be for our local economy and how just much fun it can be for a community to host the best.
 the best in the world to come here and compete in sports. So I was already a believer that this matters for our city before that event, but that was such a pleasure for all of us and such an affirmation that sports can play a very constructive role here with, again, frankly, minimal public investment in order to get those kinds of results. So if that's why we're here, I'll let you two take it away.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Susan Hartnett, Spectator Facilities and Development Manager in the Office of Management and Finance.
 I almost feel like we could just sit down now. Sorry. That's okay. I was very glad to hear your enthusiasm there. And I would agree this is another example where Portland's model of how we do things is a little bit different than other cities. But I am really happy to be here with Drew this morning. Drew is the Executive Director for the Oregon Sports Authority. I'm going to make a few opening comments and clarify for folks who might not be aware of what we're doing what we're doing, and then Drew will provide some additional comments on what Oregon Sports Authority does. Thank you.
 So the Oregon Sports Authority is the city of Portland's sports commission or our chamber of commerce for sports. And they have been a notable contributor to our economy for more than 20 years. OSA's mission is to enhance Portland's economy and quality of life for its residents by securing sports events, sports conventions, and by facilitating sports franchise acquisitions.
 Drew will tell you more about their history of success and things to look forward to in the future. He'll do that following me. OSA works closely with all of the city's travel and tourism partners to identify and successfully bid on sports events and conventions. Many of these are held at city venues and generate direct benefit to the city in the form of user fees and transient lodging taxes.
 They also work closely with all of our professional and amateur sports organizations to assure their continued presence, as well as working to bring new franchises to Portland. For the last eight years, the city, through the Spectator Venues Program, has provided rather modest financial support to OSA as a dues-paying member of the organization.
 Given the strength of and the historic growth in the sports industry economic sector and OSA's role in helping the city expand and continue that trend, OSA's recent request to the chief administrative officer to consider increasing that support was met with a very positive response.
 It also seemed like a good opportunity to expand and advance the nature of the relationship between the city and OSA by shifting from a membership role to that of full partner with the organization.
 The ordinance before you authorizes the mayor to sign a five-year agreement with OSA, increasing the city's financial support to $50,000 a year. Under the agreement, OSA will continue and expand their efforts to identify and bid on sports events that would not come to Portland without their active pursuit and participation. The funding provided through this agreement will expand their capacity to do that important work.
 Going forward under the agreement, OSA will also be providing an annual report to the council to share their successes and talk about future events and efforts. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Drew now, and I can answer some questions at the conclusion of his presentation. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. On the back of our business card, we've printed an inspirational quote from Nelson Mandela.
 It says, sport has the power to change the world. It has the power to inspire and unite people in a way little else does, which really follows up on your introduction as well. If we look at sports events in the U.S. today, we find that the economic impact has increased 13.9% since 2012. It will surpass $10 billion in 2016. It will surpass $10 billion in 2016.
 It's big business, and they additionally add to the quality of life for our community. We've also found that sports are resilient to recessions, experiencing growth no matter what the economy. Sports events have turned into the American vacation. Families often travel to participate or witness a sports event in a different city each year. In many cities, sports events have become the backbone of their culture and economy.
 Our organization, the Oregon Sports Authority, has an impressive record of historically securing renowned sports events for Portland. Our highlights include two Women's World Cups and a Men's World Cup qualifier, where we demonstrated to MLS that a future soccer franchise might be successful here.
 The tempers and thorns have greatly exceeded our expectations. We've hosted the U.S. Figure Skating National Championships. We've hosted eight due action sports tours, four NCAA basketball tournaments, several national fencing championships, a Davis Cup World Final, supported the MLS All-Star Game, and many more.
 The city of Portland has had a phenomenal year in 2016. At the beginning of the year, with Susan's help here to my left, we helped host the largest participant figure skating event in the world in the Veterans Memorial Coliseum. We also helped host the largest sports convention ever held in Portland in February.
 We hosted the International Davis Cup Tennis Quarter Finals with its headquarters hotel and opening ceremony in July held in Portland. We hosted the Gay and Lesbian Soccer World Championships at Delta Park, the Western States Golf Tournament at Heron Lakes, and the Little League Softball World Series at Alpenrose.
 These events had an aggregate economic impact exceeding $5 million for the City of Portland. We additionally had a very strong supportive role with the World Indoor Track and Field Championships hosted here in March. That alone created an economic impact of $25 million for the City of Portland.
 For many of these sports events, Portland secures national and international visitors who have never before been to our fine city. So in addition to its economic impact, our sports events provide national and international visibility, which can lead to new business development. Thank you.
 Most of our visitors arrive through Portland International Airport, ranked among the top airports in the world, and that makes a great first impression. And once they leave the airport, they experience the majesty of Portland, something that we all tend to take for granted.
 Now, two epic sports events lie ahead for us. One is the Phil Knight Invitational coming next Thanksgiving, where 16 of the best college basketball teams in the country will play a total of 24 games Thanksgiving week at the Motor Center and Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Each game will be televised on ESPN. This will be the grandest college basketball tournament of all time anywhere. Thank you.
 The other mega sports event – Well, Drew, in fact, couldn't you make the case that it's even better than the NCAA tournament because the NCAA tournament includes teams that get in because they win a conference championship or for other reasons. This is where Nike and the sponsors have handpicked the best basketball teams in the country. Yeah, well, if you like Duke, North Carolina –
 Stanford, Oregon, yes, 16 of the best, no doubt. And this is going to be unbelievable. It's going to be four games in the Moda Center and four games in the Coliseum each day for three days. That's 24 games. That's an awful lot of basketball of the best teams in the country. The mayor has asked me to be part of the security detail, and so I'll be checking credentials for the media for those entities. Yeah.
 tournament is really unprecedented. Nothing ever like it has ever been even thought of before. The other mega event that we're looking forward to, haven't gotten it yet, but it will be the NBA All-Star Game.
 and that's held in February each year. That would be held at the Moda Center, the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, and the Oregon Convention Center. And our hope is that once the new headquarters hotel puts the shovel in the ground, that we'll be in a position to support the Blazers in their bid to bring its very first NBA All-Star game to Portland.
 Additional sports events that we'll be looking to bring include more NCAA men's and women's basketball tournaments, including a women's Final Four.
 U.S. synchronized skating championships, USA Gymnastic Championships, an aquatic sports convention, a F.E.A.S. World Series of Action Sports, a duathlon national championship, and a North American cup in fencing. So we can say that the future for hosted sports in Portland never has been brighter, yet the cost of securing these events now have progressively escalated.
 In the last several years, with rights fees doubling, costs like site visits, rentals, medical insecurity are now a common expectation. Therefore, the partnership that we have with the City of Portland is critical to enable our organization to continue bringing sports events to our city. Can you explain, Drew, what rights fees mean? Sure.
 They're often referred to as bidding fees. It's the fee you have to put up up front before the event even starts to bring to your city. So we've been proud to make Portland a more renowned sports destination. But yet none of this happens in a vacuum. The partnership that we have with Portland is indispensable. And I can look at each of you and say, yes.
 at various times, you've all been intimately involved in the events that we've brought. And so really, when we're bragging, taking credit for this, it really is a shared credit that you really are part of and as part of this partnership.
 And so we thank you for that partnership to allow us to help make Portland a renowned sports destination that impacts its economy and its cultural impact. And we thank you for your support, your leadership, and your time today. So I'd be delighted to answer any of your questions. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Great presentation. Thank you both. Let's see who else wants to speak on this item. We have Charles Rich Crane Johnson. Come on up.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you again. I think that – I know normally you don't do call-up, but you back and forth questions. Is this only a $50,000 investment? No, obviously – Per year. Per year. Even so. Is there an expiration date for the agreement? Five years. I'm not the world's greatest sports fan, and as you noted, in many cities there are projects of dubious nature. But I do want to –
 Thank the city for keeping its distance from the seduction of investing public money into sports. And it's good to know that there are, in addition to this relatively small amount of money we're providing, that even when the naming game goes on and Moda has its questionable $40 million or Providence Park outbids Jeldwynn,
 that people from Jeldwin will stay on the board of the Oregon Sports Authority and try and have a more grassroots public sentiment, less hysterical sports environment. I don't know about the NBA All-Star Game. We'll see about that. But I think that even for people who are not sports fans, when they look throughout this community and say small amateur things that –
 Those people coming through the airport, the boost in the hotel. I think that one thing you should consider is possibly looking for a permanent funding mechanism, maybe a way to something that can be done to change the hotel revenue tax or something like that, or rental car fee or something like that. Maybe a permanent funding mechanism for OSA might be appropriate or a way to create self-funding. But $50,000 a year for five years, even anti-sports people can be like, good for economic impact.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I have on this is that I think your $50,000 is just too low. It's amazing to me the economic impact that this group can have on this city, and you only fund $50,000 a year. To me, I'll be honest, that's pathetic. And the reason why I say that is that I think we need to also understand on the facility rentals
 We need to drop those prices down. We need to give more incentives to this group to make sure that people that do want to come to the city are incentivized to do. And when we're looking at this type of economic impact throughout the city, you'd have to be a fool not to want to invest more money with this group. It's foolish. All the economic impact on the local businesses, restaurants, the city itself, tourism will go up.
 And you're only committing $50,000 a year. Another thing I'd like to see on this is that I'd like to see what I think groups that have taken the turn in some industry and pushed it to a whole different level. I'd like to see Uber, Lyft, Airbnb get together with this group, top representatives, and focus on, like you were saying, an international level on different –
 events that can be brought to the city, but have their input and their experience and their contacts, and also them understanding the true benefits to them on doing that to their businesses. And I think they would be very open to doing that. And again, we're talking companies, Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb, that have the potential to fund
 certain teams to come in with large amounts of money with investors. And we need to tie this all together and bring them all together and understand that this is as important as tourism in the same area. And especially when we're talking like somebody stated the convention hotel, we have the potential now to take things to a different level and really benefit the people here by bringing in money, which is really great because...
 These businesses will definitely improve their profits. The city will improve. And what do you have to lose by doing that? So again, I think your $50,000 is insultive. And it really is. It's absolutely insultive. I think the amount they should be given at the very minimum would be $500,000 a year. And I think every penny that you would give this group
 would be paid over 10 to 20 times at the very minimum. And I hope they come up with some data to substantiate that, because I think my numbers would be within reason. Thank you. Thank you. You've got some fans. Just getting some fans there. Almost as good an idea as yes on 97. Thanks to anyone else. Can I ask Drew to come back up for one sec, Drew? Yes, come on back, Drew and Susan. Thank you.
 I know we have some past and present board members here. Can we just acknowledge them before we move to a vote? Yes, I'd be delighted to. Our President Emeritus, Len Bergstein, has been instrumental in
 Guiding this organization, sitting here, and our president-elect, Doug Oblitz, instrumental, as Mayor Hales pointed out, in the World Indoor Championships, as well as the World Outdoor Championships, that will have also a presence in Portland. But we're very proud. And also my staff, Meyer Freeman and Emily Heisenauer, are here as well. Thank you. Other questions you had?
 Anything else for these two? Well, thank you for the presentation. We'll come back on second reading next week. I just want to say you are a bargain at any price. But the fact that we have a nonprofit organization, let's think about that, a nonprofit organization, the Oregon tradition and particularly here in Portland of really relying on partnerships with nonprofits to do stuff,
 once more is illustrated here, and that we, again, both the state and the city put a relatively modest amount of money into this because there's other resources being brought to bear. And I think one of the requests I would make of the Oregon Sparks Authority is, I don't think I need to make it, but it's worth saying, don't be shy about asking for the city's in-kind support for these ventures. I mean, it obviously worked in the case of the World Indoor Track and Field event, you
 My chief of staff and Vin Lanana went off to the presentation in Monaco. It seemed like a crazy long-shot venture. But before they ever went off on that trip, there had been a lot of work done to put an excellent bid together. And it relied, again, on people in the community that really care about this agenda working together. So I think...
 hopefully all of you as leaders, whether emeritus or otherwise, and those who manage these programs will keep coming to the electeds here and saying, hey, here's another opportunity, but we need this, this, and this from the city in order to have it work. And that proved out on each of these events. So it's a real success story on a modest budget and gives...
 This mayor and future mayors, the ability to go to U.S. conference and mayors' meetings with some bragging rights, that we have a great sports scene here in Portland, but we didn't just fold up when we were held up.
 May I make some comments too? Thank you very much for being here and thank you for the presentation. Thank you especially to Susan Hartnett, who not only works on the Spectator Fund and this measure, but is staffed to the Commissioner Saltzman and me on the Visitor Development Fund, which does allocate money to bring more conferences here to Portland at the college...
 and the convention centre. I do have to correct the record a little bit. You weren't on the council, Mayor, but we did invest $34 million in city money in converting PGE Park, Civic Stadium to PGE Park. You got it back. Yeah. Actually, I don't think we did yet, so we'll have to... I mean, I actually love going to the Thorns Games because I think about getting my money's worth. And we did also invest 1.9...
 1.9 million in the outdoor track and field. So yes, we are putting more than this 50,000 a year on specific issues when our community supports that. And I am one of the biggest sports fans on the council and I really appreciate the recognition that it's not only fun and games, it's also economic development and a community bonding experience when you're yelling extremely loud or saying the same thing.
 Can I make one comment? Please, yes. I also want to acknowledge Len and Doug and thank them for their volunteer leadership. We've had a very strong board. And I want to thank Drew for being such an indefatigable cheerleader. Cities need cheerleaders. And unfortunately, sometimes people in cities think that the way you make your case is you tear the city down and then pivot to an ask.
 and that unfortunately has become almost a virus not just here but everywhere it is a way of getting attention it is counterproductive in the long term and we need cheerleaders we need people who are unabashed cheerleaders and you know drew you've been that my entire eight years you love this city you're always talking up sports even sports that you know maybe aren't your um your favorite and i have a photograph in my office which i treasure because i think of drew every day when i come to
 And it's a picture of Megan Rapinoe, fresh from the world stage, perhaps the greatest player of her time, at then called, what was it? PG Park. Might have been Jelwyn. I've got to keep it straight. At Jelwyn Park, autographing a ball for a young woman who is a first-generation immigrant to this city who played girls' soccer at Park Rose.
 And why is that picture important? Because among the many things that this gentleman does that don't get a lot of attention, he made sure that a local girls team got to escort the best team in the world on the field and as part of that got to meet all their heroes and got to sign balls. And those young Broncos will never forget that. And I'll never forget that moment because I have the photograph in my office. So thanks for all your great work. May I add my two cents? Yes, please. Go ahead. Okay.
 First of all, I want to thank Drew and Susan and Len and Doug for all of your work. Thank you so much. Drew, I also wanted to especially thank you for that Nelson Mandela quote, because that makes being a sports fan seem suddenly much more respectable and even spiritual. So thank you very much. I have to tell you that I very much look forward to going to the night invitational with my Marilyn Terrapin wife and rooting against Duke.
 thank you all very much let's come back on second reading next week thank you okay let's move to those pulled items on the consent calendar uh 12 12. design commission for a term to expire november 1 2020. mr walsh you want to testify on this item for the record my name is joe walsh i represent individuals for justice nothing i say should have anything to do with mr rodriguez
 It has to do with the process. We're concerned that, Mayor, you're leaving and you're making appointments that are going to cover the next mayor's tenure. This goes all the way to 2020. We would request that you contact the incoming mayor and get a statement of his position on these appointments. I'm almost positive, well, almost positive that...
 Mr. Wheeler would sign off on it, if you will. If it's going to affect his tenure, then he should have something to say about it. And I know you have the authority to do this, but sometimes when you have the authority to do things, you don't have to do them. It is better not to do them or to do them in conjunction with the incoming mayor.
 Does that make sense to you? I mean, do you understand what I'm saying? I don't expect you to agree with me.
 But that was our concern. So all of the appointments that come up now, we're going to raise an objection, not on the person themselves. We have no position on the person. We have a position on the policy and a protocol that you're using, and it should stop. You should stop appointing people. But if you can't do that, at least talk to Ted Wheeler and see what his thoughts are. Thank you.
 Anyone else? All right. Let's see. This was the report. So move the report. Report, yeah. Is there a second? Second. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Ritz?
 So the way it works is that the commissioner in charge of the Bureau recommends to the mayor just as a pro forma. So it's actually been Commissioner Saltzman, who is in charge of development services, who has actually selected Samuel Rosrigris and so it's a courtesy matter of the mayor. Or the way the charter has it, the mayor puts it forward. I have to say, though, I would never have expected you to be echoing the Republicans in Congress and saying that we shouldn't fill positions until the next...
 next administration comes in. So that's definitely a surprise and a first. I. Fish. I. Saltzman. Well, yes, I participated in the selection of Sam Rodriguez, and I'm happy that he has agreed to join the Design Commission. He brings a wealth of talent. Not only is he an architect, but he's also a developer, and I believe he's probably the first Venezuelan we've ever had on the Design Commission. I. Fish.
 Well, perhaps to some people's disappointment, I plan to keep doing my job until I'm finished with my term. And, yes, I certainly hope President Obama gets to get his November and December appointments approved as well. Aye. Okay, next item, 1212. 1212.
 1213. 1213, thank you. Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Department of Transportation for the Portland Bureau of Transportation to bid and oversee the construction of the Northeast Columbia Boulevard at MLK Junior Boulevard project. And Commissioner Novicki, you have a proposed amendment. Yes.
 Yes, colleagues, this ordinance was marked as an emergency ordinance but did not contain the emergency clause. I'd like to move to amend this ordinance simply to add an emergency clause because postponing implementation of this ordinance would unnecessarily delay PBOT's ability to construct the right turn lane at Northeast Columbia at the MLK intersection that this grant is going to pay for. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Second.
 on adding the emergency clause? Although, if I might just insert there that the actual language is a little bit different from what you just said. So it's what's in the written amendment that you're moving, and I'm seconding, correct? Yes. Sorry, I didn't read it out. No, you explained to the people at home, and I really appreciate that.
 Okay, so let's take action on the amendment, and then we'll see if there's any testimony on the amended ordinance. So on the amendment, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And does anyone want to speak on this item as now amended? If not, then let's take action on the now emergency ordinance. Novick?
 Rydw i'n ddiolch am gael y swydd hwn i lawr, Prif Weinidog. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda. Mae hynny'n dda.
 Dwi'n cymryd grant adnodol o 1 miliwn a chyfrifo 629,306 o'r UD Justice, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth, Cyngor Ymddiriedaeth,
 ymgyrchol ar gyfer cymorth strategol i gyfrannu'r mater o gynnyddion aswlt seksual heb ymgyrchol yn y Pwyllgor Cyhoedd. Rwy'n hoffi gwrthfawrogi ein tîm. Rwy'n hoff i ddweud, wrth sefydlu'r trawsgwyddiad, mai'r llywodraeth sydd ar bob lefel wedi llwyddo'r ddyfodol yn rhywbeth yn y diwedd diwethaf, ac mae'n ymddangos bod pob lefel o llywodraeth yn gweithio i gyflawni
 y lefel ystyried a'r ddynion sydd eisiau ei weld gan y Llywodraeth pan fyddwn yn delio â chrima mawr fel aswiliad seksuol. Felly, rwy'n hoff i ddiolch a chroeso i'r bobl yn y cymuned a'r Pyrwyr Poli a'n arweinyddiaid partner sy'n gweithio gyda'n gilydd ar sicrhau bod pob kit aswiliad seksuol yma yn cael ei brofi a bod pob criminal arall sy'n gallu ei ddysgu yn cael ei gyflawni os ydy cwpwyd i'w wneud.
 Felly rwy'n hoff i ddiolch y gwaith da sy'n cael ei wneud, eto, nid yn unig yma yng Nghymru, ond gyda help o'r Deyrnas a nawr o'r Llywodraeth Federaidd hefyd. Felly diolch i chi i gyd am y gwaith rydych yn ei wneud a rhoi'r ffram ychydig mwy na rwy wedi ei roi, ond diolch.
 Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr i chi, Prif Weinidog a'r cymharon. Fy enw i yw Molly Doll ac rwy'n ymgynghorwyr deteithydd sexcrwm y Burw, ac rwy'n ymuno â Susan Lehman, sy'n ein cydweithiwr prosiect ar gyfer y Uned Sexcrwm yn unig ar gyfer plant asociadu seksuol, ac o'n adran IT, ymgynghorwyr IT, Ed Arrib.
 Yn ceisio cynnig y grant ychwanegol, mae'n adnodd bach i bobl sydd ddim yn gwybod o'r grant saki arbennig 2015,
 y grant ymgyrchol o'r seiliedig ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar gyfer y seiliedigaeth ar
 of rape kits this April. And our total for the city was 1,754 kits that were backlogged and untested. And at this state, we have 1,129 that have been sent to an outside lab, funding provided by the Danny Grant. And 316 of them have already been tested. So we're in the early phases of a three-year grant. And the good news is we've had six CODIS hits.
 We're just in the beginning of an investigatory process. Right now we're working on victim notification protocols so that our victim-centered approach is not traumatizing and getting the best results.
 the best procedures in place. Can you explain what a CODIS hit is? A CODIS is a DNA hit from a national database. So the outside agents, the outside lab that we've contracted to test our kits are taking our kits that have been previously unsubmitted and they're spinning them through the national database.
 From these untested kits, we're now getting the results. So we're reopening these cases that date back to 1987. So those that fall within the statute of limitations that are still prosecutable are reviewed by our work-study group. And for the last month, we've been having weekly staffing cases where we review individual cases, and we're able to, with our community partners, take a look at the results of the case and how we wish to proceed. Thank you.
 So that update, which leads us into this supplemental grant that we were encouraged to apply for, part of the original grant to never be in the position that we've been in, is the federal grant wanted us to put in place a tracking system. And this is beyond an Excel spreadsheet for 1,700-plus kits.
 So with the ingenuity of our IT department, namely Ed and Susan's assistance with knowledge with the Sex Crimes Unit, they created a database called SAMS, and it's the Sexual Assault Management System.
 And it is a multifaceted database that not only tracks the kits from their inception at the hospital to adjudication or testing, it keeps track of the life of the kit and it also...
 Provides us with grant reporting. But in addition to that, we're acquiring all of the intricacies and the nuances of just a sex crime assault and our city's sex offenders.
 So this database, we have actually been invited to two nationwide conferences, and our facilitator of our grant, RTI, was so impressed with our SAMS database that they want to incorporate it into further grants with cities nationwide.
 So they want us, and we've had three test sites so far, we've been going installing SAMs for other police agencies so they too will never be in the position that our city is with losing track of untested rape kits. So this supplemental grant that we'd like to receive today, about 80% of the grant is going to bolster the IT SAMs to make it,
 mobile for laptops and cellular phones. It's going to give electronic reporting privileges to the same nurses. It's going to enhance our case management system. So the bulk of the money will go for that. The additional money will be spent on further training and conferences, which we may host in the future. So Portland has definitely been in the lead in
 in change in the SAKI grant system and cities nationwide. That's great work. Thank you. Other questions or other information you want to make sure we have before we take further discussion of this? Just here for questions.
 Did you have a presentation or are you? No. Okay. Peer support. Thank you. I have a couple of questions. 1,700 about untested kits staging back from 1987. How many rapes do we get reported a year about? Okay.
 Um, it's, it fluctuates, but six to 800 sexual assault cases a year in the city of Portland. And at this point we test all of those, right? We went full submission in 2015. So let's just, you know, think about that. Six to 800, that's a couple of days, isn't it? Yes. And I'm really about, um, 360 of those results in a rape kit.
 So out of 800 sexual assaults, only 300, about 60 women, go to the hospital for the exam. So one a day. Which is appalling. Absolutely appalling. And we don't hear very much. You know, it becomes so commonplace that we often don't even hear about it. I particularly appreciate the attention to victim services and wraparound care.
 Because my understanding is that some of the kits in the past were not tested because the victim chose not to pursue any kind of ongoing investigation. Is that correct? That's correct. And also part of the original grant funding supplied us with more advocates that are –
 that are embedded in our unit, which a lot of police agencies nationwide, their advocacies are community-based, whereas our system-based, our advocates are right next to our detectives and they work hand-in-hand. So is there a legal or a moral obligation to contact the victims to let them know that their kit has been tested? No.
 There's best practices that have been established nationwide through the Joyful Heart Foundation. And part of the protocol that everyone's creating for their own system is the victim-centered approach, that is it going to traumatize the victim by informing them? Right now our protocol is that victim notification should only be if there's a change in the kit if there's a CODIS hit.
 Otherwise, we don't want to revisit any trauma that might harm the victim. Right. And presumably, victims can contact you and say, I'd like you to go ahead and... We have a hotline, a devoted website, and we've done a PSA. So we've definitely tried to reach out to the community and give them all the information they need for a recontact. What's the hotline number, please?
 Oh, sorry. I thought you were going to do something really... That wasn't my line. They can go to the police website to find it. Is that correct? Or call 823-4000. It calls the Rose Project, and it's associated with the Portland Police Bureau's website. So whenever I don't know a number to call, I call 823-4000 and that works?
 My folks in the Information Referral Center in the Office of Navy Involvement will find that. My last question is, do you know about how many registered sex offenders we have in Portland? That's not my forte, but I've heard around 3,000 to 4,000 because it's a state registration. 3,000 to 4,000, that's...
 It's a tracking system that probably is not as accurate as it needs to be for an urban environment like our own. Thank you for this report. It makes me think, Commissioner Saltzman, it would be interesting to have a report from the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence once a year or so to find out what's happening and just to bring to attention this appalling rate of assault. Great idea. I think we normally do something in October. I think we missed it this year for whatever reason.
 I had a couple of questions, too. So I just want to understand, so all rape kits are now tested, regardless of – and the victim is only notified if there's a DNA hit? Is that correct? No. If a victim reports a rape, goes to a hospital, and a rape kit is obtained. Within the city of Portland, we are now full submission, so all of our kits –
 via Susan, are sent directly to the crime lab. Okay. Those are kits where the women chose to report. So a woman can go to the hospital and collect evidence as a Jane Doe or anonymous kit. Those kits, by law, cannot be sent to the Oregon State Crime Lab.
 Additionally, if the woman reports to law enforcement and decides before her kit is sent that she no longer wants to participate in the investigation, Melissa's law that was passed last year also prevents us from sending that kit to the crime lab.
 And then what happened to the – you said we – you started out by saying we got six hits with the national base. What happened? So the CODIS, we haven't got that far yet. We're still in the victim notification process, and then we'll go into the next step, which is the investigatory. And the CODIS – to address the CODIS hits, those are for SAKI cases, which are prior to 2015. Right. So current CODIS hits –
 We act on immediately the SOC-E CODIS hits, go to our work group, and we address them. So we get CODIS hits daily throughout the Bureau, so that's not a long waiting process. So some of the SOC-E kits have already been adjudicated, so some of those CODIS hits came back to the person who was adjudicated in that case.
 So therefore, we would not notify the victim in that case. You mean they're already doing time on another offense? Correct. Okay. And then we do have some untested rape kits that belong to homicide victims. Okay. Thank you, and thanks for your great work on the database and everything. That's great. Thanks.
 I want to just recognize to you that we've, I think, been using the word woman because many of the assaults are on women, but there are also men and transgender people who are victims of rape. So I'm assuming you're providing services to everybody. Of course. It's actually one of the more increasing reporting numbers is in male victims. Thank you all very much. Appreciate the presentation. Thank you. Is there anyone who wants to speak on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Come on up.
 Good morning, commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson, and particularly to the panel that just came out, I want to say thank you. And finally, we've had District Attorney Underhill here just in the past couple months related to this issue. It's been in front of the county commission. And this recent interaction with Amanda Fritz, I think, has been the best job of assuring victims of sexual violence that,
 that the system really is improving so that they will get respectful, competent treatment. I think, since it wasn't their area especially, I think that in the state of Oregon, which has a unique position as far as online sex offender registry, there are actually probably about 29,000 people statewide. So in the city of Portland, we would have about half of those people.
 people. And maybe as this issue works out, there'll be better communication between the local police agencies and Ellen Rosenblum's office about making sure that information is more easily available to victims. There's a statewide NSOPW.gov sex offender registry, but each state has its own way of docking into that. And I think Oregon, of a concern over some hysteria in minor people, has not
 made that information as accessible to people who are concerned, parents and victims. So thank you all. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, this is an emergency ordinance. Then let's take a vote, please. Novick? Obviously, it's terrible that we had this huge backlog of untested kits.
 I really appreciate the presentation, and it's really good to know that PPB and BTS have developed this web application and database that's now being used nationally. So thank you very, very much. Hi. Thank you very much for the presentation, and I'm very glad to hear that you're looking at best practices and, in fact, setting some of the best practices. Thank you.
 Maybe I misunderstood, but it sounded like you didn't contact, you don't contact the victim if the offender is already incarcerated. I would think if it was me, I'd really like to know that my attacker had been incarcerated. So, as I say, you're obviously looking at best practices, and so I trust that you will continually evaluate how the program is done. Mayor, I'm really proud of you as the police commissioner who's brought this to light and been very transparent every step of the way.
 I'm horrified by the numbers that we've heard, you know, an average of a rape a day at least or two. And thank you, Mr. Johnson, for the information on the number of sex offenders statewide. It's one of the crimes that is not generally talked about very much, and perhaps we need to change that as well. Thank you. Aye. Yes. I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz said. Excellent presentation. Thank you, Mayor, for your work and your work.
 I'm pleased to support this ordinance. I would just add for whatever reason, sexual assaults are one of the handful of crimes that are actually on the increase nationwide and here in our city as well. So it's really good that we're getting this grant to help us process more kits and hopefully get more arrests and convictions. And so I want to thank Mayor Hales for his leadership as police commissioner. Hi.
 Well, thank you. This has been a good discussion, and this action that we're taking, I think, as Portlanders, should make us angry, proud, and resolute.
 We should be angry that in a city where in some ways we can measure real improvements in public safety, gang violence is down about 20% this year. Our homicide and aggravated assault numbers are lower, although our traffic violence numbers are higher. In general, you know, you can say we're a pretty safe city, but the
 this level of sexual assault is intolerable. And behind the numbers are individual victims. These are one-on-one crimes. And in every case, there's a person who's been traumatized, and they deserve the full measure of our effort to investigate the crime, find the perpetrator if it's humanly possible to do so, prosecute and punish that criminal.
 And that's what this is all about. So I appreciate that action and that resolution in the Portland Police Bureau. And I am so proud that actually the work that you're doing, our professional staff and the Police Bureau, our strength as well as our sworn staff, that what you're doing is not only helping people here, but is now helping people all over the country because we've created a better way for cities to do justice.
 And I'm really proud of that. So thank you for great work. And thank you for helping not only women and men here in our city live in a climate of greater safety and less fear, but also for people far from here. Well done. Aye. Thank you. Let's do 1219. Thank you.
 accept a grant in the amount of $393,412 and appropriate $100,000 for fiscal year 2016-17 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics,
 Federal Fiscal Year 2016 National Crime Statistics Exchange Implementation Assistance Program for the Regional Justice Information Network to transition to national incident-based reporting systems. That was a mouthful. I think Tamara Meyer was going to be here to present this, but I don't see her at the moment, so we might need to carry this over. Let's maybe take testimony on it if there's anyone who wants to speak about this item. Come on up.
 I'm afraid we'll end up without a presentation. Yeah, we might be able to take action on it. I've got some information here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. I was interested in hearing the presentation, but I'll testify on what I read. Moving from a regional to a national system raises a lot of questions, similar to the Joint Terrorism Task Force. What if the local police wrongly target someone and that person ends up in the national database? Okay.
 The point was driven home, and I can't remember if it was the DOJ or the COCL's report, where they raised a question about officers who were entered into the regional system as homicide suspects after shooting incidents.
 Now, I think it's appropriate to do that because an officer who shoots somebody or kills them is a suspect in an attempted or completed homicide. But then what happens if they're cleared? And if the officers are concerned about getting their names out of this database, what happens to ordinary citizens? I didn't see anything in this document that addresses that question.
 So meanwhile, I witnessed Commissioner Fish asking for the rules to be suspended before. And as I've stated before, if the council is going to use or ignore its written rules to shut down testimony as you did in the middle of the first reading of the PPA contract, you should follow your own rules to run your meetings. This means affirmative majority votes to suspend the rules, to move the meeting out of council chambers, or to...
 reset the start time of statutorily described council meetings. You only have nine days left to suspend your rules and rescind the PPA contract. Last week, information was put out stating the PPA has accepted the discipline guide, yet the record shows... And I want to ask you to talk about this item, please. Well, I've seen people testifying for the last couple of weeks on things that were not directly... This is directly related to the police, and this is what the item's about. Go ahead. The record shows...
 that they dropped a grievance about officers fired for untruthfulness, reserving the right to grieve other aspects. It was also claimed that the council would fight efforts to create policy where police can review body camera footage before writing reports, but the council made that issue mandatory for bargaining. Much was made of the fact that officers have been fired, but only one was fired after a use of force incident and, again,
 the binding arbitration clause in the contract was never addressed. Other procedural irregularities abound, but, for instance, the auditor wasn't invited to the meetings to plan for changes. The mayor didn't even propose public meetings about the contract and said the past was theater. I think we learned a lot by going to those, and I wish that had been done again. Judge Simon called you out for not hearing the public testify.
 And, you know, I have a list of links in the national news, the police brutality that were unleashed on people trying to testify to this issue. And the mayor's legacy is not going to be getting rid of the 48-hour rule. It will be the beating of those people being forced out of this public building. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, go ahead. My name is Joe Walsh, for the record. We sit here in total support of Cop Watch.
 presentation of what they just said and we just hope that you take some of this under advisement because it's it's important stuff um sometimes yeah what i said before is true if you have the authority or the power you don't have to use it you know if somebody goes over a little bit
 You've got to let them go, you know, and try to rein them in. We had a co-op meeting the other night that there was no incident at all. And you know why? Because everybody was treated with dignity. They went over a little bit. They let them go. What's 30 seconds? Most of the time you don't have people show up here to communicate. You had how many missing this morning? I don't know.
 And the reason is you have to sign up in advance. Where the county you can sign up the day that you present. Makes it current. Very important. So all of these things are important. And listen to the mayor. I know you only got a few weeks. Probably don't give a damn about anything. Listen, the rest of you, you can challenge the mayor, you know, on the parliamentary procedures. All you need is a majority and you can override his decision on anything.
 So why don't you do it? You've never done it. None of you. And you know he was wrong on a whole bunch of stuff. Thank you. Thank you both. Anyone else? And I get to say good afternoon. Good afternoon, commissioners. On this item 1219, the other two speakers have talked to you about important problems we've had here in City Hall before. I do want to say that I think there's also been a history of –
 dysfunction and electronic crime reporting within the police department that hasn't got as much attention as another large-scale, I think, electronic permitting process. So I think that it's very important maybe even that you wait and get a presentation, and if not, that you look at that process.
 This program will have the best in accountability and process management so that we don't have another situation where we're paying for somebody to develop a data interchange program and we're not getting the results. I think in the previous past couple of years, we've had people from the police department testify here that
 They can't interface their data with the FBI because they're doing such and such, and perhaps this is the solution to that, but it would be better if we had more clarity about that. Thank you. So I think I have an answer to Mr. Hanelman's question, which is in my notes here. It says that since Regence launched, there have been a number of software issues. The Regence system is not compatible with the Oregon State Police system, and as a result, there were reporting errors reported.
 an affiliate or report some data in accordance with the federal requirements. So in spring of this year, the police bureau abandoned that customization effort, which means that the data must now be converted back to the federal standard. So that's why this grant is going to have them go back to the FBI national system instead of having this, frankly, cobbled together arrangement between Portland's system and Oregon State Police. I think I got that right. Okay, good.
 And presumably that would help in crimes such as sexual assault, that they're going to a national system where we can find... that the police will be able to find...
 presumably also be subject to Portland's rules and regulations and policies and principles of what we collect and share and what we don't. That's right. I mean, I don't know if you want to talk about how our – we do have data management policies in the Bureau that this is subject to regardless of whose platform we're on. So to your question. I think that would be helpful, actually. Yeah, would you come put that into the record for us? Thank you. I'm Kimberly Roark. I'm with the region's sustainment team, the global manager. Okay.
 We're going to the NIBRS standard, which is the federal standard for crime reporting. And yes, we'll cover all of the crimes and we'll be able to accurately report. As of yesterday, we converted our database over to NIBRS and we are doing the data verification to make sure that we can begin reporting. And we should be underway here soon. This grant is helping us get an extra pair of hands because we're doing this not only for ourselves but for our partners. And we're all moving forward together. Thank you.
 and the region project thank you that's one of the issues that the department of justice and the uh community oversight uh what's the cocoa is often after lunch community liaison thank you um they found us deficient in not having the system sets up properly so this is going to correct correct this is going to correct that deficiency yes and make us far more accurate thank you very much appreciate the good work thank you you're welcome okay it's an emergency ordinance let's take a vote please no thank you
 Surprised I've been told I'm too shy about complaining when the procedures don't go right. If I thought that something had gone wrong, I would say so, and I continue to support what we did, even though I'm continuing to get quite a lot of questions from the community about it. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Good work. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Let's take 1220.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Southwest Vista Avenue Water Main Improvement Project at an estimated cost of $533,000. Mayor and colleagues, we're at risk of cutting into the lunch hour, so we'll be brief. Mike Stewart, the Director of the Water Bureau, and Martin Weber, the Supervising Engineer, are here to present.
 and here is in a nutshell what we're bringing to your attention the construction proposed construction work includes installation of 1 083 feet of 8 inch main 635 feet of 6 inch main 3 hydrants
 We seek to renew 21 one-inch services, renew one two-inch fire service, install one six-inch by two-inch regulator and vault, and abandon 1,042 feet of eight-inch mains. And there will be a quiz at the end of this. The engineer's estimated cost for the contract action is $533,000 with a high confidence level. Director Stewart. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, we're now ready for questions. Yes.
 That was so thorough that you are. Okay. I actually do have one. Really? Well, I do, because in the ordinance it says that its existing is 1,042 feet, and then what we're replacing it with is 1,083 feet, plus a number of other bits and pieces. So is this why it's leaking? Because it doesn't quite go far enough. I knew there was a reason I brought Marvin with me.
 so what we're we're up to is obviously a main replacement which commissioner fish more than adequately described a couple other key points i'd throw in the pot this main was originally built in 1927 it's cast iron it's not the best thing you can do for earthquakes there's a large vault involved the vault is made out of bricks another thing that's not very good for earthquakes
 So this is partly to take care of a leaking main in our leaks database, and it's partly to continue our slow, painful replacement of the pipe system to make it more resilient. So I'll let Marvin talk a little more, and please answer Commissioner Fritz's question because I can't.
 Certainly. My name is Marvin Weber. I'm a supervising engineer with the Water Bureau. So in response to your question, the pipeline is approximately that long. And when we go to replace that pipeline, we do run into the streets a little bit to make connections at each of the block intersections.
 So that's why there's added footage. So in order to make those connections and that sort of thing, we do need to build a little bit more pipeline. Thank you. The only other thing I would add is that the contract will be, you know, there will be a formal bidding process in accordance with procurement services requirements, and the contract will include the current procurement goals for MWESB subcontractors.
 Public Outreach is working on the project and they'll continue. We'll send out notices to the residences and there will be traffic advisories before the project starts. So that's really all I have to add. Any other questions? None for me. Anyone else? Thank you very much. Nicely done. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 if not uh it's going to pass to second reading with my relief no doubt commissioner fish since he lives there and everyone else's relief that vista avenue has not stretched by 40 feet okay let's take 1221.
 Rescind Resolution No. 37225 and authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to sell Terminal 1. Mr. Fish. Mayor, this is a four-fifths agenda item, meaning it required four signatures in order to place it on the agenda. It is a straightforward resolution which would rescind Resolution No. 37225.
 and authorized the Bureau of Environmental Services to resume the sale process for Terminal 1 North. I think that the resolution is self-explanatory, and I have asked Scott McLean from Collier's International, our commercial broker, and Eli Callison, who manages our properties, to be here if the council has any questions. Okay. Questions for staff? They're standing by. Maybe not. Thank you for your good work, Tom. Thank you for being here.
 No, we have no questions. I think we're good for now. We might have some. Anyone want to speak on this item? I have a sign-up sheet. Joe Walsh, Charles Johnson, and Shedrick Wilkins. Okay, come on up, please. Joe, Charles, and Shedrick right now, Mr. Lightning, if you could hold on. Thank you. We can bring a fourth chair. Yeah. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Oh, man, don't shout Terminal 1.
 I mean, it's been the topic of conversation now all over the place. Somebody with a million dollars is going to come along, and they're going to build the Taj Mahal. I mean, we have so many fantasies about terminal one. Just leave it alone. Don't sell it. I mean, what's $10 million to you guys? You spend that in about 20 minutes. You have the ability to...
 to house people under emergency conditions in that shed you're going to exclude that by this motion by this vote congratulations so what are you going to do you're going to leave 400 people out in the cold somebody stepped up and said well i can house a hundred we have two thousand three thousand somebody said four thousand lately on the streets
 We've been here for how many years asking you to do something about it, and you don't do anything about it because you don't understand the problem, Commissioner Salisman. You don't have a clue. You've got 15,000 people hanging by their fingertips in people's houses, in garages, in emergency shelters. It's not 4,000, not 3,000. It's...
 $15,000. And that's why every time you get someone off the street, somebody else bounces on the street. So you have to deal with the $15,000 figure, not the $4,000, not the $2,000, not some idiot that goes out there and says, One, two, three, four. Oh, you don't look homeless. $5,000.
 You don't have a clue, Salisman, of what to do. And you haven't had a clue for 10 years. And that's why we're in our 12th year of a 10-year plan that turned out to be crap. Thank you. Be proud of yourselves. Org, I really get annoyed when you pat yourselves on the back. We had 88 people die in 2015. That's a 40% increase, and you pat yourselves on the back.
 You're a hypocrite, all five of you. I call you the five shits. You know that? Sorry, no profanity. Let's be done. That's not profanity. Go ahead. Yes, it is. Go ahead. No, it isn't. Look it up. Go ahead, please. Okay. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I actually was going to volunteer at Terminal 1, but I really wanted it to be something permanent, as it is in San Antonio.
 When they decided basically to say it was temporary, I basically kind of accept the idea that it should be sold. Let's just go on to other things. The mayor I heard on the radio is trying to set up a warming shelter downtown somewhere. I would like to volunteer for that. I've actually – I was homeless five years ago, and I've actually done –
 feeding at the Portland Rescue Mission, you know, and I've done those sort of things. I would have very much loved to have helped Terminal 1 if it was to be permanent, but it wasn't headed in that direction. I wish to say this. I may in the future get involved with Jobs with Justice and support camping under bridges and support some sort of state program
 There's a thing called the Homeless Bill of Rights, which could be invoked to allow people to camp there. But I would like police to actually not tear down tents, but actually make sure they're clean, help coordinate cleanups. I think it's not so bad that people are sleeping under bridges and stuff. It's the fact that they leave garbage all over the place. Thank you. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrain Johnson, and I'm...
 Obviously, the structure at Terminal 1 or that land is not the only resource we have to improve the way we treat our neighbors. Thanks to George R.R. Martin's great books being turned into an OK TV series, now everybody says winter is coming. Mr. Walsh was correct in noting that people are going to die, and we don't have –
 We haven't really done as much vision zeroing as a good humane society really would do. Vision zero concept has not really been applied to victims of sexual violence. We just had talk about 300 plus rapes per year. And vision zero is not discussed as...
 the proper and moral way to treat our friends and neighbors who don't have adequate permanent shelter. It's very financially challenging to figure out how we're going to get thousands of people indoors, and we're also going to deal fairly with families that are rent distressed and having chaos there. Hopefully, when we come back a week from now, we'll be able to say, yes, unaffordable homes passed, and we'll know that.
 1,300 units will be coming online eventually to help shelter about 3,000 people. But even though Paranoid Park, as a phrase, made it in the local media to talk about additional shelter capacity opening near O'Brien Square, another fountain which could be refurbished, I know you all are at times, with all the things on your plate, also looking for solutions to shelter people online.
 It's unfortunate that it doesn't give any stability. If we use the Terminal 1 site while it's on the market, that creates some issues and stuff like that. So I'm not going to say for or against on this particular issue about how you deal with Terminal 1, but we need to be looking to encourage everyone, not just Williamson Dane, but all developers, as the Menashe family did last year, to look at structures that are vacant,
 the realistic timeline for filling those structures, and can we get people inside into climate control facilities next to hygiene equipment? Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Washdog PDX. I had some real concerns on this project to begin with. I did not like the current offers that were on the property to be sidelined. I felt that was completely inappropriate, even using the state of emergency designation.
 I've stated before, you have a good broker sitting in here and you had some very qualified buyers with offers on the property. Again, I think there should be something negotiated with this broker for his sales potentially being jeopardized. I think a reasonable amount of money applied towards his company and himself is.
 is a reasonable thing to do under these conditions. Again, he had an exclusive listing. Again, he had five very qualified buyers, and I knew one of the buyers, Jadiv Guatemala out of Hawaii, that could have paid cash for this in an instant. And so I have some concerns on how this was handled. And the reality is that we need to make it very clear that,
 If it's a surplus property, it's up for sale. If it's not up for sale and we want to do some type of humanitarian relief efforts, make it very clear to the people involved.
 Do not step in when there are offers on the table from very qualified people that bring a tremendous amount of money in this city from around the world. And do not waste their time or qualified brokers their time because they will not come back to the table.
 make sure that at least the broker is taken care of properly. And again, I hope you can bring back these current bids that were on the property and work with them in a reasonable, respectful manner and do not waste their time. Again, pertaining to the developers, I commend you on your efforts. As you understand, a
 A mass shelter is a tremendous amount of money, and it's not stepping in position to take control of the property. It's operating that property year after year. And as you know, just to operate a 500-plus property,
 capacity mass shelter will cost you anywhere from $5 to $7.5 million per year. Calculate that in five years, that's $50-plus million you need to come up with. That's why the City of Portland
 When they fund the non-profits, it's necessary they step in, and the bond that Commissioner Saltzman is very necessary, and that's why these things keep moving forward. But again, I commend you on your efforts. Keep up the good work and look for the next project. Thank you. Mayor, can I just have one moment? A couple of good points were raised. I just want to put them in the record. Scott McLean of Collier's International is here.
 They are very highly regarded in the industry. We have been told that we are in a historic market, meaning we can expect extremely aggressive offers on the property. If the resolution passes, it is the intention of the Bureau to reopen the sales process and to allow new offers for a period of time. So anyone who was either discouraged or chose not to offer, make an offer, will be allowed to do so.
 When that window closes on November 18th, then the proposals will be reviewed. It is our hope that we will be under contract with a suitable buyer by early 2017, and the sale proceeds would be returned to the construction fund
 And this is a substantial amount of money, which in turn has an impact on our requirements in terms of debt financing and the like. And so we think over time will help us stabilize rates. We have received letters of support from the Portland Business Alliance, from the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon, from the Portland Utility Board. And I've received a lot of it, as I think my colleagues have.
 A lot of emails from citizens and from organizations. Noteworthy, I have not received any communication from anyone opposing this resolution. Thank you, Mayor. So if I may ask, Commissioner Fish, is it your intention that only industrial use bids will be considered responsive?
 No, we're going to continue the same practice we had before, and it's a great question, which is we'll accept any bid from anybody during this period. What we have said, however, from the first day is that we are going to honor the designation of prime industrial land, which has been the historic designation for this property, and which a unanimous council reaffirmed in the comprehensive plan. So we are looking for someone that wants to operate within the existing zoning,
 which is prime industrial land with a river dependent overlay and that can make the best proposal to the city which means the fewest contingencies a good value for our rate payers and that a transaction which can be concluded in a reasonable period of time and under the surplus property policy that judgment is left to the commissioner in charge
 But in this instance, I will be working with the Portland Development Commission and the broker to review offers before I make my judgment. Do surplus property dispositions need to come to council? No. They don't? No, they go back to the commissioner in charge. And so we're operating under the original council direction, which is to authorize. By rescinding and authorizing us to proceed, we'd be operating under the original resolution, and the final decision goes to the commissioner in charge.
 Commissioner, I kind of don't understand your answer to Commissioner Saltzman's question, because what Commissioner Saltzman asked, will you only consider bids that are to use the property for industrial purposes, and you said no, but then you said that you'll consider offers from people who are willing to operate within the industrial zoning. So could you clarify whether there's really a difference there? No, what I said was we have not put any limitations on the ability of people to make a bid and to come forward with a bid.
 I mean, if someone came forward and said they want to put a nuclear power plant there, we probably would discourage that. If they said they wanted to put a casino, we might explain that that is not a very good idea.
 It is our intention to, when we review the bids, to look to those bids which are operating within the framework established by this council through the comprehensive plan. And this land is prime industrial land with an overlay. It is part of our core strategy for growing middle-income jobs going forward. And we are going to operate within the policy framework that the council has directed us.
 If I might add, I have recently with the mayor's staff tried to figure out how to take off the industrial designation on a property that's less than a half acre. And I've had to conclude it is not possible. It is just not possible to change from an industrial designation. So...
 I would suggest, I mean, obviously you're the Commissioner in charge, but if there's a proposal to do something other than industrial, I just don't think it can possibly be made to fit the comprehensive plan. And I thank you, Commissioner Fritz. The question from Dan originally, I thought was a two-part. Are we putting any barriers in front of anyone who wants to make an offer? The answer is no. Right, but the existing zoning. This is a robust process. We'll accept offers. But
 But the offers that we will treat seriously and evaluate from the context of providing value to our rate payers and conforming to the resolution are ones that respect the designation that this council has made to the comprehensive plan. This is prime industrial land and is key to our long-term job strategy. I guess I'm a little puzzled because five of the six bids that were received were for non-industrial uses.
 and one was I would call token industrial that was submitted by a residential firm. So if we're going to stay true to the comp plan, if we're going to heed what Commissioner Fritz just said about the impossibility or the inadvisability of changing industrial designation, why don't we just at the outset say we will only accept bids that propose industrial uses? Well, Dan, we're going to reopen this process, and the resolution makes clear that you have to maintain the current zoning.
 If someone wants to submit an offer that's nonresponsive, I'm not going to prevent them from doing so. We've been clear about what the criteria is. And my guess is that in light of the clear declaration and the resolution, it would not be a wise use of people's time and resources to put a nonresponsive bid in. In a process like this, which is transparent and open and is managed by a reputable brokerage firm,
 I'm not going to prevent someone from putting an offer in, but we will not seriously entertain an offer that doesn't, A, conform to the existing industrial zoning as mandated,
 by the comprehensive plan, and B, return good value to the rate payers. And the reason we have an expert commercial broker working with us is that we'll be looking at a number of factors, including the number of contingencies, the ability to close in a reasonable period of time, the seriousness of the offer, and that's why a professional will help us screen these offers. But at the end of the day, I don't intend to –
 a proposal that breaks faith with what this council has mandated through the comprehensive plan, and I'll be very clear about that. Thank you. Other questions, discussion? Okay, I think we are ready to vote. Novick? There are always serious problems with using this site as the site of a long-term homeless shelter or campus, the primary one that we just discussed, which is that it is zoned industrial.
 I voted to allow the private parties interested in using this as a shelter space to see if they could pull together a viable proposal to shelter folks this winter, partly because we need additional shelter space and winter is upon us, but also because
 I was very impressed that these private parties were stepping forward and saying they were willing to devote private resources to help us deal with the community issue of homelessness. I recently went with the mayor-elect to San Antonio to see their Haven of Hope model.
 And I know that there's disputes among experts as to the specific service model that they've adopted, but one thing that was indisputably impressive was the support that they have gotten from private parties. Private parties not only contributed the majority of the resources to build the Haven for Hope campus, they also provide a slight majority of the funds to operate the campus.
 That, I think, would be wonderful to have replicated here. And I've been very impressed over the past months to see the Menashe family step forward and offer their property to be used as a temporary homeless shelter, to see Tom Cody do exactly the same thing in the last week.
 And I'm very much appreciative of Homer Williams and the many others we had prepared to invest in this proposal, like Tom Brenneke and Bob Walsh and Bob Scanlon. I really applaud their efforts and support.
 I agree with Sandra McDonough, President of the Portland Business Alliance, who recently said that Homer Williams has, quote, performed a phenomenal service to the city as he moved the conversation forward. So I really hope that Mr. Williams, Mr. Brenneke, Mr. Walsh, Mr. Scanlon, and all the others who are prepared to make this kind of investment are not discouraged and will continue their commitment to assist with the homeless problem.
 So that being said, we obviously are not going to be able to use Terminal 1 as a temporary shelter this year. And it is zoned industrial, and we did already receive some offers on it. And I think it's totally appropriate to rescind our previous ordinance and allow the sale to go forward.
 Obviously, this is about selling an industrial property that is no longer needed by the Bureau of Environmental Services. So thank you for doing that. I need to correct the record because we just got yelled at for doing nothing whatsoever on housing and homelessness. And, Mayor, I hope in your comments you'll correct.
 recap for the past four budgets, how much we have allocated to those services. I want to remind us all, we all unanimously adopted the Home for Everyone plan. We all said that we're going to have a joint office of homeless services managed by Mark Jolin in the county. And that plan says to do as much as is needed for as long as is needed to solve the problem. And so we have a strategy. And I think we all have to, including myself, think.
 respect that that is the strategy. Now, there may be some other things that we can do apart from that. As you all know, I'm trying to find a new place that Right to Dream 2 can operate. So trust me, Commissioner Saltzman, I had the mayor's staff from planning, the city attorneys, everybody who could possibly have any suggestions on how to make it work, and the answer is it doesn't.
 and there's no way, given what's in our comprehensive plan, given what the state requirements for industrial land are, it just cannot be done. It took me a very long time to get to that point, but it can't be done. We're going to this afternoon have some discussions about changing the mass shelter regulations in the zoning code to make some things more easy. Even those changes would not allow this at Terminal 1, and that doesn't mean that we're not committed to helping people. It means that we need to stick with the plan that we've all...
 agreed to. And indeed that the mayor is continuing to look for additional properties as is Commissioner Borchek, Deborah Kofori. And they've just announced another one this week. So let's stick with the plan. And I myself need to respect that. Although Right to Dream 2 is mentioned in the Home for Everyone plan, it's not a core part of what
 what the strategy is to get people permanent affordable housing and to prevent people from becoming homeless in the first place, which is by far the cheapest way of doing things. So thank you all. I know that we all care about this, despite being yelled at for not caring. I think that's probably why we try so many different things that we really, really want to make it work. And I think we just need to keep doing that.
 Yes. Well, Mayor and colleagues, a few months ago we had an honest disagreement about the future of Terminal 1 North, and a majority of the council made a decision to go down a different path and to explore some options for shelters and a long-term vision that was presented to us by a couple of prominent local developers. At that time, I felt that it was a mistake for a couple of reasons, primarily because
 What we were talking about was prime industrial land. It was core to our strategy about growing middle-income jobs in our community. And I felt that given that there was a process underway, we should continue that process, find a suitable buyer, and return the proceeds to our ratepayers who, through the Bureau of Environmental Services, own the land.
 owned the land, by the way, because a former commissioner in charge named Dan Saltzman had the good sense to buy it and not lease it at a time when he was criticized for that decision. But in retrospect, that was one of the great real estate deals of his tenure on the council. Well, today we are taking a very straightforward action to allow the Bureau of Environmental Services to resume the sale of Terminal 1.
 But while we had a disagreement about a piece of dirt, we never had a disagreement about our collective respect and gratitude for the fact that a private developer stepped forward and said, how can I help? And I'm going to join with all my colleagues in saying that while in taking this action, we are going back to a decision that was made months ago,
 We should not miss an opportunity to applaud Homer Williams and his partners for offering to help, and we should encourage this mayor and the next mayor to bring them into the broader conversation about how we can address this housing crisis. They have a lot to bring to the table beyond simply private resources, and we should be grateful for their willingness to do so.
 I am told by the professionals that we are in uncharted waters in the marketplace right now. That if you look at a 35-year horizon, we have never had such a robust market for commercial land. I hope that's true. With our action today, we are reopening the sale of Terminal 1 North, and we encourage people to come and make aggressive offers for this property because it is a desirable piece of prime industrial land in the heart of our city.
 We will faithfully proceed under the applicable rules, and the proceeds will be returned to our ratepayers. Again, this council had an honest disagreement about the fate of Terminal 1 North a few months ago, and today we are authorizing the Bureau of Environmental Services to resume that sale process. I want to thank all my colleagues for the ongoing conversation we had, and I particularly want to thank Dan Soltzman.
 On any housing scorecard, Dan and I are about 9 out of 10 in agreement on what we should be doing to address this crisis. And I could not be prouder of his leadership on the housing bond and a number of other things. We had an honest disagreement about Terminal 1 North, but we never let it get in the way of our shared commitment to addressing this housing and homeless crisis. So today I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Well, I want to thank Homer Williams and his partners in the Haven for Hope model, or Harbor for Hope as they were calling it here, for thinking big. You know, for thinking sort of Texas-sized big about addressing the tremendous needs we have for shelter and services for people who are homeless in our city. And I think that...
 I think we all recognize that we need the private sector. We need to marshal the forces of the private sector if we're ever going to really, truly provide not only enough affordable housing that we need, but also enough shelter space. And I think one of the beauties of the Harbor for Hope or Haven for Hope is the co-location of all the different service providers. Just like the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services, putting everybody under one roof makes it easy for people to get help.
 They don't have to go from one place to get something to another place to get the other service someplace else to get the voucher. They can go to one place and receive service. And to me, that's one of the most compelling aspects of Haven for Hope in San Antonio. And I hope that we will someday have something similar to that here in our city. And I think we all know that we need more shelter spaces and we need to figure out
 how we can continue to tap the energy and enthusiasm of people like Homer Williams for solving these problems to be with us at the table. And I hope that that will, and I'm sure that Mayor-elect Wheeler, that's a priority for him, but I know it's been a priority for each one of us on this council. And as we continue to try to figure this out. So thank you all for your indulgence a few months ago on a rather extended debate and protraction discussion, but I think it was one worth having.
 I do, too. And we've had a morning full of examples of how people in the community have to step up to be our partners in order to get to where we want to be as a city. And this was one more case of that. And any good idea that comes out of the community at least deserves a fair hearing, if not an actual tryout. And that's what we did in this case. Okay.
 we need people in the community to come forward, as Tom Cody did last week. Dan and I were there for the announcement of that latest gift from the community, as we saw with the Menashe family, as we saw with the people who organized themselves in Multnomah Village to make
 meals for all the women that stayed there for those six months every day. So we need more of that, and I hope we hear more good ideas coming forward. In a climate of deliberate experimentation, which is what we're about here, some of those ideas are going to work and some of them aren't. So be it. It is important, as Commissioner Fritz noted, to remember the larger context of what we're doing here, which is we declared a state of housing emergency.
 We have put more general fund dollars into housing and homelessness in these most recent couple of years than in many, many more years combined before that. We've also changed our percentage of urban renewal funds dedicated to affordable housing.
 to yield another $200-plus million of investment in affordable housing. And, again, thanks to your leadership, Dan, I believe the largest bond measure in the history of the city, not just the largest bond measure for housing, or I think it's the largest bond measure for anything, is on the ballot next week, and I hope and expect that Port Wonders are going to think
 about our future and approve that bond measure. I certainly voted for it, and I think everybody here did as well. So we are making a huge investment as partners in this Home for Everyone consortium, and we're going to meet or exceed our goal of opening 650 more shelter beds this year in a city that hadn't opened any new shelter beds in a very long time because we're going to open another 150 in two weeks in Westmoreland.
 So, the progress that we're making is substantial. Some people allege that there are more homeless people in Portland than there used to be. We'll find out in January when the count is conducted. It may be the case that there are less places where they're inconspicuous and a city that is welcoming 1,000 more people a month and where the forgotten corners are growing new buildings.
 So it may not be numerically that we have more homeless people, but we are far from solving the problem. No question about that. And what we're doing in terms of building more shelter beds, building more affordable housing, partnering with the county, partnering with Home Forward and other public and private organizations, those are all the right ingredients. And every time I talk to another major city mayor,
 They send somebody here to learn from us. But we keep learning from them as well. And, Dan, remember you and I went down to San Francisco and looked at the navigation center model there with that collection of services. That is a better mousetrap. It is a better idea. And, in fact, that's exactly the program at Bud Carr Commons, and that's going to be the program at the Westmoreland Shelter as well, where we have services there to help people out of homelessness.
 Just last week, I was celebrating with the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Wells Fargo an amazing gift from Wells Fargo's foundation of $300,000 to Blanchet House so that the men who have been learning carpentry there as their ladder off the street are going to move from building beautiful furniture to building tiny homes.
 another case where Portland is in the forefront of this kind of partnership. So I appreciate these partners, Homer and his associates, that tried to make this idea happen. I look forward to the next good idea coming up out of the community. Quite a few of them are working, and we're going to need more of them to work over time. But for now, this is the right thing to do with this piece of surplus property. Aye. And we are at last recessed until 2 p.m. Isn't it interesting that the people who are only here...
 Okay, good afternoon everyone and welcome to the afternoon November 2nd session of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here.
 Saltzman, Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. We have a proclamation right up front and then some other business this afternoon. So we really appreciate you all being here for this conference and discussion. So let's move, please, to item 1222. Thank you.
 Proclaim November 2016 to be Native American Heritage Month in Portland. Well, this is a proud tradition for our city that we participate in this declaration. It's also proud that we are now so well served in the city by having a tribal liaison on our staff. Pat Gibson has been working, I know, with many of the tribal governments in our region and also has been representing our city's commitment to
 to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and their efforts to protect
 maintain the purity of their water and the sanctity of their land. So these declarations are not just words, they're also actions, and that's why it's important that we do this. So I'll start this off and then invite folks that are here to speak about this to come forward. This is the proclamation itself. It says, whereas Native Americans, the indigenous peoples of this land, flourish with vibrant cultures...
 developed one of the largest trade economies and are the original stewards of Mother Earth.
 And whereas the city of Portland now rests on lands at the confluence of Willamette and Columbia Rivers, a major crossroads for the economic, social, and political interactions of the indigenous tribes for thousands of years, and whereas indigenous people hand down oral histories, science, governance, a distinct relationship with water, land, rocks, native plants, birds, fish, and animals, and invaluable cultural knowledge and rich traditions that continue to thrive in Portland,
 supporting community health, and whereas indigenous people who've been here since time immemorial continue to contribute immeasurably to our country, state, and city's heritage, distinguishing themselves as scholars, veterans, teachers, athletes, artists, entrepreneurs, and leaders, and whereas the indigenous population of the Portland metropolitan area is over 40,000 people, descended from more than 380 tribes or bands from across the nation,
 And whereas the community continues to contribute to the cultural fabric of the City of Portland through many events throughout the year, such as traditional powwows, festivals, celebrations, active community organizations, and tribal intergovernmental relationships, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the month of November to be Native American Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month.
 So let's suspend the rules and let's hear it for this tradition of declaring this month to be important. Welcome, and I know there's some folks that are here that would like to speak about this, so come on up, please, if you'd like to. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Hello, good afternoon everybody. My name is Idalis Riggs. I'm from the One Who Walks Around people, born for the many goats people. My maternal grandmothers of the Edgewater people, my paternal grandfathers of the Bitterwater people. I'm from Wildcat Peak, Arizona. I'm currently a student at Portland State University. Um...
 It's a really great day. I'd just like to say thank you. It's really important for us as Indigenous people and for you as well to acknowledge our presence and our history and all that we've been through and all that we're facing today. It's really difficult to...
 be here because of all the issues in Native Country. And I just want to say thank you for acknowledging that and continuing to
 you know, make the necessary steps to acknowledge us and to appreciate us. And it's really great to be here today. And this is a step towards our healing as Indigenous people. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome. I'm Judy Bluehurst-Skelton, Nez Perce Cherokee.
 It is a good day. It's an honor to be here. The ritual to come every year and celebrate Native American Heritage Month is a very special relationship. I have the privilege of being surrounded by the next generation of our indigenous leaders, like the young woman sitting next to me. And I'm reminded constantly that really every month is Native American Heritage Month. And so...
 Every day is Indigenous Peoples Day, and the events of our times today, sadly, are reminiscent of the times of my grandparents and the times before them. Challenging times. While the proclamation celebrates our achievements that we are still here, we recognize that it also commemorates and honors our ancestors who were thinking of us so that we could be sitting here today today.
 And I am also inspired by the younger generation who have really taken it to heart to speak up and to heal from the historical trauma. Sometimes I ask myself, do we ever heal from historical trauma? The events of the men that drove into the traditional lands of the Burns Paiute people, armed, bullying, intimidating.
 terrifying the communities there, inflamed our own historical trauma. And then to see the inequities of justice or injustice as our elders are being strip-searched and humiliated at Standing Rock and confronted by attack dogs, women and children, and children,
 It feels like 1870s all over again. And so I think it's important that the city continues to acknowledge the good things in the present, help us secure a future, but recognize that the past is still at our heels. And that as our ancestors would say, the heritage is the earth, as the proclamation states, is our mother. And it's by her grace that we survive or live here.
 And so when the people at Standing Rock or the people throughout this continent we call United States are protecting water, we have to remember that water is sacred. We can't drink money. Water is healing water.
 water is life and so we invite all the citizens and residents of Portland and the region to join indigenous people Native Americans American Indians Nez Perce Navajo however we all identify and connecting and standing up for the rights of Mother Earth and for our legacy for the next seven generations
 That's what is in my heart today as we hear the proclamation. And it's only because of the next generation I find the strength sometimes to come in and speak. So I'm really grateful to everyone here. Katsi, y'all, y'all. I appreciate both of your perspective, not just looking back into the history, but also looking forward. And actually, as I said earlier, I think the...
 There are sort of two consciousnesses in Portland that have risen to a new level, and I think it's why this declaration maybe has special meaning now. One is that we are such a multicultural city now, and we understand that better.
 It's happened to us gradually. We had a Native population here from the beginning. We had an African-American population, later a big Vietnamese population. Now we have hundreds of ethnicities represented in our city, and it's a glorious new chapter in the history of the city that we are now truly a multicultural city. And that's...
 level of understanding that I think we've reached as a community here fairly recently. And then secondly, this confluence of interest between tribal organizations and leaders and individuals.
 environmentalists about climate change and what happens locally matters globally, whether it's happening at Standing Rock or happening in energy conservation in Portland. We have a shared commitment to climate and to stewardship that Portland's proud of being a leader in,
 And so that's why having Portland State and students there working on these issues with us is hope for the future. So that's part of why I think this, to me, has some special meaning this year. Other comments, questions? I think next week where we're going to celebrate another milestone, which is the return of the salmon. Return of the salmon. And you were there at the beginning when we cut the ribbon and had that community celebration. Yes.
 If we have you here every week, we should probably give her an office or something so that it's a little more convenient.
 But thank you. Thank you both. Thank you, Commissioner. Well, Ms. Bluehawk-Skelton and I were at the Parks Budget Advisory Committee meeting until 9 o'clock last night. So, yeah, you're welcome to stop by my office and take a seat any time you like. And thank you for all of our Native communities for the work that you inspire and assist us in doing. I've certainly learned a lot since I've been on the Council for almost eight years now. I'm very...
 a wide range of tribes and also from the Native American Youth and Family Council. So we're all, I think, moving towards getting together and figuring out how do we respect each other, how do we celebrate the past and envision the next seven generations. So I particularly want to thank the folks who've been involved in the Native American Community Advisory Council for Parks and your partnership with that, Judy, as the Parks Board Chair, and...
 I'm very grateful for the official City of Portland Delta Park Pow Wow, led by the Bow and Arrow Culture Club, that I was privileged to attend this summer. And so as a way of giving back, the Parks Bureau and I have waived the fees for that event, and we will do for the next four years as well. So... APPLAUSE
 partly recognising it's your land. And so I, by the treaties of 1855, am charged with the stewardship of it, and that means making sure that it does work for everybody and that we honour the places and the special things. And I thank you also for the partnership on looking at how do we name our parks and how do we honour the past as we move forward. I'm also privileged to be in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and our ongoing partnership with the Diversity...
 diverse civic leadership program, the grant that we give to the Native Youth and Family Council for the elders program, Dinita Suh Pry was here. It's part of the blessing of coming together and making everybody realize, recognize what's gone and what needs to be in the future. So thank you very much.
 i just wanted to mention thank you so much for being here today and today and this year and every year i just wanted to mention that we were all very proud to be able to make a contribution recently to the confluence project which honors the history of the peoples who fished at celilo falls for generation upon generation until sadly the falls were drowned by the dell's dam um
 So, I mean, that's still a terrible tragedy, but we're pleased to make a contribution to this project to honor that history.
 Thank you both, and thank you all for being here today. We appreciate your presence in our community and here for this particular moment of attention. And if I might, since we have a new leader, we always like to celebrate rising new leaders in our community, so I'd like to give you an official copy of the recommendation. Thank you. Thank you.
 little one was quiet for the whole ceremony okay let's move on please to our next item on this afternoon's agenda which is 1223 23 amend title 33 planning and zoning to reduce regulatory restrictions and processes for short-term housing and mass shelters
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Judy. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Okay, gentlemen, take it away.
 Okay, good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm here with Phil Namany, who has been our lead on this project. We're going to be presenting to you today, and just to mention some other staff members who put a lot of time into this, Leslie Lum, who's your North District Planner, Matt Wickstrom from the Bureau of Development Services, and Ben Morrow from the Mayor's Office. Carla, if we could get the presentation up.
 Just while you're getting started, I guess I should put a couple of things on the record here to begin with as context.
 These folks are here reporting back to us because we declared a state of emergency last year, and then we gave direction to the Bureau in March to simplify our regulations and develop some code improvements and cut the red tape for siting shelters. There's still a huge need for shelters in our city. We've placed 562 new shelter beds in the last year. That's permanent shelter beds. That doesn't count some of the great temporary –
 and opportunities that we've made use of. But obviously that's real progress and there's more work to be done. I just want to thank the council for making this a priority and thank the Bureau for fitting in yet another project in what's obviously a historically busy year with the residential infill project and the comp plan, among other things, on your agenda. But I'm glad that you took the emergency seriously and are now back to us with solutions
 with some specifics about how do we make this real. Well, thank you. What we're going to be presenting today is the work that we have been done at your direction about how to remove unnecessary barriers from both the city code, specifically the zoning code, and some city practices. The work that we did was based on working with the city,
 providers of shelter, both small shelters and large shelters, and home for everyone. And really the question was, what are you encountering in these city codes and practices that if they were removed would make an actual difference, a significant and substantive difference? And what we heard is on this short list here.
 The first four of these items are affected by the zoning code and they are addressed in the proposed changes that we're bringing to you today. Of course, we included public outreach in preparing this proposal and here's just a brief summary of the kind of events as well as the hearing at the PSC that we conducted. Now I'm going to turn it over to Phil to walk us through the specifics of the proposal. Phil Naimany, Planning and Sustainability, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability,
 And I'm going to focus on what the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended as they moved the project forward to city council. And their focus was on mass shelters, short-term housing, and transitional units. And I want to spend just a minute to kind of go over what each of those terms mean because there is often confusion about those. In all of these cases, these are...
 providing temporary housing. And so in the case of a mass shelter or short-term housing, the idea is that generally it's a temporary housing as an alternative to living on the streets. Folks tend to be there 30 days or less, and it's a process for them to be able to find services, to be able to move up to the next step.
 The main difference between a mass shelter and short-term housing is that a mass shelter is usually in a large area or a large room that's not necessarily divided, whereas a short-term housing can often look like motel rooms or even a house, but generally the folks are not required to stay there for more than 30 days.
 And then lastly, the Planning Commission made some amendments on how certain institutions could deal with transitional dwelling housing units as part of their use category. So we're going to start with some of the changes with mass shelters. Currently, there are actually a lot of zones where mass shelters are allowed by right, but there are some pretty significant limitations on those mass shelters. And so what this project did is it
 Reduce some of those limitations, made it a little bit easier for certain mass shelters in some zones to go by right, and increase the number of beds that could potentially be allowed by right. And the table on the screen shows some of the changes. What we noticed in talking to the providers was that there was a
 Generally, the largest shelter really could be efficiently provided for was for 200 beds. And so in the most intense zones, that's what got proposed, EX and CX and CG zones, that we increase the number of beds that potentially could be allowed by right from 100 to 200 beds.
 and we also reduced the separation requirements for shelters by right. Now, what does that mean? What that means is if they can't meet those, they can still go through a conditional use review. So it's not an either-or. It's just that, for example, if there is already a shelter within, say, under the proposed regulations, if there's already another shelter within 600 feet, the new shelter would have to go through a conditional use review.
 But it's basically an allowance, a condition that allows the shelters to go by right. So as I just mentioned, if shelters aren't able to go be proposed by right, we do have an allowance to allow them to apply for a conditional use review in most of our other zones. This includes the residential zones and also in the commercial employment zones if they can't meet the requirements by right. What we found was that this barrier of entry was fairly high because essentially –
 Even a small shelter would have to go through a Type 3 conditional use review, which required a pre-application conference and a hearing. And the costs alone for just going through those land use reviews could be upwards of $20,000. So what this proposal does is it does reduce the type of review that is required for a shelter from a Type 3 to Type 2 in some situations, generally if they are using an existing building.
 to put the shelter in or if it's a site of an existing institution. We also worked on changing some of the approval criteria so that in some cases when the shelter is being proposed in an existing building, the focus is more on livability issue and less on things such as traffic and parking. And then lastly, currently shelters are prohibited in EG zones because
 What we determined was that all other community service uses were allowed in EG zones, and so we at least changed the code to give people the opportunity to apply for conditional use review in the EG zones. The one thing we did not change was...
 In the OS and industrial zones, open space industrial zones, shelters are currently prohibited, and we did not necessarily want to change that. There are, of course, a lot of other city policies regarding industrial lands and our recreational opportunities that would have to be amended if we were going to try to start allowing shelters in these zones.
 For short-term housing, the PSC did not make as many changes. There's fewer barriers of entry generally for short-term housing. In fact, a lot of times they're allowed in a lot of the commercial zones. But what these changes do is they provide some consistency for the review type between short-term housing and mass shelters. So most of the changes in here, for example, with the conditional use review in cases with mass shelter could be,
 via Type 2 conditional use review, we also extended that to apply to short-term housing. And then once again, similar, if short-term housing was able to be done by right, there wasn't a parking requirement.
 The last piece I'm going to talk about has to do with transitional housing. This tends to be temporary shelter that is provided on a short-term basis. We currently have an item in our code that allows a religious institution to host one transitional housing unit for up to 60 days, but
 What we found is, and I think the original intent of this was either to host a homeless family or potentially host a refugee family or somebody who has recently moved to the area. What many of our providers have found is that 60 days is often not enough time to find secure housing for that group.
 There was also a desire with some institutions to expand the number of households they could host. So we, and in discussing with the Planning and Sustainability Commission, they also wanted to extend the types of institutions that would be able to host transitional households. So we've expanded the allowance for allowing transitional housing as an accessory use to apply to not just religious institutions, but also colleges and schools.
 The amendments allow up to six transitional housing units and increase the duration from 60 days to up to 180 days within a calendar year. And then lastly, as we were going through this analysis, we were also looking at the 2011 City Council resolution that was a –
 allowing religious institutions to host up to four car camping situations. What we found was actually Oregon by statute has a provision on their books that allows up to three. So we went ahead and amended the code to allow up to three, so that would be consistent with ORS. The 2011 city council resolution never actually changed the code.
 One thing that the Planning and Sustainability Commission did not do was they did look at a staff proposal to reduce the type of review for affordable housing projects that met certain housing bureau conditions. There's currently a temporary ordinance that was instituted in March to allow those to go through a type 2X review instead of a type 3. PSC did not approve making that a permanent amendment to the code.
 So what this means is there is a type 2x option that's on the books throughout through the housing emergency And at this point it would return to the current review process once the housing emergency is over One of the things that the PSC was grappling with was that there were no examples at the time of the hearing That they could compare to see if the type 2x process was actually more efficient than the type 3 and so there was a concern about making that a permanent change and
 There has been actually just in the last week a Type 2X proposal that came in, so that is something that will be looked at. Well, just to add to that quickly, even in this period, affordable housing projects that did come in tactically when they did their evaluation chose to do a Type 3, so you had a choice, so they weren't sure of the benefits, but they understood the intent. Thank you.
 So I just wanted to mention, you know, the PSC recognized that these code changes were not the silver bullet to solve homelessness. There are actually a lot of projects that the city is undergoing currently that together will definitely help the situation, but this is just one aspect of it. There are, of course, other... The Inclusionary Housing Project, which you'll be hearing in the future, is another example of finding ways to deal with affordable housing.
 And then, of course, the Central City Plan and the Mixed-Use Zones Project is also looking at provisions related to affordable housing. So this is not, of course, the only bite at the apple. But we did feel that this was something that did address the heart of the matter as far as what the council had asked in terms of finding zoning code situations that help with the process and the regulations, especially for short-term housing and mass shelters. So the PSC...
 did request that the city council uh men title 33 is shown in their report and adopt the recommended drafts for the findings
 And I do want to take this opportunity to also mention that over the past week, there has been some additional conversation with Commissioner Saltzman's office. They have proposed three amendments to the recommended draft. One of those would affect kind of a technical detail on how we look at temporary activities. A second item was related to...
 how we defined group housing structures, and the reason to look at that was it was not clear on our definition if something like a series of housing pods that shared a common kitchen on a site would fall under that group housing category, so we made a change that would make that more clear. And the third item that...
 that we worked with BDS on that came out of the commissioner's office was to make it a little more clear what the thresholds were and what the approval criteria were for mass shelters and short-term housing, especially in the R zones. We did originally propose two different sets of approval criteria, and instead we created a hybrid system
 set of criteria and provided some code language so that an existing shelter could potentially have a small expansion without triggering another conditional use review. So, for example, an existing shelter could maybe add on some storage or expand their lobby area as long as they met the previous conditions of approval. So where are those amendments? There should be a memo dated November 2nd that actually is, I think, on our letterhead, but it was
 Yeah, I think what happened was we had some conversations with BDS, and then we turned that into some code amendments. So, yeah, we'll make sure that council's got copies of those. But, Dan, do you want to go ahead and propose your amendments, and then we'll further discuss this with staff and take testimony? Yeah, I think as Phil said, there's three amendments quite technically similar.
 Three amendments, quite technical in detail, but I think Phil did a good job. We have Matt Wickstrom here who can go into more detail if anybody wishes, but I would recommend adoption of these amendments.
 You have the description. So the first is to allow permanent alterations at a site of temporary shelter if they're in compliance with code and remain after the site is used as a temporary shelter. Second is clarifying the group living facility requirements about sleeping pods supported by a kitchen and a bathroom. And the third is consolidating conditional use zones into a single criterion.
 MR. Is everything in this memo that has a strikeout and is all of this the amendment? How do I determine what's being amended?
 Essentially, like the piece on Section 33285, that section would replace what's in the recommended draft. However, the strikethrough and underline is showing what is currently in the code versus what is proposed. So it includes both the recommended draft and the changes. The changes are much more minor than that. Can you stop right there for a second? If it contains both, how do we know what the amendment is?
 Well, it's based on, I guess, our summary of that. So essentially what we did is we added, in 285, we added the option that existing shelters and short-term housing could have a small expansion without triggering a conditional use review, and we changed the reference of what approval criteria would apply. So it might be useful, yeah, just in terms of council discussion, if maybe somebody could highlight that for us.
 on one of the... Right, because what you're looking at is we amended the conditional use criteria and then we made a small change in response to this and maybe Phil you could read the pieces. Let's simplify this Joe. Could someone take a highlighter on one copy and highlight the changes in Dan's amendment and we'll circulate it because the thing that I think is confusing is you've got all the other red lines and there's no way to tell what's the amendment to the amendment
 And we don't have the time right now to go through it. I think if somebody during the hearing could just, we're going to go ahead and hear from people. Yeah, we'll take care of that. She's got a copy. She'll wing it.
 Well, I had the same issue, and so I, before coming to the hearing, did that myself, if that would be useful to loan you my copy. Yes. Yes. Thank you. I just want to circulate that so we make sure we know what the words on the page that are different are. The challenge is that the community hasn't had an opportunity to see that. Obviously, that's a problem. So maybe we could... I think the good news, Commissioner Fritz, is there's a redline version, which is the Fritz Amendment. The Fritz... Doctor. But without the highlighted...
 Oh, I see. So it's a ton of stuff. So we may need to continue the hearing. Yeah. As we were going through, there was some other kind of technical editing that was done just to make the wording read better with the new language. All right. Well, why don't we proceed? We've got invited testimony. We've got community testimony. And while we're doing that, I bet somebody can straighten that out. She's got questions, though.
 I just want to highlight one more issue. Thank you for working with me over the past several weeks, including with Deputy City Attorney Lynley Rees, to look at is there any way that mass shelters can be allowed in industrial zones? I think we've all come to the conclusion no. So I'm quite fine with the prohibition in industrial zones. Supposing we were to make mass shelters
 not allowed in open space zones? What process, because not allowed means that there is a process that you could ask for it to be allowed, right? What process might such a proposal go through? From a use standpoint, there's really just three options. There's allowed, conditionally allowed, or prohibited. Oh.
 So the not allowed versus prohibited standard is usually applicable to development standards, where you could ask for an adjustment to that development standard. So if there was going to be something looked at, it would essentially create a conditional use review process, I guess. The thing that we'd have to take a look at is whether there's approval criteria that are –
 adequate for that and so on. In general, when we took a look at what the use categories are allowed in open space zones, it is fairly limited, although other community service uses, such as a library or a community center, are allowed through a conditional use process as well. Can I ask a question of you, Amanda, because I want to make sure I'm tracking this. We're talking about potentially a mass shelter in an open space? Yes.
 Yes. Could you give us an example just to set the context? Well, we were recently told, not quite so recently, by the Land Use Board of Appeals that people sheltering in tents are in fact mass shelters. So we also know that there is a provision in state law for recreational campgrounds.
 And that's something I'm going to explore with staff. The Land Use Board of Appeals ruling came down in the middle of this project, so we all decided with the Mayor's agreement that we were not going to derail this particular project because it's very important to make mass shelter changes. On the other hand, a Right to Dream 2 type of shelter changes
 doesn't really fit in any of the categories we've got so far. And indeed we might at some point find some open space zoned land that we would want to make available for people to have a safe shelter.
 So you're previewing a discussion we may have with respect to some future action. Potentially. It's not part of this. It's not part of this. And I was just seeking clarification as to what I had forgotten that the use categories that see the allowed conditional use and prohibited, there's no not allowed like there is in variances for the rest of the zoning code. Thank you.
 Other questions for Joe or Phil before we – we'll probably have others once we've gone through the testimony. But let me invite – we've got some panels here that we want to hear from. One is Ryan Divert, Tony Bernal, and Rabbi Kahana. I think you're all here. Yes, you are. Come on up, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Ryan Divert. I work with the City and County's Joint Office for Homeless Services.
 The Joint Office for Homeless Services was formed to coordinate budgeting, contracting, and policy development roles of the city and county related to ending homelessness.
 Staff from the Joint Office also coordinate a Home for Everyone, our community-wide effort to house people experiencing homelessness throughout Multnomah County by making smart investments in the areas of housing, income, health, and importantly today, survival and emergency services. One of the early priorities identified by the Home for Everyone Safety Off the Streets work group was to remove barriers to siting shelters,
 and other safety off the streets options for people experiencing homelessness, while we worked diligently toward long-term solutions to homelessness, like expansion of permanently affordable housing. Joint Office staff have worked closely with staff from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to describe the scope of challenges citing mass shelters within the City of Portland and to identify potential improvements to zoning code to address those challenges.
 The proposed Mass Shelter and Housing Zoning Code update in front of you today addresses the vast majority of the identified challenges and will make a significant difference in the ability of publicly funded nonprofit and volunteer-led shelter providers to site shelters effectively and efficiently.
 We genuinely appreciate the work of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in developing the proposed update, particularly their outreach to various Home for Everyone partners, as well as Neighborhood Coalition and other community groups. Thanks, Ryan. Tony, welcome. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm Tony Bernal, Senior Director of Public Policy and Funding for Transition Projects. I've also served on the Home for Everyone Safety Off the Streets Committee since its inception two years ago. As Ryan mentioned, the Safety Off the Streets Committee identified shelter code as a significant barrier to getting people off the streets. In short, code makes it cumbersome and costly to site new shelters.
 Code also too severely limits the number of people that a shelter may house, with 100 occupants being the maximum in any zone. Under the housing state of emergency and working with the Joint Office of Homeless Services, Transition Projects has opened three temporary shelters in the past year. We will open two more this month. It is highly unlikely we would have been able to open even one additional shelter without the flexibility provided to us by the state of emergency requirements.
 The proposed changes to the code are reasonable and will provide the permanent fix we need to be able to respond swiftly when shelter is needed. I would urge you to support them. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for allowing us to be here today. I want to speak – I'm sorry, I didn't identify myself. Rabbi Michael Kahana, Senior Rabbi of Congregation Beth Israel in northwest Portland. Thank you.
 I want to speak particularly to the issues before us relating to religious institutions. Mayor Hales, at the beginning of this crisis, asked religious institutions to step up and do what we can to make a difference during this time. And I believe it's highly appropriate. Those of us in the Abrahamic faiths believe that we cannot stand idly by while our neighbor bleeds.
 And we, many of religious institutions in Portland are blessed with facilities that have the ability to make some difference. The proposal that's before you has some specific changes that will help us to do a better job.
 in housing when possible. This allows, as you see, for instead of one accessory use home, the ability to have up to six transitional housing units and the ability to have the average length of stay changed from 60 days to 180 days. They're small changes but significant changes.
 We are working, a number of us, and you'll hear about this in just a little while, about the ability to use parking lots in our community as housing areas to be able to not have people sleeping in cars, which is currently allowed on a limited basis, but to have temporary housing structures that are placed in parking lots. Okay.
 This and other ideas will help to make our spaces make a difference in our community and do a small part in dealing with the current emergency.
 Great. Thank you all. Questions? Appreciate very much. Thank you. Thank you for being here and for being part of this effort. Okay. I have another panel to call on, and that's Chris Iosa from Do Good Multnomah and Linda Jo Devilmink from Community of Hope, or Substitute. Welcome. Thank you.
 I am Linda Jodi Vlaming from Community of Hope, and I just want to share my experience of having gone through a conditional use review before the housing crisis was official. It was a very long and expensive and difficult process.
 and particularly the transportation piece. When we had a parking lot, we had to go through this whole and pay for an official consultant to do a transportation review, which kind of really didn't need to be done, in his opinion. So any way that you can make this easier for other small groups, faith-based or not, who are trying to make a difference,
 that would be very much appreciated. Thank you very much. Yeah, good point. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you for inviting me. Chris Ayosa, director of Do Good Multnomah. We serve homeless veterans in the greater Portland area.
 And in the past 12 months, we have partnered with religious institutions to open two new shelters to serve homeless veterans. And again, without the state of the emergency, we believe that this would have been quite a daunting and difficult task. In the past 12 months, we've been able to serve over 175 veterans. A lot of them now are in permanent supportive housing.
 greatly appreciate it. So anything to do to minimize the barriers to opening shelters, transitional housing in partnerships with these religious institutions, I think it'd be, you know,
 fortuitous i'd also like to push um you know the fact that not only just looking at maybe emergency shelters and or expanding transitional housing opportunities i'd also like to possibly expand the option of looking at permanent supportive housing on church properties there's a lot of churches in in portland that are you know ready and able communities that want to serve that have property and due to the zoning uh it might be a little bit difficult so i'm just
 imploring that we also look at that option as well. Can I respond to that for a second? So, you know, there are a lot of historic churches, particularly in the inner core of the city, that are going through big changes with the profile of their congregations. Or is that, Rabbi, is that an ecumenical term? No. Okay. And what they have is
 consistently is they have real estate. Absolutely. And the idea of marrying housing with a church community that serves as a sponsor and a loving community, or as Ava would say, a beloved community around it, is very appealing. Think about older adults living there, supportive housing, other things. Because we have a shortage of land, I think this concept is going to become more compelling as we go forward.
 The last time the council took up such an issue was when there was a proposal by a community playhouse to take over a church in inner northeast. It sparked some debate, but ultimately a theater company went into an old church. I completely agree with you, though, that that is in the –
 you know, medium term, a huge opportunity. And is it your sense that there are significant zoning and code barriers to making that happen? I believe so. Our organization already spoke to two churches that would be interested, and due to their zoning, it's something that would be an incredibly daunting task. Well, Mayor, you know, a few years ago when we authorized churches
 Church camping right as you recall it was a huge pushback in certain parts of the city based on some fear about what that would mean and how it's implemented and obviously we always viewed that as a as The best of a worst set of options No one was ever saying that that we want to just say people can live in their car in a church parking lot We've we've we've solved the problem
 The building of housing in sacred sites, if you will, I think is an absolute no-brainer. And perhaps at some point, Mir, we can begin the process of looking at what are the zoning and code challenges to doing that. Because my guess is there are a lot of faith communities that would welcome this, particularly as their congregations are declining. And this is a way to potentially generate some revenue as well as repurposing the site. Absolutely. Those are the conversations that we've had. Thank you.
 absolutely good stuff great i think and and this these proposals and dan's amendments i think give us some some some routes through the thicket not all the routes we necessarily need but absolutely yes and if i could just add if we hadn't had that expense in that time we would have increased the capacity of our shelter before now and we would been able to then maybe to do the rest of the renovations rather than phasing them or have more operating expenses now
 So it's tremendous, tremendous impact to have to pay those fees. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate all the panelists. So let's call on any folks that have signed up to speak on this item in addition to those we invited. I show four more people. Andrew Riley, Madeline Kovacs, and Andy Olshan. Please come on up. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Thank you.
 I guess I'll get this kicked off. My name is Andrew Riley. I'm the Community Engagement Coordinator with 1,000 Friends of Oregon, and I'm just here to represent my organization's support for the proposal in front of you today. You have my written testimony, so I won't read it at you, but I'll just highlight a few key points. One, we're here for the same reason that I think everyone else is, and that's the 4,000 members of our community who are sleeping on the street every night. We think that demands moral action. We think that demands creative action. We think that's exactly what this package of code changes does.
 This is one of those kind of proposals that started strong and has gotten stronger as the process has gone through. And I just want to call out three amendments to the Planning and Sustainability Commission level that we think are really worthy of your support and attention. First is, again, this maximum number of allowed beds in each zone. We think it's really calibrated to the size of a shelter that each zone can sustain and is consistent with good land use.
 Relaxing what is frankly an absurd applicability of parking minimums to shelters. I know not everyone on the council is sold on this idea, but we think that's a good step on the long term to eliminating parking minimums entirely.
 And finally, this expansion of institutional uses to encompass more institutions and really allow more beds over more days, we think that that is a really excellent opportunity for religious institutions and others who are looking to support communities. So we think that as amended, this is a really excellent proposal, a good chance to address the fact that we are frankly out of shelter beds in Portland. We urge your support. Andrew, can I ask you a question? Absolutely. Because you were a close observer of a number of things we did a few years ago.
 Why did we not get any traction on the proposal to allow churches to activate their parking and provide interim shelter for more people? I'll be honest. On the shelter question, I'm a little newer to the issue, so I don't have the historical background on that one.
 I actually could comment on that, Commissioner, because I appreciated when you brought it forward, and I knew you had. So when I was in charge of development services, I would get people from the county asking me, where could this happen? And we connected them very quietly because of the reaction that we got when we did it. In the southeast? Yes, in the southeast. I just gently connected them to friendly church communities, and it is happening. Yeah, I think one of the answers is there was a lot of misinformation about what was happening.
 And I think people were concerned there was unsupervised activity and other kinds of things. And when people are uncertain, they react a certain way. Maybe we didn't do such a great job then communicating what was allowed and why and what levels of safeguards were being placed in in terms of the responsibility of the church or faith community and others. So how long have you been in your new gig? About five months. So pretty new. Congratulations. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for listening to all of us this afternoon and making the time. My name is Madeline Kovacs, for the record, and I am the coordinator of Portland for Everyone, which is a project of Thousand Friends of Oregon. We support the Mass Shelter and Housing Code update as amended unanimously by the Planning and Sustainability Commission. We also support those key changes that need to be made, as identified by the PSD and outlined by my colleague, Andrew. Thank you.
 Portland's housing crisis, and in particular the 4,000 unhoused Portlanders on our streets every night, demand action. Just over a year ago, Portland City Council made a historic stride towards taking action proportional to the challenge when it declared a housing state emergency. The Mass Shelter and Housing Code update has the potential to be a truly creative, well-tailored policy solution addressing the dire need facing Portlanders.
 We must also address housing challenges confronting our city by taking action at multiple levels simultaneously. We need inclusionary zoning to right past exclusionary wrongs and pursue truly mixed-income neighborhoods.
 Strong implementation of the anti-displacement goals and policies recently adopted into the comprehensive plan update. Ability to leverage fees appropriately on new development. Bond measures to raise funds for permanently affordable housing. Flexible zoning and building codes that allow more families to live in smaller, space-efficient, and budget-efficient homes close to transit, amenities, and services.
 prioritization of homeownership for low-income families and families of color that have been shut out of these opportunities to build community wealth and put down roots, allowance of self-determined organizing efforts like Dignity Village, and an end to no-cause evictions and other protections that can support the basic rights of renters, and probably more. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Andy Olson.
 Back in May of this year, Commissioner Saltzman and Chair Kifori challenged the private sector to get involved with addressing the issue of houselessness. On October 9th, in the rain at Castaways in northwest Portland, 54 volunteers began work on four 8x8 shelter pods to be donated for use by Portland's houseless community. After four days of hard work, they were transported to the rebuilding center to be completed. One of the pods has been donated to the new 501c3 created by Hazelnut Grove and will be sited there next week.
 Two of the pods will be transported this Friday to the parking lot at Congregation Beth Israel. It will serve as display homes for this new form of shelter. One pod is looking for a home in the parking lot of a faith-based organization. The pod is homeless at the moment, hopefully. We can do something about that. Our group has been thrilled with the response from business community, the TIV New Program, Constructing Hope, Oregon Tradeswomen, and especially want to point out the amazing support and participation of the Rebuilding Center.
 Stay tuned for more efforts to address houselessness from the private sector and the face-based community. One thing I'd like to ask is for Commissioner Novick to meet with our group to talk about mitigating the street parking issues that will be occurring when congregations give up scarce parking spaces for shelter pods. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. We were just talking this morning, by the way, about the fact that Blanchet House has got a grant to produce 30 pods, so we've got to find a place for them.
 somewhere we as a community so maybe there's 31 homeless pods at the moment so soon there'll be more we have other folks signed up i show one more person ian slingerland and anyone else that'd like to speak on this item come on up as well welcome thank you mayor commissioners ian slingerland i'm the director of homeless initiatives for home forward
 In addition to Home Forward's role providing housing and assistance to people leaving homelessness, our executive director sits on the executive committee for a home for everyone. And I'm here today to briefly share Home Forward's support for the proposed changes to the zoning code affecting mass shelter and short-term housing.
 While recognizing the scale of the crisis we face and without understanding the amount of work that remains, at Home Forward, we've been very encouraged by the impact to date of our coordinated and collaborative efforts through Home for Everyone. We fully embrace our shared commitment through Home for Everyone to increase options for safety and a good night's sleep for people experiencing homelessness in our community, including through an expansion of our community's shelter options.
 We believe the changes being considered today will facilitate our community's ability to achieve the goals established through A Home for Everyone and would ask you to adopt them. In particular, we believe the changes being considered are an important step forward for two reasons. First, there's an unprecedented awareness in our community of the housing and homelessness crisis we face, particularly when it comes to the people throughout our city experiencing unsheltered homelessness.
 It is our hope that this unprecedented awareness can translate into unprecedented engagement in addressing the problems our city faces. Making changes like this one, like the ones before you, we believe that limit barriers to solutions-focused engagement are incredibly important, and we hope will facilitate involvement of additional, perhaps less-resourced, private nonprofit and faith-based groups.
 And I'm encouraged by the additional conversation that's happened here today, that there's opening to continue to look at ways that we can, as jurisdictions and public agencies, be welcoming partners for folks who are looking to be engaged in our efforts to end homelessness.
 Second, we believe these changes will create opportunities for greater efficiency in shelter operations and will reduce the burdens associated with and the capacity necessary to open new shelter and short-term housing options. And when we reduce the burdens associated with open-ending and operating shelters, we increase our capacity to do other things like place people from shelter into housing, which is the end goal for all of this. So thank you for considering these changes and thanks to the work that city staff have done moving this forward. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is lightning. I represent lightning watchdog PDX. I do support the proposed changes. And again, the efforts made by Multnomah County on placing shelters, what I consider farther out from the city center, I think has been very advantageous in not only it shows that it can work and.
 The reality is that we don't need to have a central city hub for all the shelters. And a lot of people think, well, all the services are possibly located in Old Town, Chinatown, but that's not correct. We have plenty of transportation to get to and from. And the reality is that if you look what Cherokee 4 is doing by placing a lot of these shelters in other locations,
 is actually kind of relieving the pressure on the services that used to really be relied upon in Old Town Chinatown. And you're beginning to notice a real difference on the sidewalks on just how many people are there. And it's really beginning to decrease because these shelters, a lot of the people want to live farther out. They want to live in different locations and they should be given that opportunity.
 And so the reality by this study that we're seeing and what's happening is that it does work. They still have good services. They still can come downtown and have a good time around the city. And they still have the option to go out a little bit further. And by doing that, it will open up more properties with the proper zoning and also allow people to still have the services and property.
 That needs to be looked at very close. Now, another issue on the 200 units, I think that's within reason. Again, some of these shelters I don't think can really operate over 100 efficiently. But when we look at the overall city itself operating efficiency, again,
 for the city benefits all the people, not just the homeless, not just the business owners, not just people coming into town. Because when we have more people in a more safe shelter, housing for health, the city benefits, the city runs more efficiently, the businesses create more income that can fund into the services.
 It is better to have people into shelters or permanent housing than to have them on sidewalks. And we know that from a safety issue, from their health standpoint. So we need to keep focusing. The city that runs the most efficient takes care of the homeless the best, and it decreases homelessness throughout the city. And if we don't focus on running the city overall efficiently, then...
 then we will have problems on having too many people in certain areas, which I think shouldn't be happening in today's city. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I had, Mr. Shedrick, I had the industrial nature of Terminal 1. I really have questions about that because homeless people, when they're sleeping on sidewalks, are exposed to carbon dioxide fumes, monoxide fumes.
 Rain is toxic to a homeless person and invokes pneumonia. If you're sleeping on the grass in a park, they could have just put down pesticides. And you should be really relaxed about that. I mean, I think at Terminal 1, they just could have laid down some plastic and some, you know, 4x8 boards to buffer the people or rent overhead fans to ventilate it. Just environmental reasons.
 Also, I always thought, too, at Terminal 1, they might have actually paid some of the people to help to clean up the toxic stuff under the concrete, and they might have learned something. So there could be ways to teach homeless people as an apprenticeship program how to clean up a toxic building as a job skill. But I'm just saying in the future, because of the exposure to chemicals,
 You said you use a – there's what I call a non-background argument. You're using an argument that this is toxic and nothing else is. And a lot of things outdoors are toxic. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item? And other questions for staff before we go back to Dan's amendments or maybe while we go back to Dan's? Let's go back. Mayor, if someone –
 Dan's amendments, I think they're more complicated. When you look at the handout, I think they're more complicated than actually they are. So maybe if someone could just restate in plain English what the proposal is, I'd be willing to add. It's also coming back for second reading next week. So we've got copies highlighted, and Phil can walk you through it. Why don't you walk us through it this afternoon? It's simpler than the format seems. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. Okay, so I think the easiest thing to do is to focus on one specific section because the same language repeats in several areas, and that's why it looks like it's several, you know, more involved than it really is. But if you, as an example, if you wanted to turn to the page four of the code amendments, which you'll see about halfway down, it'll say be mass shelters. Yep. Okay.
 You'll see the stuff that's highlighted in orange. Essentially, they involve two things. The changes were looking at what conditional use approval criteria apply. It shows in any case it's 33.8.15.107 in that case. Previously, we had two different sets of approval criteria that would apply, depending on whether it was an institution or whether it was an existing building. And so we...
 Created one set of conditional peace approval criteria that are our hybrid And then the second piece that we sort of highlight on this is this idea that an existing shelter that expanded up to 10% Potentially would not have to go through a new review or conditional use review And so those those are the kind of things that they repeated in each zone in each situation This is this is
 Building area, 10%. Right. So if we have a 20,000-square-foot building that houses no homeless people today, but we're not expanding its building area, this doesn't come to bear? Well, it would have to already be a mass shelter. So this applies to existing mass shelters. Ah, okay. A new mass shelter would still be subject. If it was in an existing building, it would potentially go through a Type 2 review. Right. Okay.
 If it was going to build a brand-new building, then it would go through the Type 3 review with the hearing. And, Joe, what do you think of these amendments? We crafted them and support them. And so the other main change is just in the conditional use review chapter, which would be on page 7 and 8 –
 Because we were combining two sets of conditional use approval criteria, we wanted some of the things that were in the other criteria to apply to a mass shelter that was expanding. So if a mass shelter is expanding or is not in an existing building, we did want them to look at things like physical compatibility and public services.
 So this is, once again, kind of hybridizing the approval criteria. So while we're on page seven, let's return to the question that was brought up by Linda Jo as well as mentioned earlier, and that is transportation demand analysis for a shelter. Okay.
 It says that you have to have a finding that the transportation system is capable of supporting the proposal in addition to existing uses in the area. Look at street capacity, level of service, access to arterials, connectivity, transit availability, on-street parking impacts, access restriction, neighborhood impacts, impacts on pedestrian, bicycle, and transit circulation, safety for all modes, and adequate transportation management, demand management strategies.
 That's a lot. And I could fairly stipulate, and I bet she would agree, that most congregations are not set up to do that kind of technical analysis, so then they've got to go hire a consultant to do it. While we're in the neighborhood, should we prune a little bit here? Or make it just for a certain size? Actually, I was going to direct you to the introductory paragraph for 107. Okay. So essentially...
 In a case such as hers or in a case where, say, a religious institution wants to put a shelter within an existing building...
 they would generally just have to meet criterion A and C. Ah, okay. Portion of household living uses and the livability. And that was what the old provision was. And then otherwise, if they are going to increase by either more than 1,500 square feet or 10 percent, whichever is greater, then they have to look at these things such as physical compatibility and the public services. The idea is if you're adding the square footage, I mean, then you may have an impact on how, especially in a residential zone,
 what that build new building and or expansion looks like from a compatibility standpoint and also the type of services you might need so this really does solve the problem she was describing correct thank you I hadn't understood that the 1500 square foot threshold so that's appropriately generous I think
 And for the record, I don't have any problems with that either, despite my usual insistence on parking. I think we did get some testimony from the University Park Neighborhood Association saying that they wanted to continue to have some parking requirements, but I don't believe that's necessary. I did want to go through some of the other things I read in testimony. There was a suggestion about or concern about using the employment zone in EG, now allowing some of these facilities there.
 from James Peterson in Multnomah. Did you see that? Yes. And so the consideration of EG, it's an employment general zone, was it doesn't, under our new code that you guys are reviewing through the comprehensive plan right now, we're moving to protecting jobs in that zone by not allowing residential anymore. Okay.
 However, this is a community service use. Community service use we think is appropriate to allow an EG as a conditional use. There is a lot of EG in the city, so it's actually a move that, even though it's still a conditional use, opens up a wider range of sites. And so we understand the concern. However, there's a conditional use process before it can be established.
 And if we were going to have a wholesale run on EG land to open shelters, I think we would all consider it a success. Yeah, that's a good point. The one that concerns – May I just ask one question related to that? But it's still cued to the Declaration of Emergency, correct? No, this would –
 Now, this would be a permanent change, but essentially most community service uses, and actually most community service uses are allowed in EG. So actually libraries – No time limit. Right. And so this provides – so, for example, there might be a job placement or other kind of community service use that might want to locate an EG but may want to also offer –
 a temporary shelter opportunity or mass shelter opportunity, this at least provides the opportunity to apply for a conditional use review. So you have community service uses allowed today, just not these particular ones?
 Could you remind me how, for the temporary activities, how long can a temporary activity keep going? So what we placed in the actual use categories was a maximum limit of 180 days in a calendar year. And that is actually dictated mostly by building code requirements. The intent on this is for either a school or a religious institution to be able to host activities
 a household or a group of households without necessarily triggering change of occupancy and making sure that they have bedrooms that meet code and so on. And essentially, from a building code standpoint, if they spend more than 180 days with that activity within a year, they would be looking at that as being a permanent. And within the housing state of emergency, everything's waived except for this temporary activities segment, right? Yes.
 Well, with the housing emergency, I think all of it's waived. No, I think the temporary activity is still there, which is why you're proposing the change or alterations to existing developments consistent with development standards should be allowed. Right.
 I think it's just that the housing emergency is lasting longer than 180 days. So I think there's some acknowledgement amongst development services that certain emergency shelters that may have been put in place may be running longer than that time period. Okay. And then the – thank you – the letter from the University of Park and Abbey Association, the one concern that I wondered about –
 or shared is about using it for student housing, that institutions might use this as a backdoor way to make And if you remember in an earlier slide, and actually I have another slide that I hid that I could provide. But the thing to keep in mind is short-term housing and mass shelters are intended for folks to stay there less than 30 days.
 So student housing, even if somebody's staying there for a quarter or semester, they're staying there longer than 30 days. That is looked at as a group living type of facility. And so they would be subject to those regulations, which, of course, like at University of Portland, that is part of the dorm housing piece. And the way our code is provided, even if since the zone that University of Portland is in, even if they were willing to do
 something under a short-term mass shelter piece, they would only be able to do up to 15 beds by right, which is fairly minimal for that area. So if they wanted to do something more on a 30-days or less basis, they'd still have to go through conditional use review. So practically, this doesn't work for student housing. As usual, you've read the concerns and figured out what needs to be done, what doesn't. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 so are we ready to take action on commissioner saltzman's amendments as a package yeah i'll second them as a package all right then let's uh let's vote on those please no thank you for the clear explanation thank you commissioner saltzman hi commissioner i hope you will post these on your website because um obviously they weren't published ahead of time so that if community members do have concerns about them they can get in touch with us before they vote next week and that
 I appreciate the amendments. I think they're positive. Aye. Thanks to staff for highlighting the changes. It's, I guess, the challenge of compound redlining in a single document. But now it's clear. And thank you, Dan. Aye. Saltzman? Thanks, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and Bureau of Development Services for helping to craft these amendments and giving good explanations. And we will post them on my website. Aye. Aye.
 I appreciate your leadership on this, Dan. And again, thanks to the bureaus for good work under pressure. It's not like these two bureaus aren't otherwise busy, as I mentioned earlier. I just also want to thank the advocacy from the community and folks that came here to testify today, particularly the nice having 1,000 friends weighing in on issues like this. A long time ago, at the beginning of my career, I used to sue local governments with 1,000 friends. Not this one.
 for not doing their share on housing. So it's a little deja vu moment for me to see a thousand friends weighing in on housing access for all, and I appreciate it. So these amendments make a good proposal better. I'm glad that the Planning and Sustainability Commission also did that. And so this is exactly where we need to be. I appreciate the good work. Thank you.
 Aye. And it is coming back next week for second reading and final action. May I suggest, I talked to staff about a couple of very minor conforming amendments to the ordinance itself. Because the ordinance in Directives A and B refer to a particular report on a particular date. Could we simply have somebody move and second to add to Directives A and B as amended by Council so that it's clear? Okay. Given that.
 Can I have a motion to that effect now? You want to do it now? Okay. Second. Okay, roll call on that clarifying technical amendment. This is really great teamwork. Thank you very much for making sure that we do it correctly. Aye. Yes.
 saltzman hi hi okay and now it will come back next week for a second reading thank you very much and uh we have another time certain item this afternoon but we uncharacteristically allowed too much time so we're going to take a 30-minute break and return for that item that's usually the other way around of us i think nick is crashed it's not feeling well oh dude
 Is Dan still here? I believe Dan's still here. But we're going to start and we'll let him join us. So we're going to return to order. Took a little break because we uncharacteristically got ahead of schedule. So if we could get Carlos for you to read the item 1224, please. Okay.
 I direct city bureaus to use the city's racial equity budget tool on all budget proposals and base budgets and report on racial equity plans. So this is an effort and an opportunity for us as a city to institutionalize doing the right thing.
 We have been trying to do the right thing, particularly with your leadership, Dante, in this bureau and with this council's commitment to equity. But this is an effort to make that standard operating procedure, as they say, in big organizations and to bring equity and opportunity completely into how we do business as a city. Trying to use this tool to help guide our bureaus to engage all the communities involved.
 that we serve and to spend our dollars with equity always in mind. So that's the intent here. That's why this resolution is before us. And we have our director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights and other both team members from within the Bureau and from within the community to talk about this. So we very much appreciate your work, and I'll let you take it away from there. Thank you, sir. Mr. Mayor and Council, I appreciate that.
 the chance to come before you and present this resolution. And as you said, essentially the resolution is designed to formalize what has already been happening. The budget equity tool has been in use now. This is the third year, will be the fourth year coming up, that the budget equity tool has been in use. And we're...
 I think as you have seen in the documents that have been submitted along with the budgets, those tools have been used each and every year successively in a much deeper, more thoughtful, and honest way. And I think you can see that there have been budget decisions that have been changed based on the use of an equity lens. The budget office analysts have evaluated things much differently now using an equity lens.
 We have consulted with them and provided training and kind of assistance as they evaluate or ask about what's a different way to evaluate something around equity. And I'll tell you, when the budget equity tool was first implemented, the budget office analyst's response was, we just do numbers. Why do we have to care about equity? Right.
 and to Andrew's credit, he allowed that conversation to happen, brought us in for conversations. We did work with the analysts, and now they reach out to us and say, how can we engage? How do we need to look at this differently? So it's just been a complete 180, which is truly nice to see. And in terms of the racial equity plans, the bureaus have been working on those for years,
 the last eight months or so, maybe, initially doing an assessment so that they could find their baseline. And then the racial equity plans are designed to demonstrate how they can move the needle from one place to the next. In the actual resolution, there's...
 something that's different, which is not different, but an addition, which is a reporting requirement in there, letter C on the second page of the resolution. So all that does is ask the bureaus to provide our office with a report on where they think they have, how well they think they've done with their racial equity plans, what they have accomplished, because each plan will have a metric and a timetable, and so they get to report on that.
 And so then we will come, the Office of Equity will come back to you with an overall report on how we see the utilization of those plans and what has worked or what has not worked and maybe with recommendations. The plans are also up on the website.
 so that the community can see them and instead of calling you specifically or calling my office would be able to maybe go directly to the bureaus and say you said you were going to do this at this time frame where are you or why are you not doing this or you know those kinds of things so providing some sense of accountability structure that the community can be engaged and involved with as they do this
 I'm not going to have a whole lot of conversation because, again, this is formalizing what we do. The difference, I think, is the racial equity plans are specific about racial equity. The budget equity tool is race and disability as what the charge of our office is. And so I'm going to go through the budget equity tool just a little bit in just a little bit to show you some of those distinctions in that. But first, we have a little video that
 Jeff, as always, does his expertise, and we'll get you some commentary from some other folks about at least the racial equity plan. Great. Thank you.
 All 26 bureaus are creating five-year racial equity plans that are supposed to operationalize or bring to life the city's racial equity goals and strategies that city council adopted last year.
 So the racial equity plans themselves start with outcomes, you know, the city's kind of long-term aspirational goals, and then ask bureaus to create these five-year objectives, kind of where do bureaus want to be in five years. So the purpose of the five-year racial equity plan is to ensure that the bureaus focus on their internal processes, on, you know, the institutional disparities we may have within the system,
 to look at how we do business with the community, whether we're using an equity lens. Some of the major concerns that we are taking a deeper dive in is making sure that a racial equity lens is used as far as contracting and our community engagement. Those are two of the biggest components of our racial equity plan. Another big theme is community engagement, so everything from just greater access
 and understanding of existing community services to building partnerships with community-based organizations that are culturally specific or working with leaders of color to better design or evaluate programs.
 the director of a bureau can continue to provide that focus over time, especially when we do big things like budget and do big things like produce communication plans and hire. Those kinds of things the director's office can provide focus for the bureau. And so those are the kinds of things. Remove barriers, another thing I can do at my level is
 The plans themselves aren't supposed to be the end all. That's kind of the beginning of the real work. I just want people to know that this is going to be difficult work. It takes very hard conversations. Change is very difficult for the city, for bureaus.
 but it's very important. Really, at the end of the day, it's making sure that everyone feels included at the table. The amount of work that the Office of Equity and Human Rights in guiding the bureaus to do this work has been amazing. And I think a more systemic, deep,
 passionate approach to this from the top the elected officials right to line staff is the only way we can begin to make progress and so I'm really proud to work for an organization that's taking that kind of approach on this issue. Communities of color nationwide and in Portland have been organizing for generations and decades for government to respond
 to issues of racial inequity. So I think this will be the first time that the city of Portland has really put in a very detailed commitment to addressing very specific racial inequities. And the measures associated with those commitments are an opportunity for communities of color and staff of color to hold the institution accountable. Nicely done. Thank you.
 back at it. And I actually want to thank all my staff who are here in droves for all the work that they do. I mean, this is a reflection of their work. And without them, none of this would be happening because it's certainly not a one person show and they all provide the expertise that makes this happen across the city.
 And Ryan Curran, I want to acknowledge as the one who's been really shepherding the racial equity plans and guiding the technical assistance with the bureaus. So we were fortunate to steal him away from the city of Seattle, and we get him for a few hours a month. And I guess now BPS may also get him as well. So he's in demand. So we're going to try to keep him some. But truly thanks to my staff.
 Just on the budget equity tool, I think it was in your packet too. So just some changes were made this year as a result of
 sitting down with all the directors and saying, is this working for you? What's the best way that this tool can be a benefit to you in order to provide greater benefits to your constituents and your customers? And so if you look at Section 1, it was broadened, and specifically Questions 3, 4, and 5 were kind of added. The racial equity plan was included, trying to tie all of this together.
 So how is the budget assisting in achieving the goals outlined in your racial equity plan, which all of this is trying to reach the goals that the city passed last year, the racial equity goals and strategies. So that was included. The language on number four regarding the ADA and ASL interpretation and video captioning, how are they addressing and setting aside funding?
 specifically for that because most of the time bureaus don't set aside dollars to deal with that. And then they end up scrambling trying to find some funding for that at a later date.
 And then finally, and the Bureau's directors said, please put this in here, are there deficiencies in your ongoing budget that inhibit your ability to achieve equity? So it's not just the new budget asks that you're making, but in your base budget, are there issues that are inhibiting your ability to do equity? Excuse me.
 And then down in Section 2, again, a question was rephrased. There was always a question, but rephrased to better describe the ADA and resource allocation regarding disability. And then on Section 3, more questions about community engagement. Not only have you engaged with the community, but how does this budget attempt to build capacity in the community to engage with
 as well as building the capacity in your bureau to better connect with communities. So trying to look at it from both sides. And so those were the adjustments that the directors recommended. The directors, as well as some of the equity managers, also weighed in on this, since they're heavily involved in the review of the budgets and the budget equity tools as well. So those were the changes to the budget equity tools.
 Yeah, I think you really sharpened the focus with those changes to the questions. I just want to validate something you said about the budget office staff. You know, I spend an inordinate amount of time with them because of the mayor's proposed budget process, and they really have taken to heart and into their practice a consideration of equity. And you're right, people that approach their work from a technical competency basis may
 maybe is true of financial analysts as well as others. I used to work in an engineering firm and I always used to say that engineers are great, but sometimes they have to be reprogrammed. If you're
 engineering assignment is put that river in a ditch and then someone tells you no that actually you should try to let that river be a natural river that's a programming change but the nice thing about people that have a strong technical basis is they will then use their technical tools to accomplish the new objective you just have to be clear with those folks that we have this shared objective and then they're usually very good at conforming the technical tools that some
 Sometimes I don't fully understand if I'm talking about engineering or maybe even finance compared to the smart people we have working for us. But they've been very adroit at both making sure that they're using the equity lens and that they're exercising their oversight function.
 to making sure that the bureaus are. So I can report from, you know, what people say when they're not in public view matters, and what they say when they're not in public view is very much what you're hearing in the public part of the budget process. That's great. I really give them, you know, a gold star rating for being serious about this and for taking it seriously.
 into their practice as our budget leaders in the city structure. They've taken it on, so I truly appreciate them and Andrew's leadership. Yeah, Andrew's been great on that front. Right. So if there's no questions of me at the moment – oh, okay. Yes, ma'am. I just have a couple of friendly amendments. I hope they're considered friendly amendments. I apologize I didn't get them to you beforehand. I've been –
 tied up with other things. I particularly appreciate the attention to disabilities in the budget tool. And I note the Exhibit A is titled Budget Equity Assessment Tool rather than Racial Equity Budget Tool. So I would suggest in resolution A,
 the A of what the council resolves, to just delete the word racial. Oh, for the budget tool, yes. Leaving it in for the budget tool, but then after there, racial equity plans and ADA transition plan tasks. Some of the bureaus have done all of their transition tasks, like development services. Parks has $17 million worth still.
 in the pipelines, I'd like to see that addressed. And then in D, to add... It says the bureaus will increase and improve engagement and partnership with communities of colour and communities experiencing disabilities. So that all Portlanders continue to promote. And then on the number four of the base budget, section one...
 I appreciate the inclusion of allocating, and you're calling out that we need to allocate money for translation, interpretation, captioning, et cetera. We also do need to keep pushing the bureaus to get their transition plan tasks done. So I would suggest amending it to say, what funding have you allocated for addressing the bureaus' transition plan tasks and for translation and the rest of the statement? Okay. I assume you regard those as friendly amendments?
 Yes, sir. Although I didn't understand, I think, your second point about the racial equity plan to include transition? No, it was... Or just the budget equity tool? Under, you want to talk about the one, you were talking about the one under A? So at the end of it, we'll now say the city's equity budget tool on all budget proposals and base budgets and tie those budget requests to implementation of their racial equity plans and ADA transition plan. Okay, okay.
 But up above, you're suggesting on the second line that we remove the word racial. Right. Because we're referring to both elements. Right. And that's what the title of the budget tool is. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I would have no problem with that. Yep.
 Except those as friendly amendments. I'll get those to you in writing before you have to transcribe them. I think I've got them on my copy. Thank you. Carlos got it. Great. I have a couple of invited guests, Michael Jordan from the Water Bureau from Environmental Services, Kimberly Dixon from the community, and Zan Gibbs from the Bureau of Transportation. Great. Come on up, please. Good afternoon and welcome. Good afternoon. Who would like to be first? In order.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, appreciate it. For the record, my name is Mike Jordan. I'm the director of the Bureau of Environmental Services for the city. I just wanted to...
 kind of emphasize a little bit of what we're doing and what we've experienced in the production of the equity plan in our bureau. You saw Anna Brophy on the film. She's just one of a cadre of folks who took this process on in our bureau in a,
 extraordinary way and engaged at an extraordinary level across the Bureau and probably in my experience one of the few times that you saw something as detailed and as deep and a process that
 In my view, a critical tipping point with any large group of people or organization is when the lexicon changes in the organization, when people start to talk differently. Language is a hugely powerful thing that drives action. Our bureau through this process is now speaking differently about issues of equity and it is a high opportunity.
 priority for group managers in their budget proposals, which we're going through right now. So we're actually seeing the evidence of it, and I can't give enough credit to Anna and the folks who are on that group that actually took it on and brought the plan to leadership in our bureau.
 The other thing I wanted to mention was the change in the actions regarding the delivery of our services. It's not only affecting the way we do budgets, but it's also affecting things like RFPs and our
 interrelationship with vendors and service proposals. So the Friends of Trees proposal that we just went through earlier this year was constructed around trying to deliver tree canopy to underserved neighborhoods and underserved areas, which we hadn't done in the past. We hadn't put that into that kind of formality in our business processes.
 We have a long way to go. There's no question about it. But we're starting to see changes. And as I said on the video, it's a pleasure to work in a place where, to the council's credit, you've taken a persistent and systemic approach.
 to change on a very important but sometimes difficult issue for organizations to embrace. And so I wanted to give those two examples and thank you. And thank Dante and his staff. Ryan, I'll just call out Ryan in particular. I'm not sure we'd have gotten to the place we were without his advice. So thanks very much.
 Hello. Good afternoon, Council, Mayor. Well, I'm excited to be here representing community, and specifically when I look at the resolution, what I see is hope. And it's unfortunate when I think back to a few weeks ago, the council meeting looks very different than a few weeks ago, and I didn't see a hope in the images that I saw. And I thought to myself, I'm
 Something's wrong here. Somewhere there's a disconnect. Somebody doesn't have some piece of information. And so I'm very excited for the work that's been done in the Office of Equity because I believe that if more people saw, knew, and understood what was happening, there's some instances that wouldn't happen. And if I could kind of segue, I wanted to respectfully remember Officer Justin Martin,
 and Sergeant Anthony Bimino, who were both murdered today. And I wanted to remember them because these names add to the statistics of growing loss that's happening across the nation, and it's happening in our city. And I'm wondering why and where. And so you may say, well, what does that have to do with equity? No.
 We're missing some humanity. We're missing some kindness. We're missing some looking through a lens of everyone. And I believe that the resolution and the equity plans and the budget tool help to present that and provide that as not only a guiding tool but also as an accountability tool where community, before there is an outcry, we can look and see, oh, but you said you would do this.
 So let me just say a few things. The racial equity plans and budget tool present a guidance and accountability for the city and all of its bureaus and employees. As a community member, it informs me that there are working tools in place and being implemented so all can create, sustain, and enjoy life in this city. It also demonstrates that I, we, have a reference for actionable items. It means that the city is doing more to care for the whole of our community.
 After the protest of a couple of weeks ago, I wondered how could the city demonstrate its intentions more clearly regarding race and disability. The equity initiatives give a transparency allowing someone like me to come forward and say, I have a question.
 and what are you doing or how are you doing it? My hope is that the cities stay operative in good faith through the next administration to allow these five-year plans to develop fruitfully with continued transparency. I would that each bureau be intentional with their plans of inclusion and equitable distribution of all resources within this community and do so without the community having to make an outcry.
 I listened to Dr. Fa'aleava of the Samoan community share in the city's Equity Matters video. He shared that they, meaning the city, are not giving us a favor. We have earned a seat at the table. And I would say that no one should have to have earned a seat at the table.
 In fact, I believe that the work being done through the Office of Equity and Human Rights ensures that a chair is made available whenever others are seated, because that's the right thing to do. Thank you. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Important to be reminded of many of the things you just said. Thank you. Excellent. Thanks, Carolyn. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. That's a tough act to follow. Thank you so much for sharing. Thank you.
 I'm Zan Gibbs. I'm the Equity and Inclusion Manager for the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and it's a great honor that I'm here as part of PBOT's support for this resolution. When I started at PBOT just over a year ago, there wasn't a work plan for this work.
 So the Office of Equity and Human Rights provided the racial equity assessment tool, the roadmap, as well as the template for the racial equity plan. So at PBOT, this served as a work plan to not only advance the conversation at PBOT, but also strategically advance the work systematically for the next five years.
 The racial equity plan and the process by which we wrote the plan not only started to normalize the conversation, but it also started to institutionalize the latest and best thinking in this work. It took PBOT a year to complete the assessment and the subsequent plan, but the process that we went through during that year was invaluable.
 Over 300 of our employees participated in the process via focus groups, work sessions, staff meetings, a bureau-wide survey, the equity committee, the planning committee, and in one-on-one meetings. Thank you.
 PBOT also decided to look at all of our historical work in the area of diversity, equity, and inclusion. So we went through the last 10 years of diversity initiatives that the Bureau had undertaken to make sure that we incorporated the best action items from both the historical work that the employees had done and the current best thinking in this field.
 We feel like that our current plan reflects the best practices and current critical thinking and needs of not just the staff, but the Bureau and also the community. So the Racial Equity Plan gave PBOT an opportunity to take a look at where we had been, where we are now, and where we want to be in the future in relation to equity.
 PBOT's Equity Committee has been in existence for over 10 years and has produced various work plans along the way. But none of these work plans were in alignment with citywide racial equity goals and strategies because those didn't exist until July of 2015. So now we have much wider bureau-wide buy-in to the equity work and the necessary trainings needed to advance this work. Thank you.
 So what has changed already at PBOT because of the racial equity plan process is that we've started to institutionalize a culture shift by requiring that all group-level directors use the budget equity tool, providing training about equity best practices to the entire leadership team, offering ongoing equity learnings for all staff, and supporting the formation of three bureau equity subcommittees to help advance very specific areas of this work.
 Formalizing the budget equity tool in the racial equity plan and its reporting requirements into a resolution will only strengthen our ability to advance racial equity at PBOT and continue shifting the culture of our bureau to one that not only embraces diversity and models inclusivity, but also advances racial equity best practices in every policy, practice, and procedure. Thank you all for joining us in this ongoing effort to institutionalize racial equity at PBOT and at the city. Thank you. Thank you all. Questions?
 Excellent. Appreciate your presentations. Thank you. Dante, do you have other individuals you're going to call? And there are others here who may want to speak, so come on up if you'd like to, please. Come on up, Cedric. It's fine. On the issue of racial equality, I'm very much inspired by our President Obama. Actually, in 2008, when I helped his campaign, I thought this was like affirmative action, right? And then four years later, it wasn't. You know, the gloves were off in 2012 when he ran against Romney.
 And I was at State House Representative Lou Frederick's office. I just don't like it was kind of off to the side. So the debate side was with him. And we were just, you know, just admired about how this man, also President Obama, if you want to test him out on the job, he won a Nobel Peace Prize. And nobody's won a Nobel Peace Prize in 90 years, Woodrow Wilson and Teddy Roosevelt. I mean, the man can perform. He proved he could perform. Affirmative action worked.
 And I just read the other day, I was surprised to learn that Lou Fredericks is the only African-American in the Oregon legislature. And I figured that maybe there should be four. So I go, you know, this is kind of something that Oregon should follow. And I tend to like President Obama, and Lou Fredericks, too, is a very good simplifier. I cracked up one time, I was at the Multnomah County Democrats.
 And Lou Frederick said, instead of giving some big speech about the state of the government, he just said that the only thing he can agree with with Republicans is, you know, issue is community colleges. That just cracked me up how he could make it so simple. And then he goes into the details, you know, and I admire that. You know, you don't need a lot of long talk here, you know, like a machine or something. And he just made it really simple. You know, there's a lot of agreement there.
 And I just like that. I loved him in the 2012 debates. We were cracking up. He had a phone, and he was picking out these things. It's just kind of an outsider or a different perspective, as our president has. And our president has not been impeached or anything like that. So we're at the end here. He seems to have done quite well in the attempt to do affirmative action on a federal level. Anyone else like to speak?
 well dante again thank you to you and and your team and your community advisors for making this best practice everyday practice in city government
 And this is something I'm proud of, that I've had the opportunity to work with you and your staff and people in the community that really wanted us to be serious about equity in everything we do. And it's a work in progress. You know, it's one of those things where you talk about cultural change, and I'm glad to hear that people see real evidence of it, but you have to keep preaching it from the top, and you have to keep teaching it in the middle. And that's what your office has been doing so well. Thank you.
 You know, I tell the story a lot about one of the most, you know, Kimberly, you were talking about hope. One of the most hopeful scenes I've seen in public life has been the last few sets of budget hearings because some people in the community, aided and abetted by people in city government who are supposed to be engaging our immigrant and refugee communities in public life, have succeeded in having them come as delegations, in some cases, to our budget hearings. Right.
 where we had a panel of Hmong elders or a panel of Latina moms advocating for specific issues in our budget, or the best of all, the kids that were involved in the World Cup soccer program that's designed specifically for immigrant refugee kids,
 making the case at our budget hearings. And to me, that's one of the most hopeful signs of institutionalizing true democracy and a sense of equity in what we do. We don't achieve it every time. We don't achieve it in every bureau every day. But to see those kind of...
 moments of clarity where we really are reaching out and bringing people together. That's been truly inspiring. And to have a budget hearing be one of the most inspiring hearings says a lot about what's been accomplished in budget equity so far. Thank you. There's a great description of how you can see concrete examples of change happening.
 and I truly want to thank both Director Jordan and Zan Gibbs and Ms. Dixon I'm guessing most of you, if not all of you know Ms. Dixon, I had the blessing of meeting her literally less than 30 days ago I was at an event and she was there I had obviously seen her speak
 on her powerful personal story several times. But we just ended up talking for a good while, and I wanted to know more. So at some point, I reached out and asked her if she'd be willing to speak today.
 on her thoughts on this, because clearly she's not one who stands on symbolism. So if it was real, she would say so. And I ended up, it seemed like, doing homework when I was getting texts at 10 o'clock at night because she was reviewing some of the things, asking me questions. So I truly appreciate her participation and thoughtfulness in today's presentation. That's great. One final comment, if I might, just on behalf of a couple of the directors who have made contributions
 this comment to me, as the resolution speaks to increasing and improving engagement with communities and partnerships, in some sense it's an unfunded expectation and mandate to do. And so in terms of how to do that.
 best engage and provide resources to do that. A couple of directors had asked me to make sure that you understand that it also requires resources to do. As an example, I think you remember a couple of years ago we had the $100,000 for
 translation, interpretation, and community engagement to them. And it was all allocated, but there is nothing similar to that. And so in terms of expecting bureaus to do ASL and interpretation translation services, if there was a general expectation,
 fund pot of money that they could draw from to do community engagement, do some of those kinds of things, it would, I think, go a long way in making a difference for those smaller bureaus that don't have the resources that larger bureaus do. So thank you very much. I think you've got people on this council that are going to be watching that and attending to that question, so thank you.
 And I see an equity manager. Where'd she go? I was going to say, there she is, Elle. I would just like to say, Elle, welcome back after maternity leave. And she has the cutest young man you have ever seen. Nice to have you back, Elle. Talk about a big job of being an equity manager in a bureau where cultural change just doesn't happen like that. No, it's going to take two snaps, I think. Yeah.
 So that's the end of my presentation. I would encourage you and ask you to please accept the resolution with the friendly amendments as written and appreciate your time and continuing support for the work we do. Thank you very much. Are we ready to take action on the resolution as submitted? Let's do that, please. No, thank you.
 Thank you, Dante, and all of your staff for your work. Zan, I'm glad to have the opportunity to thank you for your work and to thank Andrea Valderrama of my staff who's been heavily involved in PBOT's process developing the racial equity plan. And your work has been critical as we move forward with major initiatives like Fix Our Streets and Vision Zero. So thank you very much.
 And I think it's, we all agree, the institutionalization of these tools provides a sustainable commitment to their use and very supportive of the work. Hi. Great. So when I was in nursing school 37 years ago, I learned that if it isn't documented, it wasn't done. And very much by having these tools that we have to answer the questions, and that's going to be part of the council's evaluation of whether the Bureau has done its job.
 I really appreciate you having put this together. I'm somewhat overwhelmed, thinking it's been just five years since we established the Office of Equity and Human Rights. You were hired and started in March of 2012, if I remember correctly. And then I kind of...
 My preschool child was taken by Mayor Hales to nurture, and it's now graduating from college even faster than Commissioner Novick because look at how far we've come in the four years that we've been working together, that we all...
 accept the language, we accept the responsibility. I just wanted to read a text that I got from Terry Prigg-Rigsby who's on the West Fulton NOMA Soil and Water Conservation District Board. Not perhaps known as...
 I'll leave that anyway. Not well known. Just had a great capital letters training with Kofi and Judith for our board diversity, equity, and inclusion program. That city training program is really excellent. Thank you for supporting it. And that's the kind of feedback we get all the time. And I know that you maybe don't hear enough of. Judith kindly gave equity training to our parks budget committee.
 advisory committee's first meeting last night, where people sat in silence watching the visual documentation of how people of colour have been systematically disadvantaged here over the centuries. And it was just... When it was finished, there was a feeling of...
 Right, and what are we going to do now? And it's compared with three years ago when I first started this conversation with the Parks Budget Advisory Committee. Just the depth of understanding and the commitment to doing it is palpable. So look, the fantastic crew you've got behind you, having worked so hard to get where we are, your leadership and absolutely the right choice in the mayor keeping this hugely important bureau. I'm going to be encouraging Mayor Wheeler to do the same thing.
 And let's not dislocate our elbows, patting ourselves on the back, because we all recognize there's far much, lots more work to do.
 too many times that I still am not thinking the things that I should be thinking or acting the way that I should be acting. I do appreciate your comment about the difference between large bureaus and small bureaus, since I now have the joy of having a large bureau and having had smaller ones before. There isn't as much discretionary money in a smaller bureau, and for our larger bureaus,
 this should be a priority of the $100 million that's in the parks budget. Equity absolutely has to be, and thanks to Director Bhatia, it is.
 a priority and that with Art Hendricks and others, we're going to make sure that we continue to make progress. And the reason I wanted those amendments on the transition plan, I know that we are done with that in development services. We fixed all the barriers in six months after I asked Paul Scarlett to do that when I was in charge of the Bureau. $17 million of improvements that are necessary in parks are not going to get done by themselves.
 And we just have to continue asking the question, documenting what we've done and documenting how much further we have to go to help everybody understand that this is about the beauty of American citizenship, of everybody having the opportunity to be their best selves and everybody being able to participate in the Portland that I came to and love. So thank you very much. Hi. Healthspin.
 Well, thank you, Dante, and all of your Office of Equity and Human Rights staff and all the bureaus that are participating. This looks like a very good tool that hopefully should help us make things more transparent as we adopt our budgets for the next year and beyond. Hi. Hey, Els. I said it last week. I'll say it again. Budgets aren't boring. They are how you put values into action in a large organization.
 and so one of our core values as a city is equity that's what these words on the page say and that's what we all believe and now that we say on paper and among ourselves and we teach one another that equity is a core value therefore it should always be a core value for how we spend every dollar we spend
 So thank you all for being keepers of that ideal and making it real in very tangible and specific ways for this good city. Aye. Thank you very much. We're recessed until tomorrow at 2 o'clock. Good work, team. You're the E-team.