Good morning and welcome to the November 9th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 Novik? Yeah. Fritz? I'm here. I'd just like to take a moment of personal privilege to say that I think all of us were very shocked what happened last night from the national level on down, and certainly for women and people of color and immigrants. It's a very scary world this morning. So I just want to state again the city's values, which are for looking after everybody, for bringing people together, and...
 Whenever we have disagreements, which we certainly do have a lot of disagreements between us, we still hold the common value of we're going to try to make things work. So I just wanted to say that, as I say, because I'm quite shocked and disappointed. Fish? Saltzman. Here. Hales. Good morning, everyone. I'm here. Let's take a moment or two, please, to reflect and prepare for the work. First, thank you.
 My thoughts, this is a bad day for our country, a sad day in which values that we believe in have been repudiated by a majority of the electors elected in the United States of America, and I'm sad about that. I'm happy about some of the things that have happened in our state. I'm happy that a qualified woman was elected as our governor.
 and that we made outdoor school available to every child in Oregon. I'm proud of the fact that Portland voters passed the biggest bond measure in the history of our city for the purpose of housing our fellow citizens. I appreciate the fact that our voters have followed your leadership, Commissioner Fritz, in making sure that marijuana is legal and pays its way. Commissioner Novick, my condolences on...
 the loss of this election for you. I know that you are someone who's motivated by public service, and I know you'll find other ways to serve. It's been a pleasure for me and a privilege to serve on this council with you. You've done great work for our community. I know that Ms. Udailey shares a lot of your values, and I trust that good government will continue here in Portland, but I will miss working with you. I'll miss working with you all, because I'm moving on into another chapter myself.
 The most important thing I think we can all say is that this is a time when we as Portlanders ought to come together as Portlanders and reach out to each other, to our immigrants and refugees who've moved here because they believe this was a good place, and it is, and a safe place, and it must be, and to say to them literally, please, go up to someone on the street today that you don't know and say, you are my brother and you are my sister, and this is a good place, and we are here together.
 in democracy, because I think there are a lot of people that fear that. That is not true. Go up to a young person, and I know some of my staff who are here have kids, and they've been trying to explain this election to them. Go to them and say, this is a place where people can work together and make good things happen, and that's true in Portland, and that's true in Oregon, and that's true in the West Coast, and I hope it will be true in our country. But I think we all need to do some reassurance, reassurance,
 of our fellow citizens, particularly young people and people of color and women, that this is a good place and that we respect each other here. And I think that, to me, is part of the way forward. I certainly won't claim personally to have this all figured out myself, but that's what's in my heart. And I know others here may want to express their own feelings and thoughts before we get started with the rest of the calendar, as you have, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Others have something to add? No.
 With that, we'll open communications. What about letting us respond to what you said? Of course I'll do that. Hang on a minute, Joe. Mr. Walsh, not Joe. Let me just ask this morning, particularly this morning, that we might try to be civil with one another. I'm being civil. But if you're going to lecture us, we have a right to respond. I'm not lecturing. Yes, you are. Yes, you are.
 mr wilkins would you like to say something go ahead well i'm the first to talk go ahead request of cedric jay wilkins to address council regarding election a candidate and measure 97.
 I think Donald Trump made some good points about how the stock markets will bubble. I think we should stop going in debt to China, which he wants to have in tariffs. I agree with him on that. I think the stock market is eventually supposed to crash like it did in 2008. The stock market goes up and down. My feeling, though, is we need to have social programs in Oregon. We need to have, like, free community colleges there.
 We need to have food stamps. I will go ape if I lose my food stamps. Nobody should starve in this state. And I also believe we should be able to, everybody should have the right to basic health care, you know, because preventive health care is very important. I don't know if I believe in, I'm having a discussion with Senator Merkley about super medicine. You know, can you, should be able to, there are limits to what medicine can do, and basic health care is not super medicine.
 But I am going to talk to PCC's president at 1 o'clock about Professor Jill Biden's proposal to have free community colleges in the United States. And I got from Berkeley that the GPA for the free community college program would be 2.5. Last week I did talk to – I talked about how –
 Lou Fredericks one time said that in the legislature, the only thing they can agree with is with the Republicans as community colleges. You know, people just shouldn't eat. They should retrain for another job if they are unemployed. Housing is weird. That's kind of like – but I'm just saying is I –
 Also, there's a thing called the 8-in-8 rule, which after the World War II, the Democrats would serve eight years, the Republicans eight years back and forth. Hillary, if she had won, would be the first Democrat to be elected since 1940 or the Republicans since 1988. So I kind of expected this. But I want to go on. Measure 97 failed.
 I talked to people, basically, a mayor-elect, Wheeler said it would not pass, and he's a treasurer. So he talked to his rich friends in Salem, so he knew what was going on. So that does not mean he was against 97. He probably voted yes, and so did I. So that's all I have to say, and I'm going on with life. Let's just make sure that President Trump doesn't hurt this state.
 Okay, 1227. I'm sorry, 1228. A request of Ree Carhus to address council regarding report on the state of houseless situation from service provision point of view. Come on up, please. Good morning. My name's Ree. Boots on the ground, PDX. I'm going to call this communique the true state of the houseless address. Okay.
 If I go 30 seconds over, or if these words seem a little hard, I would beg the council's indulgence. I believe I've earned this place.
 We have been involved in many projects concerning the houseless, everything from Cartlandia, the spring water sweeps. I'm going to give the city a D instead of an F as far as houseless go, because we were able to change the paradigm that sweeps had, the way sweeps happened. They're not brutal, horrible things anymore. They're brutal and horrible, but not like they were. Okay.
 There has been a few gains, a lot of broken promises, and a lot of distrust now on the part of us advocates towards the people sitting in those chairs. This is a real thing. It's about that season when Nurse Tricia and I from PDX Outreach Nursing start scraping frozen people off sidewalks. Here we are a year later.
 No housing, no land, very few shelter spaces. So what exactly have we done in the last year? I have to believe in my heart that every one of you ran for these positions because you wanted to make a difference, because you wanted to help. What have we done to help? What difference have we made? None. I want to point out that...
 constituents are not just housed people. Sure, they have the money, but something shifts automatically.
 between running for office and sitting in the chair where, and I understand y'all got to raise money for your parties and stuff, and you've got to court these people. But at the end of the day, housed people are going to be mad, but they're just going to be mad. Nobody ever died of mad. Nobody ever got frostbite from mad. No one ever got terribly seriously ill from mad.
 Okay, if that were the case, all of Portland would have woke up dead this morning. That's not a thing. We owe an obligation to the houseless community. Now, towards that end, the entire teeth and guts have been taken out of the houseless initiative team. To my knowledge, there's one person left. One. God bless that man, Ben Morrow. All the teeth are taken out of it. All the guts are taken out of it.
 It's very hard to access you guys. I've tried to create appointments with Mr. Fish and cannot get return phone calls. And in the coming months, I'm expecting that I'm going to get appointments with you so we can start discussing the common ground and how this is going to work.
 I'm furious over T1. It's not about the site. It's the way it went about. It doesn't matter if you liked Ibrahim Mubarak for running it. He was the most qualified and willing to do it. This isn't Facebook. You don't have to like it. We need you to do your jobs. And that is to serve the disenfranchised, are sick, are ill, are houseless. Not the housed. I'm a homeowner. I can represent myself. I do it all the time. You guys see me before it.
 I'm here to speak for the voiceless and the houseless. This is a moral issue. I would beg the council to please get to work. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next please, 1229. 1229, request of David Keith Davis to address council regarding the war on cop watchers and activists by the police in the city. So first off, I just want to address, you know, everyone's all but heard about Trump becoming president.
 And you're talking about the refugee crisis and all this stuff. Well, what about all the economic refugees we got in our own community, all the homeless people and all this? Do you care about them? No, you don't that much. So don't go acting like you really care that much. And also I'd like to point out that Hillary Clinton would not have been any better than Donald Trump probably, that she drone-bombed
 and was the head of the State Department and killed off lots of women and children and created the refugee crisis. So when everyone acts like Hillary Clinton, who I call Hitler-y Clinton, who is like a total slime bucket, don't cry too bad because your slime bucket lost. Because they were both slime buckets. And this is what America deserves.
 Really, in reality, because we have maggots feasting on the innards of society and everyone just keeps voting for them and we keep looking to the government to fix our problems when all you guys do is war on civil rights. You don't protect civil rights. I've been arrested in this council chamber so many times, I'm losing count at this point. I just won a case for getting arrested here and illegally...
 Illegally arrested, one of my many arrests, November 25, 2015, which I won that case last week. And now I have a CRC meeting tomorrow about pain compliance techniques being used on me by the police when I wasn't resisting. And now one of my witnesses is excluded.
 Charles Johnson can't even attend the meeting. So you guys, and then, you know, I got arrested. I was one of the six people arrested at this protest at the Million Mass March on November 5th. It just happened. And the police falsified charges, said I was up on the freeway. I wasn't. I actually might have been, but I got displaced from the group.
 helping some people. Okay. So, you know, and then, and then I got picked up downtown, right out front of right to dream at the Chevron station. The riot cops were saying, Hey, come on over here. Come on over here and take our pictures, take our pictures. And they said that for about five minutes. And then I finally walked over there. And then, uh, Linda Sen, who was, uh,
 On the end of the pepper spraying right at the door of City Hall when the cops pushed everyone out on the 12th, Columbus Day. That was pretty fitting, too. And the police...
 You guys can't even push through a union contract in this city without launching a DOJ investigation? Thanks, Mr. Davis. And then you have Mike Marshman. Your time's up. We're going to move to the next person. You have Mike Marshman who beats his kid. Mr. Davis, you're done. You as the police commissioner. Mr. Davis, your time is left. You shook hands with someone. We're reset. Mr. Davis, you're excluded. Good, whatever. Okay, you're excluded. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're excluded. Yeah, yeah. That's just a meme.
 What's the meaning of that? That's a must-have. That's a must-have. Be outside your house. If there's nothing out here, pass out your address to everyone. So, have fun. Thank you, Mr. Allen. Packing up my stuff. Yep. Hey, man, you got any? Packing up my stuff. It's not easy. I don't know if I can do it. Here it is. Normal, normal, uh, motor-action.
 I saw him. He's here. Hey.
 Thank you.
 That's her own apartment. Yeah, it's like a suit. It's like a suit. There's a little knock at the door three or four times. Who could that be? She's 27. She's 26. Wow. It's such a miracle to go from this to being ready to move forward. It's not an easy road.
 she said that yesterday how I made the man love you everyone every place we went there were people interested in seeing me they were all you were like here when I last saw you where we went from party to a party and you went to where you were going
 Thank you.
 We have an invited person. All right. Shall we resume? Let's resume our work, please, and take item number 1230. Request of Mike O'Callaghan to address council regarding continuing theft by the city. Come on up, please.
 Mom's little baby loved cardboard, cardboard. Mom's little baby loved cardboard bed. Went to Charlie, Charlie's sweat. Sweep them children off the cardboard bed. Mom's little baby loved cardboard, cardboard. Mom's little baby loved cardboard bed. Here to bring you up on an update with my Ninth Circuit appeal.
 moved since... I had all these things happen to me since the first, so I wrote this up so that they could see what kind of unlawful activity you had perpetrated on me and you too, Amanda, you know, your head of parks. Okay? Okay.
 On September 1st, they removed my first tent and the contents. I made 22 contacts and six agencies and no recovery. On September 8th, the second tent and its contents was removed, still no recovery. On September 9th, the third tent and its contents were removed, no discovery. On September 13th, the police entered my tent and left their card, entered both zippers.
 On September 14th, you guys stuck up those posts talking about illegal camping and trespassing, citing ORS 164245.
 On October 16th, there was a full theft of most of my things, not all my things, a bunch of my things out of my tent. My bedding was gone. On October 24th, there was another full theft again. This time there were tire tracks showing where they came. I'm in a secure area where only authorities can unlock the gate.
 I don't want to go into details here, but then also here I have these two right here that were given to me. This one seven days ago, this one yesterday. They might be out stealing my property as we speak. But at first I would like to give a moment of silence to Mark Seaton, who died on Springwater Trail when you started those sweeps.
 Okay, you know, this is absurd that you're doing this, Charlie. You're going to skate, okay? This isn't going to be any fine on you at all. It's going to be a fine on all the people in the city of Portland. Okay, oh, an update on the Ninth Circuit. My attorneys are very interested in the fact that your attorneys refused to answer both of my appeals. Also, the Ninth Circuit granted without petition oral arguments. Thank you. Thank you. Next, please, 1231. Okay.
 Council 31 requested Mary Eng to address council regarding Yom Kippur Stampede. City Council, my name is Mary Eng, and I want to offer you some healthy snacks. I've got energizing gluten-dairy-free mocha snack with coffee and cacao, and I have maca-encrusted maple cashews and some apple crisps.
 If you're hungry, I think it's great. These are actually really addictive, so I'm warning you. And, you know, when I was researching the Yom Kippur Stampede, I was looking up a list of human stampedes on Wikipedia. And it turns out there was a very tragic Yom Kippur Stampede in a synagogue in Poland. About 1872, I'm thinking, actually.
 And that was what really gripped me, because I heard that when you guys were doing a Yom Kippur stampede, one of the Jewish members of Portland Cop Watch had to leave her services to come check on the victims of your egregious police brutality. Pepper spraying, arm breaking, concussions, whiplash injuries, a backwards...
 Down steps, bottleneck, stampede involving amputees, disabled people, disabled women veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and brain injury, children, infants, Linda Sen, pepper sprayed in the face.
 Micah knocked unconscious Micah Rhodes, the fellow you harassed, Mr. Hales, at Nike with police to punish him for caring about black lives. So, Miss Laura Verone Vizcarra Vanderlyn.
 Had her iPhone stolen the week before, and her attorney is working on getting your infinite bureaucracies to release her iPhone. She's a grandmother. She has grandchildren. She has children who are very worried about why you have stolen her iPhone. Could it be perhaps because she live streams?
 in fact, sometimes acts of brutality. She doesn't identify as a cop watcher. She records what's there. She's a Mexicana Latina feminista with a French name, Veron, Vizcara, her mother's, her father's Spanish name, and Vanderlyn of her very lovely husband from Dutch Indonesia.
 Her children are beautiful. They would like you to give her back her iPhone and not pepper spray her friends in the face or knock Micah Rhodes unconscious and stampede and trample him such that she thinks a murder is happening on Yom Kippur.
 And the Department of Justice has let you know that your neo-Nazi on the police force endangers the lives of each and every officer. This is a matter of national security importance. And I'm so glad the DOJ... Yes, Mr. House, thank you so much for everything you've done for this city. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're done. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're done. Ms. Ng, you're finished, okay? No, I would like you to be done so we can move on to someone else. Thank you. Thank you.
 are you finished are you glad is saying you need to be recessed and you're excluded okay we're going to resume the council meeting uh we're going to take the consent calendar uh and we've had some things pulled to regular uh 1234 has been pulled to regular 1236 1237 and 12 42 right could you say this again please all right let me do that again at 1234
 36, 37, and 42. Thank you. Got that? Any other requests? Mr. Walsh, I know you requested 1242, so we'll give you a chance to speak then. Okay, let's take the balance of the consent calendar minus those items that we'll carry over later into the agenda. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, item 1232. We're going to do the proclamation first. I welcome that.
 The proclamation first. Oh, we want to do the proclamation first? Is everybody here? Okay, sorry. And you're going to welcome our guests. Yes, yes, I will. All right. All right. Sorry. We're going to take 1246 first and then 1232 because our guests are here. 1245. 1245. Sorry. Proclaim Veterans Day, November 11, 2016, to be a day to express our
 our gratitude for our veterans and citizens serving in the United States military in Portland. So I appreciate the opportunity to do this. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I'll read this proclamation, and you and others on the council may have some comments to make, and then we have a guest to invite forward. The proclamation says this. Whereas the first Veterans Day proclamation was signed on November 11, 1954, by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to pay homage to all of our veterans who have contributed to the preservation of this great nation.
 And whereas the brave men and women of our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard exemplify selflessness and steadfast commitment while risking their lives to ensure our freedom. And whereas wounded and suffering military members and veterans who return home honor us with their dignity, courage, and valor. And whereas veterans deserve the utmost respect and support which they have earned while defending our homeland.
 whereas we admire and stand beside the families and loved ones of those who have served and currently served and the immense burdens they bear, and whereas we are continually grateful for the freedoms we enjoy in Portland and across the United States thanks to the service and sacrifices of men and women in our military. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses,
 do hereby proclaim November 11, 2016 to be a day to express our gratitude for our veterans and citizens serving in the United States military in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Let's suspend the rules and thank our veterans. And let's invite you, Mr. Calhoun, forward to speak. And I know, again, others on the council may want to reflect on this as well, but thank you for being here today. Thank you very much. Matthew Calhoun, welcome. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners.
 My name is Matthew Calhoun, and I am an Army veteran. I think you need to speak into the microphone, otherwise the captions can't hear you. There we go. All righty. Thank you. I've been employed by the city now for about 10 months and 10 days. Just over two months ago, I was voted in as the chairperson for the Veterans Empowerment Team, and that's what brings me in today. I'd like to briefly tell you about this team. Shortly after beginning employment with the city, I sought out the Veterans Empowerment Team, and I found that it had been somewhat quiet for the previous several months.
 With a small corps of veterans from Parks, we rekindled the group, and that group got to work quickly and redefined our mission and our vision. We identified the efforts that would be important to us both individually and as a group. Our vision and mission agreed on and voted in as our guiding principle states, beginning with the vision, the Veterans Empowerment Team will support and mentor the employees of the City of Portland who have affiliation with military service.
 and we will internally advocate for veteran causes with the City of Portland. The mission states the Veterans Empowerment Team leverages our shared experiences, promotes cross-bureau camaraderie, and builds and maintains a network dedicated to the advocacy and success of our veteran community to achieve the vision.
 I'm very proud of this team and our efforts and thus far and very happy to be here today representing the Veterans Empowerment Team. As you read the proclamation into the record, we feel by this proclamation the recognition of the veterans that came before us and the service that we've performed is so very much appreciated. We feel it's important to have this proclamation because it meets with our mission and our vision.
 To expand on this, I'd like to provide just a few more details of how we are working towards meeting the goals that support our vision and our mission. The Veterans Empowerment Team is currently 66 members strong. We are veterans employed by the city. We represent each of the services, and this includes family members of veterans.
 We have a small but growing network of resources that, while they are veteran resources at large, we've established a direct connection with several through an exchange of information and verbal acknowledgments of mutual support. We intend to make good on the goals that we've set before us by partnering with HR to provide insight into veteran issues and our military culture. We will coach and mentor each other both within the mentorship program
 and, informally, to ensure we as veterans bring the utmost capacity to our work groups, departments, and the city as a whole. We have so much experience and ability to offer, and we appreciate working for the city.
 We've begun to organize ourselves to focus and research so that we can, number one, contribute to the development and refinement of policies that affect veterans. Number two, be contacted by veteran job seekers, both internally and externally, for resume assistance. Number three, advocate for tangible support by departments,
 bureau directors, and city leadership to allow veterans to attend the full hour of our meetings, and number four, building our city webpage to be a robust resource of information for veterans that veterans need to be to efficiently find what they need. We meet monthly and continually identify new ways to become better as we strive to achieve our goals. On a personal note, I feel lucky to have found a place with the city.
 I spent 15 months job hunting after retiring from 20 years of military service. I felt like I had a great depth of experience and abilities to offer, but the job offers did not materialize as I thought they would. While applying for several positions within the city, I was contacted by the Diversity, Outreach, and Employment Resources, the doer's office, and they changed that.
 But during that window of assistance, I felt there was an opening for additional hands-on assistance from which a veteran would more deeply benefit. I believe the Veterans Empowerment Team is that resource. So, Commissioners and Mayor Hales, we are your resource. We are the city's resource. Thank you for your time this morning, and thank you for your support now and in the future.
 Thank you. And Matthew served, as some of you know, in the Army in both Afghanistan and in Iraq, and he, I believe, is still in the Oregon National Guard. Retired from the Oregon Guard. Retired from the Guard, okay. But, you know, I'm really pleased to hear that our outreach effort reached you.
 and congratulations to the Parks Bureau for finding you and bringing you into the family of the city workforce because that's exactly what we would hope for in that kind of an outreach effort. And I appreciate the fact that you and other veterans in our workforce are actually getting together and staying organized, and I know you're going to be walking in the Veterans Day Parade, I believe, with Commissioner Fish, and appreciate the fact that we as a community and as a city family also are participants in that recognition. Thank you.
 Thank you very much for being here today. Mr. Mayor, I just want to add one thing while Mr. Calhoun is here. First, Mayor, every year the mayor issues a proclamation on Veterans Day, and it's a proud moment for this council and the community. So, Charlie, thank you. This is your last Veterans Day proclamation. And, Mr. Calhoun, it's an honor to have you here before us. The parade the mayor alluded to is the Hollywood Veterans Day Parade, which happens on Friday.
 and I hope everyone comes out. And it's a great parade, and the ceremony that follows is hosted by our favorite host of an event like that, which is Tony Starlight, who does a great job honoring and recognizing veterans. So it's a pleasure to be part of that. And, Mayor, if I could, I just want to make a comment. You and I teamed up on this proclamation, but it was Ascenta Lawrence on my team who did a lot of the work with your team in drafting it.
 Sena Lawrence identifies as Islam. And so today she has reason to wonder about whether her country is as welcoming as it could be to people of different faiths and different national origins. And so I want to publicly thank Sena for her service to our city and to tell her that we're very proud of the work you do.
 and that we will always support you in the work that you do for us. So thank you. Thank you all. Let's hear it. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, and we'll see you Friday. Thank you. Thank you. How about let the Navy guy say something? We'll let you say something a little later, Joe. I've got you on the calendar. No, I'm excited. No, we don't do that on proclamations. Why not? Because we don't. But you just love the veterans, don't you? How about nine years in the Navy? Joe, please. Nine years in the Navy. Mr. Walsh. Mr. Walsh. You should let me say something. We're going to move on. We're going to do 1232. You're a hypocrite, Dan. Accept the Quarterly Technology Oversight Committee Report from the Chief Administrative Officer.
 okay come on up please good morning good morning mayor and commissioners i'm jen clodius senior management analyst for the office of management and finance and staff for the technology oversight committee with me are jeff baird director of the bureau of technology services and paul scarlett director of the bureau of development services as you know the toc is made up by representatives that you've selected
 unfortunately none of them could be with us today so you're stuck with city employees only all right your members are for mere heels dr. Wilfred pinfold Ken Neubauer for Commissioner fish Diana Garcia for Commissioner Fritz Josh Mitchell for Commissioner Novick and Mike Lynch for Commissioner Saltzman
 We're here to present the Technology Oversight Committee's quarterly report for July through September 2016. So this actually only takes us up to two months ago, so there's a gap. This quarter, the TOC only followed one project due to an odd set of timing, but that is the ITAP project. We're going to show you this dashboard, which contains information from the project management staff, the quality assurance contractors, and from the TOC.
 And Jeff and Paul are going to explain what is and what was. Okay. Please. Go ahead. So good morning, Mayor Hales and members of City Council. Jeff Baer for the Bureau of Technology Services. And just want to talk a little bit about some of the work that's been done from the previous report that you see in front of you. And instead of focusing in on what the project had been doing, I'd like to talk a few minutes about what we've been doing the last couple of months in terms of going forward.
 And today we have – we just completed an external assessment that we had by a local consulting firm that did a project assessment of ITAP and working with Director Scarlett on this, working together as a co-sponsor approach. We've received the final assessment, and we're working right now on putting forward a go-forward strategy on doing what we're calling a discovery phase of working to – over the next –
 four or five six months we're not quite sure yet but what work do we need to do in terms of what are we going to do for this project going forward so i don't paul if you want to talk about sure appreciate it jeff um yeah we made a determination a couple months ago given in the report which shows red in time and budget and so forth the scope of the project the complexity um just to reiterate we are very focused on completing this project and in doing so we
 evaluated where things were at and some challenges and decided we're going to take a step back and really do an in-depth analysis assessment. And so we conducted a technical assessment and a governance assessment. And we've gotten some really good recommendations, which Jeff alluded to, and plan on implementing and going forward with several of those recommendations. Thank you.
 But at this point, we felt it was not feasible, not in the best interest of the city, to continue the ITAP project as is with, and as you know, we did sever ties with the previous vendors. And trying to figure out who do we partner with and what do we do and how do we do it, taking a step back and really understanding.
 diving deeply into where things are at and what's the best arrangement going forward we felt was the best action to take. And we've received pretty good acknowledgement that that is a good decision. Rather than continue to spend time and money, let's really look at where we can leverage the best action
 efficiencies and make the best interest that will benefit the tenements of the project, which hasn't changed. We're just going to increase access to the public and for the customers to allow us to conduct business in a more efficient way. So in short, we are, you know, we wish it was further along. It's not, but we acknowledge that, and we feel we have a good plan by having an independent assessment and really looking at what makes the most sense moving forward.
 Okay, questions? Just to underscore what was said, the ITAP project is in a full stop mode. We've had this independent assessment. We're reviewing that, and we will be coming forward with a going-forward strategy in the next couple weeks, which we'll share with all of you. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 I might want to reiterate, excuse me, acknowledge that our quality assurance, Cliff Smith, has been really involved in this analysis and has partnered well with us and, of course, acknowledged staff's contribution to all of the work that's been going on. So it's really a well-rounded overview of where things were at. Good. Other comments that any of you had? Yeah. Yeah.
 And this is the only project we're looking at today, right? That's correct. And you'll note on the report that we do have several others coming up. One is the data center relocation project and also the SAP module enterprise asset management. That will be part of the report for the next period. So is the technology oversight committee going to be involved in figuring out what to do next? Yes. In fact, we took heed. Okay.
 from their concerns and responses in where the ITAP project was at. And so we have reported to them about the different assessments occurring and that we would report back on any plans moving forward, prior to moving forward. So they're very involved. And I would just add, they were very instrumental in helping us draft the scope of work for what the engagement was to be.
 Yeah, because that's what Commissioner Saltzman intended when he sets up the committee, that they would help us with our purchases as well as monitoring how they go. Great. Thank you very much. Anyone want to sign up to speak on this item? They both left. May I move the report? Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Can I speak on that? Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. I didn't think you didn't say it. Yeah, no, come on up if you want to.
 I'll tie two conversations together. I personally believe that our national defense depends on technology. I am sorry that I will switch a little bit. I'm not too sure in the future that, like veterans, that humans will play a lesser role in combat. I talk against intel, but I must admire intel for making the computer chips that may go into our Predator aircraft, which can –
 to defend our country without having pilots as POWs. They are intelligent. I don't think I could fly an airplane but a computer chip in a Predator aircraft.
 In the debate four years ago with Mitt Romney, President Obama scored by saying – Romney said something like, we have the lowest Navy since World War II. Wilkins, I do need you to focus on this item. The issue is I think technology is important, and just computer chips can think. We need to invest in this. I think Intel does make a great contribution to national defense.
 And I support technology. I support community colleges. Community colleges repair technology. Thank you very much. Thanks. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Novick? Aye. Britt? I know how hard everybody has worked on this project from its initial inception to...
 just trying to make it work. And so I really thank the Bureau of Development Services, all the staff there, and it clearly is now time to say what we purchased is not working out, cannot be made to work, and I appreciate your making that decision, Commissioner, and moving on. Thank you. Aye. Yes. Colleagues, we're currently doing a big look at the question of how we organize and support committees, boards, and commissions.
 And in our form of government, we have all kinds of different and sometimes conflicting standards and rules. And the city is undertaking a process to create some uniform rules, some standard bylaws, making sure that people are supported in their work and get the training they need and the assistance, something that's long overdue. And I just want to acknowledge that the Technology Oversight Committee, which is composed of citizen volunteers –
 has got to be among the highest performing bodies that this council has had the honor of launching. And I would not want to miss an opportunity to thank the folks who volunteer their time to do this work. It's really hard. There isn't a lot of glory. But these presentations are among the best that we get on a regular basis. So thanks to the people who volunteer to make this committee work so effectively. Hi. Well, I also want to thank the Technology Oversight Committee, and I also want to thank –
 Paul Scarlett and Jeff Baer and employees in the Bureau of Technology Services, Bureau of Development Services, and Office of Management and Finance for teaming up to help us figure out what the solution is to this problem right now. Thank you. Aye. Nails. Aye. Okay, let's move on to the items that were pulled from the consent calendar. The first of those is 1234. Accept the Portland, Oregon Sign 2016 Annual Program Review.
 Have we got someone here to speak on this item? I think we do. Come on up, please. And I pulled it, Matt, just because I'm very interested in this program, and I want to make sure that everybody does know about the sign and they're supposed to ask before they use it. Okay. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Tanya Harris, and I, along with Director Bryant Inge and City Attorney Simon Wang, manage the Portland Oregon Sign Program.
 Earlier, we met with your individual offices earlier this year, and so we are here at your direction to present the Portland, Oregon Sign Program Annual Report. Over the past year, we have been focused on developing the program and have issued approximately 78 license agreements, developed a fee strategy to recover the operational and maintenance cost of the sign, and have registered for several trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
 To further the growth of the Portland Oregon Sign program, we are developing partnerships with local companies like Travel Portland, who offer brown bag sessions where we hope to attend and conduct a presentation on the Portland Oregon Sign program to their customers. By next year, we plan to have all our trademarks, a marketing strategy, and a partnership with Travel Portland. We are here to answer any questions you may have about the Portland Oregon Sign program.
 Thank you. Commissioner, did you have some questions about this? No, I just wanted everybody to know that that's what we're doing. We're working on it. It's
 Making us a small profit so far, right? Yes. Could you give the details on that? We have earned, and last year we earned a surplus of about $9,000, a little over $9,000. The sign operational maintenance cost ran us about $30,000, and so we collected about $3,900 last year alone. $3,900, yeah. $3,900. Yeah. Yeah.
 In general terms, what's the difference between fair use of this image and something for which we get compensation? And I'm thinking about the fact that, like, every time there's a trailblazer game that's a national game, the NBA does a sweep of downtown, and they always sort of focus on that sign. I'm guessing that's fair use because it's background. But what's roughly the line between the use that people can make of it
 without cost and when and when a when it becomes something for which they have to pay us a fee for the intellectual property rights Commissioner fish I can answer that Simon long for the record. I
 Probably the easiest answer is it depends on what the intent of the use is going to be. If it's for a commercial purpose, for example, for a television commercial, or if the company is making money from it, then that's going to be something that we would actually ask for a fee. If it's just simply in the background of a newscast or of a television spot or something and just shows in the
 in the background of, you know, shown Portland, then that's going to be under fair use, and we would not seek any revenue from that. Other questions? So it can be used in the background of a commercial, and that's not a – If it's a television commercial and it is being used even for a short period of time, if there's a focus on the sign, then that would be something we would seek a fee for. If it's just in the general background –
 image of Portland. Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of times you see in these commercials, like when they actually linger on the sign for a while, then that's at the point that we start getting involved. One of the reasons Simon always looks so tired is that he actually, in his office, has like five television screens. He's watching all the stations all day, monitoring clients with our copyright.
 So if somebody sees a mug or a glass or something with this image on it, should they contact you to ask if it's been permitted? Correct. Yes. They can call 823-4000 and be directed to you. Right. And our information is also on the website.
 where they can contact myself for an intellectual property license agreement, or if it's any type of media question regarding the Portland, Oregon sign, then Jen Clodius is also, her information is also. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Yes, my name is Leighton. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Now, so I have an understanding. We're talking about that.
 sign that when you come over the Burnside Bridge with a little deer on it, just so I have that understanding and want to make that very clear to some people in the audience. Now, if you take that little deer off and I put a horse there or a unicorn, is that going to violate the intellectual property rights on this? Now, another issue I have on this is that technically when a lot of people have been using this for their businesses already,
 And if you haven't already done a license agreement or trademark at this time, it sounds to me like you're going through that process. Due to the fact that people are currently using this, I think they could challenge who really has a right to use this because it's my understanding this was the property of White Stag. Lightning, just on that question. Yes. The city did obtain its federal copyright in August of 2015.
 And so it does have a legally enforceable copyright. They have the federal designation, and that allows us to enforce those rights. And also we purchased the sign. Okay, but you stated as far as on the copyright, that was in 2015. Now, if somebody was using that design before then –
 technically they could claim that they've been using this image for their business and they have a right to do that now take taking point let's talk uh elon musk in in tesla when he stepped in and stepped in position on tesla he basically didn't have to pay anything for that right to use that name and because basically the time frame on that expired now you might think well hey
 He needed to pay the Tesla family in money for that name, but he did not. Because at the time, they didn't have anything in writing, anything that was registered at that point to protect that name. And so he just donated a million dollars to their museum. So the reality is that sometimes if you don't have that in place many years ago and people have been using that,
 they might be able to challenge that legally they have a right to continue to do that, and you are stepping in now and trying to take a right away from them. So I find it very interesting that, number one, you would even charge a fee for this. Number two, that you wouldn't look at it from the city's position as feel free to use that. And in a good way.
 I don't think it's any threat to the city itself allowing anybody else to use that. And again, I wonder that why you haven't taken control of that many, many years ago when my understanding that sign would have been transferred over into your control, but they didn't transfer you that right at the time.
 So I just kind of question the whole process and the date that you think you have control on this, and I'll leave it at that. Thank you. Okay, thanks. Yes, good morning. My comment is I guess this is about visual forms of communication. Speak up.
 Oh, Shedrick Wilkins. Instead of, for example, we symbolize things about Oregon with a sunny thing or something, visual symbols are not dependent on language. We basically have road signs with pictures on it, and people take the driver's test in different languages, but you're supposed to know what the symbols mean. Thanks very much. It's important to stay with this.
 Non-language-based system. All right. Here, I move the report. Okay. Is there a second? Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Britt. Just from the report, we purchased the sign in 2010, and we have licensed many more businesses this year than before. Also, in February of 2015, the city recovered $30,000 from Pat's Brewing Company for unauthorized commercial use.
 So thank you very much for your work on this, and I'm pleased that it's now paying its way. Bye.
 Commissioner Fritz, thanks for pulling this to the regular agenda. This is like a walk down memory lane. Three of us remember that this was one of the most contentious issues of 2009-2010, and Commissioner Leonard was at the heart of the fight to protect this sign. Ultimately, we purchased it, and my recollection is that the fees that we get off licensing it help offset the city's cost of maintaining it. So from a taxpayer point of view, I think this is a good deal. Thank you.
 Seltzman? Aye. Hills? Aye. If I might just comment on Commissioner Fish's statement. Those can't be the good old days, can they? This was a majorly contentious issue, and look what we're dealing with now. So it's kind of sobering. A lot crossed my mind, too. Yes, thanks. Quieter time. All right, we're moving to 1236, which was also pulled to the regular calendar.
 Authorize the purchase of Cisco optical equipment to upgrade existing data network equipment to support communications between different city locations in an amount not to exceed $911,000. We pulled, I think, both of these items to the regular count because of the dollar amount. Is that right, Ms. Moody? Commissioner Fritz pulled these items, so I'm not quite sure. It's just because of the size of the amount. Because of the dollar amount, yeah. Okay.
 Christine Moody with Procurement Services. Before you, you have a request to authorize the purchase of Cisco equipment in the amount not to exceed $911,000. This is being purchased off of a permissive cooperative procurement that was competitively procured through the state of Oregon. I will hand this over to you. Did you say permissive cooperative procurement? Yes. And just for those of us who are newbies in this, what does that mean?
 Well, the cooperative procurement allows, under state law, allows the city or other local jurisdictions to use another contract. In this case, it was procured through the state of Oregon, in which they used the competitive solicitation process. And we can just kind of use that contract. So we can piggyback off of another process that has followed our rules. That's correct, Commissioner. Thank you.
 And that's a permissive procurement contract. Yes, there's several different types. All right. Other questions, concerns about this one? Thank you very much. We'll see if there's anyone who wants to speak on this one, and then we'll move to the next purchasing item. Anyone want to speak on 1236? Okay, it's an emergency ordinance. Then let's take a vote, please. No, thank you. Aye. Chris. Thank you for explaining. Aye. Fish. Fish.
 Aye. Helpsman? Aye. Hale? Aye. And then 1237? Authorized purchase of 24 vehicles and equipment for use by the Portland Bureau of Transportation at $1,500,000. And this one was also pulled because of its dollar amount. So come on up. Please tell us about this one. Sure. Okay.
 Morning, Mayor and City Council. The item before you today is to purchase 24 pieces of equipment that are part of the...
 Fix Our Streets program and part of a program with PBOT, of course. And so I just wanted to mention that the vehicles that we need are needed because we're – not me, myself, because I just do the equipment part, and Suzanne can talk about the crews because she operates them, but we're actually adding crews. Rental equipment on this highly specialized pieces of equipment are not readily available.
 And the equipment, if we were to rent it, can be quite expensive. For example, the message boards to rent would be about $1,100 a month. So over the 48 months that the program will be in place, that would be about $1,000.
 well, over $50,000, $52,800. So it can be quite expensive. And then what we did is we took a look at all the equipment and we looked at what would a rental piece be if we could find it. And in the four years, we would still spend about the million and a half that we were going to spend to buy the equipment. And we would expect the equipment to last many more years because the economic life cycle on the equipment is around 10 years.
 Of course, it's dependent upon its class that it belongs to, but the city will actually save money over the long haul. And then should the program go away, we've identified homes within the fleet, so we would replace the older equipment and then move these dump trucks and other pieces of equipment into an existing program.
 John, can I ask you a question? Yes, sir. This has come up in the past, and I see that there's a sedan that's part of the equipment we're purchasing, one of the vehicles. Are any of these vehicles being sold by a vendor here in Portland? No.
 Yes, we do. We use a local vendor, and we may use, as was mentioned a minute ago, with a state procurement process to get the best deal on them, but we bring them in through the local dealers whenever possible. Because I remember years ago we had this discussion when the police were buying some cars, and because of the business license fee,
 there was a cost differential between buying it from a dealer in Portland versus a dealer in Clackamas or something. And the council raised some concerns about not using our dollars to invest in a local business. Do we have – so are we making a conscious effort here within the law to spend our money locally? Yes.
 Yes, a very conscious effort. In fact, there are a number of, I would call them consortiums or cooperative agreements that we can use, but the state has turned out to be pretty low. I might just use another example of another type of sedan that was actually $1,900 more cheaper
 to go through this outside agency, which was still a consortium. So we do compare prices between the different ones and still the bottom line to answer your question is we're bringing it in through a local dealer whenever we can.
 Thank you. Other questions? I think it's quite satisfying to both Commissioner Novick and me that we need more equipment to keep up with the amount of paving that you're doing. So that's good news. Very satisfied. Thank you. Indeed it is. Thanks. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 A couple of questions I had. You're picking up 24 vehicles under this expenditure. It seems to me that sitting here we give a week that all the bureaus are now getting new vehicles. Everybody seems to get new vehicles. Cops are getting them, the fighters are getting them, these guys are getting them. But they last for 10 years. That's what you're saying. So why does it seem...
 It's very rude to leave when a citizen is talking, Mr. Novick. Go ahead, please. The second part is that I like the question that Commissioner Fish brought up about doing it locally, and I'm curious of what decides the price range that we would go beyond local. So if the price range is, say, on a vehicle –
 $28,000 and it went to $35,000, would that take us out into the state? Do we have a concrete wall? Because it seems that what you're suggesting is we keep as much in the local area as possible. But it was a little fudgy when you were questioning the panel. They said, well, we kind of try to do that.
 As an ex-union steward, I don't like those kind of answers. I want answers that say, this is what we do. If we go to $35,000 and we go to Salem and see if we can get a better price, that would make a lot of sense. And at what level do we decide that? I will try to get answers to those questions back from the staff when testimony is done. Okay. Those are the biggest points, and I really appreciate Commissioner Fish bringing that up.
 because we should do that, especially in the present circumstances of our government. We should keep everything local. Well, Joe, I think especially where we're taxing ourselves to maintain our streets, it would be sort of odd for us to tax ourselves and then go to a lower tax jurisdiction that isn't and spending our dollars there if the law allows us to buy local. But I have a tendency that says that I want the best buy.
 So that's the way we've been brought up, to get the best bargain. And I'm saying that sometimes the best bargain is not the best bargain. And it hurts the local if we go outside the local just because we can save a few thousand dollars. Yeah, that's a good question. So I really appreciate you bringing it up. I think we'll get them back up at the end, but I think the answer to your first question is these aren't replacement vehicles. These are more vehicles that would.
 We have to make the fleet bigger because we're doing more work. I know government is growing. Well, it is in this case because we passed a gas tax and we're doing 100 miles a street a year instead of 35. So it takes more trucks to do 100 miles than it takes to do 35. I think I got that right. But the other question of what's our buy local policy and how much more are we willing to pay for somebody who's paying Portland taxes is a good question, and we'll get them back up and get an answer for that. But I might have it right on the size of the fleet rather than cycle of the fleet question. Thank you.
 Okay. Lightning? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I absolutely agree with them purchasing the vehicles new. One of the things I didn't hear is I was hoping that they would have some type of warranties on these new vehicles. I didn't hear anything on that because that's real important to me on...
 the longevity and maybe deferring some of that maintenance cost to a warranty. Because I noticed that on the gas tax itself is for street repair, but my understanding on that gas tax, that that can also be used to maintenance of the vehicles themselves. So I believe I'm correct on that, but that really makes a big difference. I just want to make sure that
 When you do purchase new, that possibly warranties are negotiated with these companies, and I'm hoping they are. And just another issue I guess I have is that I'm hoping these type of vehicles also can be used for other bureaus. Maybe they can, maybe they can't. And again, what I was talking about is maybe for like parks.
 when we were talking about dredging i know that they when you take the sediments to on land facilities they use normally used dump trucks to do that so i'm hoping other bureaus can get use out of these vehicles and again i absolutely approve on the purchase
 and just hope there's warranties included in the deals. Thank you. Good questions. So why don't you come back up, please, and let's answer those questions. One, is it right about more vehicles versus replacement? What kind of warranties do we get, and what is our threshold for when we would buy locally versus buy outside of the city at maybe a slightly better price?
 So I'll start. I'm Suzanne Kahn from Transportation. Yes, you are correct. These are additional vehicles, not replacement vehicles, so that we can do more work. The preventive maintenance question, I think, is an important one to us and to City Fleet. Our most recent completion rate for preventive maintenance on all our vehicles,
 and we have a fleet of nearly 200 rolling stock, is over 90%. So we are committed to maintaining the vehicles we have. We also – Warranties versus our own maintenance. I mean, they have a warranty, I assume, in their vehicle. Yes.
 Yeah, sure. Again, John Hunt, City Fleet Manager, and I really appreciate Joe's question very, very much because we live and breathe fleet. And the way we go about our business is very much like you would go about your business at home. You first decide what type of equipment you might need, what's its range, what's the payload capacity, how far do I need to reach with that piece of
 And then once that's determined, then we go out to bid either through our local bidding process that you're very familiar with or if we can use an already bid process, then we'll do that.
 But it's really driven by the piece of equipment itself and getting the lowest price. That's the first thing we look at. But then within the local area, we have to look at, is there a dealer? Does that dealer supply the piece of equipment or the volume? Does that dealer support the warranty on the piece of equipment that we're buying? Right.
 Do they supply the parts? Because remember, we buy parts on an ongoing basis around the year through all the local dealer, so that they, you know, in different parts outlets, so that we can provide the economy with some, you know, funding that way. So...
 Yeah, great question. And then each vehicle and its class, whether it's a sedan or a dump truck, each one has its own economic lifecycle which is put together through statistical analysis of the cost of the fleet. And we also look at outside agencies. When we were up here not long ago, we called Seattle and we were talking to them about their life cycles as well.
 And so it really is a science in what we do, and that's why we're very proud to have a centralized fleet management division that we're able to provide the city with the lowest cost possible on any of the pieces of equipment that we procure. So what about the price point question? So a Portland dealer is going to be paying 2%, 2.3% of net profit.
 as Portland business income tax. So I could make an argument that we could pay a little bit more for a vehicle acquired from a Portland dealer because some of it's coming back in terms of local taxes. Do we have those kinds of factors when you finally get down to the bottom line? I've got this proposal from this dealer and that proposal from that one, and one of them is in town and the other is not. How does that work out in practice? Yes.
 Well, this has come up over the years many, many times, and so we kind of look at a sphere of influence around fleet, and we're looking at the closest because of our ability to get the parts and the equipment in quicker, but I'd be happy to provide you with a breakdown analysis because it can get kind of tricky when you're looking at overall the taxes that are paid in different areas or rates that are paid on top, so it's a pretty deep, but
 But the bottom line is we're always looking for the lowest cost and buying through –
 we're only concerned about cost, then we'd shop at Walmart and we'd buy our books from Amazon versus going to our neighborhood retailer or going to Powell's Bookstore. So, in fact, we get to balance as consumers cost and value and our values. Right.
 so i mean i would rather spend an extra dollar and go to a neighborhood business to support a local business than going to a mall and getting maybe a dollar savings off a chain that that has no tie to our community likewise i'd rather go to a bricks and mortar bookstore and pay closer to full market than to give it to an internet company is not paying any oregon taxes and isn't supporting little league and isn't doing anything for our community the question that we keep grappling with though is
 What does the law allow us to do? We understand that the Commerce Clause and federal law, they're laws that constrain us. And I like the fact that you said that the proximity of the dealer is a value. So in other words, you're thinking in terms of if there's a problem, you don't have to travel 10 miles, you can go a mile, and that factors into your equation. But I think what the council continues to be interested in is how can we promote the buy local component of our procurement? Okay.
 legally. And you've said it's a complicated mix. I guess we'd like a signal of what additional things can we do to create, in effect, an incentive for us to buy local, where price is one of a number of factors. And I think that this would be a very good question for Christine and I maybe to come back and visit with you because that buy local is a very important component to the overall purchasing process. And I really like what you mentioned about
 When we set our spec, we set the minimum, so we're not buying something that will not work or only last half as long, or the distance traveled to get the part is outside of our service area. All of those are mixed together in the decision-making process, so that's perfect. But, yeah, we'd be happy to give you an analysis on the local piece because –
 We have had some situations where there may be a closer dealer, but they've chosen not to supply that particular product, so we have to go to the next closest one. So it's not always as easy as just kind of drawing a circle around and saying, okay, we're absolutely going to go to this person, but we try really hard to do what you're looking to do. It's in the mix of thought that we put into each project.
 Okay, I think I have a suggestion. I appreciate Mr. Walsh and Mr. Lightning's questions ventilating this. We have an approach to construction contracts where we take the lowest responsible bidder, and we're about to hear a report from our socially responsible investment committee about how we bank our money.
 So it seems like we ought to take a similar approach to purchasing. And you're right, it is complicated, a lot of factors to weigh. But we have this new discipline, which we just actually used yesterday, of these gator sessions, that is government accountability through transparency and results, led by our independent budget office staff. And we've looked into a couple of issues like sidewalk paving and building permits for affordable housing and then police staffing.
 reallocation around the city using this model of having independent professionals from our budget office plus the bureau plus commissioners, staffs, bear down on that management question. It seems to me we might want to queue up the next Gator session on this topic of how do we use value. Somebody came in here and said this the other day. You know, it's a
 It's price, value, and values. And how do we make sure that those three principles are all being applied in situations like this? You know, you're a professional. You've got a lot of factors to weigh, but we also want to bring policy into that discussion so you know it's okay to do the right thing as it's been defined by that kind of policy. So it sounds like this one is maybe a candidate for that kind of in-depth look. Do you think so?
 Well, I think that that would be a fine thing to do, but I also think that we need to get going on fixing the streets, too. We should go ahead and do this one. I'm not saying we should hold this one up. I'm saying let's go ahead and do this one. But the issue has been raised for how do we do this over time? We buy stuff all the time. So I think it would be good to have that kind of in-depth look for the future, not just for transportation, obviously. Thank you.
 That make sense to the council? I'll suggest that as the next Gator session and get that queued up. And by the way, I mean, this is complicated, but it can't be any more complicated than our discussions about equity and contracting. Right. I mean, that's mind-numbingly complicated. And we've figured out a path to make sure that dollars under the
 community benefits plans that dollars stay home right if we can figure it out we make those investments why not when we're actually doing things in a retail setting exactly good well thank you appreciate it appreciate your work on this one and the opportunity to look into the practice more broadly that anyone ready ready to vote let's take action then on this purchase please
 Again, it is very exciting that we are doing more work and buying more equipment to do it. This is one more milestone on the way to streets in better repair. So thank you very much.
 Great. I pulled this item partly because of the dollar figure, partly because I wanted the explanation for community members about that it's buying more vehicles and it's using the gas tax money and why that's appropriate. And finally today, thank you, Commissioner Novick, thank you, Mayor Hales. This program of fixing more streets is certainly one of your lasting legacies for both of you on this council, and I'm hoping we can do several more before the end of the year. Yes, sir.
 appreciate the discussion and and the testimony and the colloquy with council hi saltzman hi dale i'm going to do uh what 64 million dollars worth of work it's reasonable to buy a million and a half dollars worth of tools aye 74 mayor don't forget don't forget that's right 74 million okay thank you all right let's move then to item 1242 which was also pulled from uh consent authorized price agreements with centennial school district
 for the After School At-Risk Meal and Snack Program. I think this was pulled, Mr. Walsh, because you had a question about it or you wanted to speak about it, if I got that right. Yeah, this is one that I didn't pull. Okay. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I'm going to get some egg on my face on this item because of lack of sleep, I think. I left my notes on my desk on this item. But if I recall, and maybe Commissioner Fritz can help me on this,
 There is a question of about $50,000 that is going to the lunch program and the school. 48, you're right. Yep. And in that process, the federal government will reimburse us for the money. My suggestion is this. The schools are not doing so well, and they could use our help.
 Well, it seems to me when I read this, I said, wow, aren't we generous? This is like me buying lightning, a mocha, but somebody else pays for it, and I take the credit. That's what this sounds like to me. It sounds like that you guys are giving the money to the schools, which is a good thing. We're all going to fight for that. But then you get reimbursed. So my suggestion is why don't you take the reimbursement and give it to the school again?
 and opt the ante, and it'll only cost you about $50,000. And you're getting a 50% discount because the federal government's coming over the hill. My argument here is don't be cheap. The schools need our help, and we seem to have some problems raising funds. We just had a disaster, in my opinion, of the only schools.
 The thing that went down that really caused me a great deal of problem was 97. So we're going to be strapped for money. This is a bargain. So let me buy Lightning and Mocha and let Commissioner Fritz pay for it, and I'll give her the credit. All right, thank you. So for the discussion about this, let's take action on it, please. Novick Fritz.
 So this is an after-school lunch program. It's done with the Oregon Department of Education.
 The costs are about $48,000, and we will get reimbursed for $46,000. I'm amused or interested that Mr. Walsh is now thinking that $50,000 is not very much, because for most of us it is. And if we need to make cuts next year at 5%, then the Parks Bureau will be looking at a $5 million cut. So even though, yes, it's $50,000 here and $50,000 there,
 This is really important, and it's been a program that we've been doing for some time, and it feeds hungry children. So, aye. If I could just add to that, Commissioner, because I think this is one of the proudest things that the Parks Bureau does, and just go back in time. It was in 2009.
 that the Parks Bureau asked the following question. They were interacting with a lot of children through our park system in the summer, and it turned out a lot of the children were hungry, and they came from very low-income families, and they didn't have one nutritious meal. So at that time, Emily York, who had a passion for this work, and Nancy Becker, who was a community activist who was working to bring up the nutrition standards in the schools, alerted the city to the fact that there was a federal entitlement program
 which allowed us to contract with the schools in the summertime to prepare nutritious meals, have it paid for by the federal government, and at no cost to the schools or the community, the Parks Bureau would deliver the food to hungry kids. This is the closest thing to a win-win-win. And I understand now, under Commissioner Fritz's leadership, that...
 In this last year, in the summer alone, the Bureau served over 100,000 healthy meals to kids, many of whom rely on this meal as their only nutritious meal during the day. So thank God there's an entitlement program which allows us to do this in partnership because the Parks Bureau is not a food provider. They don't have the kitchens. Thank God the school districts in the summer are willing to prepare the food so it can be distributed through the summer camp program. And thanks to this council...
 and i believe both commissioner fritz and commissioner saltzman played a role in this we've used general fund money to close the gap so that between the when the program would normally end and when the school year begins this council pays for those meals so kids get those meals and i will tell you mayor since you've been to a number of those things with commissioner fritz and me what you often see is not just the children showing up for the meal but they show up with a mom
 with a brother and sister and someone else there's a huge hunger problem in our community and we should be proud that the parks bureau is helping to address it i
 Ms. Halsman. Hi. Hale. Well, I think it's good that we've had this discussion. And, Mr. Walsh, we all use inelegant metaphors sometimes. But, of course, this isn't like you buying a latte for lightning and Commissioner Fritz reimbursing you, though. I think you're all free to cut that deal out in the hall if you want to. But this is about hungry kids. And I believe this money is coming from the Oregon Department of Education. Its original provenance might be federal. So let's hope that one way or another, between a progressive state –
 and a progressive city that we keep feeding hungry kids. Because one of the things that's been shocking to me as mayor, and we've all seen this, is that in a time of, you know, under 4% unemployment and average household incomes going up and actually poverty going down in our city, yay, we still have tens of thousands of kids who show up to school hungry. And so that's why this program is so essential. And, Mayor, just to be clear, it's not a state appropriation. It's coming through. It's a pure pass-through. Yeah. And the genius of this is that it's a state appropriation.
 It is a federal entitlement program. So if you are eligible, you get the dollars. Let's hope that will always be true. Aye. And just to clarify, this program is for the school year. Everything Commissioner Fish said is also true for the summer programs, which we do lots of fundraising for. Yeah, it's a good program. So there's children who are hungry all year. One way or another, no matter what happens to the federal government, this has to keep getting done. Yeah, let's hope. Okay, let's move on, please, then, to Item 12.
 1245 which is our first item on the regular agenda right no 12 yeah yeah 1245 we did that sorry we already did that 1246 I'm gonna have to get my prescription changed planning and zoning to reduce regulatory restrictions and processes for short-term housing and mass shelters the second reading in a roll call vote please I can see that I
 aye well i want to thank the bureau planning sustainability and the portland housing bureau and shannon callahan in my office for working on these uh good changes that will make it uh make more sense in terms of citing shelters in our in our community so thank you very much hi looking forward to all of us opening up the next one next week and more to come thanks to this hi
 Okay, 1247. Accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $136,536 from the State of Oregon, Oregon Military Department, Office of Emergency Management for the fiscal year 2016 State Homeland Security Grant Program Phase 5 to fund joint state bomb teams, equipment, and training. Good morning. Could you do that again?
 No, I'm kidding. I'm just kidding. Good morning. Come on up. Thanks, Sergeant.
 I'm Sergeant Steve Collins of the Metropolitan Explosive Disposal Unit, and I'm here in case you have any questions on this grant. The grant is an Oregon grant that was awarded to the state for explosive device mitigation. It's supposed to be shared between the four bomb squads, which one of us is ours, us. And our amount is $136,536. And if you accept this grant, I plan on purchasing two medium-sized robots.
 What medium-sized robots robots? Okay, how big is a medium-sized? It's about this big oh yeah That sounds like a good use of those funds any questions. Thanks sergeant Collins. Thanks very much Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's approve it. Please act on it, please No, they
 Rich. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Let's hope we don't need them, but I'm glad we're going to send in robots instead of people. Item number 1248. Accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Humboldt Sewer Rehabilitation for $4,177,461. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Larry Platt from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Humboldt Sewer Rehabilitation Project in the amount of $4,177,461. The Engine Mirror's estimate on this project was $4,980,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high.
 On August 3, 2016, Council approved Ordinance No. 187931 for Procurement Services to Competitively Solicit the Humboldt Sewer Rehab Project. The project was advertised on the City's Electronic Governmental Procurement System and bids were opened on August 25, 2016. Four bids were received in response to the solicitation of more excavation is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $4,177,461.
 which is 16.2% under the engineer's estimate, and given some of our recent construction projects, that's a pleasant surprise. The Bureau of Environmental Services, along with procurement services, identified an aspirational goal for certified DMWESB subcontractors and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction cost for the projects.
 There is a total of $436,632, 10.45% in DMWESB participation on this project, including as follows, DBE $403,800. Excuse me. Could you just tell people at home what DBE and other things? Just say the whole thing. Sure. I'm sorry. DMWESB means Disadvantaged Minority Women and Emerging Small Businesses.
 Disadvantaged, $403,800. Minority business enterprise, $7,832 doing manual manufacturing. And emerging small business, $25,000 for structural monitoring.
 Moore Excavation, Inc. is located in Fairview, Oregon, but are not a state-certified disadvantaged minority women or emerging small business contractor. They have a current City of Portland business tax registration number and are in full compliance with all City of Portland contracting requirements. Funds are available in the current year budget for the project.
 If the council has any questions regarding the actual bidding process, I can answer those, or there are representatives from the firm and from BES in the room if you have specific questions. Okay. Thank you very much. Questions? Okay. Sounds like maybe not. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 Now, when we're talking about the Pioneer Courthouse Square renovation project. Well, that's the next one. That's the next item. That's the next item. Oh, I'm sorry. Do you want to speak on that? I will come back on the next one. All right. Thank you very much. I stepped out. Thank you. Is there a motion to adopt a report? So moved. Second. Discussion? Let's vote, please. Melvin? Aye. Aye.
 Well, I believe this contract has more participation by minorities, women, and emerging small business than we often see from more excavations, so I'm glad that they are taking to heart the need to get some of our public dollars spread around. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay, now we'll take item 1249. Aye.
 except guaranteed maximum price of $7,590,279 from Belfour Beatty Construction LLC, doing business as Howard S. Wright for the construction of the Pioneer Courthouse Square renovation project. Well, this is an exciting one. Commissioner Fritz, do you have some comments here at the outset? Thank you. I'm just going to turn it over to our staff, Laura McGuire and Robin Johnson-Craig.
 Welcome, good morning. Yeah, thank you. Good morning. I'm Lauren McGuire, the Development Program Manager for Portland Parks, and with me is Robin Craig, who is the Capital Project Manager for this project.
 as well as Christine Moody, your Chief Procurement Officer for the City of Portland. We're here today to tell you about our exciting renovation for the square and to request Council accept a guaranteed maximum price of $7,590,279 from Howard S. Wright, who's the Construction Manager and General Contractor for the Piner Courthouse Square Construction Project. Thank you.
 The square is located in downtown Central Business District. It's bounded by Southwest Morrison, by 6th Avenue, Yamhill, and Broadway. The goal of the project is to renovate the square and make other critical repairs to the infrastructure and facilities in order to protect and ensure that the public's safety, its accessibility, and enjoyment of the square continues without changing the essential character of the square.
 The project has a $10 million budget funded by the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond, and we also have $150,000 that we were given of system development charges added to the bond budget in order to help fund the expansion and renovation of the restroom to create an all-user restroom.
 the square was transformed from a parking lot to portland's living room on april 6 1984. so the square is named after its name neighbor which is the pioneer courthouse and was designed to be the focal point of downtown the square resides in the center of the transit system
 and the Central Business District with shopping offices and service sectors, which serve as attractors to this entire city region of our city. Pioneer Courthouse Square is more than just bricks, though. It's people that activate the living room and make it successful for 365 days of the year. The success is attributed in part to our
 a pioneer courthouse square inc which is managing and operating the square in partnership with portland parks in recent years the unique public private management model the park has been recognized as one of the most successful public spaces in the united states and in fact the world we have more than 300 programmed events there every year and the square is the most visited site in oregon attracting 9.5 million visitors every year with 100 million transit rides
 But now, after 32 years of wear and tear, we're here to look at repairing the square. The project will repair the failing waterproof membrane, the deteriorating brick plaza. It'll do the failing heating and cooling elements, failing structural elements, the damaged stoa columns, areas that are out of compliance with ADA repairs. It'll also expand the restroom for equity, safety, and accessibility. Thank you.
 And Portland Parks Manager Robin Craig has been working with SRG Architects, who has a design team assembled, Shields Oakwoods Johnson, who's our owner's representative, and then Howard S. Wright, in this CMGC process collaboratively. And so we have an excellent approach for the design of the repairs. Part of the construction will focus on reconstruction of what was the separate male and female restroom into a new all-user restroom configuration, which you can see on the screen.
 The main bathroom renovation components include increasing the capacity, so we're going from eight fixture count to 11 fixture count. We're including two new all-user ADA-compliant individual toilet stalls, and that improves our ADA accessibility. We're also addressing inclusivity with this new restroom for the city. We're providing more durable materials for ongoing maintenance and care, and we're going to be accommodating a space for an attendant.
 to help with increased cleaning maintenance and security concerns there's also baby changing stations and a new ada compliant restroom we've had extensive community outreach in the creation of the design so six project advisory committee meetings eight pioneer courthouse square facilities committee meetings seven executive board meetings and two open house events so our purpose here today is to accept the guaranteed maximum price
 of $7,590,279 from Belfer Beatty Construction, LLC, DBA Howard S. Wright for the construction of Pioneer Courthouse Square renovation. Howard S. Wright has been teaming with and mentoring, has an agreement with Faison Construction. Together, they're striving for 39% disadvantage of minority women emerging small business utilization. So we're pretty excited about that.
 And our understanding about this particular report is that it will become effective immediately so we can begin contracting with Howard S. Wright. At this time, Christy Moody, our Chief Procurement Officer, will discuss the procurement item. We also have, I think, in our audience, Harriet Cormack, who will provide testimony during public comment. And then we'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. Thanks. Thanks.
 Christine Moody, Procurement Services. On September 9, 2015, City Council authorized an exemption for the use of the construction manager general contractor solicitation process for the Pioneer Courthouse Square renovation.
 Through this process, a request for proposals was issued, and among other things, as Lauren stated, this RFP included specific preference points for a prime contractor to partner or team with a certified disadvantaged minority woman or emerging small business contractor. Howard S. Wright is teaming with Faison Construction, which is a minority-owned business, on this project.
 In January of this year, four responses to this RFP were received. The responses were evaluated by a five-person selection committee, which included representatives from Portland Parks, Portland Business Alliance, and the Minority Evaluator Program. Howard S. Wright was the highest scoring proposal.
 Also, as Lauren stated, Howard S. Wright has committed to using a disadvantaged business subcontractor and supplier plan in which they have committed to 39% or $2,028,704 of utilization on this project. And in addition, Howard S. Wright will comply with the city's 20% apprenticeship requirement and the city's workforce diversity goals. Great. That's good news. Thank you. Thank you.
 question about i always ask this question i don't think lauren you've been here when i've asked this question but the bricks we own the bricks i own a couple bricks at least so tell us what is going to be done to preserve those bricks with our names on them well actually the bricks will be removed and we'll be replacing it with a new brick with your name on it yeah and then we'll be mapping them and you'll be able to see from the map where your brick is located great
 And are we giving – I realize you're doing that on behalf of the original donors who bought those bricks, but are you giving people the opportunity to buy additional bricks? Correct. So there's still some areas where you can buy a brick? Lots. If you have – okay. There's lots of space. I think that they're $100. Is that right? That's right. And it's for a forever brick. So go to Pioneer Quartel Squares there.
 website and sign up today. Okay. So somebody might have had a child or something since the last time and want to just say it. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Other questions for our team? Sounds great. Thank you very much. Do we have anyone who wants to speak on this item? Oh, Harriet. Harriet McCormick here. I'll see her. No? Okay. She's not here? Okay. Yeah. Come on up, Whitney. I'll try to get the right audience to speak.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning and Watchdog PDX. I absolutely agree with this bid with Howard Wright Construction. They're a great company, and I like what I'm seeing so far. Some of my concerns are I have a brick located pretty close to where they set the tree, the Christmas tree. And I'm kind of sensitive to want to make sure that I still have the same location, and it sounded to me like...
 that might not happen, or maybe the names will be moved in different locations. Because to me, I look at Pioneer Courthouse Square as a, which is considered a memorial. And there's a lot of bricks in there related to that from people that have dedicated these bricks to different relatives, different people that have passed away. So there's a lot, there's a lot of meaning behind this Pioneer Square to a lot of people. And it's kind of like, if you had a,
 tombstone somewhere and someone was going to say we're going to come in and remove that we'll break it into pieces and then we might put it in the same location but we might not people are going to get real sensitive to this and I'm I'm very sensitive to the fact it is a memorial and I want to make it very clear from my position I don't want my brick that I have there move to another location
 I'm a little concerned, and I guess I'm going to have to deal with it, that you're going to go in there and destroy the brick that has been in there for many years with certain names on it that has meaning. And to a lot of people out there, I know that they see that too. If you go and read some of the names, a lot of the people are deceased, and they put their name in that location for a purpose because it has meaning. They go there. They look at the name. They look around, and that has a tremendous amount of meaning to them.
 And I really hope that there was a committee put into place that really looked at this close and understand that is a very important issue to a lot of people. Now, another issue I have is that I didn't hear anything about any more additional artwork being added. It's very important to me, especially when I walk down into, let's just say, where your new restrooms are going to be. If I walk down there, I'd like to see something different on the sides there even more.
 in the fountains, in the water, such as that. As you know, you have some bears located across the street. There are some beavers, different things. I'd like to see a little bit more added to that entrance when you walk down that kind of gives it a little bit more life and meaning because to me, it's very plain and it doesn't say a whole lot. And I think something could be added in there if RAC takes a look at this to really kind of
 add something to it. So those are concerns to mine. And just real fast, on the warranty on that waterproof membrane, I want to make sure there's a good warranty on that because, as you know, that seemed to be the real problem. But again, my main concern is on the bricks there, how that's going to be handled, and to make sure that people are aware of it. They get some type of notice and they understand that that brick that you've been going to every other weekend is
 may get destroyed and a new one might be made up and you might be in a different location. That to me concerns me. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you raising the concern. Good morning. For the record, again, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We do a lot of demonstrations at the square. And one of the things that's always impressed me along with Mr. Lightning
 is the number of people that are in the square looking for their brick or their family name on the brick. So it's crucial and it's very important. And I always thought that whoever came up with the idea of the bricks was a genius in financing because it was really cool and people were really excited about it.
 and I commend listening to the discussion, and if there is not a very secure plan to replace those bricks where they were taken from, we have a problem, and that would be sad. So I want you to think about that one, and we would just support what Mr. Lightning was saying. It's a very valid point that if we ask people to do that,
 then we should say, okay, those bricks are going to stay there as long as the name can be read or something like that, have some criteria. Thank you. Thank you. Charlie, was that Mike Lindberg or was that Doug who came up with that idea? I think it was Mark Lakeman's dad, but, yeah, I'm struggling to remember whose idea it was. It was a great idea, and Joe's right, it was a genius.
 I think this is good that we've raised this concern. I think the commissioner in charge and the Parks Bureau and Pioneer 4-House Square obviously need to take those things into account. Of course, the bricks have to be removed in order to replace the membrane. It's under the bricks. That's why we have to do this in the first place. But those details that people just raised in testimony do matter. I hear that concern. I know you have, too. So thank you. Is there a motion on the report? So moved. Second. Let's take action then on the report. No, thanks. Aye. Aye.
 Well, first, thanks again to the taxpayers and voters of Portland who authorised the bond measure, not to pay for this two years ago. And thank you to the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board. Many of them, maybe all of them, have bricks there, so they're very much aware of the care that people have for both their homes.
 brick and for the placement. Perhaps more important to me in this is the all-user restroom that I'm sorry that I'm getting timed now. So
 I'm sorry, Harriet McCormack wasn't able to be here. She has done an amazing job with the Facilities Committee of the Pioneer Courthouse Square Board to figure out how to make all of the stalls all user restrooms and at the same time improve the safety and security. I will note that I will be coming in the budget next year to ask for funding for the attendant, and it has to be a qualified security guard because of the number of things that go wrong in that restroom area.
 but it is the restroom that is most used in the city of Portland, so I'm told. So it's great that we're able to expand it and do the other necessary maintenance, which is perhaps less flashy but definitely needed. Aye.
 Commissioner Fritz, in Spain, in some of the public restrooms, there are attendants, and they work on a tip basis, actually. And I'm also reminded that in one of the great historic restrooms in New York City, in Bryant Park, there is a full-time attendant.
 And so there are lots of models out there. But again, we would not be having this conversation had you not led the Parks Bond effort. And I remember some people asking at the time, why did you include Pioneer Courthouse Square? And I think your answer was very simple. You said it is the city's living room. It is the one place where everyone is welcome, whether you live in East Portland or the West Hills. And we have an obligation to maintain it.
 and you got the added dividend of the board members getting solidly behind this effort. So I thought that was about as skillful an act of statesmanship as I've seen at parks. Congratulations. Aye. Yeah, this is indeed good news. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and thanks to the voters, and thanks to Portland Parks and Recreation and Pioneer Courthouse Square Board. Aye. Nails. Great place, great project. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 If I might just once again interject, thanks to Amy Ruiz, who helped pass the Parks Bond measure and who helped pass the housing measure yesterday. So I very much appreciate her service to the city. Okay, let's move on to 1250 then, please. Pay claim of Jennifer Castro in the sum of $13,000 involving the Police Bureau. Okay.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Becky Chow. I'm with Risk Management in the Bureau of Internal Business Services. This ordinance will approve a settlement that we've tentatively reached that
 With Jennifer Castro and her attorney, they brought a lawsuit regarding an incident on May 3, 2015. Ms. Castro called 911 regarding an argument with her estranged husband, and he had come to her home in her car or their car returning their child. After a visitation, the police came and said,
 The dispute is over whether the police ordered her to give him a ride home, which they say they did not, or whether she volunteered to give him a ride home. On the way home, this man assaulted her, and so she brought a claim against the city for negligence. And we recommend that we settle the lawsuit for $13,000. $13,000, right, yes. Okay, questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up.
 Mayor Hales, commissioners, I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And I do appreciate that the city attorney read the details of what happened into the record. That doesn't always happen with these settlements. I'm the city attorney. I'm sorry, the person from the risk management office. Yes, this is a negligence claim. And the police advised, apparently, what she says, her to drive her estranged husband somewhere after she called for help. And then that ex-husband assaulted her after the police left. It's a terrible story.
 One of the things that's notable is it sort of speaks to the ongoing problem of police inaction. We run an incident report line at Portland Cop Watch where we've been getting a lot more calls about that kind of inaction. And yes, there's discretion for officers, but especially after the national election, you kind of need to look at that gender parity training we've been talking about giving to the police for all these years.
 that maybe they disregarded her concerns because she's a woman. It also should state that...
 The IPR has said that there's been an increase in this officer in action complaint coming to them over the last several years. And, you know, you have to examine whether that's related to the DOJ agreement being in town and the officers having this alleged low morale. Or is it related to the so-called lack of officers that the PPA contract is supposedly fixing? On that note, you only have two days to rescind your vote on that contract.
 I'm not sure why the doors were locked this morning when I came in, but if people wanted to come speak to you, you should really consider, since you suspend the rules so often to do what you want, consider suspending the rules and allow 10, 20, 30 minutes of communications to help make sure people feel heard by their government. So I'd like you to think about that. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. Then this is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. No, thanks. Aye. All right.
 hi hi hi hi and 1251 pay claim of sophia holmes in the sum of ten thousand dollars involving the police bureau
 Hello, and I'm Becky Chow again from Risk Management. This is another lawsuit settlement. We're recommending that we pay $10,000 to Sophia Holmes. Her car was stopped by spike strips mistakenly. Her car was identified wrong by a license plate that was a couple digits off, and
 was a same make and model of a car that was on the hot sheet of stolen cars. So, um, yeah,
 This was on East Powell near 162nd, and the officer who thought that he saw a stolen car, this was 3.30 in the morning, radioed ahead, knowing that the boundary line with Gresham was at 181st and said maybe someone should get ready there with spike strips. Unfortunately, a Portland police officer sort of at 168th
 decided to put the spike strips down before the original officer could come up behind the car and pull it over and see that the license plate was wrong. So once the car was pulled over, it was a fairly gentle stop to the side of the road. The officers apologized and gave Ms. Holmes a ride home. We paid for the tires, but she filed a lawsuit again for negligence and false arrest, and we negotiated a settlement for $10,000. Okay.
 thank you very much questions okay you want to speak on this item come on uh good morning again mayor and commissioners again dan handleman with port and cop watch and again we appreciate the um risk management office going into details about what happened here when this miss sophia holmes having her car mistaken has stolen uh and stopped by spike strips
 It says in the ordinance that the make and model and license plate number closely resemble the car on the hot sheet, not that the make and model were identical. So I just want to make sure that the record's clear on that. It may be you all convinced her that it was an honest mistake, but it's a pretty serious infliction of harm against someone who is not actually a criminal suspect. She asked for $49,000, and this $10,000 doesn't seem adequate given the circumstances.
 Also, it's really lucky she wasn't injured by being stopped by spike strips instead of being pulled over since she wasn't trying to elude the police or anything. The DOJ report requires settlements to be considered as part of the examination of the outcomes of the DOJ agreement, but we haven't seen that yet. And we're, as you know, more than two years into that. So many settlements are being...
 labeled as judgments so that they don't have to come before you or else they're settled for us in $5,000. And so we're not hearing as many come before city council. There should be some kind of publication that shows all the lawsuits that were paid out because of police misconduct in the era that we're in and under the DOJ agreement. We call again for you to rescind the PPA contract. I looked at the testimony that was submitted and it was overwhelming against the contract.
 a few people involved in city funded programs wrote in late after the mayor's office sent emails warning the testimony said to wait for mayor wheeler and that was you know not not a clean way to get testimony in favor of the contract two days left please rescind it is there a motion on this item it's not about not a motion sorry it's a murderous ordinance let's take a vote please
 Well thank you for the explanation of this one too. I stand behind my vote on the police contract. It was the right thing to do. And I also want to respond to your previous testimony Mr. Handelman that the council should allow 20 to 30 minutes of open citizen testimony every week.
 I'm so tired of listening to hate speech, to yelling, to the kinds of behaviors that I think led to the national disgrace yesterday. So now I'm not going to be proposing that, and I hope this mayor won't do that, and neither will the next mayor. Mr. Handelman, Mayor, raised the question of whether this is an adequate settlement. I just want to, for the public, explain one thing. One of the things that we are advised in the materials is whether or not
 The plaintiff in a lawsuit is represented by an attorney. In this case, the plaintiff is represented by an attorney, which means that she has a lawyer whose job it is to evaluate whether a settlement is appropriate and give her that advice. If a claim is worked out with a representative party, unless someone comes forward to counsel and questions that, I will presume it to be a reasonable settlement. Aye. Aye.
 Hi. In a police bureau that has about 80,000 calls for service a year, there are going to be mistakes, and we need to own up to them and make them right. And that's exactly what this settlement's about. One of the things I'm amazed about in the progress of the Portland Police Bureau is what's happened so far this year in mental health calls. We've had 1,500 calls for service relative to a suicide rate.
 The last numbers I saw were that 63 people had unfortunately completed a suicide, which is fortunately down from last year, and that there were zero uses of force in the successful de-escalation of the other 1,437.
 that's a pretty good error rate. And so obviously is, is the overall picture with respect to claims like this. We also had a gator session yesterday that looked at our situation with respect to police staffing. And thanks to the new police contract, it looks like we will avoid having to further reassign officers from specialty patrols back to patrol in order to maintain the level of service that's necessary to respond to those 80,000 calls. So I'm very pleased about both of those. Hi. Hi.
 All right, let's move on, please, to 1252. Authorize an agreement with Oregon Sports Authority for national and international sports marketing activities and event reoccurring services and provide for payment. Second meeting, roll call. No fake. Aye. Rick? Aye. Aye.
 I think the only negative testimony we got on this matter was lightning or someone testified that we should increase the amount of the contribution based on the return that we get from this wonderful organization. And if we had the resources, I think we would do that. But I'm proud that we are providing annual support. And the Oregon Sports Authority does fantastic work for our community, bringing events here.
 bringing tourists here and contributing to our tax base so it seems reasonable that we would support their work aye elksman hey hails involved in a lot of events at pioneer courthouse square christmas tree lightings protests whatever but when we were hearing that presentation earlier today what i could see in my mind's eye was the medal ceremony from the world indoor track and field games that were held there again and again i got to hang the metal around the neck of the u.s
 shot put champion, Michelle Campbell, and at that square. And I'll always treasure that memory. So the sports authority is doing great work. That was one more example. And I'm sure there are some more exciting events to come. Hi. 12.53. 12.53.
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Foster Road, Southeast Powell Boulevard to Southeast 91st Avenue project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, Marty Maloney, Knight of the Right-of-Way is here to discuss this item. That's a good title. Definitely. Morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with Puyat Right-of-Way. This ordinance is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary rights associated with the Southeast Foster, Southeast Powell Boulevard to Southeast 91st Avenue road project.
 The property rights in question are needed to facilitate sidewalk improvements on portions of both sides of Southeast Foster between Southeast Powell and Southeast 91st. I'd also like to add all affected property owners were informed about the city's need for certain property rights, and we're all invited to attend the reading of the agenda item.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions Council might have. Okay, questions. Very exciting project. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. It is an emergency ordinance. Let's take action. No thank you.
 This project is one of the finest projects on PBOT's plate, and I'm really looking forward to the day when Foster Road will be a safer place for kids to walk to school and for people to ride bikes and for the whole community. So thank you for this piece of it. Hi. Hi.
 I think two of the things I take most seriously in my votes from the council are vacating public streets, because we shouldn't give away the public's rights unless there's a good reason to do so, and then also the exercise of eminent domain. And my understanding is that all 27 properties that are affected have been notified, and you haven't heard any concerns from any of them. So I'm comfortable, and thank you for doing your good work in due diligence. Aye. Aye.
 hi hi this is a very exciting project and it goes along with the overall transformation of flints that we've all worked on together we broke ground uh on the first of those projects just a couple weekends ago we're going to act on oliver station today the construction fence is already around the gas station and the vacant lot and the new copper penny so
 sites so the transformation of downtown lens is underway and in this project to make foster into a pedestrian and bike oriented boulevard instead of just a car corridor is really an exciting piece of work and a great uh a great contribution to the livability of our city so thank you commissioner novick and pibot can't wait to walk along this street hi
 All right. Let's take action, please, on the next item, which is 1254. No, let's have a hearing on it. Sorry. Make administrative changes to Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax Code for more efficient implementation of the Street Repair and Traffic Safety Program. Richard Novick. Colleagues, since the Motor Vehicle Fuels Tax passed in May, the City of Portland has been collaborating with the Oregon Department of Transportation to finalize the administrative details of the tax collection of both the Fuels Tax and the Heavy Vehicle Use Tax.
 After considering both ODOT and the city's revenue division as possible tax administrators, the city decided the most efficient and effective administrator would be ODOT, which administers motor vehicle fuels taxes for many other Oregon cities. An IJA to formalize the agreement with ODOT was approved by City Council in September 2016. Heavy vehicle operators who pay the Oregon weight mile tax are exempt from motor vehicle fuels tax and instead pay for their share of the street repair and traffic safety program through the heavy vehicle use tax.
 As originally written in the code, however, heavy vehicle operators have to first pay the tax and then apply for a refund.
 Based on recent feedback from ODOT and weight mile tax payees about how to streamline collections, PBOT is proposing to make four minor administrative changes to City Code Chapter 17-105 to more efficiently collect the diesel portion of the motor vehicle fuels tax and align it with how the state gas tax is collected. These changes would allow Oregon weight mile tax holders to avoid paying the tax in the first place rather than having to apply for a refund.
 These changes will have no impact on the NPAE of the tax, the timing of the tax, the amount of revenue raised, or the administration cost of the tax. The motor vehicle's fuels tax is still projected to generate $64 million over the next four years, and the heavy vehicle use tax is estimated to generate $10 million over the next four years. I want to thank the Oregon Department of Transportation for working diligently with the city to ensure a collection of this tax occurs as smoothly as possible, and I'd like to invite Ken Lee and Mark Lear to further present this item.
 Mark Lear, Portland Bureau of Transportation. I had a PowerPoint presentation, and just basically it was the same thing that Commissioner Novick just walked through, so I'll save you from walking through that again. And I would like to thank City Council for the leadership on the gas tax. If you saw at the election yesterday, there were a lot of gas taxes.
 that didn't pass in the region. So I think for Portlanders to be able to see the value in this local gas tax and heavy vehicle use tax is really important. And as the Commissioner said, we took ODOT's advice initially on how to set this program up. There was some better advice after the vote passed, and we now have a streamlined process that the Oregon Trucking Association and Oregon Fuels and ODOT and the city are happy with.
 Ken Lee with Transportation. And, yes, we are just working the finer details with ODOT right now, and we're still projected to go live January 1 with the implementation of the collections of this gas tax. Okay. Questions? Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes the second reading next week. 12.55. 12.55.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Southwest Vista Avenue water main improvement project at an estimated cost of $533,000. Second reading. Roll call. Move it. Aye. Rich. Aye. Fish. I just want to remind the council that we're replacing a 90-year-old water main.
 And after a certain age, these things actually need to be replaced. So thank you for your support on this. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Kept it just long enough. Aye. 12.56.
 Approve financing not to exceed $13,262,131 using Lentz Town Center Tax Increment Urban Renewal Funds for the Oliver Station Apartments at 5932 Southeast 92nd Avenue and 9138 Southeast Foster Road to develop 126 units of affordable rental housing within a mixed-use and mixed-income development. Mr. Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. This action would be the final step in approving a much-needed affordable housing development in Lentz. The Oliver Station project will feature 126 units of affordable housing located between 92nd and Foster Road along bus lines and the core of Lentz. I believe it's the new Copper Pinney site, if I'm not mistaken.
 This project for the Lentz Town Center Urban Renewal Area was made possible through joint actions of the Portland Housing Bureau and the Portland Development Commission. And it's an initiative that began in fall of 2014. The project is being developed by Palindrome Lentz Limited Partnership along with Urban Edge Builders, Inc. as the general contractor. Palindrome will operate the housing when it's complete.
 The project features deeply affordable units. Six of the units will serve households earning up to 30% of the area median family income, and the remaining 119 units will serve households earning up to 60% of the area median family income. It will feature one manager's unit. And we have staff here to answer questions. Javier Mena, our assistant director. Members of the team, come on up. Members of the team, yeah. Good morning. Good morning.
 Another long-awaited Lentz project. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for the time. We actually are here to present for approval of this project, which we are very, very excited about. Also wanted to, in a broader perspective, let you know within the next two years that we will be investing roughly about $22 million in Lentz.
 This will be creating roughly about 259 affordable units, 42 of which will be affordable at 0 to 30, which represents about 16 percent of the affordable units being available to those most in need.
 Talking about Oliver Station, as I just mentioned, it is on the Old Copper Plain side. We are greatly very, very happy that that is finally being developed, and I will stop at that. I know Chad is here to talk about the project specifically, and Cora will talk about the neighborhood involvement. So thank you very much.
 welcome good morning good morning mayor good morning commissioners my name is chad reniker with palindrome communities and i'm very i'm very honored to be here today to talk about this project
 In some ways, I'm a little bit embarrassed to be here speaking on behalf of the project because of all the work that's been done by other people besides me. But nonetheless, this has been a very collaborative effort from the very beginning with the Housing Bureau and the Portland Development Commission. And it really goes back to at least two years ago when the request for proposals was first submitted and my company was interested in Lentz. We own a brewery there that you may have been to. And so we've had our eye on Lentz for a long time. And-
 People talk a lot about private and public partnerships in this industry, and we operate in many states, and I hear that term a lot, but I don't think that any project that I've ever been involved in has come this close to being a true private-public partnership. As you may know, the original RFP did not include these sites that are the sites that the Oliver Station is going to be built on, and that's because they were owned by private citizens. The New Copper Penny site –
 and the Chevron gas station that our mayor mentioned earlier. So in order to really bring this project together, we had to really have a lot of strategic planning sessions with the Development Commission and the Housing Bureau
 on how to acquire those sites to bring them to put this i mean we felt like that was the catalyst for the town center um and without those sites being part of the project that really all of the other funds that were going to be put into the town center would really be marginalized and so so we were we were able to shift people's thinking to get those projects um included and and uh and obviously we're very excited about that um
 So once we had the sites acquired, we've really been spending the last year or so the grueling process of putting the financing together. And this is one of the more complicated transactions that I've ever been involved in with condominiums and land leases and taxes and bonds, tax credits. I mean, it just about has everything.
 But we're at the point now where we're close to the finish line. We can see it. We can smell it. One of the great things that I enjoy about redevelopment projects is the neighborhoods that we get to go into. Our company is there for the long term. We adopt these communities. They adopt us.
 and they become our communities. So we'll be there for the long term. And as the mayor mentioned, I was out at the site just earlier this week and saw construction fencing around all three of these strategic lots, and my heart's pounding. We're ready to go. It's very exciting. I can't wait to get started. Thank you. Thank you. Cora, good morning.
 Mayor Hales and Commissioners, thank you for this opportunity. I'm Coralie Potter. I'm a decade-long resident of the Lentz neighborhood. I served as chair of the Lentz Town Center Urban Renewal Advisory Committee for four years, and I've participated in many budget and development advisory committees for the Lentz Urban Renewal Area over the course of my tenure in the neighborhood.
 I also currently serve as the land use chair for the Lentz Neighborhood Association, but I'm here today to reflect on my role as a private citizen advocating for Lentz and on the aspirations and hopes for the neighborhood that I've been aggregating over the years as we've worked to reach this moment in time in particular. A few years ago, I really wanted some nice beer. So I walked three-quarters of a mile from my house to Fred Meyer, and to my dismay, the small section of the beer aisle that had anything appealing had been emptied and not restocked.
 Of course, I complained to my friend in calling Nick Christensen via text message because that's our routine. And that set into motion more conversations about what's missing, what we lack, and the real counterintuitive way we were being left out as a neighborhood by a rebounding market and development. So we decided to really push PDC to find us just one thing that folks had been asking for, just to get the ball rolling, and that was a brewery.
 A few PDC employees got to talking in their hangout down the street, the stars aligned, and a fellow that ran small brewery pints along with his business partners agreed to open a larger operation, Zoigle House Brewery in Lentz. What we didn't know at the time was how lucky we had gotten and that one of the partners was Chad Reneker of Palindrome Communities.
 and in the time he spent in lindstown center working on the brewery project he quickly saw what we saw in our community he saw a gathering place a place where commerce should naturally occur and where people should live work and play our small victory led to advocacy for an action plan which led to a request for interest which led to an ambitious proposal from palindrome communities to restore our town center and before you we have the proposal to provide funding to realize the first phase of a development plan that is really about a true lens revival
 Chad and his team have been integral parts of our community since the opening of Zoigle House, and they work to ensure that they are intentionally including us, not just bringing us along, but including us in the anticipated development in every aspect of the project, including making sure that we're keeping space for our neighbors who need affordable housing, but consciously mixing it with market rate housing to ensure that everyone has access to good services and our small businesses are supported. Thank you.
 The project also includes a significant amount of ground floor retail, which will not only provide much needed and in-demand brick and mortar space, but will also turn our sidewalks back into places, not just thoroughfares. Reading through the proposed ordinance and seeing the final details of the financing package, I'm also encouraged by the sheer level of investment and the smart use of public and private funding that will get this project out of the ground.
 Getting projects like this to pencil is challenging work that often goes without proper acknowledgement and isn't communicated effectively to the public. So I encourage you to use your vote today to support the proposed financing from the Portland Housing Bureau and PDC for Oliver Station Apartments. And I encourage you to support Ballandrome communities as much as they have supported Lentz.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. Questions? Well, thank you for telling that story. It's fabulous. I actually remember, I have been to the brewery because the neighborhood association, does it still meet there? We occasionally have board meetings there. Oh, well, that was about four years ago. So it's wonderful to see how one thing did lead to another. I'm very curious, why is your company called Palindrome?
 Well, I don't know if everyone knows what a palindrome is. I didn't know this original company name was Pacific Cap. That's for 15 years. That was our that is the name of our company. And one day someone said, that's a palindrome. And I didn't know what that was. Of course, a palindrome is a word that's spelled the same backwards as it is forward and
 So I picked up on that. I think a lot about palindromes, and one of the things I really like about it in this redevelopment vein, and this is kind of the company that we use for our redevelopment efforts is
 I like to think that when you're doing redevelopment projects, it's just as important to think about what's happened in the past in a neighborhood as what's going to happen in the future. You know, we talk a lot about the new Copper Penny. We talk about the Chevron Station. Well, I really got to know the owners of those establishments during the process. And, you know, in one case, they'd been working there for 40 years and in the other case for 10 or 12 years. And they really had their heart and souls in those businesses. And you can't really forget about that. You have to sort of absorb the community that you're going into there.
 as you're making it relevant for today and the uses for today. And so that's what palindrome is. I like to say something that's another palindrome that I like to use, which is a reviver. And a lot of times these neighborhoods need a reviver, and that's what I think palindrome is. That's really beautiful. Thank you. Thanks very much. Javier, you've got back to my staff very much. I appreciate it. Could you just explain what you...
 responded to me in terms of the median income of the neighborhood and the 60% MFI, median family income, as the target for most of these units.
 Certainly. In the Lentz neighborhood, and this is based on our state of housing report from 2015, and soon we'll be coming with a 2016 report, the average, the median income in Lentz is about $49,919 in comparison to the citywide, which is $55,571. It's about a 20% decrease from that. For a family of three, this represents a
 between 65% and 70% median family income. So it's right in line to where that neighborhood is, and this will allow the residents that are in the neighborhood to be able to stay in the neighborhood and not be displaced. Again, thank you, Cora, for all your leadership over the last 10 years. Very good to see this coming. Thank you. Director Mania, I have one question. It's been my sense over the years that we've historically undervalued the retail spaces in the buildings we invest in.
 And during the teeth of the recession, buildings that this council invested in had retail space that obviously was underutilized throughout the community. In fact, I wished years ago we had created a strategic plan for how to leverage all that space, because I think it could have been packaged or it could have been sold as a condo or investment opportunity. And in a number of our buildings throughout in the city, we still have underutilized space. So I've started –
 thinking more strategically about how do we leverage the retail space. So here there's 29,000 feet, is that right? Correct. It says 29,56. I'm assuming that's 29,500 something. Yes. So have we approached the retail space with the same intentionality that we have on the affordability in terms of thinking about it as leveraging a community benefit?
 So this has been where the partnership with PDC has really developed. I think that we, and if you look at the planning for this space, there is a targeted or a desire to ensure that this space that's available, it is available at affordable rates, some of that space for the local businesses. And I can't speak more in detail because I have not been involved in the development of the commercial side, but maybe Chad can speak to some of that. Actually, I did.
 Robert Gibson, who's here, who's been handling the transaction. Robert Gibson High level. You can give us that. Robert Gibson Yeah, I think it's 6,000 square feet has been set aside on the ground floor to be dedicated and restricted, if that's the word, for startup businesses and there will be an affordability component for those units or for that space. Robert Gibson That's great because I think for all the good work CORE has been doing in the neighborhood, we actually, in the past, we've been doing
 In Lentz, as in all of our 50 or so neighborhood business districts, we want to make sure that the local entrepreneurs have a chance to capitalize on these investments and not just have chains come in. And to make sure that when they're successful – I mean, the other part of that is – I mean, part of these discussions we had is that those – is the local and startup businesses are there, and they can take advantage of these lower rates when they start.
 How do you transition that into in the future when they are successful, which is what we want them all to be? And then you want the next run or the next batch of entrepreneurs to come and take advantage of that same opportunity. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you all very much. Just one more point that I forgot to mention. It is...
 One of the successes that we have in this project is that for every dollar that the Bureau has invested, we're leveraging $3. So it really has been a very successful development and partnership with other agencies and other funders.
 Thank you. Okay, great. Thank you. That's good news. And I see John Marshall is here. What was his role in this? So thank you for that. So John Marshall, he is the underwriter on this project. He's the one that really is the brain behind this process. You're saying as the underwriter, John put his own money into this. That's his own blood and tears. Still waiting for the check. All blood and tears in the project. Thank you, John. Thank you. Thank you all. Anyone else wants to speak on this item? If not, please come on up. Yes, do come on up.
 I just have a question more than anything. My name is Grant Sawyer. I moved to Portland a year and a half ago from a nice solar home up in the Lewis River Valley in Collins County because I wanted to live in a vibrant city like Portland. And I know the key to my ability to do that is my investments in real estate over the years. And my question about this project is, when they said that it's going to allow people that live in the community to stay in the community,
 The question to me is, are they existing renters that are going to be renting new properties, or the existing homeowners that will become renters? And if that's the case, then that doesn't really help people.
 Because the key to wealth, as most working class people will figure out sooner or later, is real estate ownership. And that's my problem with the city of Portland. I love living here. I get five times more exercise here in the city because I take the bus and ride my bike. Where in the country where I lived, it was beautiful, but I had to drive everywhere to do anything. And I was coming into Portland a lot, and you can't do that anymore on the freeways. So what's the answer to that? Is this...
 Are they converting these people from owners to renters? Or can anybody answer that? I think it's going to be a combination. It's probably impossible to predict who the residents are going to be at this point, but it would probably be some mixture of both. But are these new facilities just rentals? Are they condominiums? They're not single-family homes. I believe they're rentals. They're all rentals. These are. Yeah, and that's good, and it helps people that need it at that segment of the society. But we've got to get...
 ownership in the hands of Working people their point now they're gonna be a series of projects in lens and this is one of them But there's got to be a mixture of that you're right, and that's why I'm here today I came early, but I'm here for the residential landfill project because I support that wholeheartedly I took a lot of my retirement money and built the most efficient the adu built in Portland in 2014 so I've invested in the city, and I love what you guys are doing. Thanks a lot. Thank you very much appreciate your point I
 Commissioner Saltzman, that testimony just gave me a thought. Would it be possible to use some kind of a preference policy like you have in the interstate so that people who've been in Lentz for a long time have first opportunity to be in these homes? Well, I don't think this would be an area that's amenable to the preference policy the same way that North Northeast Portland is. I mean, there's a strong history of displacement, gentrification in North Northeast. I'm not sure you can make that same case for Lentz.
 But what we're trying to be doing is not have that happen and kind of get ahead of the gentrification thing. It's just something to think about. Obviously, it doesn't affect this contract, but it would seem like having or at least a targeted outreach to folks who've been in Lent to let them know of the opportunity that might be helpful. I will say in Dan's defense that the Fair Housing Act heavily prescribes this area. And unless there's a compelling showing that some particular group has had a disparate treatment, the Fair Housing Act would not allow us to do a preference.
 Interesting. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Then let's take action, please. Aye. Mr. Potter, it's really great to see you, and especially all of the work you've put in, that often you have been here telling us we haven't done the right thing. So it's really great that actually by your leadership we are doing the right thing in this case. Thank you. Aye. Chris? I'm just curious. What's going to happen to the new Copper Penny sign? Is that going into the warehouse at the Oregon Historical Society? Maybe so. Okay.
 It is sort of an iconic sign. That's a good question. Do you mind if we go ahead and turn? Go ahead, Cora. The Zantarmises donated it to the neighborhood, which is just this sort of amorphous concept of who it belongs to now. But we're currently looking for a place to store it. So if you know anybody that has a warehouse that wants to donate space to store a 14-foot in diameter and approximately two feet thick penny,
 I have an idea on that. The Oregon Historical Society, Carrie Timchuk, has a warehouse in Gresham and it has a treasure chest of things from Portland, including for example when Tom Moyer redeveloped his building downtown, all the stuff from his theater and everything was placed in that. I think we should approach the Oregon Historical Society about whether
 take it in an interim basis. I will contact your staff and get the details. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, let's proceed. This is a terrific project and well matched to the community with a good investment and our dollar investment per unit is actually substantially lower than some other projects, which makes it even better investment for the taxpayer. So congratulations to Dan and the Housing Bureau and John, thank you for putting your own money into this as a vote of confidence. Thank you.
 Well, this is really an outstanding public-private partnership to build affordable housing and retail in Lentz. And it's great to see the neighborhood coming here in support of this. And so I just want to recognize the neighborhood, Palindrome Associates, Portland Development Commission, Portland Housing Bureau, for the tremendous work they've done. This will bring on 126 units of deeply affordable housing.
 And it seems like an appropriate point for me to personally thank Portland voters yesterday for their outstanding approval of $258 million in general obligation bonds, which we will use to create at least 1,300 units of deeply affordable housing. So I want to thank Portland voters for recognizing the affordable housing crisis and taking a decisive step to end it. So thank you. Aye.
 Well, bravo, Dan, and the Bureau and the partnership to getting to this milestone. This one's sweet full circle for me. Like Cora, I have some history with this neighborhood, having been on the council when we approved the Lentz Urban Renewal Area and then having watched it, unfortunately, wait a long time for the projects that the neighborhood has had in mind to actually happen and to find the right partners to do those projects. And...
 Kimberly was, Kimberly Branham was gracious enough to say this at the groundbreaking, but there are times when you have to push your bureaus. And I'm very happy that I pushed my bureau, the Portland Development Commission, to
 move from being the biggest landowner in Lens to being an actual facilitator of real projects and I also pushed them to work with Chad and include the gas station in this project because to spend all this public money and then to have the highest and best use of the best corner in the neighborhood be a gas station would have been a terrible outcome so I'm very glad that we were able to finesse the inclusion of the gas station redevelopment site into making this the 100% corner of a great neighborhood and that's what
 Cora and all these other neighborhood activists have wanted for so many years. So this is a great pleasure for me to be here and to be able to act on this and, like I said earlier, to be able to walk down Foster Road through downtown Lentz a few years from now and see the results of all of your good work. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay, we have one more item this afternoon. This morning that's 1257. Well, actually it is this afternoon, but the morning is agenda. 1257.
 Authorize a three-year contract with Michael Jenico doing business as OIR group for the review of closed officer-involved shooting and in-custody death administrative investigations for a total not to exceed amount of $140,000. Morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. So here asking you to approve the – Constantine. Sorry? Put your name in there. Oh, apologies. Constantine Sevier, Director of the Independent Police Review. I'm here on 1257 to ask Council's approval of this contract so that the Office of Independent Review can start its work reviewing 11 officer-involved shootings –
 Constantine, I just speak for myself. We've been impressed with the annual report we get from this group and the quality of their work. Have we received – has anyone objected to this request that you know of? No. Thank you.
 First of all, it's a three-year agreement, but we really need some of this information as quickly as possible. Will we get anything from the consultants before the end of the three years? Oh, yes. So, the plan is before the close of this budget year to have at least five or six of the cases out in a report. So, the hope is having, right now, we only have 11 officer-involved shootings that are a little bit more than that.
 open for us to review. There have been times in the past where there's been 20-something cases and it's been a big backlog. So the hope is by next budget cycle we can have actually no cases in the backlog and have them, like, when you do it on an annual basis. Let's say if it's a report out in 2018, it's covering officer-involved shootings in 2017, where when OIR took over this particular contract, there are cases from
 2003, 2004, in 2011, 2012. So we will get some of the data, maybe all of the data, in this budget year. No? My hope is to cover at least five of the cases within this budget year. And they would come back? They would be brought to council without waiting for the others? Yes, ma'am. And then it says not to exceed. If we can continue the progress we've been making, and there aren't any more officer-involved shootings, then we can do that.
 Does that mean that we wouldn't pay anything for that? Yeah, so OIR gets paid on an hourly basis. So this year there has been one officer involved shooting. So if, let's say, the police bureau went on that particular track, there will just be extra money within the contract that we wouldn't spend.
 Thank you. And then this is one of the few times that the council gets to weigh in in what's essentially an audit of one of the auditor's programs. And I would like to add to the scope of work their analysis of the timelines for each step of the evaluation, which we've been struggling with in the Department of Justice mandate to get the reviews done. So would it be possible to ask them to comment on that as well? I'm sorry, I don't understand the question.
 Well, they're looking into each case as to was it properly administered? Were the outcomes correct? I would like part of that to be looked at as how long did it take for each step and where was there a...
 might there be opportunities for internal affairs to be, or IPR to be tightened up so that we can get the cases done and potentially to the Citizens Review Committee earlier? So Officer Involved Shootings and Custody of Death, based on the collective bargaining agreement, IPR does not have the ability to investigate Officer Involved Shootings. So this particular contract is required
 was created in code so that IPR's role is basically facilitating a review of officer-involved shootings. And officer-involved shootings in custody deaths don't go to the CRC. And finally...
 OIR in their prior reviews, and I believe the PARC group as well, they look at timelines within their report. So in the most recent report, there are several cases where it took 15 months, 18 months for the case to be fully investigated and complete, and OIR took the city to task for that. So that is included in this contract, and we can expect that as a deliverable? Yes, ma'am. Thank you very much. Other questions? Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 Go on up. I should sign up for this one. Good morning. One more time. I'm Dan Handelman with Port and Cop Watch. And the city auditor apparently put out this contract bid and only received one response. The OIR group has done good work in the past, but it leads to questions about the auditor's office and how they conducted outreach that there were no other bids on this contract. We didn't know it was even posted because the IPR didn't include it in their monthly report to CRC or send it out in an e-mail.
 We agree with the OIR group who called to get rid of the 48-hour rule in 2010 and to stop saying suicide by cop, which is an important step forward. We've disagreed in their review that found officers did not racially profile key notice. They put out a report this January, and because of the vagaries of the old contract, they could only cover shootings to the end of 2013, which means even if they're able to crank out a report before the end of 2017, nearly four years will have passed since the first incident they're going to cover this time.
 I'm glad to hear that director is trying to speed things up. Of the 11 cases authorized, I feel it's important for us to say their names, and we're just going to cover the deaths because we don't have time to read them all. Michael Gregory Johnson, shot last November, had mental health issues, and the officers were given awards. Alan Lee Ballew, he was shot, and the camera footage, the security camera footage was reviewed by the officers before they were interviewed. Thank you.
 Christopher Healy, he was houseless, and he was in a neighborhood where someone had actually been helping him take showers so he could get on with his life. Nicholas Davis, also houseless. The officer tripped backing up, which also happened in one of the non-fatal shootings the next year. Kelly Swoboda, he was shot in the bottom of his feet by the officer who killed him.
 Notably, this contract doesn't include Chief O'Day's off-duty shooting. Now, Sergeant Greg Stewart's off-duty shooting at his home in Scapoose was covered by an early report, and I'm hoping that that shooting will be covered by the OIR group. I came in this morning, as I said, to find the doors were locked at City Hall. I think you need to ask yourselves, what role are you playing in creating the climate that fed the national election results? This is the true era of the bully pulpit. Use violence to keep the public from talking to you.
 I didn't suggest open communications every week. Only when there's a clearly outraged public that needs to be heard by you. That will help de-escalate the situations. Because of parliamentary rules, Commissioner Novick, who voted for the wrong reasons not to support the PPA contract, can't ask to suspend the rules and reconsider the vote on the contract. But Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz already said she won't do it. And Mayor Hales, you can be on the right side of history of two days left. Please rescind that contract. Thank you very much.
 Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then let's take a vote, please. Milvey? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your ongoing work. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hale? Aye. And we are recessed until 2 o'clock.
 Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the November 9th meeting of the Portland City Council. We'll get underway in a moment with the regular business of the city, but just want to take maybe a moment for us as community leaders to welcome you to a democratic process that we believe in and a community that we love. I know this is a difficult day for us. Many of us are sleep-deprived and wounded.
 and the values that we share as a community have been called into question by what's happened in our nation. But we're here because we believe those values are real and that we can make them real in our city. We also believe in the values of civility and tolerance, and I guess I want to urge each of you to do what I've been trying to do all day, and that is particularly find a young person,
 Better yet, a young person of color and tell them that this is a city that welcomes everyone and where everyone has a legitimate right to live.
 to participate in the process and be valued because my kids and a lot of kids today are wondering about their future. So I hope all of us can do what we can where we are with what we have to reassure one another today. We have important work to do this afternoon. We'll bear down and do it again. If you see us looking a little tired, it might just be because we didn't sleep last night, not because of what you're talking about.
 With that, I want to give my colleagues a chance to say some opening words, and then we'll start the process. I really appreciate what you just said, and I also would note for the record we have some very young people here today, and some people have brought their children. Your comments remind me that every day we in public life are modeling good behavior for them.
 And perhaps there hasn't been enough of that at the national level. So maybe locally we can set a standard that has evaded, I think, the national scene. So thank you for your comments. Thank you all for being good Portlanders.
 Commissioner? Thank you. Certainly as a woman and as an immigrant, this has been a very difficult day and I think it has been for a lot of people, what happened yesterday. You mentioned about the young people. One of my staff just showed me a map of what would be the blue and red states if only the 18 to 25-year-olds had voted and there were only two red states.
 So I think that actually our children are going to give it the best shot. They are going to fix some of the things that I've been trying to do in my life and haven't quite made it yet. So I did want to also start with something really positive, and that is that, and by the way, I really would appreciate it if everybody's kind to each other in their testimony today. We can certainly disagree, but we can do it respectfully and without calling names and such. That would be very helpful. So why don't you give your comments, and then I'll give my happy thing.
 Well, actually, I was going to say not exactly a happy thing, but make no mistake, this is a catastrophic development, and I expect this country to be unrecognizable four years from now. But just in terms of how we feel about our fellow citizens, it does appear that Hillary Clinton actually has won the popular vote, and my brother just sent me a poll showing that
 A majority of Trump voters do not want to deport all undocumented immigrants. Obviously, far too many Americans were willing to tolerate an open bigot. But I think that a lot of people just voted to blow things up because they think everything's all screwed up, so let's blow it up. And that does not necessarily mean that they have hatred in their hearts for their fellow citizens. They just...
 had this desire to blow things up. That is not particularly encouraging, but I do not think we can draw the conclusion from yesterday that a majority of Americans are racist, sexist bigots. So if that's an uplifting message, I hereby offer it. Okay.
 So just to kick something off with a more uplifting thing, tomorrow we're going to announce who's won the Spirit of Portland Awards, which is always one of the council's favourite events to talk about people and companies, neighbourhood associations, business associations, even some corporations who do good things in our community. So while the maximum number of people are here, I want to announce that one of the winners is Carla Moore-Love, our council clerk. Thank you.
 I understand that Carla served the city for over 30 years, and certainly this year in particular, she's had to put up with a lot of rowdiness, disruptions, and scare tactics from some of the community members who visited. And I just wanted to say that I really appreciate not only keeping us on track, but also your service to the community. Thank you. Thank you, Carla. Let's hear it for her. And let's give her the chance to get this meeting started in proper order by calling the roll, please. Perfect.
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Feltzman. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. Let's read the item before us for this afternoon's hearing, please. 1258.
 except the residential infill project concept report to council as general conceptual parameters for subsequent zoning code and zoning map amendments. Thank you. Let me introduce the subject, and then we'll have a presentation, and we'll get started with the hearing. I initiated this project last year to address a number of concerns that I've heard consistently from the community, not just these four years. I'll get back to that.
 about the eroding character of our neighborhoods from demolitions, about incompatible development that replaced some of those houses, and about the lack of affordability and challenges that Portlanders face when attempting to find housing in our great neighborhoods at a time where our housing prices are rising and where our household configurations are changing. This is particularly acute for seniors, lower-income people, and communities of color.
 This is not the first time that we as a community have grappled with these issues. Someone in the Planning Bureau staff found this document way back in the file somewhere, the Housing Task Force Report on Demolition and Density from October of 1989, on which task force I served as a private citizen.
 And actually, when you read this report, you'll see some of the issues that we're talking about here reflected. Some of them we've addressed. Some of them we still haven't addressed. And that's why we're here.
 This is part of a larger approach to this set of issues, obviously not being done in isolation. We are updating our comprehensive plan, a blueprint for how we're going to grow from a city of 635,000 people to a city of more than 800,000 people. And maybe after yesterday, like it or not, more people might want to move here.
 We've instituted a demolition delay for historic properties and additional notice to neighbors for all residential demolitions. We've required careful deconstruction of some historic homes, and I hope more soon.
 And we've worked to expand the affordable rental housing development in our city, like all the projects that will be funded by the bond measure that Port Wonders passed yesterday that you led, Commissioner Saltzman, and that will put $258 million into the provision of affordable housing in our city.
 We'll also soon be hearing the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendations on inclusionary housing, which they sent to us yesterday. So that combination of efforts are intended to try to get us the development that we want and avoid the kinds that we don't want, accommodate households in our city that are, again, different shapes and sizes perhaps than the one –
 that I grew up in and ensure that we save what we love about our city and build what we want to see. The concepts that we're going to hear about today are an important first step to ensure that our single family neighborhoods are well positioned to address the needs of people here today and for our children, our parents, and our friends who will be living with us in the future.
 So the purpose of today's hearing is to hear our staff presentation, to hear public testimony, and so that we can begin bearing down on the details of code and zoning map amendments for hearings early next year that will put these ideas into code.
 I know there are some folks that I'm going to call up early. We have some Planning and Sustainability Commission members here? Yes, we do. There's one. Okay, good. We have some of them here. I know we have some people with disabilities and small children and caregivers that we will provide opportunities for early and board and commission members. So we'll take those folks first in the batting order of testimony, and then everyone else as we can.
 So with that, let me call up our staff to make the presentation and take some council questions, and then we'll go on into testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Sandra Wood, and with me today is Morgan Tracy. We're both with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 We are here to share the concepts, which we're really excited to share with you. But speaking of our democracy, it's really exciting to facilitate a process in which the community members have an opportunity to talk to you about the subject that we've been hearing from them for such a long time.
 long time. I'm going to be sharing what we've done so far. We didn't come up with these concepts last week and are here today. We've been working on them for quite a while and then Morgan's going to walk you through the proposal and then we'll be hearing some testimony today.
 We began the process in summer of 2015 by recruiting a diverse range of stakeholders to form our Stakeholder Advisory Committee. That included representatives from neighborhood coalition offices and then people from the industry who build housing like residential builders, remodelers, architects, and realtors.
 And then a set of advocates for anti-displacement, housing affordability, accessibility, aging in place, historic preservation, energy conservation, because all of those topics do affect the production of housing and what kind of housing is built in the city.
 The committee spent a considerable amount of time exchanging ideas about the topics of scale of houses, housing choice, and narrow lot development, amongst other things. But most importantly, they provided staff with a lot of insights about the pros and cons of various approaches that we were considering. So I wanted to just thank all of them publicly, and we really appreciate their thought and all the time that they spent with us and this topic. Okay.
 Then we brought the initial concepts out to the public this summer through a series of open houses, which I think several of you attended, meetings and hosted forums. And then we received also quite a bit of public input from a questionnaire that we had online. But we had about 2,400 respondents to the second questionnaire we did.
 And a majority of the respondents thought that this proposal would be very effective or somewhat effective at meeting almost all of the project's key objectives. Morgan will touch on the key objectives a little further, but they include things like maintaining neighborhood character, providing housing choices, and allowing houses to adapt over time.
 We feel that the whole package of the three topics that we're bringing you today really does its part to advance the goals of the comprehensive plan for a prosperous, equitable, healthy, and resilient city that we're trying to build.
 I wanted to remind you and the public that we're not in the legislative phase right now. As the mayor said, we're not writing the law right now, but we're hoping to receive direction from council on the concepts before we begin the detailed work of writing the code and updating the zoning next year. You'll have two public hearings. One is, of course, today, and then the next one is next Wednesday on November 16th.
 to help inform your decision on whether the concepts are moving us in the right direction or whether you want to make some refinements to the concepts we have before you.
 And I believe the one next week is both in the afternoon and in the evening. Is that correct? That's correct. We'll be taking up a motion later to allow that evening hearing to take place with only a week's notice. Right. So it's at 2 o'clock and at 6 o'clock. We'll begin again. And when does it come back to council for possible amendments and further action? Late 2017. I'm sorry. We have this hearing, next week's hearing. We have a hold on December 7th. December 7th. Action on the report.
 And that could include amendments, Mayor? It could. That's correct. That's right. And then again, that's a report. It has the policy direction as we see it at that point, and then it will go into the code writing process into next year. When on December 7th? It's not a time certain. Is it a time certain? 2 p.m.? Okay, it is 2 p.m. Okay. And with that, I'll pass it along to Morgan to walk you through the proposal. Okay. Thank you, Sandra. Thanks, Sandra. Thank you, Sandra.
 So, real quickly, we spent some time last week going a little into, well, we went into a lot more detail on these topics, but for the benefit of the public and those watching, I wanted to give a quick overview of the project and where we are. So, Portland 2035, you guys just adopted a new comprehensive plan. At the heart of it, Portland is going to be a prosperous, healthy, resilient, and equitable city. A big part of that equity piece is opportunity for all. Okay.
 Over the next 20 years, we anticipate another 123,000 households moving to the area. That growth is what's going to shape the city. The discussion around the comp plan has been focused over the next 20 years, building on the foundation of the city's past successes. While the city as a whole has the zone capacity to accommodate our 20-year projected growth, a lot of our single-dwelling areas are built out. Part of this project is to broaden the types of housing we have available in these areas.
 so here's where we are today this is portland in 2015 and essentially we have two predominant housing types detached housing which comprises about 56 percent of our housing stock and apartments which is about 39 percent what is lacking is a broader mix of these other types duplexes adus attached houses while the single dwelling zones account for 45 percent of the city's land area only 20 percent of the growth is expected in these areas
 sandra mentioned our project goals and objectives the goal of this project is to identify ways the single dwelling zones can be adapted over the long term to provide greater variety of housing choices to suit our current and future needs we look to the policies in the comprehensive plan to identify the eight key objectives you see on the wheel here that applied to this project some are mutually reinforcing like maintaining open space and fitting neighborhood context while others may conflict this project aims to optimize and advance each of these uh eight objectives
 To do this, the project addresses three topic areas, scale of houses, housing types, and development on narrow lots. The first image here shows a range of house sizes on 5,000-square-foot lots. On the left is a typical older Portland home, and on the far right is the largest house one can build under today's code, coming in at 6,750 square feet. In 2013, about 60% of homes built on 5,000-square-foot lots were larger than 2,500 square feet, and the largest house built was just over 4,400.
 The first recommendation would limit house sizes in the R5 zone on 5,000 square foot lots to 2,500 square feet. This particular size limit would vary by the zone and the size of the lot the house is built on. Recommendation number two proposes to lower the house roof line. The current code sets the height limit at 30 feet and measures it from a base point at the highest grade next to a house, which is shown in the house on the left. These two requirements in conjunction can sometimes have the result of homes that are three or even four stories tall.
 The recommendation would limit homes to two and a half stories and better relate height measurements to the street. And the third scale recommendation addresses setbacks. So recommendation number three would increase front setbacks, but also acknowledges that in some areas, the established setbacks of existing homes along the street are smaller. As this image shows, the proposal would increase the front setback by five people to allow homes to reduce the setback to match their adjacent house where this condition exists.
 So I just want to take a quick pause here. One of the rather significant part of this project is the proposed size limitation is a significant reduction in what's allowed today, about 60% reduction over what's allowed today. The second topic addresses housing choice recommendations. While the last topic proposed reducing the allowed size of houses, this topic includes recommendations to allow more flexibility for what can happen within reduced building envelopes.
 Recommendations number four and number five essentially work together. Number four describes the types of housing that would be allowed. Number five describes where they would be allowed. So while single-family residential zones generally means one house per lot, Portland Zoning Code already includes multiple exceptions to this rule.
 This slide shows some of those exceptions. So currently, all lots are allowed one accessory dwelling unit, either inside or outside the house. Duplexes are allowed on all corner lots. And other code exceptions, like one additional unit, is allowed for lots bordering commercial properties. Under the proposal, these code allowances would generally be increased by one unit within some areas of the city. Single houses, currently allowed only one ADU, would be allowed both an internal and an external ADU.
 Duplexes, which are now only allowed on corner lots, would be allowed on all lots. And on corner lots, where duplexes are currently allowed, triplexes would be allowed. The key is that regardless of whether the new development is a house, a duplex, or a triplex, the size of the building will still be capped at the same size allowed for a single house. It's also important to note that this development will also be subject to additional design standards to ensure the form is compatible.
 So now that we've defined the size and housing types, this map shows where they would be allowed. The boundary of the conceptual housing opportunity overlay zone is made up of areas within a quarter mile of centers, frequent service transit, MAC stations, and within entering areas around the central city and higher housing opportunity neighborhoods. In other words, these are areas that have the characteristics that support prosperous households.
 access to good transit, have active transportation networks, our near daily commercial services, parks, schools, and other desired amenities. It's important to note that this overlay zone is conceptual. Further boundary refinements will be done in 2017 to reflect property lines, constraints from physical barriers,
 topography as well as other practical considerations. That's not a lot-by-lot map built up from the zoning code map, right? This is not. This is essentially a bubble diagram showing general proximity of the proposed overlay. And is the intent to look into whether there are all these things that you mentioned, like schools, parks, sidewalks, traffic lights and things?
 Right. So the further analysis we do as part of the specific mapping, if this is the concept that the council agrees to, is to go back and look at a parcel-specific map and refine those boundaries to accomplish those goals. Why did we not think about doing that during the comprehensive plan map process?
 I think some of this is embedded in the comprehensive plan process. For example, where we pulled this from is from Chapter 5 of the comprehensive plan about housing opportunity areas, which were areas that had good access to active transportation is the word that the policy uses. Yes.
 good schools, complete communities and they worked with us the housing bureau worked with us to derive that map of what areas of the city that when you live there do you have less cost for transportation and housing combined so that's
 kind of embedded in its working together with us. The other explicit comp plan policy released to middle housing, which defines looking at areas of opportunity within a quarter mile of the center's cohorts and so forth. One of the challenges I think we have here is that, first of all, you call it conceptual and that people are reading in different definitions of what that means. And second, this diagram makes it appear that virtually the entire east side is covered by this overlay.
 And so it doesn't quite seem to be as discreet as, you know, linked to corridors and town centers. So I think we're going to get a lot of testimony on this. And I think, frankly, I'm still a little unclear about if we adopted this at a concept level, what the next steps are. And I think it might be helpful to get some clarification on that before we start getting a lot of testimony. Thank you.
 Because we did hear a lot of testimony when we discussed those policies, that it wasn't going to be just blanket everywhere. It was going to be a lot more targeted. So that's what I'd like to hear from you. Yeah, and I think the policy you adopt in the comp plan says where appropriate. So figuring out where appropriate is is definitely part of the next discussion. You also brought up issues at the briefing, just asking about the difference between a base zone and overlay zone approach.
 So the answer to that lies somewhere in the resulting form. So with multi-dwelling zones where multiple units are allowed on the lot, such as R2, and in fact, multiple minimum densities are required, the scale and intensity of development is greater than what we would characteristically see in single dwelling zones.
 Also, while there's opportunity for diversity of housing types, as the lot size increases or as lots are aggregated together, the form starts to shift from mid-rise over to multi-unit apartments. So this slide is showing three examples depicting small lot development, individual, single houses, a four-story multi-unit building, and an apartment complex. These are all within the R2 zone and within about 12 blocks of each other. This is not what we're proposing for the additional housing types.
 Conversely, what we are describing is something that is tied to form with limited density allowances, so not a minimum density requirement. The form is compatible in scale and arrangement as single dwelling houses, but the density is flexible up to three units. So these two examples are showing duplexes that have been blended in with single houses. The overlay allows the existing pattern and scale of alternative housing types to coexist with other single dwelling houses.
 so beyond the additional housing types proposed recommendation number six includes more flexibility for a housing configuration referred to as a cottage cluster these are multiple smaller units on larger lots often surrounding common green spaces that are typically compatible in single dwelling neighborhoods they are currently allowed through a planned development process but do not allow any accessory dwelling units so some number of units are foregone under our current rules the proposed rules would allow cottage cluster developments to attain the maximum unit allowances prescribed for the base zone
 And to help advance other city goals, the proposal includes a provision to allow additional units when those units are accessible or affordable. So we also heard through our public outreach a lot of concern, a lot of continuing concern about demolitions. And that resulted in refining our proposal to address specifically existing houses and provide some additional flexibility for them.
 So these proposed rules add flexibility for adaptive reuse and for retaining existing houses, including a modest size limit bonus to accommodate remodels and additions, flexibility in the height when a house's old foundation is being replaced, and an allowance for one additional unit within the housing opportunity overlay area when converting to multiple units or when you're incorporating the house into a cottage cluster. The third set of topics gets at narrow lot recommendations.
 There are historic plats that were recorded at the turn of the last century before modern zoning was in place. Some of these older plats were created with 25- or 33-foot-wide lots. This map is showing the concentration of these narrow lot plats in various parts of the city. These lots, though substandard in size and width, can be built on if they have been vacant for at least five years. Recommendation 8 essentially acknowledges the development on skinny lots in the R5 zone, is not intuitive, and doesn't reflect the lot size pattern,
 and proposes to rezone these historically narrow lots to R2.5. These lots are also located in areas that are close to centers and corridors, but unlike standard-sized R5 lots that would be within this housing overlay area, these would allow for a duplex. These lots provide options for fee-simple homeownership of smaller houses.
 And again, I think the community is going to be looking for reassurance that we are going to do more specific than just the quarter mile to transit. Of course, you have to look at is there a sidewalk and is it the other side of a barrier like a freeway or a cliff or something. Thanks. So with this additional R2.5 zoned area, Recommendation 9 proposes several improvements to development in this zone. This shows four variants of house development that could result in the R2.5 zone.
 So where a house is being retained, as the house on the left, new rules would permit a property line adjustment to create flag lots. On lots where a house is demolished, new houses would be required to be attached. On large vacant sites, those at least 5,000 square feet, two units would be required, either a duplex or a house with an ADU. And on other vacant sites, pre-existing lots could be confirmed or large lots divided for detached or attached houses.
 How is this different? Is this being added to all 2.5 zones or just the skinny lot 2.5s? This would apply to all 2.5 zones. Bacon 2.5 zone. No, all of them. No, all 2.5 zones. Oh, I see. At least 5,000 square feet. Right. So we shifted a little bit. I think the conversation about where to allow it.
 was to then rezone areas to R2.5, and then we took a look at all the R2.5 areas, not just the ones that already zoned that, but the ones that in a comprehensive plan you're considering to rezone that, and these new ones, and improving the R2.5 zone so the product we get for R2.5 is more in keeping and consistent with what we're aiming for.
 and why aren't they allowed to do attached houses like the 2.5 zone is anyway they are so that's example number two that's number two yes okay and then in the third option it's basically being delivered being built at r5 but requiring an adu yeah so in in situations where you have an r2.5 zone lot that's 5 000 square feet and zone for two units
 This would require either a duplex to get to two units or a house with an ADU to get to those two units. If it's a house with an ADU, we're actually losing home ownership options in that zone. Right. So the tradeoff there is if we required fee-simple ownership, we would be forcing property owners to go through a land division process where they had a large site. So this is one, not narrow lots, but one big parcel of land.
 developed with a house, wouldn't be required to build a second or build an ADU. And do we have any evidence that in the current 2.5 zones, there's a desire to do just one house instead of two? Less so under the current market conditions, but it was happening previously in the last 2008 to 2013 realm.
 So we have to kind of be thinking about the fluctuations and how this would play out over the course of 20 years. It just seems in three, we're losing development capacity. We're keeping the number of units consistent with the underlying zone intensity. But we are losing out on the land division if that was the ultimate objective.
 Recommendation number 10 relates to garages and parking on these narrow lots. So as you can see in this photo, the driveways occupy most of the front yard, remove available on-street parking and take-up space for street trees. Additionally, on these narrow lots, the width of the garage door dominates the front facade and occupies much of the ground floor living area. The proposal would no longer allow street-facing garages for detached skinny houses, leaving room for on-street parking, larger front yards, and more street trees.
 The proposal would also not require parking on narrow lots, but would still allow it. The image in the top left shows a few options for accommodating parking for detached skinny houses, either on the street, accessed by an alley, or via a shared driveway to have parking in the back. For attached houses, garages would be allowed if driveways were combined and tucked under the first floor.
 So the combination of these recommendations for these three topic areas will ensure new infill is better scaled and proportionally related to the size of the lot it sits on, encourage more smaller units that are comparably less expensive than large new single-family houses, and provide more options to a broader spectrum of home seekers in places they wish to live.
 So before we begin public testimony, I'd like to invite Catherine Schultz, Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and Teresa St. Martin, who is our PSC representative on our Stakeholder Advisory Committee, to come up and share a few words. Great. Come on up, please, Teresa. I think Eli might be sure. Well, these two start anyway. Go ahead, please. Thanks. Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. The PSC was briefed on October 25th,
 It should be noted that we did not have the opportunity for hearings or the benefit of public testimony. And I'm here to share some of our initial reactions that we had in our briefing. As you all know, as stewards of the Comp Plan, we use it as a lens through which we review any proposal. Overall, we believe that the concepts in the Residential Infill Project are headed in the right direction, and they forward many of the comprehensive plan goals.
 reducing the scale of new houses addresses many of the community's concerns increasing housing choice in more areas of the city makes more of the city accessible to more portlanders the commission was very excited or was very interested sorry in the economic implications of the concept we did not have time to dive into them you'll see them in your appendix and therefore we encourage you to carefully consider those implications as you deliberate
 We are looking forward to our formal review during the legislative process, and we'll be providing our recommendation to you on that next year. I have Commissioner St. Martin here joining us, and she was on the Residential Infill Project Advisory Committee, and she can actually share a lot more of the specifics and the concerns that she heard throughout that process. Thank you. Thank you.
 So we spent 12 months, 16 meetings, and over 1,000 hours. And this was an amazing process. This was the first stakeholder advisory committee I had the privilege to be on. And it's amazing to see what people can come and share and be a part of trying to make our city better.
 I will say that these issues have direct impact right in the heart of where people live in our homes. So you're going to get a lot of very interesting testimony. This is a really close issue for folks. Of the three topics that we covered for the project, the scale of housing had the most consensus, although we didn't vote and this was not a consensus product. It is a conglomeration of the ideas that we discussed and learned about.
 For the housing choice topic, we really didn't have one single position on the SAC. Members either felt that the proposals didn't go far enough and that we should extend this to all parts of the city to increase the diversity of housing. And then there were those who felt that the proposal went too far, was not nuanced enough to really reflect what is the appropriate expansion of diverse housing in the city. Okay.
 So the concepts that Morgan talked about, you know, there's eight of them. I'm not going to go through each of them. But fitting neighborhood context was really important and was really up at the top of the list of the folks that were on the committee. And that's, you know, to keep Portland the charming place we all know and love, but still allowing other people to live here.
 providing the diverse housing opportunities, we have to think about multi-generational living, you know, both parents or children who are coming out of college or experiencing an economic disruption, as well as other people who need affordable homes. Allowing houses to be adapted over time was a very important issue to help reduce our demolitions, and that has to do with internal conversions and other ways to get more things into the same box.
 without destroying the beautiful hundred-year-old box that we have. And then lastly, to provide clear rules for development. We need to make sure that our development community and the people who live here and have really holding a lot of their wealth generation in their homes and land have clear rules on what can be done, hoping to keep it affordable and appropriate as we continue to develop our city.
 As the PSC representative, I think the staff did a fantastic job of gathering together all of these issues through lots of emotion and lots of public testimony. You're going to get your opportunity to hear a lot of that shortly. Just to alert you of a couple things you will hear about that we didn't really include in the plan. One is the urban forest canopy and provisions for maintaining that as we do more infill development. That's something that we have to keep a concern of.
 Also, land division rules for the cottage clusters to enable fee-simple ownership for affordability. And then internal conversions and what can be allowed there somewhat of respect to the historic way that we see. You know, like over in Belmont, you see lots of big boxes that are sixplexes, but they look like giant houses.
 So anyway, that internal conversion rules, those are a little bit more complicated. So thank you very much, and we look forward to continuing the robust discussions and coming up with something that will really make Portland shine and also to allow us to be in a leadership position on the middle housing issue that really is striking our entire country. Thank you, Teresa. Thank you both for your service. On the internal conversions, does the code specify that that's only allowed if you keep the existing house?
 As far as I understand, there's no specificity to that because it was a topic that we started to discuss, but we really didn't get fully laid out just based on timing. You could see how many things you could put into one. We call them ADUs or detached ADUs. So that's a little different than converting something into a fourplex or whatever.
 I'm just concerned about the developer doesn't necessarily have that much incentive. If you're currently living in a house, it's converted so you can maybe stay there. Otherwise, I'm not sure how that really stops the demolition because if you can do it and...
 build it new, that tends to be more expensive. Let's flag that issue and ask for testimony on that issue and also staff discussion because it was very much the intent that that was to try to provide an incentive to keep the old building even if the configuration of how people live inside of it changes. I'm just concerned that actually it is an incentive because then you can do more units and build it new. I'm not sure how that stops the scraping. I think that's something to look at. That's a good question. Okay, other questions for our two panelists?
 Stellar volunteers here. Thank you. Thank you. I know we have some other volunteers here some board and commission members and maybe other Stakehold advisory committee members that would like to speak please come on up. Good afternoon afternoon. Thanks for having me here I also I'm Eli's be back. I serve on the Planning Commission and also was on the residential info project and
 My comments maybe have a little more edge because I'll speak for myself and the commission member, but I'll say that I've heard the claim that the residential landfill project will destroy the character of neighborhoods around Portland. And I just want to invite you that if you hear that also in testimony, I hope you'll empathize with the concern people express, which are fair. For many people, buying a house is their big investment in life, and if things change around them, then it can feel like a threat. But I also hope that you'll think of these neighborhoods you're very familiar with and think of,
 People who live in those neighborhoods, who teach at the neighborhood school, sorry, people who teach at the neighborhood school, work at the coffee shop, clean houses, do landscaping, do they have any chance of living in the neighborhood too? And I hope that you'll think that this code process is a way to ensure that there are places within any neighborhood for people providing those essential services to live. There's a long and fortunate history in our country of zoning used as an exclusionary tool, sometimes intentionally, sometimes not.
 During World War II, when we absorbed 194,000 residents in a few years for the war effort, our lowest-density neighborhoods, which weren't very extensive back then, were left largely off the hook. So in the 1942 War Code,
 which mostly relaxed the rules of the game you could slice and dice houses all kinds of stuff it had in there nice clauses like no new building coming under the regulations of this ordinance shall be located in a class one residential district or a class one special two family residential district and if you do convert an existing building one of those districts to multiple units then you have to get buy off from sixty percent of the people who own private property within 200 feet that's white picket fence zoning
 Our 1% zoning, as Novick coined a while ago. Please don't repeat that. And we can do better than that. Now we've got 45% of our city with that same single-family zoning. Do we have a chance of meeting our equity goals if we don't allow a broader mix of housing types in our neighborhoods? As proposed by staff, they'd be required to be tucked within the size constraints of a single-family home, as staff has already shared.
 except that the size would be capped at 2,500 square feet, which is smaller than 59% of new single-family homes built in Portland on 5,000 square foot lots in 2013. So the size cap is less than 59% of homes getting built.
 I've heard the concern that if we adopt this package, every lot will get built that way, corner triplexes, double ADUs, courtyard plexes. I've also heard the concern that only weird developers like me would ever build the stuff, given the choice. I think we would end up with something in between. And we can look back to history one more time for that. If you look at the older neighborhoods of Portland,
 where you could by right have built every single lot with a courtyard plex. That's not what happened. We've done tours of this. We see those plexes, but there's also many single-family homes, mostly single-family homes that were built where they could have built something more intense instead. So I think what you'll see is a variety of housing types, which is exactly what we need. So I'd say the staff's done a terrific job with this code update. It could and should go further to support internal conversions of existing homes citywide, preserving urban forest canopy, and providing support for affordable and accessible housing.
 But I would say that what's eroding the affordability, character, and housing choices in our neighborhoods is not the RIP project, the residential infill project. It's the zoning rules on the books today. And we got a chance to change them, so let's do it. Eli, can I ask you a question? Yeah. Because you are one of the more thoughtful people that comes before us on this subject. When I joined this council, the hot subject at the time was whether we would erode the urban growth boundary to accommodate growth.
 And the council has historically said, no, we're going to protect the urban growth boundary because we believe in it. But we also understood we're going to have to take more people, and the question was, where do we put the density? And historically, the council has said that we could focus density in places like town centers and corridors and certain areas while also doing our best to preserve the, quote, character of our residential neighborhoods.
 Now, that's a very broad proposition. And now we're trying to figure out how to accommodate enormous growth, how to deal with an affordability crisis, how to bring in equity lens, and how to balance all these things. And this is a high-concept proposal before us. There's work to be done where it gets translated into action. But my sense is that we're trying to balance a number of core values, and we're trying to figure out where is the line.
 And do you have any further guidance for us as to how to balance our desire to protect the urban growth boundary, focus density where we can accommodate it, and protect some of the, quote, character of our more established neighborhoods?
 I think this proposal does a terrific job of maintaining the character of neighborhoods. We've actually tuned down significantly the size of what can get built. What people are complaining about now is what's being built under current codes, and this changes that. And if preserving character of neighborhoods means fewer people can live in them, then I guess I'm going to disagree with that definition. I think that's a proxy for exclusionary zoning. But if preserving character of neighborhoods means it's still got the look and feel of single-family homes, even if there's an ADU where maybe a garage would have been,
 then that's exactly what this proposal does. And I think that having an increased population density, and one of the things I fear is that Portland, as the further out parts get built closer to the growth boundary, that it'll be a monocrop of big single-family homes that will never have the population density it takes to support the vibrant, walkable neighborhoods that we are bidding up right now. And we need more of those neighborhoods. And the way to get those more neighborhoods is to have a mixture of housing types even further away from the core. Thank you.
 Eli, one discussion we've had is if the result of allowing for middle housing is a bunch of $400,000 duplexes, well, how can you consider that affordable and isn't that kind of pointless? A counterargument would be that if the alternative is single-family homes that all cost more than $750,000, then $400,000 might not seem all that affordable, but it's actually a lot more affordable than $750,000.
 Do you have any thoughts about that argument? I think it's relatively affordable. I mean, I think that
 I mean, I come from an affordable housing background. This is not getting you the affordable housing, except for in very limited ways by some nonprofits that specialize in for-sale neighborhood-based housing. They really get very far down the income level. But it is valuable to have in a market that's building $750,000 homes, that's all they can, that's
 a house at $750,000 but it's got an ADU tucked in the corner that might be rented at a pretty affordable rate, that's better. I live right in a neighborhood where behind my house, I live in half of a duplex. There's a totally developable lot that when it gets built out, it's going to be 10 feet from my back door. And I have the middle class anxiety that that's going to, you know, shade me out.
 If something's going to get built there, I'd much rather it be something that at least part of that structure is someone who teaches at the school down the street can afford to live in. And that's not going to be the case with a $715,000 house. So I think that this tool is limited. It's not the only tool on the books, but it's an important one to allow us to have a variety of housing types. Thank you very much. Welcome. Welcome. My name is Leroy Patton.
 and I'm president of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, and I want to talk about the 1959 City of Portland banned multifamily dwellings, such as duplexes, fourplexes, and internal home divisions. Since 1959, city code has made it illegal to build more neighborhoods with this classification of middle housing. This has contributed to the deep Portland housing shortage driving the poorest Portlanders out of their homes.
 By being forced to move, these same families lose out on job opportunities that are available in the city. This code has been used for 60 years. It is now time to reassess its value to Portland. These small, efficient ways to live, duplexes, fourplexes, and internal home divisions, encourage the development of small stores, markets, bus line viability, and walkable neighborhoods. Thank you.
 All Portlanders would benefit from such improvements. We urge you to support the missing middle housing amendment to the city's comprehensive plan by implementing the following regulations. Revise the zoning code to allow for middle housing types in existing residential neighborhoods. Remove the barriers to housing development of these projects. Allow more missing middle types in all Portland neighborhoods. Support rules that incentivize efficient use of smaller space
 spaces, and energy-efficient buildings. Bring more affordable housing options online for future needs. Eliminate McMansions and encourage the building of smaller houses. Land use decisions made today will directly affect housing abundance, diversity, and affordability. We need to make sure that housing reflects these values for all Portlanders. Please consider revising the 1959 City Code to accommodate the needs of all Portlanders.
 Thank you. Questions? Thank you both very much. Okay, before we turn to the sign-up sheet again, we usually grant the courtesies to people with disabilities or people with small children or who have caregiver responsibilities. If you're here and fit that description, you know who you are. And if you'd like to afford yourself that privilege to come up first, come on up.
 and or come up as soon as you can make it to the hearing part of the room from upstairs. And while we wait for anybody that fits that description, we'll go ahead and start the sign-up sheet, please. We have a total of 82 people signed up. Okay. The first three, please come on up, are Robin Harmon, Elaine Friesen-Strand, and Sam Noble. Thank you.
 And that's one, two, and three. And they'll be followed by Maggie McGann, Jim Gorder, and Michael Molinaro.
 Great. So, folks, obviously it's our goal to hear as many of you as possible. Quantity is nice, but quality is better. So if somebody has already covered your point, feel free to either forego or just second someone else's testimony. The goal of this hearing is to get the issues on the record and get a sense of how it's received in the community. So your say matters, but we would urge you to not be repetitive.
 it's true there's two minutes i think i would like to go to two minutes if we can uh all flex to that i know you may have written your testimony to go longer but again in the goal of hearing as many people as possible let's try to stick to a two minute limit at all possible thank you so who'd ever like to go first i think you've got that my name is robin harman i spent the last year as a citizen of the city going to all of these meetings they called me the 27th member of the committee um
 The project goal is stated in fall of 2015, and I will read you. To ensure that new or remodeled houses are well integrated and complement the fabric of the neighborhood. We saw that morph very quickly over time. You heard about a supposedly diverse committee, if you look very carefully. It is heavily weighted with developers, builders, their lobbyists, and housing advocates. Thank you.
 Somebody that just spoke today also is, and who is helping push this proposal through, happens to build the type of housing that would benefit and is also on the Planning Commission.
 I was appalled to watch them group together and hijack the process and put through a very self-serving agenda and wrap it in the disguise of affordable housing, which it will not create. We all want a suitable and affordable housing, but this proposal will not create affordable housing, and it would increase demolitions and displacement dramatically. Okay.
 The process was – staff was unresponsive to the public process, despite extremely strong opposition voiced in public testimony. Of the 27 neighborhood associations that expressed thoughtful comments about the proposal, 27 out of 31 were strongly opposed to widespread middle housing. There has been virtually – if you look carefully at the details of this proposal –
 there was no attempt to respect neighborhood character fully this is no grand bargain fully a third of the committee does not support it and there was no compromise i ask you to very carefully look at this and continue to work on this project because it would be an entitlement
 that we have never seen before to allow density to increase on two R5 lots together that would increase the density by 300 percent. So please look very carefully at the details. You have time to get this right. This would unleash massive demolitions
 It would destroy our neighborhood of South Burlingame, which is in this line drawing. And our density was supposed to be grouped very close to centers and corridors, not this random a quarter mile, which doesn't create walkable cities. Thank you.
 Thank you, Robin. I appreciate you being involved. Oh, folks, I forgot to do the ground rules. If you agree with somebody, pull up your hands or give them a thumbs up, and even negative hand gestures if you disagree with them, as long as they're polite ones, are welcome. But we try to not do applause except for visiting dignitaries and schoolchildren. So you're an important person, but you're neither a visiting dignitary nor a schoolchild.
 Let me ask you some questions, Robin. Sure. Appreciate your point about this. As you know, the purpose of this hearing is to give guidance to the next phase of this project, not to decide the question. And as always in something like this, you know, the three choices are do this, do nothing, do something else. Right. And there's a consequence to each one of those. I hear you saying that you're in the do something else or do this differently category. The more, not just today, but the more specificity you can give us, you know, is 2,500 feet wide.
 square feet the right number. Are duplexes a good idea? Are triplexes a good idea? You know, those details will matter as this turns into details, assuming it goes forward. So not just today, but as we go forward, obviously, if you think this can be tuned and get closer to your ideal of what should and should not happen, because I believe, I think there is a high level of agreement about what we want and what we don't want.
 We want to preserve the great old houses. We don't want them demolished thoughtlessly and replaced with generic boxes. We want to accommodate different household sizes and so on. So I think there's a lot of agreement, but obviously the devil's in the details. The devil is in the details. And the details matter. So keep that coming, please. I know you've been to 27 meetings. It's allowed on every corner now.
 And the city zone studies show adequate land for the next 20 years of our growth. And we're not building on the land that's already zoned for multi and single family residential. And so we need to explore that before opening up the whole city. It would take away anybody's sense of truth and zoning in single family residential neighborhoods.
 So please continue working. The third of the committee opposed to this has put together a very well-balanced proposal that meets all of the goals of new residents, existing residents, and also looks at affordability. And I urge you, please, to review that carefully. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Can I ask a question, ma'am?
 Mr. Harmon, I just wanted to ask you a question of preference. You might say you don't like either of them, but I'd like to see if you have an answer as to which is more or less preferable.
 Would it be worse, in your view, to replace a single-family, 2,000-square-foot house with a $3,500-square-foot mansion or with two 1,250-square-foot duplexes? Which of those do you think is more disruptive to the neighborhood? I think it depends. It depends on is there infrastructure in that neighborhood to accommodate the kind of growth?
 In our neighborhood, it's not very well served by mass transit, even though it's within the quarter mile. So it might be more appropriate in one situation. That's why we have to look more closely at neighborhoods, because it might be better than cramming a lot of people in there that just would not be well served, and it's not a walkable neighborhood. And I think we need to also not look at one duplex. Right now, a duplex can be on any corner, but...
 If you're demolishing a lot of single-family residential, it could turn a single-family residential home into primarily rental housing because there's no limit on this. This isn't saying it's going to be discreetly sprinkled in the neighborhoods like it's being espoused by some.
 You could make the argument that discrete sprinkling has worked out in that we've allowed ADUs over a large swath of the city, and we've allowed the corner duplexes over a large swath of the city, and we've left it to property owners to decide when and if that happens in it.
 It's only happened at a rather modest rate. Right. So how much need is there for it? Well, the need is determined by the market and the ultimate growth of the city, but the when and where and how is determined by the property owner. The 2,500 square feet for a 5,000 square foot lot is misleading, like quite a bit that's in here, in my opinion, in that it doesn't count garages and it doesn't count an ADU, I believe, up to 800 square feet. So we all get this picture in our mind of –
 half of the lot being yard and that's not at all the case okay fair enough thank you very much please keep it coming thank you for the extra time go ahead mayor hills commissioners thank you for this opportunity to testify my name is elaine friesenstrang my husband and i have been long-term residents in northeast portland in fact our kids went to the same public schools that my husband did and it is our hope that we're going to continue to live there as we get older
 I'm here today as a volunteer state president for AARP Oregon, and I'm here on behalf of the 65,000 AARP members we have in this city.
 We believe the report is headed in the right direction. We support the goals of expanding housing choices in terms of size and types of homes, encouraging walkable communities while prioritizing the preservation of neighborhood character. However, there is no provision to foster increased stock of accessible housing,
 Without adequately addressing this issue, the proposed recommendations cannot make for an effective plan to guide the future development in a city that meets the needs of all its residents. Ninety percent of people age 65 and older want to remain in their own homes as they get older.
 But if a move becomes necessary because their home is no longer safe or because it doesn't meet their needs, they should not be forced to leave their community, abandon their social networks, or live in age-segregated communities simply because there aren't any other options. And for those who rent, finding homes that are built or remodeled with universal design principles is near impossible.
 In the next 15 years, our region is expected to see a 106 growth in people age 65 and older compared to a projected 35% growth in the other population. And according to CDC, over a third of adults age 65 and older and 22% of adults report some disability. The truth is,
 Each of us may experience some disability in our lifetime, whether it be from an accident or a mobility challenge caused by a chronic condition.
 AARP supports the recommendations made by Dr. Alan De La Torre to enact regulatory and incentive-based policies that increase the stock of accessible housing. Please consider examples by other jurisdictions that have already enacted policies, such as Rogue Valley Council of Government, the Montgomery County in Maryland, the City of Austin, and the New York Township of Babylon.
 This is our chance to meet the needs of all our residents. AARP thanks you for your continued commitment to making Portland a great place for people of all ages and abilities. Elaine, can I just ask you a follow-up? Yes. We're going to try to get through everybody, so we'll start curving our inclination here. Do you have any suggestions for us in terms of...
 going deeper in requiring levels of accessibility? Because we've received some testimony from allies of AARP saying that this is the opportunity to actually bake into our code more requirements about accessibility. You're going to hear this afternoon more from Dr. Alan Del Torre to go into that. But I would encourage you to look at what some of these other jurisdictions are doing
 The City of Austin, in 2014, their city council approved changes to city building codes to make new homes accessible. Montgomery County has grants and loans to seniors for home modifications. There are tax incentives, expedited permitting, reduction in waiver and fees, flexibility and setbacks. There's lots of things to consider. MR. So let me make a plea, and if Alan's in the queue, we'll hear from him.
 I would welcome something in writing that laid out a menu of options, including cities you want us to look at, because I think now is the time to put this into the concept plan that we give to the staff to flesh out. I wouldn't want to miss this opportunity. Yeah, thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Mayor Hales. My name is Sam Noble. I lived in the Buckman neighborhood for a decade next to a fourplex and two duplexes, and it wasn't scary. It wasn't a big deal. I had personal relationships with many of the people who lived in those structures. Okay.
 That kind of mild density helps support the vibrant, walkable neighborhood that Buckman is and has been for some time. And I don't see any reason that these things shouldn't be legal basically everywhere in the city. That's a duplex with a detached ADU, as this proposal suggests, or even go further. And that's really every lot in the city. Yeah.
 When I have kids, I want to know that they have a place in Portland that isn't necessarily a small apartment in a big building. I'd like them to have some more options, something a little quieter. I try to get more detail into my written testimony when I submit it. It hasn't come in yet.
 I want to say that the only aspects of this proposal that I find really objectionable at all is that I think the allowed floor area ratio is just a little too low. I think maybe it ought to be closer to 0.8, 0.7, something in that range. And that's just because I think that, you know, there's a very vocal concern
 portion of this community that feels like we need more modesty in our buildings. And as kind of a personal value, I don't think that that's a thing that we should be imposing on people, that you have to build a small house because this neighborhood was built for –
 less wealthy people than the people who built in that other neighborhood, something like that. It just feels wrong to me. The other thing that I'd really like to see that you guys do is to make sure that parking doesn't end up competing with living space for people. My reading of the latest proposal is that floor area, if it's above ground, that's garage space, that's living space, whatever. Parking's expensive to build, and if somebody's willing to pay for it, and as a driver, I
 I am and have been. I'd like that to not compete. I think if you're going to build a detached garage in your yard, as I have, you ought to be able to put a little apartment above it and not feel like you're having to choose between the two. And I'm building one of these today and I think that it's going to be a great little use of land and it's going to leave me some ground space to have a garden and still be able to keep my cars off the street. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 I forgot. Oh, please. Yeah, just leave it with Carla, and she'll make copies for us. Or if you already have, that's good. That's fine. Thank you very much. The next three are Maggie McGann, Jim Gorder, and Michael Molinaro. And they'll be followed by Mary Ann Schwab. And then number eight, Barbara Strunk. And I believe Sarah Canteen is not speaking until the 16th. Is that correct?
 Okay, welcome. And then Bob Wyatt will be in the other group. Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Maggie McGann. I am also one of the members of the Residential Infill Committee. I was on as a representative for Habitat for Humanity and a lifelong Sunnyside resident. I'm a little nervous because I've never done this before. You're doing fine. So I was nervously looking forward to being here today, but I think in the face of the
 it became hard and it was feels like we're just in the details um but i told myself that we're here and i'm here because as secretary clinton said it's not just a detail it's your family and it's it's a big deal um so creating more housing opportunities for portland families um who get bid out over and over again eight times ten times fifteen offers is a big deal
 It's a big deal to fight for economic diversity throughout our city and throughout our neighborhoods. The infield proposal creates important housing choices, new important housing choices for Portlanders. Creating more diverse housing options means more type of people can live in our neighborhoods and throughout our city.
 Last night, I was able to celebrate the silver lining of the election with a number of you as we passed the affordable housing bond. It was an amazing and important accomplishment. I think that this infill proposal is also an important part of our package for housing solutions in the city. I think it will provide a broader array of housing choices for a broader array of Portlanders.
 I also would like to see it go farther. I think there are ways that we can support. We have opportunities to directly promote affordable housing in this as well. But the bottom line is we need more choice between mid-rise studio apartments and large single-family homes, often for only a single person. We need homes for families. We need homes for seniors. We need affordable homes. We can move toward those goals by allowing people –
 access to our neighborhoods for our teachers and nurses. I, as for Habitat, for nine years, I've built 1,200 to 1,300 square foot duplexes for families. This can work for our families, obviously.
 I'm a lifelong Portlander, like everyone else in the city. I see that the city is changing. Portland is rising. We need to make sure it's a place that everyone can rise, and it's a big deal and not a detail. Thank you very much. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Thank you. I'm Jim Gorter. I was a member of the Residential Infill Stakeholder Advisory Committee. And I'm speaking today on behalf of a group calling itself the RPSAC 7, a coherent and cohesive third of the RPSAC appointees. The extensive written testimony you'll receive today represents the group's positions and lists the names of the RPSAC 7 members.
 You will hear from them today and next week in person. We embrace the mayor's concerns about demolitions, inappropriate infill, and affordability, but we reject many portions of the concept report. We do have some recommendations. Among them are, first, create development typologies that fit the neighborhood context and aspirations and ensure that the scale of houses fits neighborhood context.
 One size does not fit all neighborhoods. Develop strategies that directly reduce demolitions. Second, direct density and middle housing around centers consistent with the comprehensive plan. Test the middle housing ideas in areas that have expressed need and support before expanding to other parts of the city.
 drop the unprecedented widespread use of the housing overlays opportunity overlay it is deceptive and no substitute for good planning and zoning third allow confirmation of historic underlying lot lines only in contiguous r 2.5 zones
 We care deeply about our city, and we applaud the effort to consider how and where to focus housing density and how to guide the growth of the city in a period of rapid change. The residential infill project was a promising start that ultimately ran entirely off the rails. If the concern is affordability, the project is a false promise. If the concern is equitable housing access in every neighborhood, this was never an infill project objective and is a false promise."
 if the concern is a more walkable livable lively city this is a false promise if the concern is a reduction of house size this is a false promise and finally if it's an attempt to reduce demolitions no it will not do that thank you thank you very much again we look forward to getting your written testimony with specifics right there good afternoon i'm michael molinaro i was part of the residential infield committee and i too am part of the sac 7. centers and corridors
 this is the planning precept that we were all asked to embrace during the recent comprehensive planning process why because it's a good one it encourages growth near transit services and jobs the comprehensive plan uses this phrase 49 times maps are dedicated to it i know this concept works because i live in sunnyside through rich run vibrant corridors and it is the center that is the poster child for walkable neighborhoods
 Instead of this infill plan following the comp plan centers and corridors, it blankets the city with a zoning density greater than the R2 multifamily zones. This is unusual as we have heard again and again that there is enough existing capacity to welcome the next 20 years of Portland's growth. And at your work session last week, staff again reinforced this.
 We support additional density around centers and where appropriate along corridors. We do not support the scattershot densification proposed in this plan. In my own sunny side, I encourage changing zoning from R2.5 to R2 along sections of Hawthorne and Belmont to allow the missing middle housing that we all know is needed. This request fell on deaf ears.
 These locations at end grain blocks and adjacent to major streets are exactly where planner Daniel Parolik advocates. In his speech on October 7th, he stated, missing middle is not for everywhere. This advice is clearly ignored in this plan. At Council's February 2nd missing middle work session, the idea of testing seven targeted areas as missing middle housing studies areas was presented. See attached map.
 We encourage you to act on this suggestion and test these infill concepts to see if they deliver the hoped-for results. Thank you very much. Appreciate your work on this. Thank you. The next three are Mary Ann Schwab, Barbara Strunk, and Bob Wyatt. That's 8 and 10. And after them will be 11, 12, and 13, Ruth Adkins, Nick Sovey, and Mary Kyle McCurdy. Good afternoon. Welcome. Who's on first? Okay.
 go ahead marianne thank you my name is mary for hello everyone for the record my name is marianne schwab i'm a community advocate and i appreciate the time we're taking to review this and i have some questions about process for the record i attended four of the six residential open houses scheduled between june 15th and august 15th when most only coalitions and neighborhood associations do not meet
 While I can't speak to how many coalitions and neighborhood association boards and land use transportation committees were able to review and take action on the residential infill initial report, let alone the last-minute bait-and-switch shenanigans by the Portland for Everyone Thousand Friends of Oregon program. Granted, I was taken by surprise when invited to attend their Portland for Everyone's work session to assist their supporters prepare talking points for today and next week.
 Actually, I felt blindsided, and maybe you did too. I did watch your work session. I don't remember any of these last-minute shenanigans in your first work session. Historically, when city council chambers have standing room only, citizens are invited to return the following week. I trust you will keep the sign-in sheets available for newcomers wishing to testify on Wednesday, November 16th. I'm also asking you to schedule a second work session to review. Thank you.
 The testimony today and on the 16th. The residential infill concept report represented by the seven, I support them 100%. And I'm asking you, please don't rezone us. And just a second ago, you heard people about parking and overflow parking reports.
 I live within a block of 106 units. Today, I could not get out of my driveway. A car was blocking it. And early this morning, there was a furnace company blocking my driveway. The overflow parking must, must be addressed. And the developer by right on these remnant lots, and I...
 The tip of the iceberg is Peacock Lane. My heart is broken that the Grinch will be stealing Christmas by adding a cereal box between two 1925 English-style cottages
 This is wrong. And if this is the example and you're going to be changing our neighborhoods like this, it's a mortal sin. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Barbara Strunk. I am the United Neighborhoods for Reform representative on the residential infill project. The assertion that this proposal will provide affordable housing does not hold up to close analysis.
 Increasing density or upzoning is the center of this proposal and will cause land prices to go up even further. Current land price in inner east side is between $400,000 and $800,000 per lot. With the cost of land acquisition so high, there is no formula that can produce housing units affordable to houses making less than 100% of the median family income.
 A builder can outbid a family for a house to be demolished and further increase the gap between those with plenty of money and those without enough money to buy a house. In my neighborhood over the last three years, the average price of a demolished house that was replaced by two or more houses was $466,000. The average land cost per new unit was $264,000.
 The average price of a new house in this same group, more than two units or three units replacing a single house, was $738,000. We need analysis like this of the current state of the market to be done by the city. I have not seen that yet. Don't rely on the market to make things turn out okay. Okay.
 With this proposal, the city has given up all planning. This proposal is simply deregulation that allows the imperfect market to determine the future of our neighborhoods. Analysts have stated that the current reason we have a housing crisis is that we trust in the private market to solve the problem.
 Increased supply does not lead to more affordable housing. One of the underlying themes of this proposal is that if we rezone our inner city and allow for higher density in single-family neighborhoods, we will have more supply of affordable houses. We debate that assertion. Analysts debunk the theory that construction of additional housing units will relieve pressure on affordability. A UC Berkeley study states that it will take 30 years...
 to produce affordable housing to the first-time homebuyer. Trickle-down economics has failed in the housing market. Duplexes and triplexes are primarily rental housing. Resident owners will be displaced. Portland will transition to a city of investor owners and renters. The idea that house sizes will be smaller needs to be taken a look at.
 The proposal states that a house on a 5,000 square foot lot will be limited to 2,500 square feet. When you think about it, the house is actually closer to 4,000 square feet. You have 2,500 square feet for the main house, 1,200 square feet for the basement, and a 15% bonus for density, more like 4,000 square feet. So that really needs to be taken a close look at.
 So I'm going to ask you to wrap up, but I also have a question for you. Okay. The most affordable houses are the ones already standing, and many of the existing homes are smaller than any of the new ones. We must address the housing affordability issue as a regional issue with care and urgency, not as an excuse to provide a handout of speculative profits to developers at the cost of demolition, displacement, and livability.
 So let me pose a question, and don't need to answer it now, but given the sort of the disparate view of this process that we've heard already in this hearing from two different groups within the committee, that's fine. We don't have to reach perfect consensus ever. It's certainly not at this stage of the process, and it's okay that there's a diversity of opinion about this, but...
 But if you go back to the staff's presentation about the goals of this project, one was to address scale. And I'm not, by the way, in asking these questions and talking about this, I'm not assuming that the proposal in front of us is right. I'm assuming it's going in the right direction, but that it needs perhaps tuning. That's my working assumption. Thank you.
 So we're trying to deal with scale, we're trying to deal with housing choice, and we're trying to deal with narrow lots. Those are the three topic areas. And yet, listening to this presentation, particularly when you talk about affordability and others talk about housing choice,
 I'm actually assuming we're looking at both issues of affordability and housing choice, and those are both good ideas, and that we don't necessarily always address both in any given housing type. Back to Steve's question about isn't two $400,000 houses better than one $700,000 house. We don't have to get hypothetical about this. Let me tell you about three real houses in Portland.
 And they're all in a great old Portland neighborhood. One of them had a single woman in it whose children had grown and moved out and who'd just gone through a divorce. One had a couple in their middle years whose kids had all flown the coop and gone off and done their thing. And the third had a family with three teenage and college-age kids in it. The divorced woman moved into the couple's house
 And they also accommodated a Portland State student living in a bedroom in the basement. There are two cars in that household, and all the working people in that household ride transit. The family next door has four cars. So I would submit that we gave some housing choice to our neighbor who's living in the upstairs of our house,
 and to the Portland State student who's living in our basement, and that we have less of a transportation impact than our neighbors with the teenage kids that own cars. So this is partly about housing choice, obviously the couple that accommodated those folks. And by the way, we didn't remodel the house, and if we did, we'd get permits. We're just having people living in the bedrooms for now. But, you know, we have a de facto...
 arrangement there that these provisions could allow us to remodel and make permanent. Not likely to happen in our case because the Portland State student is going to graduate and go to New York and Laurel bought a house in Milwaukee. But you see my point. This is about housing choice, not just about affordability. So I'm hearing these concerns about transportation, and I'm hearing these concerns about affordability, and they're legitimate.
 But I'm not sure that the constellation of housing choices is all that correlative to some of those questions, either of affordability or of transportation impact. So I'd like to hear more from the RPSAC 7 group about those issues. Well, what we have done is divided up the issues, so you will hear more. Good. Thank you. Please. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Mile, and as you probably realize, I'm an immigrant.
 I only enjoined this because I wanted to talk about fairness. And I've lived in three countries and in seven cities. I used to join in a line in the country I came from, which is a line where food stamps were parlayed. So I've been at the bottom and I've been near the top. And so this is a very important issue, fairness. So when I looked at all the material that was available...
 I thought I'd do it a different way round. I'll look first of all, is this material being fair to the developers? I read through it and I read through it and I read through it again. It is being more than fair to the developers. One time I thought it was written by them, but it is being very fair to them. The next thing, the housing opportunity overlay. I thought it was draconian. Why draconian? Because Draco was a legislature in Greece
 And if somebody did something he didn't want, he had them put to death. That's the way he worked. And I think this is true as presented with this housing opportunity overlay. But I hear it's been moderated from what's been said today. But I also think that it has some merit if it's used in the appropriate way and not everywhere. Using it everywhere, opening up to every part of the city is not the way it should go. For instance...
 Would it not make sense where people are complaining about gentrification to do something in their area to put in housing that would be suitable to be bought by that group, turning to affordability? How are we going to control affordability? I hear 400,000 twice or 750,000. That's huge amounts of money. How many people can buy a house like that? Is there not, in your purview, a way of...
 legislating or even asking developers to do so much of their building at a cost that is far less. Is there a way to do that? I would press you to look at it. Yes, we're actually about to do that. It's called inclusionary housing. Okay, good. Well, I don't understand all this. As I say, I'm just a private citizen that's looked at these things. There's a group that's called Portland for Everybody. I take a little bit of a jaundiced view of that.
 All of us that come up today will be talking about a Portland for everybody. It's not just that group. They're wearing a little lapel badge that says, I love housing choice. So do we all.
 All the people in the neighborhoods are there because that's where they chose to be. And why could they be there? Because they worked hard, they saved, and they became there. And they don't want it changed too much. But most of them will have some change and not feel badly about it. I want to ask you to wrap up soon, please. Okay, I will do. I'll wrap up now. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate your thoughts. Thank you. Thank you all.
 The next three are Ruth Adkins, Nick Sovey, and Mary Kyle McCurdy. That's 11, 12, and 13. And they'll be followed by Paul Grove, Leslie Hammond, and Dylan Lamar, 14, 15, and 16.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. I think you're first, Ruth. Good afternoon. Mayor and commissioners, thank you for your leadership. So for the record, my name is Ruth Adkins. I'm with Oregon Opportunity Network. We're a statewide association of affordable housing and community development nonprofits with 20 members here in the Portland area. I'm here to express our strong support for this proposal.
 And our members who are experienced mission-driven nonprofits are eager to help shape this policy as it moves forward to maximize rental and homeownership options in all parts of Portland, not just the centers and corridors. The families our members serve are currently shut out of nearly every neighborhood in Portland. We need every possible tool to help address Portland's housing crisis.
 We believe that duplexes and garden apartments can absolutely coexist harmoniously with single-family homes, and why not support gentle infill like granny flats? We need all types and all sizes of housing in all price ranges, and this proposal is an important part of the solution to our housing crisis. I also want to express my support personally as someone who's been a homeowner in Portland since 1988, currently living in the southwest neighborhood of Hillsdale.
 Long-time homeowners like myself have nothing to fear from this proposal. On the contrary, I strongly believe it will improve the fabric and the character of our neighborhoods and our community. Those of us who have adult children who are saddled with college debt, maybe a smaller flexible housing option might make first-time homeownership a possibility for them so they can stay here in Portland where they were born.
 Many of us hoping to downsize into retirement would benefit from senior-friendly options like a granny cottage or a duplex or a flat within a larger home. Most important, I want to share the privilege of living in our wonderful Portland neighborhoods. I don't want to see families or renters or people of color excluded from our neighborhoods. Missing middle housing is an important part of the solution for our city's growth, so please support this thoughtful, sensible proposal today.
 so we can move forward to a portland that is welcoming and accessible for all thanks so much thank you good afternoon good afternoon mayor and commissioners uh my name is nick sovi i'm uh owner of a couple homes in kerns and in woodstock and i support the bureau of planning and sustainability's residential and field design standards
 Updating the city's zoning and development standards to allow Plex's row houses and courtyard housing is an important step that will lead to development of more missing middle housing. These standards should apply across the city and not only in corridors. According to the Portland Housing Bureau's 2015 State of Housing in Portland report, home sale price inflation in East Portland has been the most rapid in the city.
 From 2011 to 2014, home price inflation in East Portland districts was as follows. Lentz Foster, 60.7%. Park Rose Argy, 41.5%. Pleasant Valley, 41.4%. 122nd and Division, 38.2%.
 These were the four highest price inflation districts in the entire city. This demonstrates that the housing affordability crisis is hitting hardest at the lower half of the market. Today, 80% of the residentially zoned land in Portland is reserved for single-family development. Limiting supply of land available for moderately dense development is a simple supply and demand issue. Limiting supply will drive up costs.
 Creating more missing middle housing options is an important tool for addressing the housing affordability crisis in Portland. The housing bond that passed last night is an important step in that direction. I thank all of you for your efforts on that behalf.
 permitting a greater diversity of options within the vast majority of residential zones is another. I hope City Council will take that step. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. My name is Mary Kyle McCurdy. I represented 1,000 Friends of Oregon on the Residential Infill Project Stakeholder Advisory Committee. Thank you.
 Initially, I was not confident that our diverse group would reach a consensus on much. But after 15 months of frequent and long meetings, many walking tours, summer of open houses, surveys, and meetings with community-based organizations, two-thirds of your stakeholder advisory committee reached consensus on all three of the integrated topics presented to you. And that group represents...
 Nonprofit affordable housing providers, disability rights advocates, home builders, community-based groups, neighborhood associations, and more. My comments today are going to focus on one issue. The residential infill project fills in a significant gap in Portland's housing supply by providing smaller housing choices throughout our neighborhoods that are relatively more affordable for more of Portland's families. Thank you.
 You will hear that Portland has plenty of zoned capacity for housing. However, as data from many sources shows, Portland has a gap of about 25 to 30 percent in the demand for and supply of smaller single-family and attached housing choices, the missing middle. That is needed in more neighborhoods, more closer in, and the lack of that is what's driving up our housing costs. Almost two-thirds of Portland's families are one- and two-person households.
 The 45% of the residential area zone for single-family housing doesn't meet their needs, and not every family of a parent and a child or a single retired person wants to live on the fourth floor long division or in a downtown tower.
 the rip proposal delivers family housing in family neighborhoods at a scale that meets the needs of more portlanders you'll also hear that the rip proposal will not provide housing affordable to portlanders the economic report commissioned by you shows this to not be true by reducing the scale of new dwellings and allowing more missing middle housing the economic report demonstrates that more affordable housing will be provided and you'll hear that the rip should only apply to a narrow band around corridors and centers
 Portland has always provided itself on being a welcoming community for all, and that means adapting to changing families and those of different economic, social, and racial backgrounds. This is not the time to shut some people out of some neighborhoods. The housing decisions you make are for the long term and should not be limited to today's transit routes, retail nodes, and a 1950s notion of a single-family zone.
 We need to evolve to reflect our changing family sizes and configurations, increased opportunities for duplexes, ADUs, triplexes, all within the same size structure as a single family home allows intergenerational living, aging in one's community, and homes for one- and two-person households.
 We urge you to adopt the proposal before you and direct your staff to go further to provide additional flexibility for affordability, tree preservation and accessibility. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. I know we're going to hear from some disability rights activists later, but you said the disability folks supported this. What in it do you feel is helpful for people with disabilities? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz and I should let Ellen De La Torre, who was on the RPSAC, can address that directly. So I don't want to put words in the mouth of the person who is representing that. But it provides more smaller housing options for those residents.
 of a variety of ages and one-person households people as they get older in all neighborhoods It allows people right now in my neighborhood. There are no smaller options There are larger single-family homes to age in my neighborhood and downsize to a smaller unit is impossible Unless you want to live in your child's ad you or have rent out your ad you but there are no smaller housing options so it serves those as
 as they age, to be able to stay in the community with the places and the people they know and the services they know. And I'll let Alan discuss. He can talk more about that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. The next three are Paul Grove, Leslie Hammond, and Dylan Lamar. That's 14, 15, 16. And they'll be followed by Mary Vogel, Sheila Greenlow-Fink, and Julia Metz, 17, 18, and 19. Okay. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor Hales, Commissioner, for the record, Paul Grove with the Portland Homebuilders. I appreciate the opportunity to testify today. I will try to be brief. I know it's been a long day and you have a lot of other folks here. And I'm here in support of the draft concept and believe it's headed in the right direction. As Mary Kyle pointed out,
 There was some skepticism at the start of this process, and there was builder-developer representation from our association. You had the nonprofit communities out there. You had neighborhood groups. And I think what was enlightening for our members, who you will hear from either today or at the next public meeting –
 was that there was a lot more in common with folks in trying to address this issue than they ultimately realized. And in part of a working, what we think is a durable coalition around housing issues moving forward. And so I think, Mayor Hales, kudos to you for putting together such a diverse group of folks that had the city's best interests at heart. And it was not an easy process.
 It was a lot of time, energy, and effort, at times contentious, having watched some of the meetings. But at the end of the day, folks rallied around the issue, and a lot of the talk focused around affordability, focused around inventory and supply. And I would encourage the Commission to look at the economics report and dive into what Johnson Economics has put forward.
 It's a very compelling document and I would go further and ask Jerry to come present before counsel if he was willing because I think it lays out a very cogent argument as to the issues. So I think it's really important at the end of the day for counsel to keep the momentum going on this front. When you can sit there and have a thousand friends, some of the people that you're
 some neighborhood groups, nonprofit community, Opportunity Network, and the home builders of the Portland area all together trying to work together on these issues. The last thing we want to see is that momentum stalled. So we do have an urgent issue in front of us. We don't want to lose that momentum. I think this is a great start point to keep that conversation moving and address this issue.
 for not just today but the future generation of Portlanders. It's very important that our kids, my kids, has an opportunity to live in this city. So thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. My name's Leslie Hammond.
 I have never been here before. Welcome. Thank you. And up until about six months ago, I was a big fan of the city. I've always found city employees to be very respectful and helpful whenever they were doing anything on the street or making changes to the houses, whatever. So they left a terrific impression. But...
 Within the last six months, I've been looking at the infill residential project and have been getting more and more alarmed by it. Now, I will tell you, so I don't take up too much time, that I would agree with Mr. Schwab, Mrs. Strunk, Jim. I don't remember what his last name was. The point of view that they presented was...
 is my point of view and also is probably the point of view of my neighborhood. I live over in the Multnomah neighborhood, and I'm involved there. So you've asked for specific comments about what would work. I'm very concerned about density in the sense that when people buy single-family residential houses, they have a sense of who their neighbors are. They're going to have a neighbor on each side.
 We all have gotten used to duplexes or triplexes on the corners, and that's been no problem. What I am very worried about is interleaving duplexes into residential streets for a couple reasons. One is a single-family homeowner buys their house, invests in it, usually keeps it up and beautifies it.
 I have lived next to apartment complexes and duplexes, and I can tell you that those owners are interested in getting income from the houses. They don't necessarily landscape. They don't improve things. And they basically can, not always, pull down the values of the whole street because of what they do. So I do not want to see duplexes and triplexes get interleaved in the neighborhoods.
 Second thing I'd say, if you're determined to do this with some refinement, I would suggest you do it in the four neighborhoods that it said they'd like to be the pilot neighborhoods. Do that for five or seven years, then go back to those neighborhoods and see what they have to say about the effect of it. It is a trickle kind of effect. These neighborhoods will be built in in different ways and slowly, and you'll get a sense of what's going to happen.
 We don't have the transportation, especially in the Multnomah neighborhood, to make it a completely walkable neighborhood. We only have a bus that comes through the neighborhood once in a while. We don't even have a bus after 9 o'clock at night. We don't have the max. We don't have the trolley. So by pushing density into it and approving apartment buildings and housing where they don't have to put off-street parking in, you're creating a real problem and congestion over there, and I'm sure that's true in other neighborhoods. So...
 The other thing that's really important, and other people have said, is retaining the character of the neighborhood. In other words, really talking with the neighborhood associations about what they feel strongly about what they see is the character of their neighborhood.
 and then work on developing a development plan that honors that but isn't stuck in the past. So thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. I'm Dylan Lamar. I rent a duplex apartment in Southeast Clinton at 25th. It's in the block. So I like walking and biking to work in the grocery stores down the street. I use my aging car about once a week, and when it dies, I won't need to replace it.
 My duplex is an example of missing middle housing, and it's the reason my neighborhood is so walkable. It provides the critical mass density that can support the local ice cream shop and restaurants right down the street. It would also be illegal to build today. As a residential architect in Portland, I'm well aware of this. I see daily how the application of single-family zoning has overly constrained and degraded our historic walkable mixed-use neighborhoods. Single-family zoning is not what gave us our historic neighborhoods that we love so much.
 in 2013 my company designed ankeny row a modest six unit courtyard housing development of duplexes and townhouses with no off-street parking that's how we got to keep the courtyard we didn't have parking a parking lot it has been applauded by neighborhood residents and highly publicized there are also historic examples like incanero throughout all of the most loved neighborhoods in the city despite this incanero is nearly illegal in 80 percent of the housing area of portland
 My clients had to pay top dollar for the property that their dream could be built on. That's part of the reason we had to wait nearly two years before we were able to do another project like it, despite receiving an overwhelming number of inquiries. Single-family zoning was created across America out of a desire for socioeconomic segregation. It is exclusionary by nature and is highly dependent on the car and car parking. Single-family zoning did not give rise to the historic Portland neighborhoods we know and love.
 My family and my clients are willing to deal with some parking congestion in order to enjoy living in a walkable, socially diverse neighborhood, which, by the way, supports a way of life that can end climate change. Nobody takes a vacation to the suburbs. They vacation in historic, culturally rich, walkable neighborhoods. They might complain about parking there, but they don't have to get in a car if they don't want to. Let's get back to creating the kinds of neighborhoods where we don't have to get in a car if we don't want to.
 Thank you. Ankeny Road is at 21st and Ankeny? About 25th, southwest. Yeah, it's 25th. Okay, I know the project. And where do you park your aging car? We actually have a driveway that is meant to be more of like a loading zone that we can –
 The original idea was to park two tandem smart cars in that that would be car shared by the co-housing seven-unit community. We fought tremendously to get through the zoning regulations to make that happen. It just doesn't fit in the rules. So it was difficult to make happen. Thank you. Yeah, Chris, that's true. You can't.
 park a car that is supposed to be moved every 24 hours. So if you don't have a place to park it off the street, then it would be a problem, wouldn't you? Right. We don't have – there wasn't an off-street parking requirement, so this was above and beyond. This was providing mostly a place where they could pull and unload groceries and then go park the car. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Next three are Mary Vogel, Sheila Greenlow-Think, and Julia Metz. That's 17, 18, and 19. And then we'll go with Ted Labby, who has a daycare issue, Al Ellis, and David Showhammer, 20 and 21. Welcome. Mary, I think you're first.
 Okay, so my name is Mary Vogel and as a planning consultant who usually focuses her energy on the central city, I want to address why we need the mix of uses suggested in the residential infill project. I will also suggest several improvements that should be made to the current proposal.
 Of the four large cities on the West Coast from San Francisco North, Portland is the least dense.
 And I have a chart in my testimony that shows the population densities and all. The city of Portland takes up almost four times as much space as the cities of San Francisco and Vancouver, yet has a lower population, resulting in an average population density less than many suburbs.
 It's about a quarter of the density of San Francisco and Vancouver, just about half of Seattle's. A density of 6,400 people per square mile equates to 10 people per acre.
 Population density matters for Portland if we are to support both our historic commercial districts and to add the additional 20-minute neighborhoods we claim we want in the climate action plan.
 More people on a given block leads to more customers, which leads to more variety in local services, which leads to a convenient lifestyle on foot or transit, which leads to building a happy city. I can't recommend this book enough. It's fabulous. You can't provide enough densities to support a beloved curpertial node, much less build new retail nodes without...
 with single-family homes alone. We need to increase the overall density to at least 16 units per acre, needed to support thriving retail. It is important to note that 16 units per acre is also the typical recognized minimum density needed for a place to be transit supportive. So I strongly support the housing choice recommendations and the residential infill project. Okay.
 In terms of recommendations, I've never understood why a city that is largely without alleys requires off-street parking. Curb cuts for private driveways should be taxed rather than...
 required because they usurp at least one parking space per unit in the public realm. So I especially want to support the last point of Portlanders for Parking Reform, an organization founded by largely and largely run by young people, the young people we should be planning for, by the way. Thank you very much. If you can send us anything else like that, that particular suggestion is very helpful. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales and councillors, my name is Sheila Green-Luffink, and I reside at 628 Southwest Chestnut Street in the Hillsdale neighborhood. I know many of you enjoy the amenities and transit-friendly area that I live in, and I thank you for this opportunity to weigh in on the city's residential infill project.
 While we know that addressing our regional problems and those that are concentrated in the city are going to take a lot of different tools, I'm really excited about this one. I live just off Barber Boulevard and have access to great schools. Again, incredible transit access, an amazing tree canopy, and walking to grocery stores, everything one could want in a neighborhood. And I would love to see more affordable options integrated into the neighborhood.
 I see activity under our current zoning. Probably a McMansion will go in next door on a lot, joining an 1890s farmhouse. And I'd rather see something else, frankly. We've got a lot of houses in that price range, and it would be great to have seen a cluster or maybe duplex, triplex, something else. So under the new zoning, I'm hopeful that we'll see more developers looking at different options and opportunities to bring a variety of housing choices into our neighborhoods. All right.
 i think it's past time that we update the city's vision for the 21st century and notably by looking back to what we knew was true so long ago when we did build really charming and and a little bit denser neighborhoods so we can learn a lot from the past it'll help us address our significant supply side gap and also assist us with demand side pricing options
 As a resident of an amazing neighborhood, I hope that you'll help us ensure that more households can join us in the future in such a high quality of life and really appreciate what you've done in a variety of ways. But through this project, I know the work will continue, and I'll provide more detailed comments in writing. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Julia Metz, and I'm here on behalf of Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, or PCRI, to support this proposal. For over 20 years, PCRI has stood for providing affordable, stable homes for the community. We currently have over 700 affordable homes dispersed throughout north and northeast Portland. This includes a mix of housing types that is reflective of the missing middle that the residential infill proposal looks to provide. Thank you.
 Because of this, PCRI has seen firsthand just how valuable homes of this size can be, especially when dispersed throughout the greater community. It has allowed PCRI to meet the diverse needs of the people we serve, from families to the elderly and beyond. Housing choices that fall between single-family homes and apartments can also help address the historical inequities of access to self-sufficiency by providing homeownership opportunities.
 but we know there is still a shortage of housing choices in portland currently minimum lot sizes and density limitations constrain the number of homes that can be developed limiting our opportunity to deliver affordable homes by allowing for modest increases in density within the residential zones recommended in the proposal it would open an opportunity not only for pcri but the market as a whole to provide homes for even more families when it comes to more families
 When it comes to housing, every unit really does count. That is why we support the proposals put forth in the residential INVO project and see opportunities to further strengthen support for affordable housing development through the proposal. We think it is important to incentivize affordable and accessible homes to reflect the needs of the Portland community. So we recommend reasonable density bonuses for permanently affordable and accessible units to be added back into the proposal.
 With these additions, the residential infill proposal can play an important role in providing much-needed affordable housing for our communities. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three are Ted Labby, Al Ellis, and David Schollhammer, number 20 and 21, and they'll be followed by Maria T. Mai, Meryl Reddish, and Allison Marchi, 22 and 23.
 Okay, welcome. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to squeeze me in. I have to pick up my daughter here in a few minutes. My name is Ted Labby, and I reside in the Kearns neighborhood, and today I'm testifying on behalf of DPAY, a Portland nonprofit that promotes interstitial green space in the city. In general, I want to support the direction of the residential infill project, but I have a few concerns and suggestions moving forward.
 We support changes recommended by Portland for Everyone strongly to extend the housing opportunity overlay zone to all residential zones citywide, offer incentives for development of affordable units, promote housing that is adaptable and accessible for people of all ages and mobilities, and what I'm going to talk about more today is incentivize on-site tree preservation.
 Carefully crafted zoning code revisions can promote more affordable housing and preserve neighborhood character and also help the city with other worthy goals like tree preservation. The details of how the rules get written matter. Much of the public's concern with teardowns, redevelopment, loss of neighborhood character is related to the loss of big trees in the neighborhoods. So how the residential infill project addresses tree preservation is an important detail to get right.
 We know from the recently completed citywide tree inventory that we're losing large-form trees, which are being replaced by small and medium-form trees, with negative long-term consequences for the urban forest canopy. Although the urban forest is trending upwards, most of our available tree planting sites are too narrow or constrained by overhead wires to support large-form trees. These two facts elevate the importance of preserving on-site large trees, particularly in residential yards.
 Title 11 tree preservation reforms offered some improved tools, but more work remains to be done. I'd like to recommend that you give careful consideration to your own Urban Forestry Commission's suggestions on the RIP, and those include three things, which I only have time to run through. Allow an additional dwelling unit in exchange for preservation of one or more large, healthy trees greater than 20 inches of diameter. Allow for flexible lot line setbacks in exchange for preservation of one or more large, healthy trees. Allow for flexible lot line setbacks in exchange for preservation of one or more large, healthy trees.
 And lastly, most importantly, a full waiver for on-site parking requirements to preserve big trees. Tree preservation can't continue to be an afterthought. We need to get tree-friendly designs into city staff thinking about tree-friendly designs up front. Look forward to working with you further as we continue to refine the residential infill project. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. Ed, I don't want to miss your daughter, but quick question. In terms of extending the overlay citywide,
 The recommendation before us specifically exempts the David Douglas School District. What are your thoughts about that? I'm going with the – They've carved it out even if it was to be extended. They've carved out that district. I'm going with the Portland for Everyone because I think that sets a very dangerous precedent, that school districts could throw this up as a barrier for this kind of thoughtful infill development. This is not –
 This is not some kind of overwhelming density. I live in a really thriving neighborhood, Kern's, and the original Restaurant Row on Northeast 28th would not have happened without the mix of housing types that we have in that neighborhood. I would argue it would not have happened. And that's all of Portland's now thriving food scene. It just probably wouldn't have happened if we didn't have...
 You know, that mix of housing types and currents. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hi. My name is Al Ellis, and a few years ago when I was president of the Beaumont-Wilshire Neighborhood Association, I responded to residents' concerns over the growing number of demolitions of single-family homes and the environmental fallout from the demolitions.
 With the creation of a grassroots organization that we called United Neighborhoods for Reform, the idea was to see if the same concerns were shared by other neighborhoods. And our basic premise in our resolution, preservation of existing affordable housing is a citywide concern, was to see if the same concerns were shared by other neighborhoods.
 eventually got endorsed by 43 neighborhoods representing over half the population of the city. Now, it's a concern that extends far beyond my backyard or your backyard, my block or your block. It's one shared by residents across the city.
 But preservation of viable existing homes does not necessarily preclude construction of additional housing units to accommodate increased density needs. The critical factor is context. An adoption of the BPS middle housing proposal would have the unintended consequence of opening the door for developers to demolish homes that are most affordable for entry-level buyers, like my grown children and your grown children.
 There's a demand for these entry-level homes that are much more affordable than the new homes that are being constructed that are almost a million dollars in price. So it's important to preserve these homes. And by the same token, it's also important to expand the choices for others as in the duplexes and the triplexes.
 To build those duplexes and triplexes at the expense of the existing neighborhood is really destroying the village to save it, which I think would be a huge mistake and irreversible mistake. So we urge the council to adopt a policy in which density needs can be addressed without having to bulldoze away the very character that has made Portland such a desirable place to live in the first place.
 A few weeks ago, I went to a forum where there was a representative from Los Angeles, and they're grappling with the same issues that we're grappling with today. And their approach is not to lump all the neighborhoods together with one middle housing policy, but to give neighborhoods over a dozen choices, many different choices, and neighborhoods can opt
 to have a middle housing policy, as is being suggested by BPS, or they can say we want to preserve, we think it's really important to preserve the existing neighborhood. So that's something you might consider. Thank you. Again, David, we're going to want to hear, Al, from you and others that are involved in this. I mean, back to my example, you know, we live in an old house. If...
 we converted our garage to an ADU and converted the house to a duplex that had a single door, I think most of our neighbors would say, hooray, great old house preserved, right? We don't have to do that to accommodate our neighbors on a short-term basis, as I mentioned. So the question of the incentives and disincentives in this package was in – or the intent of this package was in part –
 to give homeowners like me an incentive to keep that building there. I think that piece of this, I'm surprised. Yeah, I acknowledge that. I probably have complete agreement about that piece. Then the question is, you know, we've had duplexes on corners for quite a while, allowable.
 Is that okay? Can we have – can we go any farther than that? And then instead of a duplex, how about a tripex? I mean, we've got degrees of change here and incentives to keep and perhaps incentives to demolish, and I don't want any incentives to demolish. So the tuning of this with your and other activists' recommendations is very important. MR. Here, can I just jump on that for a second?
 Al, perhaps you could, in a follow-up writing to us, you said unintended consequence. So I'll just give you the, I'll pose the question and ask you maybe in writing in an email just to give us your guidance. So, you know, I used to be roughly your neighbor.
 And the houses you're talking about are the bungalows and the smaller bungalows in the Grant Park, Hollywood, Alameda area that are about, some of them are like 1,200 square feet. They're very efficient. I now live in, I'm now a renter, and I live in an apartment of about 1,100 square feet with my family. So it's compact living.
 but I get to walk to work. But of those 1,200, 1,300-foot bungalows, they were once upon a time the affordable housing in the neighborhood. And I've seen over time them demolished, and in the footprint comes a monster house with three times the square footage. So when you say the unintended consequence might be to demolish those sort of starter homes, and there are a lot of those starter homes in 97212 in that vicinity, would you just spell out
 what events could occur that could have that unintended consequence? What we're worried about is if this were adopted, that this would be kind of a sanctioned policy by the city council to increase the number of duplexes and triplexes, et cetera, to accommodate greater density. And with this kind of...
 council-sanctioned approach, we think developers would be very anxious to get in there and to convince people. As they're doing right now, they're convincing people to sell their homes,
 Give them a good price and then build the huge homes that are not compatible with the character. We're afraid the same thing would happen in terms of building the triplexes and duplexes, et cetera. We're not opposed to, you know, building these things. We just don't want to destroy the existing neighborhoods as a result. The idea is that's the stock of, quote, unquote, affordable starter homes, although we've established they're not that affordable, but they're –
 $400,000 plus or minus. If you're looking for a home here. In comparative terms in that zip code and replacing it with an affordable rental, but that's the tradeoff you want us to grapple with. Yeah, if the rental is going to be affordable. Well, that's why the economic report and your and other people's subsequent assistance and specifics about this is going to help because we've had 700 houses demolished in the last three years.
 My working assumption is most of those – well, I know we've got the breakdown. Quite a few of those were demolished for one-for-one replacements with bigger houses. I'll go back and check, but I think very few of those were demolished in order to build a corner duplex. Okay.
 And so, again, we've got the ability, we've had it for 15 years to do a corner duplex. So I'm not sure, again, I'm not sure we've got it right here, but I don't see the boogeyman of all these houses getting turned into duplexes given that,
 about every eighth or tenth house has been vulnerable to that all along, and those aren't necessarily the houses that are getting demolished. The one next door to you got demolished, and it was the middle of a block, and it didn't get turned into a duplex. It got turned into a great big house. So we've got some data here of what's actually happened over the last ever many years you want to look at. You can go all the way back to the 1989 report if you want, but we've got data about what's happened here.
 And we've got data about how many lots are zoned for duplexes. You're also – also part of the BPS proposal is on scale. And so if this were adopted, then the developers would not be constructing the huge homes. Right. They wouldn't be able to. Right. So – and that wouldn't be as profitable. So we're just thinking that the other – the alternatives, the various – whether they be duplexes, triplexes, or others.
 would be something they would turn to in order to make a – we're talking about making a profit, one way or another. Of course. Yeah, and again, I want to read the economic report more closely, but I don't think developers are tearing down houses because they are inherently evil people. I think they're tearing down houses because it's profitable to do so and replace them with a much bigger house. So the 2,500-foot ceiling, to me, I believe will be a big damping down factor –
 regardless of the contents of that 2,500-square-foot building. That's our home. Yeah. Again, we're concerned about the middle housing and the –
 housing that not the huge homes that would be coming in because they wouldn't be coming in but other housing and more demolitions. Thank you. Sir, can I ask the same question I asked someone else earlier? Which do you think is worse? And you could say they're both bad but which is worse? Knocking down a 1,500 square foot house and replacing it with one 3,500 square foot house or knocking down a 1,500 square foot house and replacing it with two 1,250 square foot duplexes? Well, what we've
 would prefer is that homes not be knocked down and that you would find areas of the city, to the east perhaps, where you would not have to destroy existing homes in order to build new structures. But if you had to choose, which do you think is worse? Pardon? But if you had to choose, which do you think is worse?
 Oh, I don't know. I think it would be a very difficult question. I think it would be a dilemma. That's what we got here. Thanks, Al. Appreciate it. Keep it coming. Welcome. Thank you.
 I am David Schulhammer, and I chair the Land Use Committee for the Selwood-Moreland Improvement League, better known as SMILE. Our neighborhood is experiencing phenomenal growth. In 2014, we had about 6,000 housing units in the neighborhood. We presently have 1,233 housing units under development, a 21 percent increase. Most of this growth is happening in our commercial corridors, and we have 2.8 miles of commercial corridor. Okay.
 Given this context of phenomenal growth in our neighborhood, we believe that there is insufficient justification for the proposed density increase in our single-family zones. We question whether single-family to multifamily conversion is needed to accommodate future growth in our neighborhood.
 We believe that a better approach would be to estimate the housing demand in our neighborhood and then to determine the ability of existing zoning and infrastructure to accommodate that demand. This should be a holistic approach that considers commercial, multifamily, and single-family zones together.
 While we oppose the density increase, we support the proposals to limit the scale of houses. One concern we do have is with the R2.5 zone. There, the proposed floor area ratio is 0.7 to 1. This would allow a 3,500-square-foot single-family house to be built.
 on a standard 5,000 square foot lot. We also have a lot of lots that are just under 5,000 square feet. So we're concerned that this would become the McMansion zone, essentially, in our neighborhood with these oversized houses. We believe that a solution to this would be to establish a maximum floor area ratio of 0.5 to 1 per unit in that zone. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both.
 Okay. The next three are Maria T. Mai, Meryl Reddish, and Allison Marchi. That's 22, 23, and 47 has to leave. And they'll be followed by Marty Suchek, Jim Peterson, and Gabriel Hayden, 24, 25, and 26. Okay. Sorry, I don't remember who's first, but go ahead. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Harrells, commissioners. My name is Maria T. Mai, and I am here to address an issue that I spoke about 20 years ago, and that was during the Southwest Community Comp Plan. What you've heard a lot about is housing types, sizes, and characteristics. What you haven't heard about is the pervious surface areas and loss of pervious surface areas to impervious surface areas.
 The planning report needs to address the footprint of these pervious surface areas. Across the city, developers are gobbling up small bungalows, and as you said, Mayor Hales, to the tune of 700. What this means is McMansions, duplexes, all these other types of homes that people are talking about are being built, and they're being built out to maximize the lot line.
 What is not being considered is the pervious surface areas and the areas that are for open space, big trees, for wildlife, urban wildlife habitat. And what we need to do is to consider these pervious surface areas. And I get it. It doesn't pencil out for a developer to buy a small bungalow at $450,000 and build a small house. They need to build something that's
 It's going to be $700,000 or more to pencil out. So the cost of impervious surface areas is lost. So what my ask to you is this, is that you charge BES and the Planning Bureau to draft an ordinance that incentivizes developers to subscribe to a 1 to 3 ratio of structure,
 to open space and thus pervious surface areas. So what that looks like is the house is one...
 Part of the lot the other part is three parts open space and pervious surface areas and Preserving the big trees and open space for children and others just to have open space to play and live Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much Good afternoon mayor Hales and City Council members. My name is Merrill Reddish I'm here on behalf of the urban forestry Commission and since Ted Labby
 shared the Urban Forestry Commission's recommendation. I will not duplicate that, but I just wanted to go on the record and underscore that providing more flexibility and incentives to developers as part of this project is something that we want to recommend. We're concerned, of course, about the loss of large trees and preserving large trees as part of this project.
 project is one of our key goals. So thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Allison Markey-Young, and I'm speaking on behalf of a friend of mine who's unable to make it because of child care. And I would like to say that I'm speaking on behalf in general of perhaps a younger generation, because there's not a lot of us who have the luxury of attending meetings like this. So this is her letter to you.
 I'm a 33-year-old native Oregonian who grew up in West Linn, moved to Portland, and who desires to remain in this community. I have built friendships, have family, have worked to better our community. She spent a year working with low-income students at Maricorps. When my husband and I decided to have a child, we began looking for housing options. Our current apartment is so poorly insulated that in the winter, olive oil becomes solid at room temperature.
 And unless they spend a great deal of money on electricity, they can't keep their home heated properly. As adults, they can brave the cold, but it's not an option now that they have an infant. In the 10 years since my husband and I married and moved into the southwest Portland neighborhood of Multnomah Village, rent in Portland and the surrounding area has doubled dramatically.
 As a rule of thumb, experts say one should spend 30% of their earnings on housing. My husband and I choose teaching as our profession, and since it requires a master's, their loans make spending 30% unrealistic. When they first looked for housing, discovered that the average cost of rent for one bedroom, and they need two with the baby, was around $1,500 to $1,600. It means that they could not afford to move.
 Even though her husband's a middle school teacher, she's a substitute teacher, they do not make enough money to afford this kind of rent. They looked at surrounding areas around the city and discovered that it's the same cost everywhere. She hopes you'll take the testimony into consideration today. As a family of three with a teacher's salary combined with a substitute's salary, they cannot afford to live in this city. And it's a very real problem with our housing options.
 So they're writing in support of RIP and greater housing options so that they can stay in their community with a more diverse chance at staying. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. If you want to leave us a letter, she can make copies for us. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next three are Marty Suchek, Jim Peterson, and Gabriel Hayden. And they'll be followed by 27, 28, and 29, Alan De La Torre, Tony Jordan, and Jim Labby.
 Okay, good afternoon. Go ahead while they're getting settled. All right. My name is Gabrielle Hayden. I'm a member of the Overlook Neighborhood Association, though I don't speak for them here. I was born in a commune slash house share in northwest Portland, and I grew up in Boring.
 And I loved my chickens and pony, but I hated feeling isolated and depending on my parents for rides. I strongly support residential infill and the revisions suggested by Portland for Everyone. Neighborhood character is about people first and about buildings second. When my wife and I purchased our very small, but my own experience offers a perfect case study for why this plan actually supports both.
 elements of preserving neighborhood character. When my wife and I purchased our very small, dilapidated 1924 home, all the other prospective buyers, according to our realtor, were developers planning to scrape and build a McMansion. Two years and thousands of DIY hours later...
 Our 672-square-foot one-bedroom home is still not worth much more than the land it's built on. Allowing infill development would reward us personally, financially, for rescuing this small home from demolition by allowing further development on our land. Unlike current rules, it would also do so in a way that would allow another young family to live the Portland dream of a residential neighborhood with chickens and walkability both.
 It would not house the truly poor, but it would help maintain the livability that has drawn tech startups and other economic vitality to our city, which has trickle-down effects, however incomplete. And it would maintain the neighborhood character in the most essential way possible by keeping both our beautiful old homes and the scrappy DIY spirit of Portland alive. Thank you. Thanks very much. You could put an ADU on it. We could, but...
 It's not the same. Yeah, I agree with you. I'm here for the Multnomah Neighborhood Association, but I want to say something. Marty, put your name on the record, please. Oh, Marty Suchet. I think we know. I want to say something about this hearing that makes me very sad because the subtext of this hearing reflects the polarization of this election and this country.
 The people who have, I love housing choices. I got one of these because I think they're cool. Some of the language is that way. Somebody just said young, we're the young people. Even the concept report says a certain demographic doesn't like this very flawed plan, what I think, and a very flawed survey, and a small one. What is hard for me is that...
 Those of us who don't have buttons and are speaking for our neighborhoods, which Multnomah used to be affordable, is not affordable anymore. We just heard that. We do not oppose middle housing. We have a lot of it. We've had a lot of development of it. We oppose the as-appropriate.
 The man from Beaumont-Moisel said that there was somebody who had several different plans for each neighborhood. That's what should happen. And I really feel insulted by people who say, like the young man who benefits from writing a report and is on the planning commission that passes the report. He said neighborhood character is code for exclusionary.
 housing. And that's not true, and that's an insult to older people who embrace the millennials that are coming into our neighborhood. What Multnomah has or did have, it has a lot of diversity. It has neighborhood house, it has a new neighborhood house development for child development, it has a Southwest Community Clinic for low-income folks right in the heart of it, it has Meals on Wheels.
 And when they came, we tried to encourage them to build to five stories so that people could live above that, that they were in a hurry and they didn't quite understand vertical housing. Multnomah should not have this overlay because this overlay goes over the whole thing. And what it is is spot zoning on steroids. As you said in the work session, it's social engineering.
 I am not an old fogey. I'm not a certain demographic. I'm older. I have some wisdom. I behave better than I used to.
 You do, Marty. Hopefully we all do, Marty. And I was a civil rights advocate and an anti-war advocate when I was a youngster. I have a lot in common with these folks. When that young woman said she was speaking for younger people, I assumed she was saying people 60 and younger. Thank you, Commissioner. I brought my own baggage into that conversation. But also, I never used the word social engineering, but I have taken a lot of meetings from people on both sides of this issue.
 And I have been raising questions about the overnight. I know you have. Well, I want to understand it better. And I've had people make strong cases on either side. And it's my – it's unfortunately a feature of my legal training that I try to understand it and ask questions to test assumptions. But I never said social engineering. But I do –
 it does look very broad to me, and it does look like it could be accomplished through another mechanism, like zoning change, and I want to understand those tradeoffs. It shouldn't be just as appropriate. Who says what appropriate is? The Bureau of Planning? Well, sometimes their judgment has some shortcomings. Can I just say something else about what you said earlier about the tone of the hearing? Maybe it's because we do this so often. There's two features about this hearing that I'll just note.
 One is that it's a peaceful setting where people are making passionate arguments. And two is in a city experiencing growing pains, we're getting a sense of big disagreements about how we do certain things. But just from my perspective, Mayor, this is a civil hearing. Oh, it is too. And I actually have found it extraordinarily substantive. And I'm going to run out of paper soon in terms of the things people are saying. So I'm sorry you feel...
 No, I do not feel put upon. I just see this divide of people who are wearing badges. I love housing choices, and so do I, and the characterization of people loving how their neighborhood looks. Fair enough, Marty, but badges and signs are fine, but I appreciate your point. All right, we don't want to be a center. We don't even want to be a corridor. We want to be a main street, and we want housing to be specific, as you said. So, again, back to the three choices of people.
 do this, do nothing, do something else.
 I want to hear from you, not just today, but subsequently. If you just want us to drop this, that's one way. No, I don't. Because I think parts of this are something that you would support. But we need to hear which parts you like and which parts you can't live with. All right, I'll do that. Thank you. Actually, I just have one question. Ms. Sidchak, I know Commissioner Fish doesn't like the term, but isn't all zoning social engineering? Single-family zoning is social engineering saying we only want people living in single-family homes? I'm not saying that. I would just...
 It's using a chainsaw when a butter knife might work better. It is ham-handed, and you just put it on. And we do have a lot of very good developers, but we have some that are just tearing things down
 affordable small units, small housing, bungalows that millennials want, and just maximizing their profit. We are displacing middle-income and low-income people for it. That's why we're here. I mean, another thing I guess I want to put into the mix here, and Jim, you can comment on this and others can as well, is we're hearing a plea for customizing this, customizing this to neighborhoods. Not closed to that, okay, but...
 We've got to have something that's administratable. Right, right. So semi-customized. If you tell us we should customize it, give us at least some thoughts about how we could do that. Because, again, the duplex thing has been citywide on R5. Yeah, and we have maybe a half a dozen...
 corners that have triplexes and one has an ADU, and it works. One of them is pretty ugly. We didn't customize that, and it worked out. Well, I think you had, you know, before the housing crisis, you had a lot of seasoned planners who helped some builders do things really well. We also had an SDC waiver. Welcome. Hi, I'm Jim Peterson. I'm also from the Multnomah Neighborhood Association.
 And I'm the point person on some objections to the comprehensive plan, the policies that were adopted June 15th. We're waiting for the city to put 20,000 pages of documents in order and submit them to the city or submit them to the state. And at that time, after they get an order, there'll be a notice sent to everybody who testified. Thank you.
 And we've hired the services of Evan Fowler, a planner from Eugene, and he's drafted our objections. They're being reviewed by two of the best land-use attorneys in the city to make them stronger. And one of our objections is on the middle housing amendment, and we intend to take this all away. And the reason we are is that this, if you look at the yellow overlay, it encompasses the whole neighborhood, all of Multnomah.
 and that basically zones out all the single-family houses. Right now, they're being demolished at a relatively high rate under the current zoning, and that's what this project was supposed to help prevent. And what's going to happen, what's being proposed will increase that dramatically. And what's happening, the implementation has been put on a fast track, and the policies have not even been approved by the state. The amount of time required
 and cost of the implementation will not be a factor in the merits of our objections. The original analysis provided by M&A early on in the comp plan process showed that we had a 28% increase in capacity before they added all the bonuses to the mixed-use housing. This capacity was added mainly in the mixed-use zones along Barber Boulevard, and we were notified by the staff that the single-family housing would not be affected.
 The growth scenario report projects 11,000 housing units will be developed in all of southwest Portland between now and 2035. And Multnomah is supposed to get 11 percent of that growth. We have more than enough capacity. There's no reason to add this extra capacity. This would be considered market factor. Market factor is a very interesting case law before LUBA was formed. Thank you very much. Thanks very much.
 We also have Habitat for Humanity houses, which are cool. Right. In the right site. Yes, you do. So, yeah, so let's do a process check here. I think there are a few people, Carla just alerted me, there are a few people who are going to be unable to come back to our second hearing. Is that right? Correct. So we might, if we can, extend the courtesy to let them speak first, and I think we're going to lose a quorum in about 15 minutes. Is that right? Yeah, this was originally going to end at 4. We've extended it. You asked it.
 to create the flexibility before 30. I have to go in a couple minutes, but that won't... Steve, can you stick around for 50? I was going to say until 5. That work to you? Okay, so the three of us can stay until 5 and continue hearing until then. So let's do take people that, for some reason, can't come back at our next hearing, and we'll keep chipping down the list. And Maureen Anderson, if you want to come on up, she has a small child. Yes, she does. And then anybody who has signed up and is not able to come back on the 16th,
 And we'll still try to get to more of you as well. So why don't you just sit in the first rows there, if you're not able to sit right away, and we'll get you up here as soon as we can. Go ahead. And the award is having the youngest presenter today. Yes, all right. All she has to do is put her name in the record or his name in the record. Oh, it's in there. Yeah, okay. Commissioners, my name is Maureen Anderson. I live at 924 Northeast 65th Avenue, Unit B in Portland. I work as a night shift nurse at OHSU.
 This is my son Barney. He is two months old yesterday. Congratulations. Thank you. I'm here in support of re-legalizing small housing units as part of the residential infill project. Eighteen months ago, my now husband and I started looking for a home of our own. We have little time to spare for yard work and no interest in more than 1,000 square feet. More important to us was to live near public transit, affordable groceries, and people we knew.
 As anyone who's tried to relocate within Portland in the last few years knows, maybe including you, Commissioner Fish, the city has few options for middle-income families who want to prioritize proximity over space. We considered old freestanding homes that were on the edge of our price range and the outskirts of our commute tolerance simply because they were among the few physically small and therefore relatively affordable available at all.
 Fortunately, backyard cottages are legal in Portland, so instead of buying a home we didn't want, we ended up going in with our former housemates to finance an 800-square-foot EDU in their backyard. Because Portland made our little home legal, we didn't have to bid on a home bigger than we wanted, a bid that might have priced out some other family that truly needed that extra space. Okay.
 I think some people you're hearing from today are under the impression that legalizing duplexes, triplexes, and backyard cottages in more situations would lead to the rapid demolition of freestanding homes. I'm happy to say that our neighborhood proves this is not the case. Much of our corner of North Tabor near the Max has been designated R1, R2, and R2.5 for 20 years, and most of the homes on this land are still freestanding and decades old. The difference is that some are not.
 We have a mix of duplexes, triplexes, little old attached cottages, and classic bungalows mixed pleasantly together.
 Some properties turn over and redevelop, just like in any city, but most haven't. I'm glad that when one does, it's usually been replaced by two small homes instead of one giant one. And that's the final message I'd leave you with. I hope Barney will grow up in a neighborhood like the ones I grew up in, as the daughter of a single mom, those where people of many backgrounds and incomes and ages and educations can live together. That's the nation we desperately need.
 That's the Portland I love, and that's the Portland that the residential infill project can help preserve. Thank you. Thank you. For those of us who helped create the ADU option, you, Barney, and your husband are exactly who we had in mind. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hello, my name is Jacob Sweet, and I first of all want to thank you guys for allowing me to participate in this process. I'm here to talk about the intersection of affordability and housing choices. Mayor Hales, earlier today, you said that these are two separate issues, and they are, but I think that they are more –
 completely intertwined, right? And I think that this proposal that's on the table is going to do some work to address them.
 I'm a foreclosure prevention counselor with Hacienda Community Development Corporation. And I work with a variety of people facing financial hardships, medical hardships, and generally life hitting them in the face. And we see a lot of good results. However, we see plenty of bad results as well. And by that, I mean people who either are forced to sell their homes or are foreclosed on. These people don't have a housing choice in this city.
 by and large what I see is either they go directly into homelessness or they are displaced outside of Portland they simply can't afford to rent here once they lose their home I don't believe that they have a housing choice
 On the other side of my organization, we help people to buy homes. This is largely Portland's Hispanic community. These people come to our office and our counselors, of which I'm not one, but I'm speaking on their behalf. The counselors themselves call themselves dream breakers because when they come in, they're below 80% median income and can't afford to buy within the Portland city limits.
 So these people as well do not have a housing choice necessarily. Finally, I'm going to talk about myself. I'm currently living in a three-bedroom house with four roommates besides myself.
 I live in an illegal room in a basement, and this is so that I can afford to live in Portland. This is so that I can do the good work that I do. So what I'm asking of you is that you take a hard look at this proposal as it relates to housing choices and affordability so that not only the clients I've spoken of, but people such as myself doing good work in the city can afford to continue doing that good work and actually live here. Thank you very much.
 Welcome. Hello. I'm Peggy Moretti. I'm here representing Restore Oregon and I have submitted written testimony so I will just summarize a few of my points.
 Our organization has been tracking residential demolitions for several years, and our analysis reflects, by the way, that for every one unit demolished right now, we're only getting 1.4 new units. So we're not getting much for all the demolition that has been going on around the city. Like you said, there haven't been a bunch of duplexes built for all those demolitions. Right.
 We're concerned about how – I mean, of course we support affordable housing. Of course we support choices. But what we're very concerned about is the morphing of this project into something that's pretty much exclusively about affordability, but with no –
 that these proposals are actually going to affect affordability. And that concerns us very much. We think that we have a potential here to do as much harm as good, and we better know which way it's going to go before we enact this thing. There are points we think are fine. They're great. The limited size and scale and massing, adding ADUs, particularly the conversion of existing interior units
 conversions of existing historic homes, but we feel very strongly that right now there are two big shortfalls in the proposal as it stands. One, there's utterly insufficient incentives to retain existing houses. We can't just do this on a hope and a prayer. Our proposal is that the new development of middle housing be restricted to vacant lots or lots where the existing house is less than 50 years old.
 that we waive system development fees, but only for projects that retain the existing house, that existing residential structures be allowed greater flexibility for those interior conversions without triggering a whole bunch of commercial building code compliance, and that maybe we allow additional ADUs on properties that are designated historic, since design would be subject to review and we could be more assured of compatibility. Okay.
 The other point we're very concerned about is the lack of any context-specific design standards. What's going to keep our neighborhoods from becoming a dense, cheap mishmash of ugly? Restore Oregon would therefore recommend creating very clear, simple, context-specific design guidelines, such as they're using in Denver and other cities.
 We challenge the advisability of flag lots because I've never seen one that didn't look really, really weird. And this idea of three-story skinny houses is...
 is just too ugly. And I think we need to set an absolute maximum on the FAR. It's good to bonus and all that, but at some point we've got to hit a cap. So I guess overall we think this is a half-baked proposal right now. It's good and it's bad, or it has a potential for good and bad, but we need to really, really make sure we have thought everything through and that in our kind of mad dash towards affordability at all costs, we don't make –
 mistakes that are similar to what was made back in the 1960s when people thought that urban renewal back then was the cure to society's ills. And today we are still mourning the loss of neighborhoods that were destroyed with good intentions back then.
 So, yeah, we need to add density, we need affordable housing, but let's make sure that we are doing this in the right way, and let's make sure that these decisions are based on sound evidence, proven results, examples we can look at, see pictures of, and that we respect our heritage and character of these neighborhoods in the process. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. You say you've got written testimony. I haven't seen it yet. That's okay. I will see it. But did you put your recommendations that you just iterated in that testimony, those points you were making? Excellent. Thank you. I want to take a look at that. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay, let's take anyone else that's here that will have a difficulty coming back for the next hearing, and then we'll see how many we have left after that. Come on up. Welcome.
 Go ahead. All right. Mayor Hales and commissioners, my name is Roberta Yambasu. I am the chair of Elders in Action, the senior advisory council for both Multnomah County and the city. I am concerned about the residential infill project concept report, but for a different reason than most of the people today are. While the report acknowledges that accessible housing is a priority need, it fails to mention accessible housing in the policy proposals.
 This is a glaring omission and a mission which needs to be corrected. The Portland City Council has the opportunity to establish progressive housing standards for the next generations. As an age-friendly city, Portland needs to ensure that all new housing is both visitable and accessible. We have an aging population that will be an increasingly larger segment of the population every year. People are living longer and baby boomers are reaching their elder years.
 We want our citizens to be able to age in place. There is no excuse for not taking the actions that would enable them to do so. We must require all new housing to be accessible. Doing so will make our city a better place to live for all people, not just for those currently needing accessible housing, but for those that will need it in the future. We have to plan for that future. As an example, when I needed to replace my crumbling sidewalk, I made that investment.
 Instead of replacing the sidewalk, I installed a concrete ramp. I don't need it now, but I might someday. And if I don't, my friends and family might.
 As a citizen and a consumer, I urge you to make Portland a leader in housing policy and include both affordability and accessibility as requirements for all new housing. Doing so is an investment in a livable Portland for all ages. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tony Jordan. I'm with Portlanders for Parking Reform.
 Portlanders for Parking Reform supports abundant, diverse, and affordable housing options in every neighborhood. We encourage City Council to support the Residential Info Project's recommended concepts and policies that will create more missing middle housing in every neighborhood in the city. Currently, Portland's housing options are limited and increasingly unaffordable. Many people are forced to move further away from the neighborhoods that are accessible by foot, bike, and transit, and as a result, they become more car-dependent.
 If we want to meet our 2035 transportation and climate goals and build active, healthy, and inclusive communities, we must provide diverse housing options in every neighborhood to allow more access to transportation choices and economic opportunities.
 In general, we believe that the project concept report is heading in the right direction. Specifically, we strongly support the following recommended concepts. Recommendation 4, allow more housing types in selected areas. Recommendation 7, provide added flexibility for retaining existing houses, although we think that you need to exempt internal conversions from parking requirements because if you have a big house that you need to subdivide, it's going to be hard to find three or four parking spaces on that lot. And recommendation 10, revise parking rules for housing on narrow lots citywide.
 We believe that there are some areas we can do better. Exempt parking requirements is an incentive for affordable housing units. Low-income people are more likely to use transit and not own a car. Infill development that provides affordable housing should be exempt from parking requirements. You should offer parking exemptions for tree preservation. We think that the housing choice option should be in all areas of the city, don't exempt some areas, and eliminate parking requirements for all future infill and manage parking with pricing. Okay.
 Bundling parking and housing increases the cost of development and forces people who don't own cars to pay higher housing costs for parking they don't use. The city is already developing better parking management tools, such as residential permits and transportation demand management incentives, to more effectively manage residential parking demand, so we should eliminate those going forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Rick Michelson, and I'm another one of the committee members that was on the committee in 1989. Charlie and I have been working on this for a long, long time. We sure have. I was also a RPSAC member. And while I have issues with many, many things in the report, I'm only going to address one anomaly or problem today. And that's the fact that as it developed, this proposal would allow more housing units in the R5 zone than are allowed in the R2 zone.
 That's an anomaly I think we can't continue to have. In effect, every lot is allowed to have three units, triplex on a corner, duplex plus an ADU in the middle, or single family and two ADUs in the middle. With ADUs now being up around 800 square feet, that's, in effect, another two-bedroom apartment. It's not the small ADU we used to think about. It's a full unit. So we actually could have...
 a 5,200-square-foot footprint in the R5 zone, and only about 5,000 square foot in the R2 zone. There's a system problem here, that we have some zones that go by FAR and some that don't. They all need to get coordinated. In effect, what we have in our zoning is an RH that has a 4-to-1 FAR and a 2-to-1 FAR, an R1 zone that has about a 1-to-1 FAR, 1,000 square feet units per 10, I'm pretty sure,
 An R2 unit that allows a density of about 0.5 FAR, and now we're coming in with this R5 that allows 0.65, which is a higher FAR ratio than both the R2 and the R3. We need to fix that. Listening to a lot of testimony today, it was really like people were talking past each other, and it will pride me a lot about when we're introducing row houses here. There's a whole group of people who have this idea, it's a wonderful idea, and only see the dreams.
 There's another group of people that sees the same idea and only has their fears. The people who have the dream think it's going to be adding additional units to nice housing and help us preserve housing. The other side thinks that it's really going to lead to increased demolition and fewer scale building. I think there's some truth to both of that. What we need to do as we develop this is find a better way. And one suggestion for today, and I just thought about it today, is if we were to only allow the extra units with an existing house
 throughout the city but suggest and then pick some certain experimental areas where we'd allow the proposal as written to go in we could see whether whether number one there's a demand for these additional units without tearing down houses and number two what would be the result in the areas over here down the houses i think that's an experiment worth trying yeah thank you thanks thank you all okay um others that want to speak today while we've got time we still have some so come on up
 And Alan De La Corrie. Is Alan here? Yes. He is. Come on up, please. Okay, go ahead. Hi, I'm Margaret Davis. I live in northeast Portland, and I'm with United Neighborhoods for Reform.
 The idea for the residential infill project came out of the United Neighborhoods for Reform Demolition Development Resolution, and that garnered 43 endorsements from neighborhood associations citywide. UNR participated and promoted the work of the residential infill project, partly as a means to reduce demolitions. With disappointment and regret, UNR cannot support this proposal.
 We feel responsibility to those 43 neighborhood associations and neighbors citywide who oppose demolitions, and we can't in good conscience support something that contemplates demolitions at the scale and rate in the proposal. Hundreds of units of affordable housing, well-built and viable housing, crashed into the landfill in this building boom. Many neighborhoods that used to serve a wide range of residents are now only accessible to the wealthy.
 Along the way, people and the environment have been dusted with hazardous materials such as lead and asbestos on the average almost daily. This proposal does not meet our goals such as reducing demolitions, and it in fact subverts them. And as you will hear from our speakers throughout this testimony, nor does it meet your goals or the city's.
 Such destruction is avoidable and unnecessary. Higher density projects are coming in centers and corridors under the newly passed comp plan and at thousands of corner properties citywide. According to the Bureau of Planning, we have twice as much vacant land as we need to meet our density goals until 2035. Inclusionary zoning, too, will help a wider range of people share in these housing opportunities and more equitably distribute the benefits of development.
 Some people say it is impolitic to participate and then spurn the result. It is also impolitic to stack the composition of the committee against the grassroots charge. It is impolitic to ignore the public outcry. It is impolitic to say this proposal reduces demolitions when it will accelerate them. There's good news. We care a lot. We can't help but feel invested in these great neighborhoods that we helped make.
 and we look forward to building a better city with you. But the rezoning of this project, even if it's legally defensible, it promises more harm than good and further loss of a desirable resource, which is viable, affordable housing.
 So I'm going to make the same request of you that I did as others, because you've been so involved in this, and that is three choices. Stop now, do nothing. Adopt this as is. Or are there parts of this that you like? I think so. I think it's a do nothing thing at this point. I'm sorry. You're fine with it.
 rate of demolition we have now and replacing 1,500 square foot houses with 3,500 square foot houses? Well, the scale provisions of the proposal actually allow for, I think, buildings as big as or even bigger than are allowed now. I'm not aware of that.
 I thought 2,500 was 2,500. They're excluding basements and they're excluding ADUs and excluding the bonus allowed. Well, then maybe we have the number wrong. But I'm saying I'm not okay with the current rate of demolition and the replacement of small houses with giant ones.
 I think you and I agree on that. I know we do. So I'm a little mystified, and I appreciated Rick's suggestion that you would say just abandon hope and stop and accept the status quo as good as it gets. I can't accept that. There are other things that we're doing as a group, and also a lot of individuals are countering at the grassroots level this kind of work. So, for instance, I...
 Tried to help tear down proof my block and that's been a very successful effort. It's been neighbor to neighbor We plan for when we want to sell our houses and move on making sure that they go to a real family who will live in them and and
 and not tear it down. We're attending the open houses of some of these new places that are built and warning about the effects of the hazmat that's probably in the ground. If there's families moving in, they should know that, that their children shouldn't play in that dirt, that they shouldn't grow vegetables and eat them. So all these things, I think, work to hopefully keep houses standing. Okay, thank you. Yeah. Welcome. Go ahead.
 Hi, my name is Aaron Parecki. I wanted to give my perspective as a small-time landlord. I currently own a house with a detached ADU, and both units are rented out. I don't personally have the resources to tear down a house and build a giant one in its place, but I do have the resources to remodel a house or subdivide a larger house into a duplex or even build a small detached ADU.
 As someone who can't afford to build a new house, I'm very excited about the plan because it enables me to be able to create more housing, even just as someone who doesn't necessarily have the resources to build from scratch. So hopefully I'll be able to live in one of those myself as well. So, yeah, I definitely am excited about these changes. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, City Council. I'm sorry if I did this out of order, but I've got some specs here that I'm going to talk about, and is it okay to give those up for right now? Sure, please. Yeah, or just Carla will. Thank you.
 During the course of this conversation, Alan Delatore, a member of the RPSAC, and I wanted to talk to you first and foremost that I live in infill housing in the Overlook neighborhood. My lot used to be an apple orchard that the neighbors were really sad to see go away, but I currently am a contributing member to my community. I own the home with my wife and
 We feel like that residential infill opportunity has given us a chance to live in a very important neighborhood, a neighborhood that we've chosen to live in.
 Just a little bit too about why I'm talking today. I don't want to cover all of the details around the residential infill project, but to really focus on the accessibility piece. In my current home, as in a lot of residential infill, I've got to take my daughter out of the stroller. I've got to get the groceries off of my bike in order to get in that house. This is not to mention the aging process and some of the difficulties that I'll talk about. What we're talking about is access to one's home for all ages and all abilities here.
 Just a little bit on the demographic imperative, we know that the 123,000 people who are going to be added to the city of Portland will include about 40 to 50 percent of households that have somebody age 65 and older, and about a quarter of adults in Oregon have a disability. So this is an issue that's important to us, and it's growing in importance. Data are not available for the accessibility of the single-family housing stock in the city of Portland. We don't have that. The Housing Bureau does not have that. It's something that we need, but are just not available to us.
 And the ADA does not cover single-family homes. So the resulting accessible development that's happening in Portland is not happening in single-family neighborhoods.
 A couple of things that I just want to throw out there. I support the residential infill project concept report holistically. I really think that there are a lot of good things that are in there. In particular, the quarter-mile proximity to services, high-density quality services. When we think about housing costs, we often forget about the housing plus transportation costs. That metric is 45% of our income. We need to consider that here, especially with respect to people who are frail or have a disability.
 I propose that you consider doing two things with this proposal, that the infill that's a result of this is actually required to be visitable. The concept of visitability has three components. One zero-step entrance, wide halls and doors that will allow you to get a walker, a bike, a bike.
 a wheelchair, anything through there, and then at least a bathroom on the ground floor that somebody could come in and use. Visitability is about your neighbors and your family and everyone else in the community, not just about you. So this is an important thing for just about everyone. And the second proposal is that bonus units, density bonuses that are allowed here, meet a higher standard of accessibility. And I would also extend that, actually, to cottage clusters. I think that that's an opportunity for us to find an innovative solution for housing Portlanders in the future.
 I do want to put out the caveat that we know topographical concerns and existing structures may require some kind of exemption. So we're not against that idea, but we want to put this out there that by right development as part of this should include accessibility or at the very minimum visitability as an outcome of this project. Thank you very much. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you all. Okay, let's take some more folks. Go ahead, please. Should I go? Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Rosemary Sweet, and I will be speaking today in support of the city staff's proposal to marginally increase the amount and type of housing that's permitted in the city's neighborhoods. I'll be sharing my perspective today based on approximately 20 years of work helping to create a Portland that is more just and more ecologically sound, a city that provides everyone with the benefits of a way of life that is both
 more satisfying and that recognizes the limits of Earth's capacity to support us.
 In the late 90s, I helped develop the city's green building policies, and my role there was to ensure that ecologically sound housing that was healthier and more durable and more comfortable was available to low-income residents. After that, in my work with Food Policy Council, Farmers Market Fund, and others, I worked on creating access to healthy, locally grown food for everyone, and the city responded to that need and has enacted zoning changes to make healthy food more accessible to all.
 Portland is now engaged in this thoughtful reconsideration of its zoning in its neighborhood. To create a city that is inclusive and that protects the earth, which after all is the only home we have, we must change our single-family zones. This proposal will allow the construction of smaller homes, slightly more numerous homes, houses that use fewer resources and that support walkable neighborhoods and local businesses.
 Most importantly, they offer a wider range of housing options for people who prefer smaller homes, who are living singlier as a couple, who cannot afford a detached house, and who do not want to consume more than their share of materials and energy. I consider this proposal quite modest,
 It offers only incremental growth in the neighborhoods. We are not talking about large apartment complexes in the middle of residential areas. And it's growth that's respectful of the neighborhood's character. While the changes are necessary for our future, they also look respectfully to our past, to a time before McMansions came into vogue, a time when duplexes and cottage clusters fit comfortably throughout the city, allowing people housing choices.
 On a personal note, and I'll stop there, I now live in a duplex. In my 40s, I lived in a house with an internal conversion to a second-floor apartment. These homes have been a wonderful source for me of comfort and enjoyment. They fit very nicely within the neighborhoods they were in, and I would just like to see other people have the option to live in those kinds of homes in this city. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome.
 Thank you. My name is Garrett Downen. I am a native Oregonian and Montevilla resident. Thank you for this opportunity and for working to address the housing affordability crisis. I'll keep this quick and out of respect for your request, Mayor Hales, because a number of the points that I was intending on making were made by previous in previous testimony.
 But I did want to add my voice and experience in support of this infill project and just testify to the need for mid-level housing. When I was house hunting myself in 2013, it was more of an endeavor than I expected. I toured 60 different homes over the course of a couple months, put in seven different offers, six of which were above asking, and it needed to stretch my initial budget by 30%.
 But with Portland leading the country in the rate of housing price increases, that's not too bad compared to what I'm seeing people experience now three and a half years later. And I don't pretend that that experience was a hardship compared to the experience of many who were fighting to keep a roof over their heads. But it felt rough at the time, and I worry about the ripple effects of that shortage to people less privileged than I and my peers. Okay.
 In regards to those peers, I'm seeing many young professionals in their late 20s and 30s, folks who are some of the most impactful and engaged people in Portland who work in nonprofits, in government, at B Corporations, really struggle with finding a place here right now. They are, despite their privileges, I hear them pining over jobs.
 the idea of actually buying a home here at some point. They would love the opportunity to buy or rent in a long-term fashion a part of a duplex, triplex, or what I now learn today is called cottage clusters. I've heard peers dreaming of that as a wonderful living environment. We would love to see more of that. So would they, and they're feeling priced out.
 So in summary, I support this direction and the revision suggested by Portland from everyone. And it feels like a well-reasoned, balanced, and oh-so-necessary approach to adding modestly priced units. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 good afternoon good afternoon mayor hales commissioners my name is david sweet and i was pleased to serve on the ripsack representing central northeast neighbors coalition i want to commend bps staff for creating an excellent process which resulted in a proposal that will preserve the integrity of our neighborhoods while providing greater housing choice and affordability i bought my first house in portland in 1978.
 I was four years out of college and two years on the job as a city field representative. That's how things were in Portland four years, four decades ago. Today, no city field rep can afford to buy that house or any house in that neighborhood or likely rent there either. Like others of my generation, I got my place on the home ownership escalator. And because I was able to buy a house then, I get to be a homeowner for the rest of my life. My adult children are not so fortunate.
 Like many millennials, they struggle to afford to stay in the city where they grew up. Not all the houses in my old neighborhood are owned by wealthy people. But when those houses turn over, they will be bought by wealthy people who alone can afford them. And that neighborhood and all of our other close-in neighborhoods will lose the economic and ethnic diversity that has characterized Portland for the 50 years that I've lived here. We will join the national trend toward economic segregation.
 It does not have to happen that way. The residential infill proposal offers us the opportunity for housing choice in Portland's great neighborhoods.
 While keeping the scale of new development consistent with existing houses, it will re-legalize the development of smaller, more energy efficient, and more affordable housing. It will offer options for middle income families that are not currently available. It will allow school teachers, first responders, and shop owners the opportunity to live in the neighborhoods they serve. It will allow young families to step onto that home ownership escalator.
 It will offer older adults the opportunity to age in community while they downsize. In the late 1980s, I helped work on the Albina Community Plan, and along with that effort, the city created the A Overlay Zone, which legalized accessory dwelling units in some selected areas. A modest yet important step forward.
 Like the current proposal, that one created some concerned reactions about the loss of integrity of single-family neighborhoods. Yet just a few years later, the idea had won such broad acceptance that ADUs were simply allowed as a matter of right in all single-family areas. The residential infill proposal is similar, a modest yet important step forward. And like the overlay before it,
 It will allow incremental, low-impact changes that move us toward equity and inclusivity. And like the overlay, I feel confident that these changes will receive broad acceptance and will ultimately be applied to all of our single-family neighborhoods. Thank you.
 Thank you. I want to thank you and all the members of the committee for the huge amount of time that you've put into this, as well as all the other great testimony we've had here today. Unfortunately, I think we do have to stop now because we're going to lose a quorum. And I know there's some of you who've been waiting very patiently to speak. I'm going to put you first on the sign-up sheet for our continued hearing.
 So we'll make sure that you don't have to wait that long again. Thank you three very much. And then we do need to act on a motion. If you can't come back next time, we will read everything that is sent in to us. And if you could just put in the subject line, I was not able to speak on the first hearing. That would – I'll make sure that I look for it carefully. Thank you. And we do need to act on a motion, which I am looking for the verbiage for back in my pile.
 unless one of you has it handy, let me see if I can find it, to allow us to...
 deviate from the rules in order to have an evening hearing in addition to our afternoon hearing on the 16th. Is that good enough? Right. There's the language. Thank you, Rachel. Rachel on the spot. I move to waive the two-week notice to have a 6 p.m. session to extend the hearing on the residential infill project from 6 to 8 p.m. on November 16th. Is there a second? Okay. Any discussion? Let's take a vote. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Okay, so there'll be two hearings on the 16th at 2 p.m., which is when we'll, by the way, if you're signed up and you want to come back, you can sign up for either 2 p.m. or 6 p.m., and we'll put you first in either queue. So does that make sense? So we're going to have a hearing at 2 p.m.
 And we're going to recess for dinner, and we're going to resume at 6. So if you are here today and you want to come back and speak, you can sign up for 2 p.m. or at 6 p.m. See Rachel or Carla to facilitate that. And again, thanks for your patience in not being heard today.
 I think we just need to make it clear that this hearing is continued. Yes, it is continued. So if you did get to speak today, you don't get to sign up and testify again next week. We are continuing the hearing to hear more testimony, and we want to ask people to continue to send written ideas into us so that when we get to the council discussion phase, we'll have not only heard testimony but had a chance to digest all this great material that people are providing. Thank you very much, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m.