So, Carl, I'm going to go ahead and start the pre-gavel. Good morning, Commissioner. Colleagues, we are going to start off by reading a proclamation on behalf of Terry Williams. Terry, can you just wave so everybody can see who you are and you can be appropriately honored and embarrassed all at the same time. This is a proclamation on behalf of the entire City Council for you, Terry. Thank you.
 Whereas Terry Williams has served the city for 31 years as an employee of the auditor's office, the Bureau of Licenses, the Revenue Bureau, and the Revenue Division. And whereas Terry is retiring from the city today on November 1st, 2017.
 And whereas Terry is a dedicated civic leader and volunteer, most recently she served as the tax division manager and deputy director of the revenue division, she has also served the public as the chair of the OSCPA State and Local Tax Project Committee and organizer of the Oregon Small Business Fair. And whereas Terry has skillfully led the city through several high-profile, high-risk projects,
 including the implementation of several new large-scale revenue programs with focus, determination, finesse, and our ability to effectively solve complex problems. And whereas Terry has been a leader in the development of staff and her influence has helped develop many other leaders within the city,
 And whereas Terry has established and maintained key relationships with city staff and stakeholders through her talent, trustworthiness, experience, and her ability to make hard work both rewarding and fun, and whereas the City of Portland is grateful for Terry's exemplary service through her entire lengthy career with the city,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 1, 2017, Terry Williams Day in Portland, and encourage all residents to observe this day.
 his political skills he's aged much better than I am we're going to do three around for licks one, two, three one, two, three it's been a pleasure I won't shake your hand staff are asking if they get the day off
 Terry gets a day off. Tomorrow. Yeah, tomorrow. Yeah, Terry, take the rest of the week off, too. You've earned it. All right, good morning, everybody. This is the morning session of the Portland City Council, November 1st, 2017. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 Our usual statement, I'm going to abridge it. I think everybody here has probably heard this statement ad nauseum. The name of the game here is let's respect everyone. People come up, they testify, they have opinions that may differ from your own. Treat them with respect. Hear them out. It's always an opportunity to learn something new and different.
 Do not disrupt people's public testimony. Do not disrupt council deliberations. If you do so, you'll be asked to leave. If you are asked to leave and you do not do so, you're subject to arrest for trespassing. And we, as usual, don't want that to happen. We'd rather just have the conversation here.
 During public testimony, you'll see there's a light on the panel. Typically, you'll get three minutes to testify unless we have a lot of people testifying or we're short on time. Two and a half minutes into your testimony or 30 seconds before it's over, the yellow light blinks. When your time is up, a red light goes off.
 Please no verbal expressions of support or opposition. Just a thumbs up or a thumbs down typically works really well for all of us. I just want to make a couple of quick housekeeping notes. There have been requests.
 that we improve the PowerPoint system. I want you to know that my office and technology and the clerk's office are seeking to improve that. They are in process. My understanding is we need a new laptop. That has been ordered, and there are some other technical fixes that are underway. So while those improvements have not been made in time for today's session, they are, in fact, underway.
 So thank you, Carla, for that. Thank you, Mustafa, for your hard work on that, wherever you are today. Second of all, colleagues, I will need to take a brief leave of absence at 11 o'clock this morning, and I apologize for that. I'll turn the gavel over to the Council President at that particular time. So with that, Carla, please call the first items, communications. Item 1170, request of Doug Peterson to address Council.
 regarding Peterson's on Morrison remodel of parking structure. And while they're coming up, colleagues, I just want to report that at the end of the last series of presentations, I indicated that I would have my staff meet with the folks from Peterson and orchestrate communication with Prosper Portland. That has happened, and I'm grateful for the continued communication. Why don't we read all five of the communications at the same time and have them all come up at once? Thank you.
 1171, request of David D. Beller to address council regarding Peterson's store and parking garage remodel. 1172, request of Shaniqua Vanterpool to address council regarding how important Peterson's is to the community.
 1173, request of John McClellan, Conway, to address counsel regarding Petersons at 911 Southwest Morrison. 1174, request of Michael R. Vandiver to address counsel regarding Petersons at 911 Southwest Morrison and continuing operation. Thank you.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. If you could just state your name for the record. Certainly. I forgot to mention this. This doesn't apply to you, I'm sure, but if anybody testifies today who is a registered lobbyist, please let us know that. That's required. If you're representing an organization, that's helpful, too. Good morning, sir. My name is Michael Vandevere. I work for Peterson's just short of one month, 26 years. Let's talk about the stats regarding the building up at Morrison. Okay.
 The people that run businesses there, such as Mother Goose, have been there for 40 years. Peterson's been there for 34 years. Portland Swim were in operations for 20 years at 4th and Alder at a parking structure, and it has moved to Morrison three years ago. Consider this one fact. 100 years of business in the city of Portland by three companies. That's amazing, isn't it?
 They produce jobs, taxes, and in our case, we also sell lottery, which those dollars go towards civic development. These businesses have vendors in the hundreds. Employees benefit by wages, health care, and holiday pay, depending upon whether or not they are full-time or part-time. This comes to the expense of the employer. Small businesses cannot increase wages by taxing the populace, unlike city government.
 What does the city do for the average citizen? Well, let's use a few examples. Number one, they build bike paths on streets to make it safer for bikers. Last Sunday, for example, Dylan Rivera was on television, and he was helping decommission 18 different motorhomes that were dilapidated at the cost of the city of $1,000. Further expenses to decommission these vehicles are going to cost $2,000 extra per vehicle.
 Increasing low-income housing at taxpayer costs for those in need is an important thing also the city is doing. The fourth thing I was going to bring up was the 5% pay raise that the city has offered police officers to move into the city so they were part of the community. These expenses out of the taxpayers' pockets. This is the discretion of all five of you council members. Small businesses don't have that luxury.
 Let's get to the point why I'm here today. The city is willing to spend money on a project it deems fit to remodel the parking structure at 10th and Morrison. It's a 45-year-old building. It does need some help. So let's spend another 5% on this garage project. Reward these businesses who have paid the price for being successful businesses and allow them to stay during the construction.
 Notice that they're drawing on the next page. It shows 9th and Morrison, westward to 10th Avenue. It's physically impossible to close all four walk-ups and elevators at the same time. The city has said that they wish to keep this parking structure viable during this period of time. They have contracts with Target, and the city needs that parking structure. So my idea is this. Keep the...
 three major businesses in that building, move them over once part of the construction is done, and you all can do this. You can sign this agreement today stating that grandfathered businesses get to stay in the building because of their good service to the community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Morning. My name is David Beller. I'm born in Portland, a longtime resident. Went to Reynolds High School, graduated from Portland State. Lived in Hawaii for about 10 years and then moved back here in 91 and have been here ever since. I started working for Peterson's, I guess, seven, eight years ago. Prior to that, I had a year at Fred Meyers. Got laid off there at the height of the recession because it's a large corporation. You're just a number. Some guy who works for Kroger back east. I'm a member of the Kroger family.
 He said, well, we're going to cut these hours, and I was gone. I went to work for Mr. Peterson a few months after that. It took a while to find a job back then. After working for him for three months, I became ill. I discovered I was diabetic. I had a surgery and couldn't work for over three months. Mr. Peterson is the kind of man who says when you're able to come back, you still have a job here. He's also told me in the past that the people that work for him are his most valuable resource. Thank you.
 He hires with no regard to race, religion, age, medical status. He is a benefit to the community. I'm 60 years old now. If I were to have to go look for another job, who would hire me? I have many medical conditions. I have a job and I will continue to have a job because that's the kind of person he is and that's the service he provides for this community.
 I can't think of another business where I could go to and someone would look at a 60-year-old man with various medical conditions and say, sure, we'll hire you. It wouldn't happen, but it happens here. That business has been there for 34 years. Now they want to remodel the building, and it does need help. But I've looked at the plans, and there are a bunch of tiny little spaces all along the street. And it doesn't make business sense to kick out businesses that have been successful before.
 and paid taxes for 40 years, 35 years, and replaced them with a bunch of new businesses when we all know that most small businesses fail within the first five years and all those spaces are going to be empty. And you're going to kick out a successful business which has paid taxes for many, many years and provided a service to the community, jobs, and a benefit to the people that shop there. It makes no sense whatsoever to close a business like that and just kick them out of that location.
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. I'm Shaniqua Vandepoel. I've been with Peterson's for a year and a half now. Two months ago, my island, my hometown of Charlottesville, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, was hit by Hurricane Omar. And at this very moment, my family is temporarily unemployed. And...
 If Pearson and Morrison has to go, that does not only affect me, but it affects my family too as well. Because at this moment, I'm responsible for providing for what they need until they get back on their feet. And there are other three stores, and if all the employees go to the other three stores, ours will be cut. And if that's the case...
 I don't know how long it will take me to find a next job to support my family at this very tragic time. Thank you. Thank you. Goodness. Good morning, esteemed counsel. My name is John Conway. I'm a proud resident of America's it city. I went to Lewis and Clark College. I graduated from Lake Ridge High School.
 In 1985, I lost vision in my right eye. In 2006, I had the eye removed. From then on, I was suffering from cataracts until about two years ago when I had cataract surgery. For the first time after eight years, I was able to take on a job, and Doug Peterson hired me. I've been working for Petersons for the past year, and going to work after being out of work for eight years is so dynamic, so life-giving, so amazing that...
 to describe it, doesn't do it justice. But I have another tacit on this. One of the things about Peterson's and working at Peterson's that's absolutely magical is I become the first exposure to out-of-towners. There is nothing that makes my Oregonian heart burst with joy than somebody walking into Peterson's and looking around and saying, where's your vodka? I take a moment and I say, welcome to the proud 33rd.
 We don't sell vodka, but we have a lot of other magical things to show you. I get to spend a lot of time with people from out of town who've never been to our proud city. And I open their eyes to the delights and the wonders that we have to offer. It's exciting and we're the first exposure. And not many people think of Petersons as the first place that tourists come. The hotels are the hotels. A Hilton is a Hilton is a Hilton is a Hilton. But Petersons is absolutely Portland and has been for 34 years.
 Before I worked at Peterson's, I had a different evaluation of it. It was a place where you could get soda pop and candy at any time of night or day. Now it's my workplace. I love it, and I recognize that it's a lot of different things to a lot of different people. There's a lot of history there in a city that has lost a lot of its history. How many people remember the Arctic Circle that's now Herzog Jewelers? Yes.
 Um, there's a lot of stuff that this city is missing now that, that, that is going away. I went to, um, oh God, the jewelers on, uh, Park and, and Morrison. Oh, um, anyway, I can't remember what the name was. Zell Brothers. Zell, oh, not Zell Brothers. No, the Zell Brothers went first. But, uh, Jimmy. Carl Grieve. I went to high school with Jimmy Grieve. So this city has an amazing amount of history, but we're burying it. Anyway, um.
 Don't let us lose any more of our history. I love this city, and I'd like to keep it as much intact as is there. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Peterson, you can just pull the mic over if that's better. Okay, very good. It moves. I should have told you. Okay. You can actually slide the whole thing. It's not nailed down or anything. Okay. Thank you, and thank you for hearing us. Thank you.
 I did this pass out. This is an op-ed that I wrote for the Portland Business Journal, and it really tells the story of Peterson. So it tells a lot of it. What I'd like to talk about...
 You know, this is the petitions our customers have signed in the store. It's building thousands of signatures. I turned some in here a couple months ago, but it's built up to this big of a stack. I did give a complete set, the same set that's here, to Commissioner Fish's office on Monday. I talked to Todd Longren on Monday. My concern is...
 Prosper Portland just wants us out. They've set it up that way, and once we're out, we're gone. I just think that's terrible that
 These are our customers. All these signatures are our customers. But in a way, they're your customers too because they're owners. That's the stack of people that have signed the petition and a whole lot of them made comments. And if you get a chance, that set that I gave, the commissioner's official office might be available to take a look at. And you have the ones from before. I feel like...
 You know, there can be accommodation for us to be there during much of the remodel. Like I have said before, the major construction is on the ends of the building, not in the middle of the block. And their intention is to keep the storefronts from some time before they start changing that. So when they say nobody can be there, it's just an excuse. They want us out. They, you know...
 gee, the Starbucks at Pioneer Square, they were there during the entire remodel. They moved barricades and fences around, and they had big banners saying, Starbucks is still open during remodel. There are ways to do that. And if...
 Prosper Portland saying it just can't be done, that's just, I think that's not really true, and it certainly can be accommodated. And, you know, these are customers that are using the MAX line, they're stopping at that stop, which is going to be open during the entire time of the program.
 the remodel. It's a major transit stop for the light rail and for the streetcar and also the library. And there should be some way to accommodate us for a while. And I want to be there when it's done. I've, gee, I added another store. I purchased George's Market at 12th and Stark. I've got close to a quarter million dollars of my own money that I put into that location. And, you know, I have a
 interest in downtown Portland. I want to be part of downtown Portland, and I'm just being pushed out, and I just, I need the council members' help, because without the council members' help, a resolution or something to keep us there, we're gone, and I'm sorry for that. Thank you. All right. Thank you all for your testimony. We appreciate it. Thank you. I have pulled consent item 1180. I'm wondering if there are other consent items that have been pulled. I
 I have had no other requests. Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Please call item 1180. 1180, appoint Elizabeth Fouts to the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Board of Trustees for a term to expire December 31, 2020.
 Well, good morning, colleagues. The reason I've pulled this item is, as you know, it is the policy of my office to actually not put appointments on consent agenda. And I'm still not entirely clear how that happens, so I apologize for the confusion. But the important thing is today we have Ms. Bounce here, who is –
 being appointed. And we have Sam Hutchison, who's the director of FPDNR here to introduce the appointment. Thank you so much for coming in and thank you for your willingness to serve.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. Sam Hutchison, Bureau Director of FPD&R. The Board of Trustees for FPD&R consists of five members, one which is the mayor or the mayor's designee. We have a fire representative, a police representative, and two citizen representatives. The citizen representatives are appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council.
 Ms. Fouts, who I will formally introduce here in just a minute, was selected by work with Dan Saltzman's office and then vetted with the mayor's office, and the mayor has presented her for your approval. I'll go ahead and let Elizabeth Fouts here give her just a little bit of background on her history and why she'd like to be a board trustee. Thank you so much.
 Good morning. My name is Elizabeth Fouts. I'm an attorney with 17 years of legal experience and a Portland resident. I have worked for the Standard since 2008, and I currently manage the transactional legal teams for our insurance services group as well as our asset management group side of the business. I've experienced working with retirement plans as well as disability and life insurance.
 And I'd be happy to serve as a trustee for the fire and police disability and death benefit plan. I'd like to serve the city as well as our hardworking police and firefighters. And thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Any questions? Commissioner Fritch? Could you just explain to people at home what does the board do? The board oversees the fund as well as...
 sets the policy for the Bureau. And they also approve the budget and the funds budget and the payout. This is a unique situation to where the city charter has given power to the Board of Trustees to oversee the fund and oversee FPD&R. We pay out approximately, I want to say, $150 million per year in benefits, both retirement and disability benefits.
 We do that through a tax levy to which you approve, but the board is the one who we put the budget together. The board approves the budget. The board approves the tax levy that we need, and then it is passed on to you. So I, as a bureau director, look to them for guidance as far as policy and direction to go with what we do in the bureau. I also work, obviously, with Commissioner Saltzman as my director.
 commissioner in charge, but mostly they're the ones who oversee the direction that the fund is run and how the Bureau is operated. So the fund for police and fire disability in retirement is paid by property taxes as we go, correct? Correct. So there isn't any claim to the standard for example for a life insurance policy.
 policy for police and fire? No, there's no life. The only benefits we offer are retirement and disability and then we offer survivor benefits to surviving spouses and children. Paid directly by the fund rather than by an outside insurance. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions or discussion? Is there any public testimony on this item? Mr. Walsh wanted to testify. Great. Alright. You can cool your heels for a little bit. We'll hear from Mr. Walsh.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We were going to pull this item exactly, I think, while you pulled it, Mayor. We like the idea of introducing the appointees, the commissions and committees.
 I'd like to get to know them a little bit. I realize it's difficult to do that, but we commend you for doing it, for pulling this item and introducing the people and why they want to serve on a committee. And when you take it,
 out of consent agenda and put it on regular business, you allow somebody like Commissioner Fritz to ask questions about it. And she asked most of the questions that I would have asked. So, again, this is good news. We commend you for pulling it. And we hope in the future that when it's possible, that all of you who appoint people on commissions bring them in and celebrate them.
 You know, they should be celebrated. They don't get any money. So we've got to do something for them. At least acknowledge them and say thank you, you know, because you've got to get criticized. You don't even get paid. At least when you guys get criticized, you get paid anyway. So we really like these volunteers, and we really like staff. So, again, we commend you on that, and it's nice to say something positive for a change. Thank you.
 Very good. Carla, please call the roll. You daily? I don't know where that woman went. I was... Okay. Well... She's in the back. All right. Congratulations and... Oh, there... Joe, yeah. And thank you for your service. I...
 Thank you very much for serving. My policy when I'm suggesting appointments is if the person who's being appointed wants to come, then we put it on the regular agenda. If not, we put it on consent so that we don't ask them to volunteer their time again. I'm very pleased to see a second woman serving on the Board of Trustees, and I hope we're developing folks in the pipeline so that our Board of Trustees can also –
 reflect the diversity in our community in other ways. Thank you very much. Aye. Fish? Yeah, let me echo the words of my colleagues and thank you for stepping up and serving. And we're also very grateful that the Standard is such a major employer in our city, has chosen to stay in our city, and in fact is across the street from us. So, welcome. Aye. Saltzman? Well, thank you, Ms. Fouts, for your willingness to serve. And I also wanted to recognize her predecessor in this position, Justin Delaney.
 who has served as one of the public trustees since at least 2006 when voters approved major reforms to the FPD in our system, and he helped to see those reforms into place that we exist with today. So thank you for your service, Justin Delaney, and thank you, Ms. Fouts. Hi. Wheeler. Well, I'm thrilled with this appointment, and Ms. Fouts, I just have to add my thanks
 My name to the list of well-wishers. This is a very, very complicated position to which you're being appointed, and it requires somebody with a deep technical knowledge
 skill set which you bring to the table and it requires somebody who understands the bigger picture and you actually alluded to that in your commentary here this morning in response to Commissioner Fritz's question. So I think you're exactly the kind of person that we need for this board. I'm thrilled that you are willing to serve. As Mr. Walsh indicated, the remuneration isn't particularly good.
 And it's a really intense and important position. And what really makes this city go isn't what happens up here. It's what happens in the kinds of opportunities that you are taking your time and your energy and committing to the city as a whole. So thank you for that. I vote aye. And the appointment is very much gratefully approved. Thank you for your service. Thank you both for coming in.
 Colleagues, we're pulling the next item, the first one. Could you please read that item?
 Item 1175, proclaimed November to be Native American Heritage Month. So, colleagues, we're returning this proclamation to my office. It's going to be heard pre-gavel next week. What happened was we had a number of people associated with this as guests who could not come in this morning. We had some last-minute cancellations, and so we decided to pull it.
 But with the agreement of my colleagues, I'd like to suspend rules for a moment. There may be people who showed up this morning for this particular item who'd like to have an opportunity to testify in lieu of coming next week. Is there anybody here who would like to support the proclamation today rather than coming back next week? Hearing none, then that will be moved back to my office. Next item, please, 1176.
 accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Colleagues, this is the commission. Mayor, can I just acknowledge for the record that we're actually taking up a time certain at a time certain. And I just, this is progress. Well, it's only going to last until we change our clocks again at the end of the week, no doubt. Whether this was planned or this is just dumb luck, I think we're on the right track. Dumb luck.
 So, colleagues, this is the quarterly Technology Oversight Committee report from the Chief Administrative Officer, Tom Reinhart, and represents the reporting period from July through September of 2017. This committee, as you all know, meets monthly with project sponsors to review any issues or concerns that might pop up, and then they share those issues with the City Council and city staff.
 For this report, we're going to hear about two specific projects. The first is the BDS, Portland Online Permitting System, otherwise known as POPS. And the second is BTS, the Data Center Move Project. I'll now turn it over to our TOC representatives and staff to provide us with the report. Good morning. Thanks for being here.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius, Senior Management Analyst with the Office of Management and Finance. And, Jen, I'm sorry to interrupt. Commissioner Fish, I think, is referring to our monitors. Now we have it. We've struggled with the monitors. Colleagues, the monitors are actually going to be replaced as part of the –
 The upgrade, they've looked at these. These are hopelessly antiquated, so we're all going to have new monitors. Well, I just wanted to be clear. We now have the PowerPoint on our monitors. Right. You only show PowerPoints. The TV screen isn't on yours, but it's working now. Okay, cool. Thank you. Sorry to interrupt. I apologize. So with me are Jeff Baer, director of BTS, Mike Lynch for Commissioner Saltzman, and Josh Mitchell, who was appointed by former Commissioner Novick.
 Your other TOC members are Ken Neubauer for Commissioner Fish, Dr. Wilf Pinfold, appointed by former Mayor Hales, and Diana Garcia for Commissioner Fritz. The TOC, as the Mayor said, advises the Chief Administrative Officer, Tom Reinhart. We are here to present the information from the TOC's quarterly report to Mr. Reinhart for July through September. That quarter, as the Mayor said, the TOC followed two projects, POPs and the data center MOVE.
 Recently, TOC has been working with the city budget office on their software RFP. We will project each project's dashboard. The dashboard contains information from the project management staff, from the quality assurance folks, and the TOC. Mike and Jeff and Josh will do the updates.
 Josh Mitchell, Director of Engineering with Phase II Technology. I've been serving on the TOC for close to five years now. It's been a long role. So I will take pops because I've been here almost the entire time that the previous project existed. I will say that we've been very impressed with the continued discovery process, the
 that are being put in place to ensure that the next project is highly successful. We've been impressed with the effort to do the upgrade to Amanda's six database for the purpose of getting the data center move complete and stable and reliable.
 working well with that project. That has been good. I could just interrupt you, first of all, please. All of you tried to not explain the acronyms and secondly, I've been wanting to know for years what does Amanda stand for? I actually don't think it's an acronym. It's just what they named it. The pet name for the computer, like how? Commissioner Fritz, I think over 70% of the voters made very clear they understood what Amanda stood for. Okay.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. It is the name of the platform that would run reporting and the services behind reporting for the Bureau of Development Services. Thank you. That is Amanda.
 I think a concerted effort to ensure that the future project will be successful and put it together in a way that it can be. This last presentation that we received from the team was really focused on approaches to make sure that that can be successful. So we have not included a red, green, blue approach
 I'm sorry, red, yellow, green status because we don't feel that the project is at a start point yet. But we are happy to see that Discovery is proceeding as it should. So that is the feedback that we can provide at this time. Thank you.
 And I'll add a couple more comments to Josh. And for the record, I'm Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services and appreciate the opportunity to be in front of the council to talk about these two projects. They're both very important. Obviously, the POPS program, we're taking it into a new phase to upgrade the existing system. Some significant issues that occurred over the reporting period were to get it up to a
 supported version, version 6, so that was good news. We have been out of support for quite a number of years, so actually having the vendor support the system was a relatively big milestone for us to achieve during this reporting period. We are now moving forward into the next phase. We've just recently...
 hired an outside external consultant for quality assurance to come in and review our plan and also to make sure that we are on the right implementation approach. We've heard very loud and clear from our TOC members that we don't want to go forward with a big bang approach. We want to look at it for performance.
 putting it into different cycles of implementation, and we are on that track as well. We've been working very closely with Commissioner Udaly and her staff to make sure that they're informed as we are making progress and have a really good partnership arrangement with the Bureau of Development Services and the group that we are putting together to put that in place. So I appreciate that support. And the other project is the data center move. Hi, I'm Michael Lynch. Happy to be here for the first time. So this is a project that actually...
 is nearly done. So it's actually a no news is good news situation. So I've been on the TOC for about a year, and I've seen this project move into execution mode really effectively. And there's really, at this point, not much risk. It's going to wrap up next month, since it's the first, I can say that. And no real risks. I think it's probably the best data center move I've ever seen.
 I would second that. It has been a very effective data center move. Considering the complexity and the retiring of old systems and old hardware, it was very, very smooth, very well run.
 And I'll just add a couple of quick updates. As of this week, we're actually 90% complete with the project and migrating all the applications out of the Portland building into the new location out in Washington County. So that's a major accomplishment. And the last 10% we're on track to get that completed here in the next couple of weeks. We move very quickly after that into what we call decommissioning phase, so decommissioning all the hardware, the servers, whatever.
 It's what was left of the Portland building. And right behind us is the construction crew ready to start the remodel of the Portland building. So we've got a hard deadline in December to meet. We're on track to do that. So really pleased to see that occur.
 Our next major phase of this project, which we'll get into early next year, is disaster recovery and backup. We have a site located in Denver, Colorado, so we'll have a backup site outside the region for disaster recovery aspects of that. Commissioner Fritz? I'd like to just choose Denver rather than eastern Oregon.
 We chose Denver because the firm we selected, ViaWest, with the location out in Hillsboro, that's their backup center they have in Denver. It's a complete replication of the existing center out there, so it will be very familiar with our team to be on site. It will look exactly the same as what we have out here. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions before we open this to testimony? Very good. Thank you so much. Any public testimony? I've lost my esteemed clerk. There she is. Hey, Carla.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? This is a report, so we don't have a sign-up sheet set out. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. New Daily. Well, thank you for the report, and I just want to thank Lori Levy and the whole POPs team who deserve credit for completing the upgrade to Amanda 6, whatever Amanda may or may not stand for.
 The next phase of the project will involve assembling, prioritizing, and budgeting for all requirements from all the bureaus that participate in the development review process. Lori and the POPS team will need to carefully consider all bureaus' needs. And my staff has asked bureaus to identify additional resource needs associated with the POPS project. We need bureau staff to work together to make this project successful. If we need to allocate additional resources to help make that happen...
 I think we should, and I'll be back to ask for that. Thanks again to Lori Levy and the POPs team, as well as the staff from PBOT, BES, Water, Fire, and Parks, who are participating in this process. Aye. Fruits.
 Thank you very much for your work, and especially the volunteers on the committee. It's really great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for initiating this and keeping it going. Obviously, Jeff and Jen have started for a long time, and we appreciate that. I do hope that Amanda is paying attention to the details as much as I do, and that would be probably better. And thank you for telling me that it's not an acronym because I stopped looking to find out now. It's just really well made. Yeah, well, very nice. Thank you, and we'll look forward to your next report. Thank you.
 Fish. Good report. Thank you for your work. Aye. Holtzman. I want to thank the committee. Thank you, Mr. Lynch, for serving as my representative on that committee. And thank you also, Mr. Mitchell, for your service as well. And it's good to see so many green lights on the report. Aye. Wheeler. My dad pointed out to me from time to time that I was not the brightest bulb. And he said if you want to be successful, what you need to do is surround yourself with people who are smarter than you are,
 And then listen to them. The TOC membership definitely qualifies. And they spend a tremendous amount of time going through these very technical and important systems. And then they color code for people like me.
 And so I'm thrilled with the amount of time and energy that you put into these really important projects. As you know, when the projects work well, nobody hears about it. And for the most part, they don't know about it. It's sort of like your backbone. It's there. It's really important. If it's working, you don't think about it. But the minute it starts to hurt, it's all you can think about.
 I think it's fabulous to have you guys really watchdogging this stuff coming in here at City Hall of Green. It makes me very, very happy. So thank you for a very uneventful presentation. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you all. Mayor? Yes, sir. Since we're a little ahead of schedule on the other time, certainly. And Annie Von Berg is here. Could I ask that we take up...
 Call 1189 so she can do this and get out. I see no disagreement with this. Please call 1189.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation to jointly conduct in-water sampling in the Willamette River downtown reach. Commissioner Fish. The purpose of this ordinance, Mayor and colleagues, is to authorize BES to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation to jointly conduct in-water sediment sampling near city and ODOT-owned outfalls, and they're specifically identified in the BES.
 in the ordinance. Between 2008 and 2011, the DEQ and several other interested parties, including the city, conducted two phases of sediment investigation between Willamette River Miles 12 and 16, which is also the downtown reach. Those investigations identified potential data gaps.
 and areas of sediment contamination that led DEQ to conclude that more investigation is necessary to confirm that certain areas of the downtown reach will not pose a threat to human health or the environment. And DEQ has determined that additional sediment sampling for contaminants of interest in the downtown reach near ODOT-owned outfalls described in the ordinance and city-owned outfalls described in the ordinance will help fill some of those data gaps.
 The estimated total budget for this work is $220,000. The cost of the work would be evenly divided between the city and ODOT. Thus, the city's expected costs are in the neighborhood of $110,000. If the project costs exceed the estimated budget, ODOT, excuse me, ODOT, the city will amend the IGA budget.
 to reflect the new budget and continue to share the costs evenly. Welcome, Annie. Did I leave anything out? That's perfect. Good morning. So I apologize. I was unprepared to actually present on this. I thought this was just a vote, so I'm here to answer any questions if there are any. Pretty straightforward. In plain language, what is between River Mile 12 and 16? Okay.
 That's the downtown reach area, so it's just above the Portland Harbor Superfund. It's an area that's been identified to look for contaminants that may impact human and animal health. So could you tell me which bridges it's between? Yes, it's approximately between the Broadway Bridge and just downstream of the Ross Island Bridge.
 Oh, so. It's a good stretch there. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. And when would we get the results? I'll check with our project staff. We should be sampling here in a few months, so hopefully by spring we should know. DEQ will be reporting on those results. And do we need to be concerned about swimming in the Willamette in that area? No. This is just to be looking at chemical contamination within the sediment. It does not look at bacterial contamination, which is a primary concern for swimming. Okay.
 But there could be chemical pollutants in the sediment? That's what we're looking for to see if there are. We're not sure if there are any. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Very good. Come on up. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of the concerns I have when we're talking sediment is that, as you know,
 When we have high water levels, which we had, a lot of times that sediment will move in different locations. So it might be in one location, and then it might move to another location. So again, on this type of testing, what I look at is that on the submersible land itself, I always look at that as the responsibility of the state.
 If you do a submersible land lease, you're going to be dealing with the state on that to have control out over the water. And I don't see anywhere in here where the state's going to fund anything. I mean, again, it's their per se sediment. It's jointly funded, Lightning, by the state and the city. Okay. That's the ordinance before us. Okay. I wanted to make that very clear. Evenly split, including any overruns. Okay. You have the Oregon Department of Transportation.
 jointly, which would be the state, with the downtown reach. Now, my position here is that when you're talking the transportation department again, is that on the sediment itself, on the actual tests, is the public going to have access to that information? Will the public be able to review those tests? Now, Commissioner Fritz brought up a real good question here on the swimming possibilities in the river. Now,
 I work with the EPA very closely, even went to their offices and had conversations on the Superfund cleanup. And my position is that various people from the EPA said, I said, well, what do you think about me going out there and swimming in the river? What do you think after all these tests we have out in front of us and we're looking at all the samplings? And they kind of laughed at me and said, you don't want to swim in the river. I said, really? I said, so...
 You're stating that to me and other people are stating that feel free to swim in the river. Now, the point that Commissioner Fritz brought up is a really good point, is that when you're testing that sediment, and if that sediment is coming back and saying there's chemicals in there and different things in there, well, you would obviously think that that sediment leaches into the water, obviously, that that could be a concern for the swimmers. So...
 I would caution on you saying it's just okay to swim in there until you actually see these tests on a regular basis and understand we have a super fun cleanup site. We have a site that is so toxic and contaminated that you don't even want to eat the fish. Now, I'm surprised you're not glowing right now, Mayor Wheeler. I'm surprised you're not glowing because you're taking some big chances there. And whether you agree with me or not, these tests are very important, and I hope that the public has access to them.
 and I'd like to review them and go from there. Thank you. Thank you. And just for the record, I swim in the river. I don't eat the sediment at the bottom. Well, the water itself and the chemicals in the water which leaches out of the sediment can go into your skin. We'll agree to that.
 RN over here, she could probably substantiate that. Well, I probably have many other much less healthy habits. Okay, thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Could you please call 1185? Mayor? Yes, sir. I just want to say for the record that, as you know, the Willamette River is subject to lots of different tests. I know.
 And we have some publicly accessible databases that report on those test results. And Lightning, if you're interested, before Annie goes, she can give you the links.
 to the utility websites that show that data. You raised an important question that we should continue to be transparent with the data that we collect, and we are. But we'll give you the links so that you can do your own inquiry and make your own judgment about whether you want to swim with the mayor. So thank you. Very good. So thank you. Please call the roll. UDaily. UDaily.
 I. Fritz. Well, thank you for the presentation and for getting this done. There is, of course, an additional potential equity impact of people who eat the fish that are in this particular reach. And so I think that's of concern, especially for fish that stay there. We need to know, are they safe to eat? And if so, how much of it can one eat? Although that's still going to be challenging for people who may rely on the river to give them their food.
 So I'm glad we're getting this done. Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. Fish. Thank you, Annie. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Weaver. Excellent work. Thanks, Commissioner. Thanks, Annie. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 1185.
 enhance community service opportunities, and strengthen the transparency and accountability of city advisory bodies. Colleagues, this item has been rescheduled to November 8, 2017 at 9.30 a.m. as part of the regular agenda. Please call item 1191. 1191.
 1191, please. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Colleagues, this is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Testimony has already been taken. Please call the roll unless there's any further discussion. Seeing none, call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item 1186. Okay.
 Revise First Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement for Cost Sharing of Levy-Ready Columbia Expenses Not Covered by IFA Loans to Extend Program, Provide Additional Funding, Broaden Allowable Expenses, and Amend Parties to Agreement. Ken, before you jump in on this, I notice we have a class here. Where are you all from? Lincoln High School. And which class?
 It's called Urban Exploration. Urban Exploration. Welcome to Portland City Hall. We're glad to have you here. Thanks. Do we have any Constitution team members here? No. Yeah, we're here. Well, congratulations. Yeah, you bet. Great. Thanks all for being here. Mr. Rust, thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and members of the Council. For the record, I'm Ken Russ, the city's Chief Financial Officer. The ordinance in front of you today might look very familiar because on May 31st of this year, you adopted a very similar ordinance which included the state as one of the parties to the amended IGA for additional support of the Columbia River Levy Project.
 Subsequent to the passage of that initial amended ordinance, the State determined that they were not going to be able to provide funds through this particular mechanism in this intergovernmental agreement, so they no longer can be a party to the IGA. This particular ordinance today amends that original revised IGA, strikes the State as a party,
 and continues with the rest of the funding plan that had already been approved by the different parties to the IGA, including the city, the amount that the city is responsible for was approved as part of the adopted fiscal year 18 budget. Subsequent also to the filing of this document, the state's been working on a mechanism for them to provide the funding, and they will be making a grant through Business Oregon to the project in the amount that they were originally scheduled to pay for.
 We are the administrators of an agreement with Business Oregon as part of this project, so we will be bringing another ordinance to you to be able to accept those grant funds and distribute it according to the plan. That will be a subsequent ordinance that we'll be filing over the course of the next few weeks. So basically this does nothing other than remove the state from the original revised IGA. Everything else remains the same.
 Very good. Commissioner Fritz. And if they do change their way of doing things, they can come back in again later to give what they thought they were going to be able to give?
 Commissioner, I think for this particular purpose, it's the relatively small overall change to the total budget. The state shares $267,000. They're going to approach that through a grant through Business Oregon. So I don't see any particular change for this particular piece of the program. Whether that's the end of funding and other arrangements for the Levy Ready Columbia project remains to be seen, but that would be done differently and may come through in a different funding mechanism if the state's a partner. But if they're going to give their share to the...
 organization, why would it not then reduce our costs?
 The plan was that if the state didn't fund in the amount that they were originally scheduled to fund, that the budget for the project overall would be reduced so that none of the partners picked up a larger share. It would remain the same. The scope of work would be reduced. And so now what we've done with the state being able to fund it through Business Oregon is the original scope will be executed and there's no change to any of the underlying partners. Thank you. All right.
 I have two questions, Ken, and it's for the benefit of our students. What exactly does the chief financial officer do for the city of Portland? And what's unique about your reporting requirements? Commissioner Fish, that's a very good question. When people ask me what I do, I basically say I solve problems. I solve financial problems for the city. And luckily for me, there's lots of those to solve.
 Never seems to be a short term. Well, strike that from the record, please. We don't need that cluttering with the record, and we have some. Thank you. But on a more serious note, I work with the bureaus. I work with you as the council to develop policies and financial plans that underpin basically what the city does with an eye towards long-term fiscal health and sustainability for the city. And as we learned when your position was in some doubt a couple years ago,
 It's not unusual in the public and private sectors to have a chief financial officer who oversees the financial health of an organization. In this case, we're a city that has about a $3.8 billion consolidated budget, so it's a big responsibility. And you are ultimately the person we've entrusted to be
 overseer of that whole financial system. Is that correct? That's correct. And I report both to the city's chief administrative officer and I report directly to you as the city council. So what's unique about that? Because that's a dual report where you have a nominal supervisor, but you're also by rule charged with reporting to the council. So what's the intent? I think the intent was to make sure that my voice as the city's chief financial officer
 could be heard directly to the council, and that my opinion on financial matters would not be necessarily worked through another more indirect reporting relationship so that you could have direct access to me, I could have direct access to you, and to advise you as to impacts of certain kinds of financial undertakings that the city may be considering so that you could make an informed decision. And let's speak, just to give a hypothetical example,
 there could be an instance where you, the chief financial officer, have a principal disagreement with the chief administrative officer, who's nominally your boss.
 And under the reporting requirement that the city established, you would be required, in effect, to bring your concerns directly to the council so the council had the benefit of your perspective and the CAO's perspective. That's correct. And I can say that over my career at the city, I've never had that situation arise with the relationship between myself and the chief administrative officer. But I think the structure that the position has now helps prevent that and provides a safeguard against that.
 You've also announced your retirement. Yes, I have. And so we're going to have an appropriate opportunity in December to embarrass you here?
 That's always up to you, but we will be presenting the city's comprehensive annual financial report or audit to you on December 13th. Actually, today we are proud to announce that we are publishing our CAFR today, 120 days post-July 1, my CAFR 120 initiative. It's successful. My job now is complete at the city, but that's the earliest in modern history that we can ever determine that the city has published its CAFR. It puts us at the cutting edge of government across the United States. Nicely done. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Come on up. My name is Lighten. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, I want to have a clear understanding who owns the levy. Now, an issue I have on this is that the state is deciding not to pay their fair share of $267,000.
 Now, what was stated here is that they might have some option to come back and do it. Well, by this ordinance, it says the state does not want to pay the money. And the state's response to that, which I'll point at Governor Brown on this, due to a new process for allocating anticipated state resources, and the levy-ready Columbia partners have elected to remove the state,
 A new process of allocating money isn't that special. Nice line there. Pay up, quit walking away from it. My position on this levy is plain and simple. We need to rebuild the levy. This needs to be one of the largest construction projects in the state of Oregon. We need to use infrastructure dollars to begin analyzing this and understanding. Due to climate change...
 due to flooding, due to looking around the world currently, we all know that, the amount of money that's being spent currently in all different areas. If we lose this levy, what do we lose? We lose the Portland International Airport. You think it's bad in Puerto Rico right now. Imagine this city with this airport with water running through this airport.
 Imagine that happening. It can happen. We've had floods that have gotten very close to going over the levee, going over that direction, and guess what happens if it ever happens? It will shut this city down as bad as Puerto Rico. We need to be looking at rebuilding this levee and understanding what we have out there is an outdated sandbox for little kids to play with with the governor in the sandbox.
 that Governor Brown needs to start thinking realistically and understanding. Rebuild the levee, protect the airport at any and all cost, and understand, mark my words, if it ever goes over that levee, and I've been standing on that levee when it has gotten to the peak, what's called the crown of the levee, and trust me,
 If it ever goes over that levy, we won't have an airport again. You have a sandbox out there. Shouldn't it be recertified? Shouldn't it be up to the specifications of the New Orleans levy? And let me tell you something. If you don't rebuild it, you're going to lose the airport. And I'm going to point at you, Governor Brown. I'm going to point at you for not negotiating infrastructure dollars in rebuilding this levy, which you know is a sandbox at this time. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Please call the roll.
 Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Please call 1187.
 direct the Portland Housing Bureau to formally adopt asset management policies and guidelines to help borrowers and sponsors with roles and responsibilities as recipients of funding. Colleagues, over the years, the city has invested in excess of $300 million into affordable housing. That investment has resulted in over 13,000 units of affordable housing.
 Today's action would formalize the Portland Housing Bureau's compliance guidelines, and here discussing it is Kurt Krieger, the Director of the Housing Bureau.
 and Tanya Stangray, who is the Housing Program Coordinator. Thank you both for being here. You're probably just catching your breath, but we appreciate your making the effort to be here on a timely basis. Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler and members of council. Indeed, one of the drawbacks of being 15 minutes away is we're 15 minutes away, so we were watching you. Timing was perfect. Great, thank you. Tanya Stangray is our lead in the area of asset management. Javier Mena supervises that part of the Housing Bureau. Thank you.
 And what we wanted to do was to take what has been standard operating procedures and codify them under Title 30, because we had a lot of practices and procedures that were never officially adapted by council. So this, in large part, is making formal what we've been doing all along anyway. But Tanya is the content expert, and I'll let her speak for herself. She has five slides, so this will go quite quick.
 So basically, we conduct risk analysis and compliance.
 And it really is to outline the expectations and responsibilities of the borrowers and the sponsors as it relates to the PHB funding that we provide for affordable housing. We conduct it to be sure that the property is performing as projected, that we are actually serving. It's benefiting the intended populations that we're providing the funds for so that the property itself can achieve long-term sustainability. So that's really why we do it.
 it and we and it's really looking over and being a steward of the funds
 OK. So I wanted to just talk a little bit about the households in the PHB regulated units. On average, 50% of renters qualify for a lower AMI than the actual unit that they're in, meaning that 57% of our tenants are rent burdened, which is pretty scary. 66% of households living in PHBs rental housing earn at a level of 0% to 30%, so extremely low.
 Here is a slide that talks about the extremely low income renters, by race and ethnicity. And this is a quick snapshot of the average rents that we have. 75% of PHB's portfolio is zero and one bedroom units. More than 50% of the affordable portfolio is made up of 30 to 50% units.
 And those are the AMI-restricted units between 30% and 50%. 17% of the units have children. And 19% of the extremely low-income households are households with children. I wanted to also talk about what's in our pipeline. So we have what we have now. We have a lot of 0 to 1 bedrooms. We have a lot of 30% to 50% AMI. And this is really what PHB has in its pipeline right now.
 based on the EMI. So 18% of units in the pipeline are 30%, and on down. Most of the focus here in the number of units, 1,905 units, are 60% units. Can I ask a question? Sure. Director Krieger off this slide. Council just made a commitment.
 is substantially increasing the number of permanent supportive housing units, and they serve the poorest of the poor and require additional subsidy. Now, the pipeline chart shows that we're skewing 60% of AMI, which is – so just could you put the human face on that for me? Sixty percent of median family income for, let's say, a family of four is roughly how much? Ballpark.
 $50,000. Okay. So it's people being squeezed in this market, but it's unlikely that these are people also we're seeing on the sidewalks. And so my question to you, Director Krieger, is given the council's renewed focus on meeting street homelessness and permanent supportive housing units, are we going to be changing the pipeline prospectively so that we are –
 capturing the units we're going to need to meet our commitment to permanent supportive housing goals? I think so, because embedded in this information are the current portfolio of permanent supportive housing units. We already have about 800 units of permanent supportive housing, which is 0 to 30 percent affordable with services attached. And with the resolution, I think it was number 1136 that you passed,
 two weeks ago, that would increase in 10 years to about 2,800.
 Tanya is not tracking the services, but we will be doing a deep dive with the Joint Office of Homeless Services in Multnomah County to get to a sustainable package. And as you know, within the bond framework plan that you adopted as a council, there are some 2,000 – excuse me, 300 units of 0 to 30 units set aside for supportive housing.
 That will make a difference. The other thing that is important to mention is that the bond also, as approved by voters, is half the units are family-sized units. So we're going to start to see...
 a mutual and concerted effort on family-sized units as well as supportive unit housing, which are not mutually exclusive because families may have a member who has a disabling condition and could also be receiving supportive housing in a family-sized unit. Well, thank you for that. And let me just state my expectation. We've asked...
 some certified smart people to come back in no later than nine months with the roadmap on how we're going to actually build and fund the permanent supportive housing units. That does not prevent us in the current cycle from meeting some goals, and my hope is that we set a goal of at least 100 units over the next year. When the roadmap comes back, obviously –
 So you're going to have a big piece of this because you're going to tell us how we do the bricks and sticks piece, and then the county, the city, Home Ford, and other partners are going to have to come up with the service dollars. Is that accurate? That's correct. It's a joint and unified effort. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Yeah, I just wanted to highlight a stat you just shared, which I find quite troubling. We know that in Portland...
 about half of our residents are renters and about half of them are cost burdened. And that's people both on the open market and living in income-restricted housing. But you just said that within the income-restricted housing, 57% are cost burdened? 57% are paying more than 30% of their income on it. Okay. So, I mean, that begs a few questions for me. Did they –
 have a reduction in income? I mean, how did they qualify for housing that they couldn't technically afford? Is it a reduction in income? Is it an increase in the rent? Or is it we just...
 want to stick them in the housing that is closest to being affordable to them? So tenants can choose to be rent burdened at move-in. We do screen for both their income and how that is related to the rent. And right now we are looking, we are requiring our borrowers to allow 1.5 income to rent. Meaning that tenants can choose to be rent burdened up to 67%. Okay. Okay.
 So that choice may, it looks like it may have something to do with the fact that we have many more units available at the 60% MFI than below, or do people just really want to? I think this is a fantastic discussion. I'm guessing that in part this is a consequence of our policy that allows someone's,
 and income to change, but we have a policy of not wanting to evict them. So someone who has become comfortable in an apartment where their circumstances may change or the financing may change, I think our general, we err on the side of allowing someone to continue in place. That could result in someone being more cost burdened. I think your data that you share with us frequently is that
 It's the cost burden at 50%, 60% that's more pervasive in our community. So someone who's above 30 but below 40, while that's not cause for a parade, it is still better than what they would be facing in the private market. And I think the challenge is...
 How do we have flexible enough guidelines so that someone can continue to live in place, which we want to promote, even as their circumstances and the financing of the unit circumstances change? Sure. And I would add that in the instance where we're combining housing choice vouchers, sometimes known as Section 8, with housing units that we finance, we're going to have to do a lot of work to make sure that we're doing the right thing.
 A household's decline in income would result in their rent going down because the federal voucher ensures that no one is paying more than 30% of their income for rent and utilities. So if you're a minimum wage worker and your employer puts you on part-time wages, you can essentially report that loss of income and get an adjustment, a mid-year, mid-cycle. So we do have a significant number of voucher holders in PHP stock.
 which have that protection, but not everyone is afforded that same level of protection. Sure, and that was my next question. I think there's an assumption that rents would be pegged to income, but we have units at, you know, fixed levels.
 And the developers, largely nonprofits, have debt, which they have to repay to their tax credit investors. So they cannot usually underwrite their rents at below cost without some sort of offsetting financial assistance. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Was there any public input into developing these policies and guidelines? No.
 I'm not sure that I can do it. We did work with Oregon on now Housing Oregon and talked with both of their asset and property management working groups, and it's been sort of ongoing over time. So we've actually been conducting compliance for years, and we really worked with them to have these make sense to them. And so we really worked with quite a few of our borrowers for feedback. It didn't go through the commission, the policy?
 Portland, what's that stand for Craig? Well I can say that when you earlier said that we're codifying some existing policies when Director Van Vliet launched the new Bureau one of her charges was compiling all of these guidelines some were legacy of Portland Development Commission some were Housing Bureau
 They were, in fact, reviewed with the PHAC, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. They do have their own oversight body, which has some administrative authority. And my understanding is what you're simply doing now is codifying these. They were already the practice, but you're putting them in code. Is that correct? Correct. That's very helpful. Thank you. And are you, just following on Commissioner Fritz's line, these do not add or subtract from the existing authority, right? So whatever authority exists,
 you have to do some debt forgiveness or restructuring or things like that, you're not adding or subtracting. You're just codifying what your existing authority. Correct. That is correct. I would add that by the end of the year, we expect to come back to council with two additional policy directives
 One is what we call tenants rising, incomes rising in place, so that in a tax credit property, you may qualify at or below 60 percent of AMI on move-in. If your income then goes up, you're not required to move out under federal rules. And we need to codify that policy and procedure in our own manuals, but that's currently not in place, so we feel like we need to come back to you with that policy. Right.
 And I think on that point you've heard from the council that, particularly with bond proceeds,
 We don't want to be in a situation of acquiring properties and evicting people. And we'll come back to you with that specific articulated policy, which is as we are buying existing apartment complexes during a state of emergency, we don't want to create displacement as a measure. So it will apply to both tenants rising in place and what we call holdover tenants, tenants who are on premises with a lease that we don't want to essentially disturb or displace.
 Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. Mary Seip. Come on up. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. So one of the things that's been mentioned by other people testifying on affordable housing is that – Mary, could you get a little closer just so we can hear you? I'm always afraid I'm getting too close. Is that just right? Perfect. Thank you. Goldilocks. Okay.
 The affordable housing, the people that are sleeping on the sidewalks in tents have zero income. And how are they going to qualify for affordable housing when they have zero income? And one of the things I mentioned last week in my testimony was the inability of some people to apply for programs such as SSI and food stamps and things like that that would get them into housing.
 And I think this is something that we should really be thinking about because there are a lot of the people out there that qualify for benefits that would put them in, say, a 50% or 40% or even 60%. And I actually tried to help a person that you probably are aware of. His name is Michael, and he's all over downtown Portland, and he wears a blue blanket all the time.
 Michael is a veteran, and I contacted the VA outreach program a couple of summers ago trying to find out his story after talking to him. And he actually gets about a 40% VA disability, but he also would qualify for SSI, food stamps, and 100% VA disability.
 I got a social worker from the VA to come and meet with him on the street four times during the summer, and she did everything in her power to try and help him apply for the benefits that he deserves. And he couldn't do it. He couldn't go into these buildings. He won't go in to apply for food stamps. What I think we need to do is to have like a van and bring the people –
 out on the streets who can sit in a van with someone, help them get their food stamps, help them go through the SSI process and other benefits that they can get. We need to go out there to where they are and help them. They are going to continue to be on the streets. They're going to fall through the cracks until we figure out a way to reach out and help them.
 And so this is just one idea that came to my mind, and I'd like to see, you know, the Housing Bureau kind of think outside of the box and think how can we –
 qualify these people to take advantage of affordable housing. And I also want to say I really appreciate the conversation about the people whose incomes go up and the people who are burdened. In my particular situation, almost 60% of my Social Security goes to my rent in affordable housing. I could move into a smaller unit, but it would be four years before one would be available.
 So every time – and my rent goes up very minimally, $5 maybe. It went up $20 this year, which is the biggest hike I've ever had. But my Social Security doesn't always go up to accommodate that or the increase in, say, my Medicare Part B premium. Right.
 Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you. Mary, thank you for your testimony, and I like your idea. We know that there are a lot of people struggling out there without benefits that they absolutely qualify for. I know that through the Joint Office we do something. I think the program's called Benefit.
 so that once we have someone in the system, we're certainly helping them access Social Security, Medicare, food stamps, but it's incredibly challenging in the kind of situation that you mentioned. And I am actually curious, Director Krieger, you mentioned that there's a federal policy of not evicting people once they...
 disqualify income-wise, and I completely support not wanting to displace people during a housing crisis, even if their income is 100% of MFI, because we know they still can't afford market rate rents. But I am concerned that there could be people earning more than 100% of MFI who certainly could qualify, and they are taking up
 precious spots in our affordable housing. And perhaps that's something we can't do anything about because of federal law.
 Well, since that's a question, I'd be happy to respond. Thank you, Commissioner Udailey. Name for the record again, please. Kurt Krieger, Director of Housing. I think the best way in which you can accommodate this population is to have a mixed-income property where some of the tax credit units are augmented with market rate units, and you can essentially –
 move the over-income tenant into a market rate unit. The difficulty is that many of our developers, in order to maximize the equity from the tax credits, have created 100% tax credit buildings. And therefore, when a household income exceeds that, and Tanya and Tanya's staff document this every year when we recertify the rents for a particular building, there's no place else in the building for them to go.
 So it does reinforce the efficacy of having mixed income properties where there is some latitude in which to move people into an unsubsidized unit so that you charge them a market rent. And they're still well-located properties, well-managed properties, and people don't have to move their children out of school. And, I mean, I'm certainly a fan of mixed income developments. I don't like the idea of segmenting people by income.
 So it's the case that we would have to physically move a household into another unit. We couldn't just say, well, you've reached X percentage of MFI. We're going to raise the rent on their existing unit. That's not allowed. It has to – You cannot increase it beyond the allowed tax credit rents. Tanya is more of an expert in this than I am.
 But I know that we have some tenants in place in the Pearl who were displaced homemakers, had children. They qualified under 60 percent of immediate income. With a rising economy, they were reemployed in their profession of choice, and some of them are professionals, and they have a particularly good deal where they are. Public housing, I might add, is the same way, and that is that you can be over-
 80% of median income and live in public housing in Northern Virginia where I last worked. We had tenants there. What we did with that population is we targeted our homeownership marketing efforts
 to that group by saying, you've done a great job. Now we want to help you get to the next level and incentivize their movement out of those public housing units by offering them a unit for sale. We could probably do a little bit better job of that here in Portland by helping create the next ladder, the next rung on the ladder, so that they have a place to go. Because right now, in a tight market, they look at their options and they're perfectly happy to pay less than 30% of their income for rent. Yeah. Yeah.
 but we haven't afforded them another choice, another way out. Mary, can I make one comment? Your observation, you said the gentleman's name is Michael? Yes. We've all seen him downtown. Thank you for, it's not surprising to me that you've stepped in. So I'll mask the name, but a number of years ago, a veteran who hangs out in front of Pete's on Northeast Broadway was the subject of what I'll just call an intervention event.
 people who shopped at the store, raised some money, a local property owner carved out a unit. The VA came in and did some extraordinary things. I won't say we cut corners, but I would just say that when you put a lot of talented people together, you fix problems. He ended up getting kind of a golden ticket, which is he got a very nice apartment in a nice building in the neighborhood in which he had been chronically homeless forever. And I wish I could tell you that the story had a happy ending. Yeah.
 But because he had been chronically homeless for so long, he really found it impossible to be a successful tenant. And ultimately, he took a trip, did not pay attention to any of the lease obligations, lost his apartment, and was back on the street. Now, that's just a slice of the challenge we're dealing with. That's why we talk about services and housing. If this gentleman had had intensive services, married with his housing, he had a fighting chance.
 But he was back on the street, and he had been on the street for so long, it just became almost, it was chronic. And it was very hard for him to change certain behavioral patterns. He also had both a mental illness and a drug addiction. So to your point, though, about streamlining the entry points, we do have two programs that people should know about. We do fund Central City Concern. Right.
 and they do SSI. And the benefit there is when someone's eligible, it goes retroactive, so it covers medical bills that are already in the pipeline and prospective, and the city funds that. And we also fund Cash Oregon, which helps people qualify for the earned income tax credit, a program that the Republicans in the Senate now are claiming it's so ripe with fraud and abuse they want to scale it back.
 to cover other tax breaks. But those are two examples of programs the city funds precisely, to your point, to get people eligible for those programs. And if we could somehow, because I'm aware of this in trying to help my family member years ago, but again, if we could somehow find a way to, like, go out –
 to where they are instead of having them go to, like, Central City Concern and places like that because they're often afraid to do that. Absolutely. And, in fact, Michael told me that they won't let him in the office to apply for food stamps. Sure.
 And remember that name. You know, it really changed things once I found out his name, and everybody in our neighborhood now knows him by name and calls him by name, and he's become a real person, not just the man in the blue blanket, or as some people refer to him as Smurfett, which just infuriated me. Great. Thank you. Last testimony, and then we'll move it. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. And again, thank you.
 My position is on the property management aspect of the units. And again, from Portland Housing Bureau's position, just to begin with, is on any of the projects, if the financing is in jeopardy and they go into fault, I want to make sure that's looked at immediately and the amount of debt is not relieved or reduced.
 or not being expected to be paid on these type of units. I want to make sure that even if it's extended out many, many years, that we still get that money in return back. Now, issue number two on the property management side is that when we're talking the permanent support of housing, in my mind is that if you develop a 50-unit to 100-unit apartment building, that we really need to start understanding that
 any unit in that building can be permanent supportive housing. And with that in mind, we need to really start addressing the manager on site, more specialized training in drug addictions, mental illness, and understanding on how to deal with, like was stated, a
 that has been chronic homeless for many years and is adapting to living indoors again. And it's the same concept which I've been trying to push, is that in my belief, every person that's chronically homeless should be set up on the plan of receiving a certain amount of income per month at a certain point. And I've talked to you on that, and why that is is that
 The trauma suffered over the years is that we can't all just have that mindset is that just go out and get a job, everything will be fine. That's not realistic when someone's suffered trauma over, say, three to five to ten years. There's going to be a time that there needs to be an understanding, housing first, provide the services.
 Make sure the managers in place can understand and work with that tenant in a reasonable manner. Check in with them. Make sure they're going to certain locations. Make sure they're provided certain services. It's essential to begin to training these managers in position with that experience and possibly even the city offering grants to landlords, private landlords that are willing to do that.
 and understanding that the Portland Police have a lot of influence also on the landlords themselves, on who may or may not be in the properties. I had an experience with law enforcement on that, and I told them, you don't tell me who's going to be in these properties. And their exact quote to me was, if they're doing any type of drugs, you better get them out of there. And I said, but if they're going into treatment, I'm going to keep them in these properties. And they said to me,
 We will bring down every federal agency down upon you and we will destroy you. And I looked at that officer and I said, bring it on, my friend, because I can get a pack on my back and walk out the door. And that's what I've done. And let me tell you something. Let me tell you something. Landlords have a right to stand up for their tenants. Landlords have a right to understand that the people...
 The people out on the streets are the fabric of this community, and to assist them in any way you can, and to hope that the city will offer grants to private landlords to step in and say, I will take that person off the street into my building, and I will make sure my manager is well-trained to assist them and keep them in my property.
 Thank you. Thank you. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Commissioner Saltzman has requested a very quick review of 1189, which I think we can get through in a couple of minutes here. Please call 1190. Okay.
 1190, authorize a purchase order with Pierce Manufacturing, Inc. for four fire apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2,800,000. Colleagues, are there any... Sorry, Commissioner. Yeah, I would just like to say this is the authorization for four fire apparatus paid entirely out of the 2010 general obligation bond that voters graciously approved. And we have...
 To answer any questions, we have our newest deputy chief, Sarah Boone, and Jay Guo, if there's any questions of the council. Colleagues, any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Call the roll. Eudaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. And now we will go to the first time certain item. And colleagues, again, I'm sorry, I have an obligation for the next 15 or so minutes, so I'll turn this over to the council president. But if you could please read item 1177. Thank you.
 authorize a grant agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and Portland Parks Foundation for $500,000 for the Wildwood Trail Pedestrian Bridge. I'm sorry, we're just going back onto 1190. As Commissioner Udeli pointed out, it's indicated as an emergency ordinance. So we need to call the roll, right? Excuse me for a minute. Okay, sorry. We have four people here. Did we do that? Yeah.
 I'm sorry, what was your consent, Commissioner Berry? Well, 1177 is also an emergency, and I thought we were going to use quorum. Sorry. No, I'm... Yeah, 1187 was the first reading of a non-emergency move to second. 1190, you took the roll. I remember on 1177. Okay, we're good? Yes. All right, I'm turning over the gavel for a moment. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. Thanks.
 So Portland Parks and Recreation owns and has responsibility for the operation and maintenance of Washington Park and Forest Park. The Parks Bureau and community have identified the construction of the Wildwood Pedestrian Bridge as a priority for the 1998 Portland Pedestrian Master Plan.
 On November 23, 2016, the City Council authorized the transfer of an amount not to exceed $500,000 of city funding to the Portland Parks Foundation on evidence that the foundation has raised the remaining funds necessary to complete the bridge project. The current project is estimated at $2.5 million. So with this transfer, the Portland Parks Foundation has committed to the funding project, management design,
 permitting and construction of the Wildwood Trail pedestrian bridge project. And Portland Parks and Recreation would now like permission to enter into the grant agreement with the Parks Foundation to provide the mechanism for the foundation to provide these services to fund, project manage and construct the Wildwood Trail pedestrian bridge. Welcome Director Mike Abate and Parks Foundation Executive Director Jeff Anderson.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Members of Council, Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation, and with me, obviously, again, is Jeff Anderson, the Executive Director, and also Robin Craig, Landscape Architect and our Project Manager on this project for parks. So we're really excited to introduce this presentation about another great partnership between Portland Parks and Recreation and the Portland Parks Foundation.
 The foundation has worked tirelessly for 15 years. They've raised over $12 million to help the city fund projects that advance the excellence, accessibility, and stewardship of the city of Portland Parks. And today we're here, as the commissioner said, to authorize a grant agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and the Portland Parks Foundation for $500,000 to help facilitate funding.
 the implementation of a fabulous new pedestrian bridge across Northwest Burnside, the Wildwood Trail Pedestrian Bridge, which will serve the public interest.
 On November 23, 2016, Council authorized a transfer of an amount not to exceed $500,000 to Portland Parks Foundation upon evidence that it had raised the remaining funds required to complete the bridge project, currently estimated at $2.5 million. And as the foundation has met this requirement, this ordinance provides the mechanism for release of that funding.
 Portland Parks and Recreation has been working well and will continue to work closely with PBOT Director Leah Treat, Dan Layden, Alex Bejarano, Jody Yates, and others in PBOT on this important project, and we very much thank them for their active participation in the process.
 So let me give you a little context here. Here's a map. We currently, Portland Parks and Recreation currently owns and has responsibility for the operations and maintenance of two signature parks within the Portland Park system. Washington Park, shown in green on the south side of Northwest Burnside near Barnes Road, and Forest Park on the north side. This image shows a portion of the Wildwood Trail in a red line and the crossing point of Northwest Burnside at the point of the Blue Arrow.
 But let's get it a little more clear. This image highlights our joint Portland Parks, Portland Bureau of Transportation, and Portland Parks Foundation recognition of the need for a safe pedestrian crossing for the Wildwood Trail users where the trail crosses Northwest Burnside.
 The need for this bridge has been identified as a capital project in several city planning documents, such as the 1995 Forest Park Natural Resources Management Plan, the 1998 Portland Pedestrian Plan, City Capital Project No. 75, and the 2007 Portland Transportation System Plan, City Capital Project No. 60024.
 The project is also a priority in the Washington Park Master Plan, and it will serve the public interest. And, as mentioned earlier, it has been on our Parks CIP as an unfunded project for 22 years. Mike, before you leave that photograph,
 Is concurrent with this project, are the utilities going to be burying the electrical lines? Yes. That's a key part of this project is to relocate the utility lines in this corridor near the bridge crossing. And they'll be buried? Yes. No. No, they're not buried. They'll just be relocated? They will be relocated. Okay. We do not direct the utilities on how they relocate. Well, we have some say. We have the dirt. We ask them to relocate. Okay. Okay.
 So another photograph of the site, which shows the condition a little more clearly. In 2013 and 2014, the Parks Foundation did some research on the existing conditions and documented the hazards faced by Wildwood Trail users. Nearly half a million people visit Forest Park every year. As many as 80,000 pedestrians a year on the Wildwood Trail cross there at Burnside.
 And at any peak traffic hour, this northwest Burnside street crossing has approximately 2,000 cars go past and 20 people attempting to cross the street. This project responds to the safety aspects of this crossing, and it responds to connectivity as well as safety for everyone, helping to make a continuous 40-mile loop trail a reality.
 As you know, Portland Parks and Recreation has a very long list of unfunded important projects on our CIP list, and our partner, the Portland Parks Foundation, is making this pedestrian bridge crossing a reality for the benefit of all Portlanders. Here's a site plan that blows up a little bit of where the crossing is, shows the details of the current trail in green, and the proposed bridge location.
 Back in 2001, when Council adopted the 2020 Vision Plan, a need for a strategic fundraising partner was identified. As a result, Portland Parks Foundation was formed to bring new resources and constituencies to long-term stewardship of parks and recreation.
 The city and PPR, PPNR, are very thankful to the foundation for their hard work at fulfilling its goals. A great deal of time, energy, and effort has been successfully expended to help make this project a reality. And at this point, I'd like to turn it over to Jeff Anderson, the executive director of the foundation. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Mike. Can you hear me? Okay, great. Yes, I am Jeff Anderson, Executive Director of the Portland Parks Foundation, members of the council. I really appreciate the chance to talk with you today. As Mike said, thousands of Wildwood Trail users and people living in the neighborhoods around Forest Park have been aware of the hazards at the trails Burnside Crossing for many years.
 At the same time, the community understands and supports PPNR's priority to use these relatively scarce capital funds for both a long list of maintenance needs and also to create public parks in areas of our city that have lacked access to their recreational health benefits for far too long.
 In 2013, local community residents and leaders began planning seriously for a solution to this hazardous crossing. And there are a number of folks here today, actually. I'd like to acknowledge Andrew Wheeler in particular, who have been working hard on this campaign. As the studies that Mike referred to suggested, the best solution would be a footbridge. Built well, a footbridge would cost more up front.
 but it would minimize long-term maintenance costs, and amortizing the construction expense over the long life of the structure would be very cost-efficient. The local group raised some early funds to bring these materials. They asked the Parks Foundation to get involved, and they enlisted artist Ed Carpenter, also here today, to design a footbridge that would both resolve the safety issues and stand as an elegant public artwork appropriate to the forest setting, something that would really make the city proud.
 So that's the design you see, if we can switch to that design, on the slide. So a few words about that quickly. It embeds the shapes of sword ferns and vine maples. They're prevalent in the forest along the Wildwood Trail. Unlike many foot bridges, it looks light. It almost floats with the intention for it to fit sort of seamlessly into the forest, creating an uninterrupted experience for walkers and runners.
 And at the same time, it's built of steel and very sturdy. So it's intended to be easy to maintain and literally to last for generations.
 So with this conceptual design in hand, the campaign leaders set about involving the community. They publicized the project in local media, earned the endorsement of local organizations that are concerned with the Wildwood Trail, and these endorsements now include, among others, Forest Park Conservancy, Friends of Hoyt Arboretum, Kittick Mansion, Explore Washington Park, the 40 Mile Loop Land Trust, and many of the neighborhood associations that are nearby.
 The wider community has also been learning about this project over the past year from a public meeting that we held up at the World Forestry Center and also from TV, radio, print, and online media coverage. So because it illustrates how the Parks Foundation partners productively with the city, I'd like to share a brief history of the funding of the footbridge.
 So early in 2015, the community asked for seed funds from the city, and Mayor Hales allocated the $500,000 in funds that are being discussed today. This turned out to be hugely productive, as it gave private donors confidence that the city was invested in a solution.
 Looking back, by the end of 2015, about two years ago, the Footbridge campaign counted $70,000 in private support in addition to that city money that had been pledged. Today, the campaign counts approximately $2 million in private gifts and pledges secured from almost 1,000 donors. In addition, Metro has pledged $200,000.
 The capping effort just recently was a crowdfunding campaign that we conducted with Oregon's Kitchen Table that ended last week. It attracted 660 donors who gave almost $185,000 in 34 days. And 86% of those donations were in amounts of $100 or less. So we think this demonstrates a broad base of support for the project out there.
 This entire effort, including individuals, foundations, businesses, and public bodies, would not have happened without great community leadership, people who are raising private funds for the public good. And I'd especially like to thank the creative and, again, tireless, using your word, tireless members of our steering committee, campaign chair Charlie Swindells, Ian Walker, Zeri Santner, Doug Oblitz, Doug Macy, and Julie Vigeland.
 There are many more folks too numerous to mention, really, who also deserve our thanks for spreading the word about the project and giving generously to see it happen. In recent weeks, PPNR, the foundation, and the city attorney's office have been working cooperatively, PBOT staff as well, to create the grant agreement that you have within your packet.
 It outlines how PPF will deliver the bridge project for the city. So briefly, three points. The intent is for the foundation to fundraise, to project manage, to design, to secure permits, and construct the footbridge. As Mike said earlier, the proposed ordinance represents the fund transfer mechanism to pay the foundation for these services.
 The construction work performed by the foundation will be subject to the grant agreement, which is Exhibit A. It's quite detailed, as you'll see. So in closing, I would like to mention one of our campaign's greatest inspirations. Just over three years ago, as this effort was getting underway, Portland lost one of its most admired and beloved volunteer civic leaders, Barbara Walker.
 A number of you on the council, city staff and others in the room today knew Barbara. Her leadership was vital to the creation of landmarks in Portland such as Markham Nature Park, McCall Waterfront Park, Pioneer Courthouse Square, the Springwater Corridor and the 40-mile loop that connects them. When Mayor Hales met with footbridge campaign leaders, he suggested that when the bridge was built, it should be named for Barbara. Thank you.
 We found throughout many informal conversations and presentations with donors that this idea really resonated deeply. Thus, it's the Parks Foundation's proposal to build the footbridge over Burnside, helping to complete the 40-mile loop, in honor of Barbara Walker. And we hope that the city will agree that this is a fitting tribute.
 So we want to extend our deep thanks to Commissioner Fritz, to all of you on the council who followed our progress and given your support, and to the staff of PPNR, PBOT, the city attorney's office, and others who have dedicated time to make the footbridge a reality. We hope the results will prove the continuing value of creative public-private partnerships. Thank you. Mike, can I ask you a question? Sure. The earlier slide gave the indication that
 this walkway might be enclosed. And so I was glad to see the second one. Yeah. So it is open throughout. It's open to the air, yeah. Okay. All right.
 Thank you, Jeff. And members of council, it's clear that the benefits of this partnership are enormous. The Wildwood Pedestrian Bridge represents an elegant solution to a long-term need, and it's been endorsed by the community through various outreach efforts. I think it's also important to mention that it helps the city achieve some important city policies, such as supporting Vision Zero, ensuring that Portland Parks and Recreation's recreation legacy will continue for future generations,
 Improving access for all and serving the public interest, protecting against the degradation of forest park ecosystems, and increasing habitat and protecting water quality. It also represents a unique cooperative partnership between foresters.
 Parks, the Foundation, and members of the Portland community. I want to thank Jeff and the Portland Parks Foundation team specifically, as well as key staff from Portland Parks and Recreation and the City Attorney's Office who've worked, I won't use that word again, worked long and hard to make this day possible. So from Parks, Project Manager Robin Craig, Lauren McGuire, our
 Our assets and development manager, Romero Villavaso, and Jennifer Yochum. And also, the city attorney's office has been incredibly helpful. So Molly Washington and Ben Walters, we owe them a debt of gratitude as well.
 In conclusion then, we're asking council to authorize a grant agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and Portland Parks Foundation for $500,000 for the Portland Parks Foundation to fund, project manage, design, permit, and construct the Wildwood Trail Pedestrian Bridge. This concludes the presentation and we'd be happy to answer any questions. Yeah, I just have one question.
 Mike, what's the last example of a project of this magnitude where the foundation was put in the lead in terms of managing the construction? Because we think of the foundation as an entity that raises money and awareness and does lots of partnerships. But here they're going to be also cast in the role of project manager, which is not without complication for us.
 Do we have a precedent for that? I think the closest precedent we have, Commissioner, is that the foundation was directly involved in Commissioner Fritz's as well, and that's the Holly Farm Park. Holly Farm Park, the Portland Parks Foundation, solicited the design, ran the design and construction project. So that's probably the closest parallel. And I appreciate that this action was,
 puts them in the lead. But the truth is that you and your bureau have the expertise in delivering projects like this.
 How do you anticipate the Bureau and the Foundation working together to accomplish this goal? Thank you, Commissioner. It's an important question. I would say that actually the Foundation has assembled quite a tremendous team. So from both the project management, Shields Oblitz & Johnson, from their general contractors and subcontractors, they have put together a stellar team with lots of experience in building bridges. So we feel comfortable working.
 with that. I'd also say that there's been a lot of dialogue between the foundation and parks to ensure that when this is done, the project is up to city standards and will last a very long time. So we have great confidence in the team put together for this.
 But just to be clear, Mike, your team at Parks will be working closely with the foundation team in partnership to deliver this project? Because, I mean, Parks has, you know, hundreds of years of experience doing this work. Right. This is slightly new for the foundation, and they've obviously assembled a fantastic team. But I want to be sure that the Parks team...
 partnership is helping to deliver the high quality product that we expect. Yes, we are, Commissioner, and we are involved in various inspections and ensuring that the project is built as specified before the city accepts it upon completion. I love this project. I don't need to hear anything more about it. I think we're ready for public testimony. Public testimony on this item. We have one person signed up, Joe Walsh. And Mary, did you want to be on too? And Mary Seip. Okay, very good. Anybody else?
 All right, we'll close the list. Good morning. Good morning again. So for about two years, I lived a number of years ago up at the top of Burnside, and I commuted Burnside, Barnes Road, every day to and from work. And I used to be just terrified when I would come around that corner –
 I can't tell you how many times, how many close calls I saw. If you're not familiar with anybody in the audience who's not familiar with this area, you cannot believe how treacherous and dangerous it is. And if you're coming east, it's right on a curve. So if you try to slow down or stop for somebody who's crossing, the cars behind you...
 are going to rear-end you because they cannot see that. And it's downhill. And it's downhill. And one afternoon when I was going up the road, it had just rained, and there was a hiker running across the street, and he slipped on the wet pavement in the middle of the street and
 And I can tell you, I thought for sure I was going to see a terrible tragedy. Luckily, there wasn't a lot of traffic, and he survived his fall and got across the street. But I just think this is so long overdue, and I can't say enough in support of this particular project. And I'm really impressed with the design and everything that's gone into this, and good job. Thank you.
 I think it's one of these things where we're talking about a lot of money, but it's a responsibility also to protect the citizens of our community. And so way to go. Thank you. Mr. Walsh. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Nothing I say should give you the impression that I'm against this.
 Because it does. What the mayor said is true. It's an exciting kind of a project. And it's long overdue. I think 21 years is how we threw out on this one. We're a little bit slow on the uptake, aren't we? I mean, if this was so dangerous and it took us 21 years, we should move faster than that. But our objection or concern...
 It's East versus West. And we're getting a little nervous about spending a lot of money on the West side. This is 500 grand. Not Chuck James. It's not lunch money. It's a lot of money. And there's also $100,000 maintenance fee that you're going to pay every year.
 to run the bridge under the documents. The supporting documents that I read that were online are very confusing. It seems like there's almost no community input into this. And I can't believe that after 21 years, there must have been somebody said something from the community about this. And it seems like a really good problem. But let me throw this out.
 Is there any statistics that show from year to year how much money is being spent on the east side versus the west side of money? There must be something somewhere. Let me get egg on my face on this one. I think the east side is getting screwed. You know why? Because I live on 74th Street and Division, very close to 82nd.
 When I cross 82nd, I'm in the badlands. There's no sidewalks. There's no streets. So you got this. You got a walkway that's going to cost you a couple million dollars. And you got people living in mud when it rains. So...
 If we are spending the same amount of money on the east side as we are on the west side, we are wrong. We've got to bring them off the par. We've got to give them streets. They're in mud during the rainy season, and in the hot season, they're in dust. But you're going to have a nice bridge going across Washington Park. I don't know which one to be concerned about.
 You know, the priorities seem to be wrong. And there's more money on the West Side. So the foundation can raise more money. It's the same thing as about schools. We go through the same thing with the schools. You have to make exceptions on the East Side and stop screwing around with them because we're getting a little annoyed. We feel like step people. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. And I do like the idea. Very good. Please call the roll.
 You daily? Well, thank you for the presentation. It's a beautiful bridge. I'm excited to see this project move forward. I've spent a lifetime visiting both Washington and Forest Park, and those are two separate trips for me. I've never attempted to cross the Wildwood Trail because I'd rather not take my life into my own hands, at least not in that particular location.
 And I understand and agree with concerns about equity. There are reports, I think, that the public can access through the city that show how we're spending. And we are deeply investing in East County and parks and roads and affordable housing.
 But of course we have a lot of catch up. It's my personal feeling that these parks are such treasures. There's nothing else like them in the city. The only thing I miss about living in northwest Portland is my proximity to these parks. And in this case, it really doesn't matter to me where they are located. This bridge is needed, and I'm happy to vote aye. Fritz.
 Thank you very much to the Foundation for working on this. I see former Parks Director, Zari Santner, in the audience. This has been a dream, a long time in coming, and so we really appreciate the Foundation and the donors for making that work, and as was reported, hundreds of small donations as well as some particularly magnificent ones.
 I'm sorry that Mr. Walsh has left because I was going to point out I've spent over $40 million so far in East Portland, not just on the east side of the river, but in East Portland further than 82nd. And next week in the evening, 6 o'clock at David Douglas High School, we will be accepting three master plans for East Portland Parks.
 and also just holding the entire afternoon evening session there. So we will be giving a short presentation on what we've been doing in investments in different realms as well as parks. And I encourage everybody to come to David Douglas High School. It's always a very interesting place to be with all the flags of the nations of the students that represent that high school. Again, thank you very much. Hi. Fish? Well, first I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for bringing this home today.
 Mayor Hales for putting in his budget, and I was an enthusiastic supporter of this allocation. I don't have to remind the people in this room, but I guess it's worth noting that Forest Park and Washington Park are regional, significant regional attractions.
 They are not the privileged enclave of one side of the river or the other. They serve the entire region. And therefore, when we make these kinds of investments, we're investing in the experience that people have regionally in this beautiful park system.
 I had the pleasure of working with Shields Oblis Johnson on a little project that wasn't too complicated involving three steam locomotives. And there was no way in the world that project should have gotten the finish line. So if they can do that one, this one is just – they'll do this one in their sleep. You know, the Parks Bureau does not function without strong partnerships. And I think the last number, Commissioner Fritz, that I remember was over 100 partnerships.
 maybe 120 robust partnerships with groups in our community that step up and raise money for good causes. And it allows us to serve more people and do more good. And without it, as we know, we just don't have the resources. So I really want to thank the Parks Foundation for stepping up. I want to thank Charlie and Julie and Zeri and all the public-spirited people that dug deep
 because these things don't happen without public-spirited people stepping up. You know, I now walk to work. I live in Goose Hollow, and I get to experience the majesty of both Forest Park and Washington Park on a regular basis. And I think this is a splendid addition in terms of connectivity. And I think the suggestion that we name it after Barbara Walker is inspired. Zeri, you'll remember when Dr. Toulon was still alive.
 That fantastic event we had at PSU when we named her an urban pioneer and we celebrated all of her work. I can't think of someone more deserving. And the way she has single-handedly over her life pursued that vision of connecting the 40-mile loop, connecting all parts of the city, I think is a beautiful tribute to her. I can't wait until this is up and running. And I just have run out of words.
 gratitude for all the people who brought us this moment. Thank you all and congratulations. I. Seltzman. Well, this is a great partnership. It is something that's long overdue. And as Portland becomes more populated and people seek refuge in our forest, this crossing is really extremely hazardous and perilous today. So this bridge is going to save lives. I am convinced of that. And it's going to add to the experience of Washington Park and Forest Park
 I want to thank in particular Mr. Swindells, Eric Santner, Bob Shoemaker, John Sherman. I'm sure you had a hand in this as well. It's great to see so many advocates for Forest Park and Washington Park here in the audience, and I know you've worked very hard to make this reality, and thanks to the foundation for embarking on this, and thanks to our taxpayers for supporting this with this vote. Hi. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 So I'm not going to take any credit where credit is not due. I am a passenger on this one.
 But I'm a grateful passenger, and I know many of the people who are in this room. Charlie, thank you, and Zeri, thank you. And to all of you who have worked tirelessly on this for many, many years, thank you. This would not have happened without the partnership that's been established here through the foundation and without the philanthropic and volunteer resources of the people in this community who work together with City Hall to make this happen.
 It hurts Mr. Walsh's cred when I agree with him, so I'll do it quietly so I don't hurt his cred. But I agree with him. I agree. He's saying just a little bit. I agree with him. It did take too long to get this done.
 And, but I think the success that this project will bring will incite other people to also come to the table and say, you know, we've got other needs in this community. Maybe we should also do the same kind of partnership and see what we can build together to help move the community forward. I agree with what Commissioner Fritz said earlier and what Commissioner Fish said earlier about this being more than just a Westside asset.
 This really is a city-wide asset. It is used broadly by the city, and as Commissioner Fish said, people come from all over the region to enjoy what is truly one of the most remarkable urban forested settings in the entire United States of America. And ever since I was a little kid here, I've loved hiking on the Wildwood Trail, and it's always struck me as anomalous that you can walk 28,
 eight-ish, 29-ish miles along the Wildwood Trail. And then the last thing you have to do as you're heading south is dodge across what I'll call the Burnside Highway at what Mary correctly pointed out is actually a blind corner. It's crazy. It's nuts. It's taking your life into your hands. And so this need has been there for a long time. You have all stepped forward to make this happen.
 There is no parks commissioner, I believe, at least certainly not that I am aware of, who has been more committed than Commissioner Fritz has to increase funding for Eastside Parks. In every meeting I've had with her regarding this subject of equity, and in fact in my very first meeting with her as mayor-elect, she made it very, very clear to me
 that she understood that we have not made the same kinds of investments historically east of the river that we have west when it comes to park infrastructure, and that a lot of people are moving east, and there's more density there, and we don't have the park's commitment. She made it very clear to me that she was committed to playing catch-up.
 to help bring Eastside parity. And there is data available, and I saw it just earlier this week. Mike Abate and I were at the East Portland Action Plan meeting, and we were going through all the data on transportation investments, on housing investments, and, yes, on park investments. And the line on park investments is going like this on the Eastside. So this council, under Commissioner Fritz's leadership,
 And Mike and the staff's leadership is definitely aware of the situation on the east side of the river. That being said, this has been a withering need, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Thanks to all of you in the room. As I said earlier, I just think this is a fantastic project. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Number 1178, please.
 authorize a grant agreement with a maximum possible total of $75,000 to Portland Parks Foundation for operational costs.
 associated with fundraising and development services for Portland Parks and Recreation programs and projects for fiscal year 2017-18. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very glad to have these two items in close proximity because we just saw a great illustration of how the Portland Parks Foundation really helps us get things done in parks. Another one was there acting as the fiscal sponsor for the donations that we received...
 in many different projects and I appreciate that and also the help that they gave on passing the Fix Our Parks Bond measure. And so this is a one-time request to use the money that Mykabati has been able to find in the parks budget and there will be a request or a
 proposal to the Parks Budget Committee to make this ongoing, but that discussion will happen first at the Parks Budget Committee and next at the Council. So from me, thank you for the partnership. Portland Parks Foundation, Michael Barty, Director of Parks again.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Mike Abate, Parks and Rec Director. Just in summary, last year we were able to provide $50,000 in operational support for the foundation. And when you sort of do the math on raising $2.5 million for $50,000, that is a fine investment of public funds. This – I –
 Item ahead of you, in front of you, would authorize us, if funds are available, to provide up to $75,000 for this year only for operational support. And again, I want to underscore, should funding be available? And we'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Very good. Public testimony? Joe Walsh. Mr. Walsh. Sir, would you like to testify on this item? No.
 It's your birthday today As well it should be My name is Joe Walsh For the record Representing Individuals for Justice We agree Please call the roll All of a sudden it's Pasha Thank you Laughter Laughter Laughter Laughter Laughter
 Oh, our monitors even came back on in shock. Please call the roll. Call the roll before it changes its mind. You daily. I don't know what's going on in here today. Mr. Walsh, I'd like to just take a moment to respond. Mr. Walsh, I'd like to take a moment to respond to a question you had earlier about...
 better understanding of how we're spending our budget across the city. The city budget office has a page on their website called Budget Mapping. So if you just Google that, you can access budget maps for I don't know how many bureaus, multiple bureaus though, parks, PBOT, housing, et cetera. And with that, I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Thank you. Fish? Aye. Okay.
 Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Last item, 1179, please.
 Appeal of the Northwest District Association against Design Commission's decision of approval for design review and modifications and master plan amendment for a new multi-story residential building with ground floor retail and a public square at 1417 Northwest 20th Avenue in the Conway Master Plan Area of the Northwest Plan District, LU16-100496,
 D-Z-M-M-S. Colleagues, the findings aren't yet ready for final adoption. I move to continue the hearing and take a final vote next week on, we need a time and date certain. Do we have that yet? Yes, that will be November 8th at 11 a.m. November 8th at 11 a.m. Can I get a second? Commissioner Fritz seconds. Seconds.
 Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The hearing is continued to November 8th at 11 a.m. And last but not least, 1188, please.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Fremont Pump Station upgrade, project number E10543, for an estimated construction cost of $1,440,000. Commissioner Fish. We're joined today, Mayor, by Paul Sudo, BES engineer, and Brenda Sherwood, BES engineer. And Carla will help you get the PowerPoint teed up.
 Some brief talking points. The Fremont Pump Station conveys sewage to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant and is located on Northeast Fremont Drive near Northeast 89th Avenue. Built in 1969, the pump station requires an upgrade to improve reliability and to accommodate future flows. I love these euphemisms. The upgrade will protect public health, water quality, and our environment.
 and I'm going to turn it over to Paul and Brenda for a very brief presentation. For the record, I'm Paul Sudo, Principal Engineer at BES. And I'm Brenda Sherwood, Project Manager for BES. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. The Fremont Pump Station upgrade is a project in the Bureau's ongoing Pump Station Improvement Program, whereas Commissioner Fish had mentioned we have about 99 pump stations that we operate and maintain.
 So we work through about eight to ten pump stations per year being in design or construction. So now I'll turn it over to Brenda to give the details of this project. Hello, Council. Morning. So the Fremont Pump Station is located at 2777 Northeast Fremont Drive. It is in the central northeast neighborhood of the Madison South Neighborhood Association.
 The property is located on BES property that is adjacent to a BES stormwater facility that's kind of outlined in blue there on the slide by the star.
 So the project objectives are basically to improve the population reliability, the safety and ease of maintenance, replace obsolete mechanical electrical equipment, and resolve a pump clogging issue. As you can see from the photos at the bottom, on the left is an obsolete emergency generator.
 And in the center is one of the clogging problems, where they've had to remove rags and flushable wipes. And on the right is one of the obsolete pumps. So the pump station was constructed in 69. It was upgraded in 1995 with three pumps. The pumps were clogging once to twice a week, which was requiring significant manpower to declog.
 And our pump stations are typically upgraded every 25 years, which means this one's right on schedule, bumped up a little bit because of the pump clogging issue that has been manifesting.
 So we did do a pilot project in 2014 where we replaced one of the existing pumps with a new hydrostall screw centrifugal pump, which has a different type of impeller that is able to move the strainy materials along without clogging. Since we've installed that pump, we've had no further cloggings, and our flow analysis was completed and agreed that the pump capacity is within the design.
 So this pump replacement project is also going to replace all the electrical and instrumentation equipment, the emergency generator, and we're also adding a flow meter for reliability and noise dampening equipment for the emergency generator and some odor treatment to the wet well air handling system.
 So the project construction schedule, basically we're planning to advertise for construction bids next month in December with a bid opening in January to begin construction and notice to proceed in May for a year-long construction process to be completed by the end of June of 2019. Estimated construction cost is $1,440,000. Okay.
 Total estimated project costs to date for the design phase, $451,000. Advertised phase, $27,000. Construction phase, including internal costs, is $1,992,000. And the startup closeout, $39,000. This comes to a total estimated project cost of $2,510,000.
 Hey, go ahead. So our recommendation is to authorize this solicitation contract award to the lowest responsible bidder for the Fremont Pump Station. Thank you very much. Any questions?
 It's my understanding that a lot of this clogging is happening because of the flushable wipes the so-called flushable wipes, so maybe could you include that in information to people? I remember when I did a tour of the wastewater treatment plant there was a lot of the cotton swab things that people think you can just flush and they magically disappear, but in fact they then have to be strained out so would you like us to do a little public service announcement as to what people should flush and what they should not?
 Yeah, we did. For one thing, the Bureau does do a lot of public service announcements on this. We include inserts into the billings and have it on our website. But for purposes of today, I think we did have something kind of noted here that, in general, what we'll say is that these flushable wipes aren't – they can technically be flushed down your toilet, but they're going to plug up the pipes downstream as they work their way through. And it's not just a problem within the city of Portland, but in other areas around the country. Okay.
 So as Brenda mentioned, we're seeing an average. We saw an average of about 12 hours per week of maintenance just to unplug these. So I guess the public service announcement would be don't flush your flushable wipes. Please put them in the garbage so we can reduce our maintenance in the collection system.
 Thank you, because $1.4 million is a lot of money because people were just basically throwing things in that they shouldn't, right? And I would suggest that many of us now automatically deposit on our bills so we don't get those bills anymore. And I don't, it may be a shock, but I don't always go to your website to find out what else is going on there. So I know the curbside sometimes has information. You know, I think many people will do the right thing if they know what it is. And so when it says flushable, they would think it was, but...
 The answer is it's not so. If you're watching this at home, please tell your neighbors. Maybe we should add flushable wipes to our 2018 legislative agenda. We always go right to the flushing, right? Every week. I don't know how we do this. How do we orchestrate this? It's almost 12. This is the potty talk hour. It's like flushing your good taxpayer money.
 People flush a lot of things into the system that they really shouldn't, and we'll continue to remind them, but there's a rule of common sense, and the stuff that clogs your toilet generally clogs our pump stations. And if people would be a little more considerate, we would not be having to do these unnecessary upgrades. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up.
 This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thanks, everybody. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council, Wednesday, November 1st, 2017. Carla, please call the roll.
 Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Please call item number 1193. 1193, Prosper Portland Report on Affordable Commercial Framework. This is an item that has been rescheduled to November 8th at 6 p.m. regular agenda. Rescheduled to November 8th at 6 p.m. Please call item number 1192.
 Adopt the Pathway 1000 implementation plan. Colleagues, the Pathway 1000 plan addresses the displacement impacts that were created by the city's inadequate commitment to housing and economic development policies developed for the interstate corridor urban renewal area.
 Investments in homeownership that allow families to build assets and move out of generational poverty are a vitally effective leverage of public resources to support black residents and other low-income people displaced or facing displacement from northeast Portland. The Council's support for this resolution is,
 And the work that PCRI and their community-based collaborators are undertaking with Pathway 1000 over the next 10 years is an important way to accomplish the needed policy changes and to use this as a great example of community-led, community-based initiatives towards furthering rental and homeownership opportunities for Portlanders.
 Here to provide us with more information, our city planner, Nan Stark, and Maxine Fitzpatrick is here of the Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives. Come on up. And for the record, if you could just state your names, Maxine. I know we're working on a lot of projects together with your organization in the Housing Bureau, and we're thrilled with that work, and we're delighted to have you here today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mary Whaley. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner E. Daly, it's good to be here. My name is Nan Stark. I am the Northeast District Liaison with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And for the past year and a half, I've had the honor of working with Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, PCRI,
 as project manager for a Metro construction excise tax community development grant, which allowed PCRI and its partners to develop an implementation plan for the Pathway 1000 project. And with us is Maxine Fitzpatrick, who's the executive director of PCRI, and whose work is familiar to you and whose positive impact on our community has been profound.
 Maxine's vision, stemming from over 20 years working on providing affordable homeownership opportunities in Portland, initiated the Pathway 1000 project as a mitigation plan for the displacement that occurred over the past more than decade in inner north and northeast Portland. Today, City Council has before you a resolution of support for the Pathway 1000 implementation plan.
 We will also be taking this to Metro Policy Advisory Committee next week. And now Maxine will tell you about the project and the multiple components of the implementation plan. Thanks, Nan. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Giudelli, Commissioner Fritz. It's an honor to be before you this morning. We're thrilled to have you here. Thank you for being here. Thank you.
 For the record, my name is Maxine Fitzpatrick, and I'm the Executive Director of Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, commonly known as PCRI.
 As I stated, I'm honored to be here, and I'm honored to have with me today PCRI Board of Directors, a few of them anyway. I am Director Kathy Swift, Director Catagno, as well as Mr. Ernest Warren, who's PCRI's legal counsel. Just to sit in and make sure I'm saying the right things. Thank you.
 I would also like to introduce our consultant, partners, and collaborators and PCRI team that's with us today. We have Kate Allen, who's a project manager. We have Christine Herman, who may be here as well. We have Flossin Media, consisting of John Washington and Fawn Everson. We have PCRI staff, Andrea Detman and Travis Phillips. Thank you.
 Did I miss anyone? Oh, yes. And we have our collaborating partners. We have Nate McCoy from National Association of Minority Contractors. And hopefully soon, if he's not here, Tony Jones from the Minority Contractors Improvement Project. And I think that's it. Did I miss anyone? Okay. Well, let's get started with some prepared comments that I have. Okay.
 Thank you. I feel special. Is it any gin in it? A woman after my own heart. All right.
 Thank you for the opportunity to share PCRI's comprehensive plan, Pathway 1000, to mitigate the significant forced displacement of thousands of North and Northeast Portland residents who are primarily black residents. We're each aware of the most recent barrage of displacement that actually happened in Portland.
 And we all know that it's not the first. Actually, the last round of involuntary displacement represents the fifth time the black community in Portland has been displaced.
 It's housing disrupted with very, very few options available to minimize their losses. I will present to you a high-level overview of Pathway 1000, its purpose and planned outcomes, along with policy considerations that can, for the first time, provide opportunities to redress the most recent episode of displacement and loss of housing perpetuated by gentrification.
 I would be remiss if the genesis or the reason for Pathway 1000 is not presented to you today, although I'm sure you've heard it before. The most recent episode of involuntary displacement started with the city's need to raise capital to match federal dollars awarded to TriMet and the City of Portland to expand the light rail yellow line. The city initially sought to access the matching funds from...
 The Oregon Convention Center URA tax increment financing.
 The Portland Development Commission Southeast funds from the Oregon Center URA, however, the request for the allocation of the funds, approximately $20 million, had to be approved by the North Northeast Economic Development Committee. And since the funds had been set aside specifically to upgrade North Northeast Portland, and the
 and they had not been used for that purpose yet. The committee rejected the request. Subsequently, the city sought to establish a new URA, the Interstate URA. When the city entered into the process of establishing a new URA, the largest ever created in the city of Portland,
 It pursued the required community approvals. Since North and Northeast, the heart of the Desire URA were located where concentrations of black residents resided. Their request was met with resistance based on residents' past and first episodes of displacement. Thank you.
 The prior displacement incidences occurred with the addition of a freeway, then the construction of the Memorial Coliseum, then the legacy expansion, and last, the interstate urban renewal area. I will not include the Vanport Flood. Ignoring the Vanport Flood, this constitutes four incidences of forced displacement. Three were intentional, and the most recent was most avoidable.
 The occurrence we will discuss is that, the Interstate Urban Renewal Area, which is the genesis of Pathway 1000. Just to share a bit with you about the displacement mitigation, the goals of Pathway 1000, I'll talk to you and share with you the commitments that were made by the Portland Development Commission that garnered them the approval
 My papers have got too many. Just one second. The approval of the URA. Goal number one, based on what was recorded, and I'm going to leave a copy for you all today, too. Goal number one, the commitment made, was to preserve and maintain the existing housing stock.
 Goal number two was to increase the total housing stock by at least 4,000 housing units by the year 2020 to increase the availability of rental and ownership housing opportunities for current...
 and future residents, and to support expanded services, businesses, and employment opportunities. Goal number three was to ensure an adequate supply of housing is available and affordable, cost 30% or less of gross income to people of all income levels living in the interstate urban renewal area in the year 2000.
 Goal number four was to ensure housing options for households of different sizes and needs. Goal number five was to increase opportunities for homeownership, prioritizing opportunities for existing residents. Goal number three was to increase the housing stability of the existing residents and protect them from displacement due to gentrification. Needless to say, none of those commitments were met.
 Honored. And that's the sad part about all of this. And to this day, they have yet to be honored. Pathway 1000, a comprehensive community plan, we created to address those failures. The goals that we established for that is to focus on creating housing stability and the reduction of generational poverty through homeownership.
 had there been greater opportunities in north and northeast Portland for homeownership just fair opportunities for homeownership there would have been less instability they would have been homeowners like the ones who were able to remain in the neighborhood but since so many of them are renter households that's who got displaced number two
 Pathway 1000 is community driven, community informed, community advocated, and will be community built. It is not reliant on deep or ongoing development subsidy. It is built on a trust that the collaborators have established with the community. It is built on a commitment to accountability and it is replicable and a model for communities locally and nationally.
 Pathway 1000 overarching goals are to address poverty, spur neighborhood empowerment, create thousands of living wage jobs, to address the current unemployed and underemployed workforce. It will contribute to the local economy in a number of ways. It will elevate business opportunities and most importantly empower families to break the cycle of generational poverty.
 The 10-year Pathway 1000 economic impact resulting from the development of 1,000 homes, 800 homeownership and 200 rentals equates to 1,581 new jobs, good-paying jobs, $104.3 million in labor income, $341.8 million in total household income,
 $256.4 million in total household expenditures, $325 million in employment generated by household expenditures, $91.5 million in indirect labor costs, $43.2 million in property tax revenue.
 I want to take a few minutes to discuss policy modifications PCRI will also be allocating for. One is to revisit the city's current policy to construct real housing versus homeownership.
 Real housing, in my opinion, and based on my experience, is a system that perpetuates poverty. Tie it back to the status of generational poverty in the late 80s in comparison to what it is today. If you'll bear with me for just a minute, I'm going to review a development comparison, homeownership versus rental housing development.
 We used some of the numbers from the city, but we did a comparison. And we looked at development costs for rental housing, for instance. The average rental housing, average cost for rental housing is $337,000. Average cost for a home ownership development is $300,000. In addition...
 that $337,000 can only support 25%, a maximum of 25%, of the debt that it incurs to produce it. Subsequently, the
 total development cost is $252,790. And if we look conversely at what it costs to construct a home for sale, the $300,000 is $37,000 less than an apartment. And with the owner financing of $200,000 approximately, there's $100,000 in public debt,
 public subsidy left compared to the $252,000, almost $253,000 in public subsidy required over the 20-year period for the rental unit. Maxie, I'm sorry to interrupt. I just want to make sure I'm following. Is that what this is referencing here, this economic concern? Yes, yes, yes, it is, it is, yes, it is. Thank you.
 And so subsequently, because the rents are based upon market rents, there's an additional 20-year worth of subsidy that has to be provided by the city government and state and federal. So that's an additional $230,000 that has to be paid to sustain that rental unit for that period.
 And then we will be asking for a temporary property tax reduction, not abatement, just reduction, to allow the new family to get in and adjust to the added expenses. So at the end of the day, the total subsidy required to create a rental unit is $482,000, almost $483,000, compared to $125,000, almost $126,000 in subsidy for homeownership.
 In addition to that, the property tax base that will be generated that I just explained there when I was going through the economic impact of the Pathway 1000 development. And so we are going to talk to the city about that as well as making that –
 $100,000, at minimal $100,000 forgivable over a 15-year period so that that family can actually benefit from that investment. They are the one who's living in the house, maintaining it, taking care of it, and basically perpetuate the equity that begins to accrue. So then the second
 policy issue that I would say that we're prepared to advocate for is the expansion of the homeownership retention support. It appeared that each time we have an effective solution that allows seniors to remain in their home, the city modifies the program to keep more of the resource in its coffer or require more of it to be returned to the city, thereby using federal and other local resources that support that.
 the poor, as it should be doing according to the federal and state and local statute. We're particularly concerned about the elderly who, due to rising property values, can no longer afford to pay their property taxes. And it is not uncommon for them to lose their homes through foreclosure based on their inability to pay those property taxes, as well as the life-threatening stress they experience.
 what they are going through because we are one of the main agencies in North Northeast that support and provide that assistance to the seniors. We were utilizing...
 retention sources to pay property taxes and allow the homeowner to get a deferment, the senior homeowner to get a deferment, and the city discontinued that program. Now think about property taxes. If the city advances a resident a loan to pay property taxes, what happens with that payment? It goes to the city. The resources go back to the city and the state at no sum loss. Yet, in that process, it addressed the needs of the poor as intended, particularly our seniors.
 Let's review the purpose of the nation's longest-running federal programs to assist the poor. Community Development Block Grant.
 Let's consider the intended purpose of that federal resource, which is allocated nationally to cities and states across the U.S. HUD says this about CDBG. The CDBG program works to ensure decent, affordable housing to provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities and to create jobs through the expansion and retention of businesses.
 CDBG is an important tool for helping local government tackle serious challenges facing the community. Seniors, I'm going to say, specifically black seniors, are the most vulnerable residents in the city of Portland. I and PCRI have always been keenly aware of this fact. And the most recent Portland Housing Bureau State of Housing Report confirmed that
 And so we're here today offering, PCRI was an entity that was started by the city, the state and local finance institution at the time, US Bank and secured and guaranteed by the Portland Development Commission. We have done what we were established to do
 And at this point in time, we want to move on to another phase in PCRI's history. We want to take advantage of the equity that it has accrued in its rental portfolio to...
 secure the resources that we need to construct the homes. The only thing that we're asking the city to do is to support the households. Excuse me. Is to support the household by providing that down payment assistance. I see no losses to the city. In fact, I see considerable gains to the city. If you've got 800 homeowners right now, the land is either vacant or...
 it's underutilized. And if that's the case, and you're adding 800 new home buyers, think about the revenue that that'll generate. Think about the opportunity that you have to support a very low-income and often abused population to gather some foundation so that they too can thrive in this economy.
 We have the plan coming out, which I'm really excited about. We worked on it for a long time. It's being printed right now, and it'll have a lot of this information, but significantly more detail. And I'm excited about getting copies to each of you so that you can see what the city of Portland can do. There's been a lot of negative things that have happened.
 what can you do when that's a lot of negativity out there and there's a lot of disregard and disrespect by community residents. This is the way the city can make amends for that. This is the way we can show not only the state of Oregon and its residents, but the U.S. entirely. There's no need to sit and complain about things. There are things that can be done. And I, I,
 I appreciate your support for Pathway 1000, if you so allow it. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. We appreciate it. Nan, did you have anything to add? At this point, it's open to discussion.
 and then you'll vote on the resolution. Very good. Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Udaly, did you have a question as well? Yes. Okay, very good. Great. Commissioner Udaly, go ahead. Well, Ms. Fitzpatrick, I just wanted to thank you for that presentation, and I want to thank you for all your work
 long-standing and ongoing work and for continuing to remind us and hold us accountable for past wrongs. And I'm really happy to be here to support this next step. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Kenesha Fritz? Yeah, thank you very much for your presentation and for...
 leading this effort over many years and it was good to hear you say that the previous effort has achieved its goals. I too am sorry for the wrongs that were done in the past and I'm very committed to seeing how we can do better and make amends, make reparations. So when you talk about the down payment assistance, is it identified about how much you're going to need for that? On an average, we calculate about $100,000.
 And that would be for the 800 homes, right? 100,000 per home, yes. And what kind of a time frame would they be built in under? I'm sorry? What kind of a time frame? Is this new construction or purchasing additional homes? It'll primarily, I would say, 95% new construction. And so do you have an idea of what the timeline for how many per year? Yeah, we have in our plan, we have a goal of producing 80 a year for 10 years.
 And right now we have the first batch under construction, but we're almost 100% if we could get financing, if the commission would find a way to finance the redevelopment of Kafori Court, we would have our 200 rental units all done. Right now in those...
 the last project that we have for the rental housing is Kavori Court and it's 50 some units that would complete our entire requirement that we committed to in pathway 1000 for rental housing and then we'll
 focus on the homeownership development. A lot of that development will happen on land that PCRI currently owns, but we've been trying now for, in spite of the fact that African American seniors are the most volatile and have the greatest need for housing in the city of Portland, we continue to not be able to provide
 have support from the city to do that project. If there are problems with it, I mean, I've been doing this a long time. Generally, you figure out a way to make it work. You don't just say no and let it go. And that's what we've been getting. And so with the homeownership units, we have –
 quite a few that is going to be built on PCRI owned land and we'll be redeveloping sites and then we have some sites that we hopefully the city will find logic in awarding that land for which it is not generating any resources to a project that can begin to generate resources to support the city and its government.
 Thank you. And in the other process in the interstate open renewal area, they're doing some work on giving preference to people whose families have lived in the area for a long time or who formerly lived in the area. How will you ensure that the families who get to purchase these units be the people who are most impacted in the past?
 That's a great question. Thank you for asking it. As a part of Pathway 1000, when we created the framework for it in November 2014, we incorporated what we termed a right-to-return policy. And so that's what we'll be utilizing. And the city has since adopted a preference policy, which replicates the right-to-return policy and so forth.
 That will be one of the lesser complicated processes that we would have in getting people that have been displaced back into north and northeast Portland into those homes. So very similar to what's been decided by the community before. Yes, exactly. I know that some of the challenges with the rental has been that it's been mostly very small units.
 Do you have a plan for how big these homes would be? Yeah, they will be family-sized housing. And we were told a few years ago that PCRI actually built the largest family housing of all the CDCs when they built homeownership. We recognize...
 that you can't put three and four children piled up in an 800 square foot house and have any kind of quality of life. And even if,
 We have to do that. We are real focused on making sure that it's a livable home for the larger family. But, yeah, generally at least 1,000. Even our rentals that are family size are at least 1,000. I'm very pleased to hear that. Thank you. Thank you. And has there been discussions of how this could be financed? Would it be something that would come forward in the budget? Is the plan?
 various funding opportunities. So as I understand the resolution, and I'm sure somebody, Nan or somebody, could correct me on this, it does not specify a funding strategy. That's correct. And so we're setting a goal here, and then the burden would be on us to work with PCRI and others to establish that funding mechanism. Okay.
 You don't have a strategy beyond what you already have in place, and that's the Dial Payment Assistance Loan. And our request is going to be, yes, this is a great resource, and we have been awarded...
 enough for 22, I believe it is, 22 homes with the resources that we've been awarded. We're just waiting to get them constructed. And the only issue that we are working with now is that make it forgivable over the
 15 years, ideally 10, but we'll go up to 15 because that was the agreement and that was the policy that was in place when PCRI built its first homeownership units in 2008. And if you look at those units, that was the...
 the policy that was embedded in that, but then afterwards the city eliminated it and took it away, so that doesn't exist anymore. So we just want to reestablish what we had already put in place. Right. And I think that's right, Maxine. The resolution itself doesn't speak to it. No, it does not. To be clear. Thank you. No, it does not. But we will reestablish.
 be working on a resolution that will speak to it. It does seem reasonable after you've done all this amount of work and it's a very good body that there should be some contribution both in staff power and looking at, you mentioned the partial tax abatements, those kinds of things. So I think this is really exciting. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Is there a public testimony on this item? One person signed up, Shedrick Wilkins. All right. Great. Thank you.
 Come on up. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and about housing in downtown Portland. I was terrified when this city did not make Terminal 1 last year, a 4,000-bed warehouse, which is still empty, by the way. And I'm glad I get to talk here when Commissioner Fish isn't here. It should have been made. It was a cold winter. I've seen African Americans begging for money at the bus station. It makes me sick.
 The other day on Sunday, I'm in a HUD housing complex because I'm over 55 and I'm a veteran and all that. I went to the dumpster room in my apartment, and there was a woman laying on the floor asleep because it's warm in there. And none of that would have happened if we had not built Terminal 1. It disgusts me so much that someday I wish to leave West Portland and move to Gresham.
 and then come into my target job from the other direction, from light rail, which is one of the greatest things they ever made and was the first light rail line in 1986. I do not like people like Phil Knight of Nike. He used to make shoes in Oregon, and now he has 50,000 workers in China making cheap shoes, and Oregon can't even make shoes anymore. I went into Made in Oregon over here,
 and a pioneer courthouse square in the basement there and walked up to Made in Oregon and said, you sell shoes, and they said, no, we don't. We don't even make shoes in Oregon anymore. And I strongly suggest that some of these small businesses that we create from immigrants, if we're going to be a sanctuary state, should make shoes. Maybe someday I'm guilty too. Maybe I should buy shoes. Practically all shoes are made in China. Yeah.
 Maybe I should start buying shoes made in Oregon and spend a little bit more money and make sure that I gave somebody in Oregon a job. I also support Multnomah County, and because of the importation and the middlemen making money in Portland, especially West Portland, I can't really help West Portland. If you're not going to make Terminal 1, if you want African Americans begging at the bus station or something like that, I can't help you.
 Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. We have one more. One more. Dawn Higgins. Mr. Higgins. Ms. Higgins. Thank you, Dawn. Come on up. If you just state your name for the record, please. Hello. My name is Dawn Higgins, and I've lived here in Portland, Oregon, since 1992. I have seen the city grow and change, sometimes to the good, sometimes to the bad, and most recently, sometimes to the ugly. I've noticed that...
 We're having a serious homeless and housing problem. And I'm glad that we were talking about this very subject just now. It's not just African Americans that are being displaced. Working class people are being displaced too. And it's not right. Um...
 One thing I am noticing is there are a lot of foreign developers buying up our buildings, buying up our land, and building $1.5 million condos in the city that no one can afford. As a matter of fact, my wife and I, we pay about 50% of our earnings every single month just to make our rent.
 And the thing is, if we want everyone to stay in the city, from working class people to people of color, we also need to institute a living wage as well, and we need to keep our rents down. Otherwise, no one is going to be able to afford to either buy a house or even live here or be able to rent an apartment in the city whatsoever.
 And that's my two cents on the subject. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Thanks for being here. Very good. Colleagues, anything else? Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Well, again, thank you, Maxine. And I want to just mention that this is a very timely discussion because in the morning session we got a report from...
 PHB where we discovered that even in affordable rentals, we have 57% of residents who are cost burdened paying over 30% of their income to rent. And that part of the problem is there's a lack of opportunity for people on the upper end, 80% of MFI or above.
 to get into home ownership and to move out of those rentals and to create space for people who need them more. So I'm very excited about these 800 houses. Aye.
 Thank you, Ms. Fitzpatrick, for your leadership over many years and for your presentation today. Commissioner Fish had to go home because he wasn't feeling well. I know he would join me in thanking you for the clarity of the presentation and the written materials in particular, which are very easy to both read and understand.
 I'm very glad we're adopting this policy, which is a stronger word than just accepting it. And it does say in the whereases that we have signed an intergovernmental agreement with Metro, accepting funds to help with implementation of this. So, for my part, it does seem that we are making a commitment to continue working with you on this and with the community. I see lots of housing advocates here in support, even though they chose not to testify today.
 There's a lot of work in this plan, and I really appreciate the emphasis on home ownership. I don't think I've seen so clearly before the cost of rental housing against the cost of home ownership. And, of course, that does stop people onto the pathway of intergenerational wealth. So thank you for doing all of the...
 the hard work. And I hope that we will continue to work with you in the community because we can say we're sorry for what's happened in the past until we're blue in the face, but we need to have actions that make sure that we don't continue to do that. So thank you very much for your leadership. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. Wheeler. So thank you, Maxine, for your presentation. Thank you, Nan, for being here and the good work that you've,
 put into this as well. I want to blend a couple of conversations that we've had today. This is my policy mashup moment. We had a conversation this morning around housing and we've had another conversation this afternoon around housing and equity and Commissioner Fritz has just mentioned the overlay between homeownership and intergenerational wealth.
 And I want to underscore that for a moment. We know that in the United States, the largest means of creating wealth at the family level, the kind of wealth that creates the kind of prosperity that solves a lot of the problems that we've been talking about and characterizing as social problems,
 could be addressed if people had equity in their own homes. Because the fact is those with equity are those who actually see that intergenerational wealth transferred from generation to generation to generation. And here's where the mashup really starts to happen in a big way. I was being interviewed the other day by 60 Minutes.
 And they asked some of these questions. I sort of wish they were still here and had heard what you were saying in the data you were providing, Maxine, with regard to your presentation. They were asking this question, well, okay, so we had – and I know the guy was just sort of trying to get me to talk about it so he didn't have to. It was his interview subject.
 He's like, so you've had these problems with race and displacement in your community. And we talked about the Rose Quarter. We talked about Vanport because it was an historically very significant moment. We talked about freeways. We talked about urban renewal and what it had done. And the question was posed something along the lines of, okay, well, you don't do that anymore.
 So what's the big deal? Why are you guys still talking about this? Why not just move on into the future? And the answer is because we eliminated several generations' worth of prosperity along the way. We cut that cord, if you will. And...
 Now we're all struggling with those consequences, particularly those who are actually displaced by all of these activities around transportation and urban renewal and other plays. It is not easy to adopt a policy that is focused on home ownership.
 And I'm thinking about the conversation we had this morning and the data that housing director Krieger provided us. And he said, you know, the area where we're really falling short, when you look at poverty in our community and you look at the lack of housing, it's not – our policies have all been focusing on single unit, single individual, low cost government subsidized housing. That's the majority of it.
 of where we've been predominantly rental, right? Or heavily subsidized rental. And yet we're seeing more and more families in poverty. But if commissioners Udaly and Fritz and Wheeler decide, hey, we're going to adopt a policy with a smaller number of units, but that they are larger and support families that are in poverty, a withering need, we're actually going to be excoriated for that.
 Because the way people still frame this conversation is you have a pool of money of X dollars, how many units are you actually creating? The conversation about how many people or who is in a family is almost an afterthought. And so we have a lot of work to do to actually change the narrative of how we even talk about these issues. And we have focused so long on bang for the buck and maximizing the number of doors that we've moved way off of home ownership.
 And we're talking about economic prosperity as it's somehow unrelated to the housing piece. It's not unrelated to the housing piece. The housing piece is the cornerstone of the prosperity equation, the intergenerational wealth piece plus...
 connecting young people to a consistent educational experience, plus connecting adults to a consistent employment opportunity, plus connecting families to community institutions that struggle if there is displacement, connecting people to the economy.
 And so this is a bold plan that you've brought here that intersects all of these different policy conversations that we've had the privilege of participating in in the last day or two. But it isn't going to be easy. It actually made me nervous as I read this, even though I strongly support it and I'm the council sponsor of it today. It's non-binding.
 Wait a minute, because this is going somewhere. And there isn't funding attached. There isn't funding attached. And I look back, this was actually a really good plan. And if I could quote the great general, planning is everything, but plans are nothing. And a plan without financing behind it is at risk, unless we do what we are doing here today, which is committing to an action implementation strategy.
 So there's a lot of work to do. I'm done with my long diatribe. I'm filling up the void because we're not going to do the next thing anyway. I want to thank you. It was bold. You get the last word. Okay, I just want to interject one thing here. I'm going to vote yes, so be careful. Don't talk me off it. Okay. So take into consideration, if we're talking about 800 homebuyers,
 Those 800 homebuyers live somewhere, right? And we always think about it at PCRI. When we take and convert a PCRI resident into a homeownership situation, that frees up a rental unit. That rental unit that we have may cost us on a maximum, depending upon how long that family lived in it. $10,000.
 $10,000 because of the kind of portfolio we have. If it's an apartment, it's even less than that. Let's say $10,000, $15,000 to refurbish that. Now tell me how can you get a new unit for $10,000 or $15,000? So if you invest $100,000 into homeownership,
 And then say somehow between the city and PCRI, we invest another $15,000 to get that unit refurbished for a new family. That's $115,000. Tell me how you can create two units of housing for $115,000. One a home buyer, which is excellent, which is where we need to be going. And the other is another rental unit. So, and I've,
 I've spoken this for years now to the state. I've even talked to the city about it. So you're not just investing in a homeowner. You're investing in another rental unit, and you cannot produce another rental unit for that cost. Yeah, that's right. So let me add one more. I'll build on your riff here for a minute because it's a good one. We talk a lot about the concentration of wealth, and we talk in this chamber a lot about here we are with –
 The economy we always said we wanted. It's a diversified, robust, growing economy with lots of different legs attached to the stool. And yet more and more people are being left behind. Right now the median household price is about five times the median household wage in our community. And the reality is we're now 47% renters in this city.
 And renting is great. If it's the only option available to you, great. That's a good, stable place for you to be today. But if you're talking about wealth generation, the reality is as the percentage of our population grows that are renters, you're concentrating wealth in the hands of the equity holders who are the people who actually own the property.
 the buildings and have the equity in the buildings. And this isn't a slam against them. It's a slam against the rest of us for neglecting the tools to help people actually participate in their own equity growth to reverse that trend towards concentration of wealth. So a long way of saying I vote aye. Resolution's adopted. Thank you, everybody. Did we get an answer? Do we have to read the whole thing or can I just make an announcement?
 The title needs to be read, and then you can reset it. But we're moving 1194, 95, 96, 97. Do we have to read all of them? All the titles have to be read per the charter. All right. So this is legalese. The rest of you are free to get up and go. Carla, could you please read all of 1194 to 97? Okay.
 1194. Thank you, Maxine. Adopt a Central City 2035 plan, volume 2A, part 3, environmental and scenic. Amend the Portland zoning map and Portland zoning codes for environmental overlay zones and scenic resource zones.
 1195, adopt the Central City 2035 plan, amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, transportation system plan, Willamette Greenway plan, Willamette River Greenway inventory, scenic resource protection plan, zoning map, and Title 33, repeal and replace prior Central City plans and documents. 1196, amend.
 Adopt the Central City 2035 Plan Action Chart, Performance Targets, and Urban Design Diagrams. And 1197, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan Green Loop Concept Report. So this is all under the heading of Thoreau going a long distance to go a short distance correctly. This session has been canceled. The items are rescheduled to November 29th.
 And that will be November 29th at 4 p.m. time certain. We are adjourned. That's what it says in my script. Is it 4 p.m., right? We're going to work out from 4 o'clock.