Everybody, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Fish has asked if we could have a brief pre-gavel session, and I think that's a great idea, Commissioner Fish. Well, Mayor, we had an election last night, and everybody has their takeaway of something that happened last night that they like, whether it's maybe Scott Walker going back into the private sector, or maybe it's the House turning Democrat.
 or maybe it's Tammy Baldwin holding her seat, or maybe it's the first Native American woman to be elected, two Native American women to be elected to the House. And we can go on and on with things that happened last night. I would like to take a moment and thank the Oregon voters for supporting affordable housing.
 We had two ballot measures yesterday, ballot measures 102 and 26-199. Each almost got to 60%, which if you go back, and Lightning is nodding, and Lightning follows this closely. You go back six months ago, people were saying that both of them were being a heavy lift. Oregon voters said yes for affordable housing on both, almost to 60%. And something happened.
 Representative Sanchez, that we're very proud of is the housing bond won in all three counties. So in Clackamas, in Washington County, and in Multnomah County. So this was not just a Multnomah County. And what does it mean with having both pass? It means that as many as 12,000 people will now have a safe and stable place to go home when it's all built out.
 And the share that Multnomah County is going to receive is $250 million. So as I was saying to my friend earlier, I don't know what I feel greater about today, the fact that for me this is day 443 of surviving cancer, or it's the fact that Oregon voters did something historic, the largest housing bond in the history of our state. Can we take a moment just to acknowledge 26-199 and Measure 102 and thank the voters?
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? So I just want to add, Commissioner Fish, thank you for all of your work for passing those bonds.
 the bond measure and the constitutional amendment these things don't just happen they take a lot of work and thank you so much for um taking that on in addition to your own re-election earlier this year and your ongoing battle on behalf of the council i've done very much appreciative of that congratulations representative sanchez and i'm just excited about the people i get to work with both here at the county at metro in washington county
 Oregon did our part. Thank you, voters. Commissioner Eadie. Well, November 7th was that election day in 2016. It was one of the best and worst nights of my life. I didn't really get to enjoy my victory, considering who was elected as president. And last night was...
 I feel like I finally got to experience that feeling of victory and exuberance. I'm thrilled about our new colleague who will be joining us in council in January, the ninth woman to ever be elected to city council, the third African American to ever serve on city council, the first woman of color to ever serve on city council, and we will have our first...
 Women Majority Council. So I'd like a round of applause for that. I was very nervous about 105. Did I miss a...
 Very nervous about 105, which would have repealed our sanctuary state policy. We prevailed. We know we're on the right side of this issue morally, and courts across the country have shown that we're also on the right side of the law. So thank you, Oregon, for protecting our immigrant and refugee communities. I'm stunned. I think there's very few elections that went...
 not the way I would have liked to see them go, but all the measures that I was supporting, including the Portland Clean Energy Fund, which is going to be tens of millions of dollars a year for green jobs and green energy and creating economic opportunity for those who have been left out of the rising tide in our economy. We're going to change the face of our city. And...
 I don't feel proud every day of Portland or of Oregon, but I'm proud to live here today. So thank you, voters, and thank you, Portland. So I'll chime in. And first of all, since we're pre-gavel, I just wanted to put a thought on the record. I had a chance last week.
 or late last week to go to the Kenton Women's Village. I know most of you are pretty familiar with that. I had the privilege of meeting two women there who have an entrepreneurial initiative that they're actually running out of the Kenton Women's Village called Okidoki. And they make these incredible handbags out of the material. It's recycled material that comes off of the –
 The highway advertising signs, the billboards you see, they're actually made of a canvas-like material. I actually didn't know that because I've never been close enough to one to actually understand that. And I just thought it was really a very positive thing to see women who are experiencing homelessness
 in an environment where they are respected and part of a community, and taking an incredible leadership initiative to start a company that is actually quite successful. And I believe you'll see their products all over the place. I just thought it was really cool, and I wanted to shout that out. With regard to the election, it was a good night. Voters in the state of Oregon said yes to affordable housing.
 They reaffirmed overwhelmingly their commitment to sanctuary status for the state of Oregon. They said yes to letting women make their own reproductive decisions.
 and we return the governor to office, who I think is going to have a fantastic second term, and I wish Governor Brown all the best as she embarks on her second term. So thanks to everybody who took the time to vote. The voter turnout was very strong, and I'm appreciative of the fact that people, regardless of how they voted, they took a real interest in what was going on and they participated. So I thought on...
 On the whole, it was a really excellent night for our state and for our community. And I, too, I look forward to Joanne Hardesty joining us here at the dais. It is historic. She comes with a long history of accomplishment. She and I have worked together on many issues over many, many years. And I look forward to her sitting presumably right here.
 In this seat. Unless for any reason we decide we're going to change the seating arrangement. Mayor, she's asked if you would switch seats with her. She should be careful what she asks for. Anyway, thank you. So with that, good morning, Carla, and I guess we are ready to go into session. Good morning. This is the morning session of the Portland City Council. This is the November 7th session. Carla, please call the roll. You daily?
 Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to speak briefly about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. And please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. Communications is up first, please, Carla. Item 1136, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding trust and local government. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers. I live in Portland where everything's okay and nobody's responsible.
 where the bar is so low I need a shovel to find it I listened to NPR and I was listening to a speech pathologist and she stated that for someone to really hear what you're saying you need to repeat yourself three times well if you've been married you know that's true
 But actually I think she's wrong because if you come down here to city council with some members of council, you can say it a hundred times and they won't hear you. I'm really excited because throughout your life you come across this questionnaire, which would you rather be? One of the things is invisible. The way you're invisible, you come down to city council and you tell the truth. So the cornerstone of a functioning democracy is transparency and accountability. Okay.
 And right here, the Washington Post, which was instrumental in exposing Watergate, it says right here, democracy dies in darkness. And this was groundbreaking, this 2016 community survey. And if you look at it, everything's headed down. This was November 2016. Things haven't gotten better since then. And so now there's another survey going on.
 But it's not out of the auditor's office, so I really have questions of whether I'm going to trust it or not. Because I'm wondering, Ted, if it's just to kind of make you feel good and fool the citizens that everything's better. Because here you're saying in the Tribune, mayor believes city's future bright. Well, I'm not seeing it. You know, when you had...
 Your Portland is not a tent city. News powwow down here. I could walk out my front door and see one right next door. And I, because there's a Portland park there, and it became a bed and breakfast for the homeless. And there were numerous assaults going on there. I've been down here more than once, told you the face of homeless in the city is the one with the black eye and the bloody nose.
 And nothing, nothing was done about it. So I had to do it. See all these phone numbers and business cards and everything? I was the guy. And I connected the school district and everybody else to get things taken care of. So I've heard something that really opened my eyes. It says, where you stand on an issue is determined by where you sit. You sit down here. I invited you numerous times to come out there. You never did. I don't think really you know what's going on.
 And I started out kind, cordial. You know what? I'm past that now. No more kind and cordial. You would not accept my invitation to be at the East Portland Community Center and walk across. So at this time, I don't have any doubt that you would sacrifice my neighborhood and this entire city for another run on your political ladder. Can I ask you a question? Okay.
 When did you invite me to the East Portland communities? Because I've been there many times, and I don't recall receiving an invitation. Michael Cox and I spent literally hours having coffee together before you were elected, after you were elected. You know, I got a large union to endorse you, and it's not easy to get in touch with you personally. So via Michael Cox, I'm sending...
 pictures, descriptions. We have many conversations in this council chamber and I don't believe you've ever asked me. I'm more than happy to do it. I've been down here several times. The same subject comes up and where it's at. So if you wanted to help,
 And actually it was from a group that was testifying, a group of women. They had about a hundred and second of Gleason. Craig, I think what he's signaling to you is that if you extend that invitation again, he'll accept it. I'd be happy to do it. So I think you made a –
 compelling argument, so I would move forward. I will also bring somebody from the Joint Office of Homeless Services because I know that they have been in touch with people in that community on a regular basis. I'll get it from Starbucks and have it ready for you there. I prefer gas station coffee, but stronger the better. Craig, can I also just respond? How can I be in touch with you, Ted? Where did Mustafa go?
 Just leave me your contact information. Well, you know, that email thing, you've told me that before. Listen, I have 640,000 constituents. I'm telling you right here in public, I will come out and I will meet with you. You come here on a regular basis. You raise this issue. I tell you what we do. I'm going to go out there and I'm going to show you what we do.
 and I will bring the people who actually do the work with me. And we can have a conversation, and hopefully it will be a very positive, very productive one. So, Mayor, great. So just one other thing. There is Mustafa right there, looking sharp today. You raised a question that wasn't focused so much at the mayor as the council, and I want to just give you just a quick update. The community survey used to be done by the auditor's office. It is now going to be done by the independent budget office. And as you know, a number of people on council fought hard to make sure the budget office is independent.
 and operates independently. They are issuing what's called an RFQ, a request for qualifications, I think this week or next week, to hire a polling firm, a professional outfit that does scientific survey work.
 I did not find the survey particularly helpful at budget time because it didn't help me decide what we would do if they do forced choices. One of the things I'd like to see is a survey where the public is telling us what they care about, if they had one extra dollar to invest, where they would invest it, as well as giving us grades in how we're running our bureaus. So if you have thoughts for how you think that survey can be improved, would you stop by and talk to Jamie in my office? One very brief thing.
 The most intelligent thing I ever heard said about data was old Uncle Joe Stalin. He said it's not those who vote that determine the outcome of an election, it's those who count the votes. Good. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 1137, request of Charles Bridge Crane Johnson to address council regarding hashtag blue wave or hashtag red tsunami. And congratulations, Governor. Good morning.
 Good morning, councillors. Thank you, voters of Oregon. As you may have noticed when Carla read that, it only says, to address council regarding blue wave or red tsunami and congratulations, governor. And I was terrified that I might have to finish that sentence saying, governor elect Newt Bueller. But the voters of Oregon have enough sense to prevent the $2 million man from becoming our governor.
 But we still have some issues to address. And, for example, that means that there are people in the state that even as we went from the county voters overwhelmingly approving an issue to limit money in elections, and now city voters have reaffirmed that same necessary and brilliant democratic ideal that we need to limit money in elections, people are still throwing money into elections, fortunately, at losers. So...
 Hopefully Mr. Knight will resume his course towards philanthropy and stop trying to buy the governor's mansion, although he can make it look beautiful for you if you ever get there, Ted. So the next interesting thing is I think we'll talk about the times that are coming up. The election has been well discussed. I think that it's...
 Considering how much since the time of a decent Republican, Abraham Lincoln, the fall in November has been a time of national Thanksgiving, we should not necessarily make that the only time available to...
 honor our native indigenous neighbors and we don't just need to honor them. We need to apologize for a gross, genocidal, dishonest American history. So we're doing it in November probably because of some historical things that weren't really under their control and I hope we will empower their voices so that they can tell us as we move towards listening to them on every issue that matters to them, including climate change.
 local, tribal nations and peoples feel the best time not to tuck them in with Thanksgiving and all that. We also do a fairly good job of letting them lead and bring the message that we need to hear back on the holiday formerly known as Columbus Day. I think it's an important historical thing that it just turned out that as we approach 11-11, the 100th anniversary of the armistice in Europe...
 We have to know that America has had brave, heroic soldiers, but we have not always bravely and heroically used our military. So I see that Mr. Walsh is here, and I want to thank all the vets that encourage us to really put the values of equality and equity and serving those in most need first. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Next individual, please. 1138, request of Leanna Hunnell to address counsel regarding being homeless with a registered emotional support animal. She needs a clear path to come through. Meg, could you please move the bag? Thank you. Was that a call? I'm sorry. Oh, that's fine. Take your time. And the microphones move if you just want to slide the microphone out. Okay. Thank you so much.
 I find myself in a very... Could you give your name for the record? My name's Leanna Hunnell. This is Sam. Sam is my ESA. I've had her ever since she cracked her shell 34 years ago. She was born with brittle bone syndrome. She's broken just about every bone in her body. Now, she...
 It's just as dependent on me as I am of her, and we're very bonded. When I found myself homeless over a year ago, I wasn't able to take care of my home that I'd lived in for 25 years. And because I didn't pass my inspection, I lost my housing.
 And two weeks later, because they didn't believe that my body was breaking down, that I was faking this. Two weeks later, the surgeons up there at U.S. of O.C.E.D., she has a life-threatening operation that she needs fairly soon because her next step could be her last. So, yeah, I had already lost my housing. So I find myself...
 living in my car with my bird and during the heat as a as a summer we weren't allowed in to libraries or a lot of shelters and because I cannot go down on the floor you know shelters was not a lot of them except her
 And so I find myself, you know, living in my car on the side of a street. It's all right. No, it's not all right. House the people. Who's the one who has to house the people and stop the streets? Excuse me. I'm so sorry. Don't interrupt her. You're in violation of the rules. I'm sorry. She's my main concern. You know, it's...
 When we did get accepted into a shelter that had animals, third floor was set up for cats, dogs, and people that had animals. But it was the third floor, and because of my disability... I'm so sorry. Okay. Why don't you take another minute? And because of my disability, I was put in with the pods, with the rest of the women, and...
 you know, in a lower bunk. But she got so stressed out that she was chewing on her fabric and she got bound up with fabric inside of her. And she wouldn't even talk to me for about four weeks. She's just now beginning to talk to me. I had to take her to the vet. It's just... I don't know what we're supposed to do, where we're supposed to go, what we're supposed to do.
 And it's too cold for us. It's too... Let me do this. Why don't you and I, let's go out in the hallway and see if we can resolve this. Can we do that? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. The disability awareness team is catatonic. Okay. Excuse me. Maggie, please. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Carla, would you please read Council Item 1139? A request of M. Goodwin to address Council regarding a topic deemed pertinent.
 Is M. Goodwin here? Okay. We'll get M. Goodwin next time. Can we go to 1140, please? Request of Star Stauffer to address council regarding Portland police targeting and assault of community members. Is Stauffer welcome? You have three minutes. Sort of weird being here again. Really have gotten to enjoy sleeping in on Wednesdays. I apologize. Okay. Who was that? Who was that?
 If there's one more outburst, sir, you'll be asked to leave the council chambers. And please don't be disrespectful to someone who's testifying. It will not be accepted. That's your last warning. My testimony may go over. Go ahead. It will not be counted against your time. I'm not everybody's flavor. It's okay. Star, if you're sitting in that chair, you'll be treated with the respect of the House. Thank you. I'm going to talk today about neutrality.
 In light of recent events, it's important to point some things out with the unconstitutional protest ordinance coming into play. This first line is really directed at Wheeler, but he's outside doing a little bit better work, so I'm just going to continue. Thank you.
 You and the rest of this council behave as though you weren't warned of the implications of accepting hate speech as free speech. Many, including myself, have all come to you on multiple occasions in an attempt to help you understand the danger to the community. You ignored our cries, injuries, victims of murder on the basis of hate, and undeniable evidence presented repeatedly.
 Yet you sit describing an event where patriots traveled from neighboring states to come and harass a family that was attempting to grieve for their loved one that had been gunned down by police. That is not neutral. That is complicity. Thank you.
 Your own police chief, Danielle Outlaw, has gone on to public radio and news agencies in an effort to discredit the residing members of this community who take time and effort to show up, regardless of potential danger to their lives, stand in the way of white supremacists, Nazis, right-wing extremists, and those that protect them.
 You sat idly by while that cop belittled our community one day after her cops brutalized hundreds of people, including children, those with disabilities, and those most targeted by the rhetoric these extremists bring to our community. That day, cops almost killed members of our community. That is not neutral. Reports have been published citing proof that Portland's cops favor right-wing attendees over those they view as Antifa, leftists, or Black Lives Matter.
 Not only is that not neutral, but that is a clear stand on the side of those that invade our community in an attempt to antagonize, attack, and harm. And yet, time and again, it is those that oppose these racists and fascists that are targeted by the weapons of this regime. That is aiding, platforming, and endorsement of very dangerous beliefs, not neutrality. Neutrality is defined as the state of not supporting or helping either side in a conflict or disagreement.
 Your part in history is already indelibly written as those who chose not to stand against white supremacy, rape culture, racism, genocidal ideologies, or those identified as hate groups that hold indisputable records of nationwide violence and murder. You will be remembered as those who so badly pretended to be Switzerland while choosing to ignore the threat or accept the fatal consequences of the resurgence of Nazism in its more derogatory definition.
 And to answer Outlaw's rhetoric with Lars Larson, we know who the white supremacists are, who the Nazis are, and who the violent extremists are because we do our research. You have belligerently ignored the threat allowed to run rampant in our home,
 You have shown yourselves to be a danger to our home with your views of dismissal and refusal to accept what's right in front of your faces. We have already lost members of our community who set a clear and definitive example of what many of us are willing to sacrifice to stand against the ideologies that have historically and currently led to genocide. If we were to wait for you to muster bravery, this would never end. Star, thank you very much. I have a couple lines left, and I would like to finish them. You can wrap it up, yeah.
 You've solidified our beliefs as members of this community and beyond that we cannot count on elected officials to be anything but for their own agendas. Those that understand the consequences of racism, fascism, and bigotry will continue to do the hard work of making real change. This is how you'll be remembered in history, but at least you'll have your footnote. Let's not forget Charlottesville police also stood the same ground at the cost of Heather Heyer. Thank you very much.
 Okay, folks, please, if you want to show your applause, please wave your hands, but don't applaud. Mr. Walsh applies for you, too. Carla, could you please read our first-time surgeon, 1141? Okay.
 Proclaim November. Excuse me. Excuse me. Let's take up the consent agenda. We need four. We can't do that because we need four. And President Fish, I think maybe we should maybe take a recess because I know that the mayor would want to be here for the Native American proclamation. Let's do this. Let's ask our honored guest to come forward. We'll take a three-minute break, and then we'll ask the mayor to come back and introduce. And if he's not available, I'll introduce him. So, Laura, if you could bring our honored guest forward. Carla, let's take a three-minute break. Okay. Okay.
 Been polled. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda, please. Mary. Udaly. Before I vote, I just want to quickly highlight item 1147, which is the MPD grant to expunge records.
 This grant is the product of a very intentional process led by my office and Commissioner Fritz's office to identify and fund the most important community needs since cannabis became legal. It was clear even before we began that expungement of past cannabis charges was the most urgent and most directly effective issue we could tackle. I apologize.
 especially since we have a state representative in the room. I do feel compelled to remind the state that they, not the city of Portland, should be taking responsibility for expungement of cannabis charges since this is a state-level law. Tana wasn't there when this decision was made. Instead of spending hundreds of thousands of our cannabis tax dollars, the state could fix this for everybody with a stroke of the pen.
 These laws were made at the state, changed at the state, and the state should bear the burden of correcting mistakes that cost people their jobs, housing, and stability. I look forward to continuing this conversation with our representatives in Salem, and with that, I vote aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. We're at the first time certain. Item 1141, please. Proclaim November to be Native American Heritage Month. Colleagues.
 I'm excited about the opportunity to once again bring a proclamation before you to declare the month of November Native American Heritage Month. This designation is a reminder that we shall recognize the significant contributions of the first Americans who have made our country to the Pacific Northwest and to our city.
 Last year, I shared that we just filled the city's tribal liaison position within the Office of Government Relations. Today, I'm proud to say that we've made significant strides over the last year to strengthen our relationships with the area's tribal governments, as well as improved engagement with Portland's urban Native American community.
 In September, we welcomed tribal leaders and delegates from seven tribal nations to City Hall for the inaugural Tribal Nations Summit. The conversations between the visiting tribes and city leadership made it clear that there's numerous ways in which the city and tribes can work together for the common good.
 I urge all City of Portland employees and residents to take up the opportunity during the month of November and beyond to celebrate Native American heritage.
 At this point, I'd like to turn the program over to Laura John. Good morning, Laura. It's good to see you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. Thank you for allowing time this morning for us to come forward. For the record, my name is Laura John, and I'm the city's tribal relations director in our Office of Government Relations.
 I'm very excited to bring our guests forward today. Each are distinguished and well-revered in their own ways here in our urban Native community as well as beyond the Portland area. Before I introduce our guests, I want to first start by providing some background on how Native American Heritage Month came to be. I have to say that as a young woman, I was not always a fan of Native American Heritage Month.
 It was oftentimes for me as a young girl in school, a time when it was uncomfortable because we were expected to make certain projects in classrooms that didn't fully capture our culture, our history appropriately. I carry that discomfort into adulthood, but I do have to say that there is so much value in having these proclamations and these designations. Um...
 Native American Heritage Month is an opportunity for us to show our appreciation for Indian countries' history, culture, and people, but also to honor the vast contributions of Native people, not only to our city, but our state, our country, and to the world. Thank you.
 This morning I wanted to share the origin of Native American Heritage Month, which I didn't know until just a handful of years ago and found the similarities in the origin with my own origin quite striking. As you all know, I'm of Blackfeet. I come from the Blackfeet and Seneca Nations. So this is an excerpt from the National Native American Heritage Month website.
 Quote, what started at the turn of the century as an effort to gain a day of recognition for the significant contributions the first Americans made to the establishment and growth of the United States has resulted in a whole month being designated for that purpose. One of the very proponents of an American Indian Day was Dr. Arthur C. Parker, a Seneca Indian, also a relative of mine, who was the director of the Museum of Arts and Science in Rochester, New York.
 He persuaded the Boy Scouts of America to set aside a day for the first Americans, and for three years they adopted such a day. The year before this proclamation was issued, Red Fox James, a Blackfoot Indian, rode horseback from state to state seeking approval for a day to honor Indians.
 Several miles later and months, on December 14, 1915, he presented the endorsements of 24 state governments at the White House. There is no record, however, of such a national day being proclaimed at that time. In 1915, the annual Congress of the American Indian Association meeting in Lawrence, Kansas, home of Haskell Institute at the time,
 formally approved a plan concerning American Indian Day. It directed its president, Reverend Sherman Coolidge in Arapaho, to call upon the country to observe such a day. The first American Indian Day in a state was declared on the second Saturday in May 1916 by the governor of New York. Several states celebrate the fourth Friday in September. Thank you.
 Moving forward, in 1990, President George H.W. Bush approved a joint resolution designating November 1990 as National American Indian Heritage Month. Similar proclamations under variance on the name, including Native American Heritage Month and National American Indian and Alaska Native Heritage Month, have been issued each year since 1994.
 Each year, over the past handful of years, and even going back into the 70s and as early as the 50s, our city has proclaimed a Native American Heritage Day or month. And each year, we move closer to moving beyond a month of education
 to a month of engaged celebration. I am honored to bring this proclamation to City Council this morning, not only as your Tribal Relations Director, but in particular after last night's historical election of the first, not one, but two Native American women who will soon be serving in the United States Congress, House of Representatives. These women will be the second and third Native Americans to serve in Congress in our country's history.
 I'm also honored here this morning to introduce our state's second Native American Oregon legislator, Representative Tana Sanchez. Good morning. Good morning. I'm a little croaky this morning, so forgive me. For the record, I'm Representative Tana Sanchez, House District 43, North and Northeast Portland. And I'm very excited to be there. Obviously, I was on the ballot yesterday, but I did not have an opponent, so I'm all good.
 Congratulations. Yes, thank you. Other folks had a much more difficult time, and we're very, very excited, of course, now to be a supermajority in our House. It's very, very exciting. We're also very excited, of course, to have our governor be able to move forward and actually have a full term of being able to actually do the work she needs to do. So I think we will be seeing some great things moving forward, hopefully what you're getting at, Commissioner New You Daily.
 This proclamation, as was mentioned, is, you know, obviously we've been doing this type of thing for a while. And over and over again, it is that recognition that Native people have been here forever. And as I teach a class now at Portland State University in Native American communities and the School of Social Work and so on, I'm teaching people every day to recognize the history that we have dealt with,
 at the laws that affect only Native Americans, the struggles with land and water and all of those issues. And I'm so very excited that every day we get closer and closer to really helping people recognize what that looks like, what that really means. And the fact that we will have two Native women going to Congress will be an amazing thing as well, but only the second and third Native person ever. What that says to me is that we have a long way to go.
 It's so very, very important that we have this partnership with the city and, of course, have a greater opportunity to make greater partnerships within the state and the country and the world to recognize what we have dealt with here in this country. It's a difficult thing, as Laura mentioned, to be a child growing up and dealing with Native American Heritage Month as something that maybe was a little bit hard as a younger person. I remember it as a parent.
 when that would be the time when people would call me to come and speak at the school. And I would remind them that I can speak just as well in April as I can in November. So this should be every day that we're reminding people that we have an innate connection with this land and we have a culture and languages and spirituality and very intense connections that really should be looked at every single day.
 that we should recognize every single day that things have to shift and change and recognition has to happen and that we are sovereign governments. That's the real issue right now. We are sovereign governments. And we have things like the Indian Child Welfare Act, which is a federal law that is under attack yet again. And we could sit in a time where the current administration could be very difficult to deal with with regard to our sovereignty.
 That's the partnerships that we need to build differently. We need to make sure that people understand this is a huge issue. Our existence is very, very important. We've obviously seen that termination happen and restoration happen in particular here in this state.
 We need to make sure that people understand and know that our very existence is what's so very, very important at this moment in time. So, again, I want to thank you for this opportunity and just, again, to remind you that we're here and we're not going anywhere. Excellent. Thank you, Representative. We're honored to have you here today. Thank you. And congratulations.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. It's a real honor to be here. And before all of the city councilors, commissioners today, I want to thank you for your many years of benefits that you provided for the Native community. And I'm just looking at Commissioner Fritz, and you've got a very beautiful medallion on today. It looks very nice. Thank you for wearing that.
 And I realize Dan Saltzman's not here today, but he has served many years on this council and has provided great benefits to not just the whole community of Portland, but the Native community with his advocacy and the Portland Children's Levy and the foster care.
 He's also helped the Native American Youth and Family Center where I work with our property at the campus and also with our affordable housing generation. So even though he's not here, I want to thank Dan for his many years of service.
 I also want to acknowledge, we have an amazing tribal liaison. Her name is Laura John. Yes. She's just rocking it. And had a wonderful Tribal Nations Summit. And also led the way for the Indigenous Peoples Day Proclamation. And has really helped bring the city bureaus closer to the Native community. So I want to thank you, Laura, for that. I also want to congratulate Tana Sanchez on her re-election to the 43rd District of the State of Oregon. Congratulations, Tana. Thank you.
 And the election last night made me feel very good. There were some positive steps forward in the areas of housing, health, education, and the environment, as well as jobs. And so I feel really good about the election last night. I just wanted to share that with folks. Now, I mentioned the city's help, and it's really expressed itself in many ways. The city's help is really important.
 First I want to mention is Parks and Recreation. They have a wonderful Native American Community Advisory Council.
 We also have the Office of Community and Civic Life with their civic leadership program. It's helped the Native community in many ways to organize, especially our leadership and advocacy. The Regional Arts and Culture Council has done great strides in bringing monumental art to the community and supporting Native arts. We have Lillian Pitt and Preston Singletary installations that are just beautiful. Prosper Portland has stepped forward to help.
 with community investments as well as microenterprise. We have the Joint Office of Homeless Services and Portland Housing Bureau that's addressing our many housing needs, which are very great in the Native community. We also have been doing quite a bit of work with gang prevention. And so you've invested in the Native community in many ways, and I just wanted to express our appreciation for that.
 Now, it's true that we do have much more to do. We do have Native Americans who are overrepresented in the homeless population. We want to have a more direct partnership with the city to address those issues. We also want to break the cycle of poverty and provide good-paying jobs for our community. We do need to make still many more strides with education for the Native community, and obviously my organization is advocating and collaborating on those fronts.
 We also have quite a few environmental concerns for the city. So that being said, we look forward to the ongoing partnership with the city, and I want to thank you again for all that you do for the Native community, and thank you for proclaiming November as Native American Month. Thank you very much. Thank you. It's good to see you, Paul. Tawn has reminded me I forgot to say my name, and there's a big sign here. Paul Lemley, Executive Director, Native American Youth and Family Center, and citizen of the Accommodation. Thank you so much for your partnership.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to thank my deep appreciation and sincere moments to share with our governors who I've shared a lot with them before. And it's always been an honor and a pleasure to see what they have done for our Native community and to express the feelings that I have for their work that they have to do. I'm Buzz Nelson. I'm an Ogallala Lakota from Pine Ridge, South Dakota. I'm a
 Marine Corps veteran. I served in the Marine Corps and I'm here to, I've been in Portland for 50 years working with the Native community and I've seen the improvements that we've had like Laura John. We've worked all these years to try to get our young students to go to college, come back and take over these Native programs and to move into these Native spots and we've seen some of them today that are
 are elected into the commission and it's a great feeling to know this in my heart that our native people are finally being recognized by the world we've seen a lot of it our greatest thing that came from the respect that we have received from the whole world as native uh native community and it's really good to be able to sit here today and to
 Think back of what we went through here, what we started with in the last 50 years. I was one of the founders of the Native American Rehabilitation Association, which is an alcohol program that is a $29 million program today. I was one of the founders of the NAAA program, and I've shared our Native community.
 with everyone here, with our commissioners down through the years. And it's a great honor. I could sit up here all day and express my thoughts and my feelings of what you have done for our Native people and why it's so important that we keep this going. And we do have deep thoughts and thanks for what you have done for our people, our Native community. And like I said, I was a Marine Corps veteran. I have seen...
 the progress of our Native veterans, the success that they've had, and the recognition that we've had from the world as Native veterans. Native people have always been warriors. We have always volunteered to protect our people and our country. So we continue to do this. And to this day, we're finally getting the recognition as the veterans, all veterans of this country,
 getting the recognition that they deserve and the help that they deserve. We see a lot of them down on the streets today as homeless, and they need the help bad. And if we continue to do this, I think it's one of our greatest things that can happen to our veterans today. But they are really being recognized as heroes and warriors today.
 that they should have been recognized and seen years ago. And this is one of the great things that I feel today, that our veterans, I've seen what happened to our veteran people years ago. Our veterans come home, they're disrespected, they're,
 They're cursed and called baby killers and so forth, you know. Them kids are over there fighting for their country, fighting for their world, for their people. And to come home and get that kind of, you know, recognition, it's really heartbreaking. And then today, to see where they're at today, the recognition that they have as veterans and their veteran day,
 It's a great honor and a great privilege to realize that I was a veteran and to serve my country. And to, again, I could say I could go on and thank Mr. Wheeler and the commissioners, Mr. Fish, and Ms. Fritz and all of you that we've served with you before. And we want to continue serving with you and helping you and that you give the help that we need from you. And thanks to our Native, from our Native community.
 Mostly, I want to thank you and the recognition that we have received through our Native veterans and the Native people.
 from all of you, and I want to thank you. Like I said, I could go on forever talking about the thanks and what you've given us, so thank you very much, and don't stop. Keep helping if you can. And thank you for your years of partnership with all of us here. We appreciate it. You give and you give and you give in this community, and I just want to acknowledge that. It's really appreciated. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So to wrap up our presentation, I want to say that my hope for the city of Portland is that our Native American Heritage Month serves as a reminder that in order to be a well-functioning city government, we must include a tribal lens in every corner of the work that we do.
 In doing so, we help take steps to that time that our elected officials, our leaders, our employees, our advocates, and community leaders all together can build a city that will provide equitable opportunity and inclusion for Native American people.
 I'm currently working with a number of the city bureaus to support their efforts to host an event for this year's Heritage Month. These events include speaker panels, film screenings, reading discussions, brown bag lunches. So we have lots of events that are being hosted by city bureaus this year. I'm very happy about that.
 Lastly, I just want to again thank you for your time and thank you for your support of the work that I do. And thank you for allowing me to bring guests to chambers this morning. Thank you. And so with that, Laura, I'll read the proclamation. Very good. Whereas Native Americans, the indigenous peoples of this land, flourish with vibrant cultures, developed one of the largest trade economies, and are the original stewards of Mother Earth,
 And whereas the city of Portland now rests on lands at the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers, a major crossroads for the economic, social, and political interactions of the indigenous tribes for thousands of years,
 And whereas indigenous people hand down oral histories, science, governance, a distinct relationship with the water, land, rocks, native plants, birds, fish, and animals, and invaluable cultural knowledge and rich traditions that continue to thrive in Portland, supporting community health. And whereas...
 Indigenous people who've been here since time immemorial continue to contribute immeasurable to our county, state, and city's heritage, distinguishing themselves as scholars, veterans, teachers, athletes, artists, entrepreneurs, and leaders. Thank you.
 And whereas the indigenous population of the Portland metro area is over 50,000 people, descended from more than 380 tribes bands from across the nation.
 and whereas the community continues to contribute to the cultural fabric of the City of Portland through many events throughout the year, such as the traditional powwows, festivals, celebrations, active community organizations, and tribal intergovernmental relationships.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the month of November 2018 to be Native American Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you. Colleagues, do you have any remarks? Commissioner Udailey. What an exciting moment. Thank you.
 with so many Native American women assuming positions of power across the country at every level. I want to thank our honored guests today, and I want to particularly thank Laura John, our tribal relations director.
 I think there's been growing recognition of Native American heritage, survival, presence in our community, but I don't feel that the city has taken many meaningful steps.
 and concrete actions to actually addressing the kind of unique challenges, concerns, and needs of the community. And I want to commend the mayor for hiring Laura. She's been here less than a year and I feel that
 Our understanding and relationships have grown by leaps and bounds with the Native community, and I just want to commit my support to you moving forward.
 And it did occur to me as you were talking about your experiences with Native American heritage and how kind of awkward and maybe infuriating those experiences were. Oregon is the only state in the country that has required ethnic studies curriculum for K-12 students. So I want to just put on the table that perhaps we should
 develop a new Native American heritage curriculum, and at the very least offer it in Portland schools, but perhaps throughout the state, and hopefully correct some of the kind of more unfortunate and embarrassing traditions that it's been perpetuating. So thank you for being here, and happy Native American Heritage Month. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you for honouring us with your presence and your gracious words, and thank you for all that you are doing to help us correct the wrongs of the past and for being willing to do that. I just love seeing the six flags of six of the most prominent tribal nations here in council chambers. It's a great reminder that we are on land that...
 My ancestors only recently came to, and yours looked after much better than mine have in some cases, in many cases, for a time immemorial, and so thank you for that. I am honoured to have the Bow and Arrow Club having made this medallion for me and giving it to me at the Pow Wow, and it sits on the...
 front and centre in the coffee table in my office so every day I'm looking at it and being reminded that by treaty I am empowered to correct those wrongs and to act in collaboration with the tribes and
 I want to particularly thank Patty Howard, who in my first term was my policy advisor, who established the principle of the city acknowledging tribal sovereignty and that we do need to work together. And yes, it does take time to correct and move forward.
 It took hundreds of years to get to where we were. And so in order to be able to have everybody at the table in collaboration, it takes time to fix it. And so thank you, Laura John, for your work on that. We will continue now, I know, to gather momentum and to...
 honor the roles that you and the voters of our area have now given to us on the diocese. Thank you so much. Commissioner Fish. So one of the things that I've learned in my service on this council is that on many of the issues that we are spending time addressing, there is not necessarily consensus among Native American leaders. And that's not surprising, but
 Until we had a tribal liaison, we weren't really focused on understanding the political landscape the way we are now. The conflicts within recognized tribes and between them, conflicts between some of our recognized tribes and urban Indians –
 different views on important questions from Superfund to how we make our budget to how we utilize land, to how we honor Native history through our various bureaus and on and on and on. What Laura John has allowed us to do is better understand the lay of the land,
 to better understand the views of sovereign nations as well as urban Indians and others. And, you know, we have some really hard work ahead of us. It's not going to be easy to knit together some of the things that we're working on because there are disagreements within the community. But what Laura has given us is a relentless focus on how we can, in a more respectful way, engage –
 sovereign nations and also our urban Indians. And she's helped all of us through our bureaus figure out ways of becoming more
 engaged and respectful. And from time to time, she's come in and said, there's something coming to council that's about to become a train wreck, and we're going to pull it or rewrite it or we're going to rethink it or haven't done the necessary outreach. And so as someone who fought for this position, I am absolutely confident that she's the right person for the job, and I've seen really remarkable progress in a short amount of time. So, Laura, thank you for your leadership, and thank you to our honored guests for being with us today.
 Thank you. Should we have a photograph up front? Thank you. Thank you.
 Betsy will make sure we're all... Everyone look here. One, two, three. Keep smiling. Awesome. There's no flash now. One, two, three. Two more? Two more? Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next item is 1142, please. Proclaim November 11, 2018 to be Veterans Day. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I have some opening remarks, but what I'd like to do is invite our honored guests to come forward at this point. Christopher Soon, Eddie Van Buren, and Nicholas Carroll.
 And they are members of the city's veteran empowerment team. And I think they're also joined by Eric Bess. Is that correct? Eric is the son of Rick Bess, the dedicated public servant who was taken from us last year when he was confronting hatred. Welcome. We're honored to have you with us. A few opening remarks, Mayor. Thank you.
 I'm obviously very proud that this council honors veterans every year with a proclamation. I'd like to also tie this proclamation back to the one council just issued. Native veterans are highly regarded within tribal communities for their dedication and commitment to serving in the armed forces.
 Native Americans have been members of the United States military throughout our history and currently serve at a higher rate than any other group in our community. So we honor and thank them. This is the first year during my service on the council that I will not be attending the Hollywood Veterans Day Parade. Unfortunately, my chemotherapy schedule prevents me from participating, but I will be there in spirit with all of my friends. And this year marks a particularly important Veterans Day.
 It's the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I. Think of that. Now, my grandfather lived to 102, and he was not shy about sharing stories with his grandchildren. And he was particularly proud of the fact that he served in World War I in the trenches of France during some of the bloodiest conflicts in our nation's history. He was a captain in the 369th U.S. Infantry Regiment, known as the Harlem Hellfighters, an all-black regiment.
 Sergeant Henry Johnson was the most celebrated member of that regiment. Many of you will remember that when President Obama was served, he acknowledged Sergeant Johnson posthumously with the Medal of Honor, which is the highest award that we give for heroism to a member of the military. My dad also served in the military. He was in the Navy, so I grew up hearing about all the decks he swabbed. Interestingly,
 through their service, they both became deeply committed to peace. Um, it, it, it was their, um, history of being in the military and seeing so many sacrifices that they spent their remaining years looking for ways to avoid conflict through diplomacy and other peacemaking. They knew the sacrifices that brave women and men make each day for our country. And it is in fact, the warriors who are often our greatest peacemakers. Um,
 Finally, I want to say a word about the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier because there's another interesting historical tie here. In 1921, my grandfather, again, deeply moved by his experience of seeing the carnage of war up front in the trenches of France, introduced a congressional resolution to establish what we now call as the Tomb of the Unknown, where we honored, at that point, an unidentified soldier who perished on the battlefield in France.
 And it is, in some ways, the most hallowed ground in Arlington National Cemetery. And there is a museum that's attached to it. And I encourage people who go to Washington to take a moment to go to Arlington National Cemetery and pay their respects to visit the Tomb of the Unknown, among other things. Well, it turns out that the 100th anniversary of the memorial will be celebrated in 2021.
 That's not that long from now. And I'd like to just announce that the council and the city will be partnering with the Society of the Honor Guard, which are those veterans that have the high honor of safeguarding the tomb and who march in front of it on a daily basis, rain or snow or sleet. We'll be partnering with them for an appropriate celebration in Oregon, and I look forward to being part of that. Thank you.
 It is a great honor to be on a council today to be able to thank and celebrate our veterans and their families for their service and sacrifice this past year and, frankly, for over 200 years. And, Mayor, we're joined by three members of the city's veteran empowerment team. Again, they are Christopher Soon, Eddie Van Buren, Nicholas Carroll. And then after the mayor reads the proclamation, we will ask Eric Best to accept the proclamation on behalf of the team and his family.
 So who's going to go first? Welcome and thank you for joining us. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Christopher Sun, and I'm a Capital Project Manager at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And I'm a co-chair for the City of Portland's Veterans Empowerment Team, or VET. Prior to my current positions at the city, I served for six years in the United States Army, including two voluntary back-to-back deployments to Afghanistan as part of a special operations task force.
 Today I am joined by four of my colleagues from VET to testify in support of the 2018 Veterans Day Proclamation at City Hall. I'll begin. First, thank you all for the opportunity to share our story before you, the city, and our city. Thank you.
 I am honored to sit here today to represent our affinity group, a diverse and multicultural membership of city employees with very unique personal backgrounds, united together by our shared identities as veterans, current and former military service members, military family members, and our allies. We are organized under the diverse and empowered employees of Portland and hashtag WeArePortland.
 2018 was a particularly busy year for VET as we sought to raise the profile of our members working here at the city. At the start of this year, Eddie and I were new to our positions as co-chairs in an organization on the decline. A quick survey of the handful of regular members revealed that the interest from the membership was down, interest in membership was down, and an interest in our membership was ambivalent. It was the best way to start the new year because veterans love challenges.
 Now it is November, and in just a few weeks, we will have a meeting to discuss the year in review. At that meeting, I will be talking about the incredible work that we have all accomplished together this year. In summary, we partnered with the Bureau of Development Services in April to volunteer on Rebuilding Day to repair and clean the home of a disabled senior in our community who has been a resident of Portland for 30 years since leaving his life at sea as a U.S. Merchant Marine.
 We hosted the Meet Your Army event in May, which we worked with the program administrators to expand the original agenda to focus on how we as a city can leverage the skills and experience of all service members, current and former, and their families in public service. We worked with the Bureau of Human Resources and other partners to improve our veterans' outreach, recruitment, and retention, as well as to support the current executive recruitment efforts.
 And we collaborated with you, our leadership, to deliver an amazing Veterans Month program in honor of the 100th anniversary of the signing of the armistice ending World War I, including a lunch and learn panel, Veterans Day parade, this proclamation and reception, and of course the beautiful display in the atrium, showcasing the historical legacy of military service members at the city and the diversity of our current membership.
 We would also like to give special thanks to Jamie Dunphy from Commissioner Fish's office and the production crew at Open Signal. I can go on but I promised a short testimony so I'll wrap it up. In closing, I'd like to clarify that VET stands for all veterans, current and former service members, military family members, our allies, and as an ally. Supporting VET and what we represent is not a political statement. It simply acknowledges
 the sacrifices and service of our sisters and brothers in arms and our families, and affirms a commitment to helping others understand that veterans are people, veterans are diverse, and veterans are resources.
 We look forward to working together soon. Thank you. And, Mr. Sun, I owe you an apology. We often overthink things around here. So my notes spelled your name phonetically as soon, and, of course, your last name is Sun. And, again, we overthink these things. No problem. I apologize for getting it wrong. Thank you. Mr. Van Buren? No.
 Nicholas. Okay. Mr. Carroll? I was a little disappointed. I was planning for the three-minute timer to tick down on me, but it's actually just staying static. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish. My name is Edward Van Buren. I am currently the co-chair of the Veterans Empowerment Team for the city. In another chapter of my life, I served a decade as an airborne ranger, qualified infantry officer in the United States Army.
 I currently serve as the Safety and Training Manager of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'd like to reiterate that I serve in my current role within PBOT, and I take great pride in serving this wonderful community. Like many veterans and city colleagues, I chose public service many years ago, seemingly before I was an adult.
 Service is the backbone of the veteran community and especially with our veterans currently employed here with the City of Portland. My personal journey of service has taken me from the sand and wind-swept cities of Northern Iraq to the beautiful landscapes, streets, and parks of Portland. During this time, I have challenged and sometimes questioned if the sacrifice of myself and my fellow veterans was acknowledged or appreciated by those back home. I can tell you today
 that I am enthusiastic, excited, and appreciative of the support and acknowledgement we are receiving from our peers, colleagues, and friends within the city. Our veteran community is richly diverse, trained, and ready to lead. We look forward to our growing relationships and collaboration with fellow deep groups within the city and also with the city bureaus. On behalf of myself, the veteran empowerment team, we thank you for your continued and growing support.
 We would especially like to thank Jamie Dunphy of Commissioner Fish's office, who has been a consistent ally and supporter of VET. We hope to continue together becoming a leader in veteran support in this country. So thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Carroll? Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Nicholas Carroll. I work with the Office of Community and Civic Life in the noise department, so I handle most of the noise complaints of the city of Portland.
 I am also the yeoman admin for the vet group, and I've been involved with that since I've worked in the city for two and a half years. My background is my great-grandfather served in World War I. His two sons, my grandfather and his younger brother, served in World War II. My grandfather was 4th Armored Cavalry Regiment.
 in Germany and his brother Jim was a paratrooper on T-Day and I had the honor of speaking at his funeral last year and I was surprised to learn that his voice is recorded in the Minnesota History Museum. So anytime I want to hear it, I can go there and listen to it as part of the
 My father and two of his brothers served in the Air Force. My father was in the Air Force during the Vietnam War. He was stationed in Thailand, Taiwan, and the Philippines during that conflict, and he met my mother in Thailand. And the next time his parents saw him, he had a wife and two kids with him that he brought back.
 and he was an officer when I was growing up and we had the opportunity to live in Germany during the Cold War but I still hold it against him to this day that I'm the only member of the family who never got to see the border with East Germany with the guards everyone else in my family got to see it and that's a history that it's in the history books now. I joined the Navy after high school
 And it wasn't because I was born in the Navy hospital. That was the joke that he always said, that I was required to join the Navy because I was born in the Navy hospital. I liked the aircraft carrier, and maybe the movie Top Gun had something to do with it. I had an idyllic service in the military, so it's different from the ones that served in war.
 I got to pick my duty station from a list of 23 stations. And, of course, I picked Sardinia, the island in the middle of the Mediterranean. That's a great place to have a duty station for three years.
 And I worked in the submarine community. They always tried to get me to volunteer sub-duty, and it's a different community. They're very passionate about their work on submarines, but it wasn't for me. I served on an aircraft carrier for my last year in the Navy, and that is the ship to be on. It's the most exciting ship, I think, in the Navy. Thank you.
 So with the bed display, I've done this for three years now. The first year, we had 18 participants on the profile. Last year, it increased to 26. And this year, I found out from Commissioner Udaly, Pauline, that the display panels look a lot better than what we've had before. So I was grateful to use that. And we have 32 profiles with 14 new participants.
 And because this is a 100th year anniversary of the end of World War I, I was thinking of a theme that we wanted to use. And one of the things that I've been reading about World War I is that that war was both caused by the alliance system and it was won because of the alliance system.
 And when I see on the national level the shredding of our alliances with Europe that we've had for 100 years, it's a concern because I think alliances that we make with other people within bureaus, interbureaus, within other governments, foreign countries, it's important. We can't get everything done by ourselves. We can't do things alone. So we do need alliances.
 And so that was the inspiration for the theme. And I appreciate that we also had uniforms that were loaned to us that one of our members was able to get for us, Tony Garcia. And then City Archives also contributed display. And one of the things I appreciate reading was there was a...
 member of the military who requested from a mayor back in World War I for pen pals. And that letter writing is a lost art. I've done it since I was eight years old. It's served me well in the military. And we don't do it anymore, but it was just great to see that in the archives display, that somebody wanted pen pals and one lady felt called to do it. So that's our display for this year. And I wanted to thank you for the opportunity. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks for putting in the effort to do that. Eric, do you want to say something before? Commissioners, Mayor, Eric Vest, I'm a CSA at the Portland Borough Development Services. I would just like to take this time to thank you for your recognition of the selfless service of veterans everywhere. Thanks, Eric. Thank you for joining us. We appreciate your hard work. The Mayor will now read the proclamation. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz would also like to say something. Why don't we go ahead and have you do that first, and then I've got a few remarks as well before I read the proclamation. Thank you for your service. If you're in the audience and you have served in the military, could you please raise your hand? Thank you so much.
 My grandfather also served in World War I. He was a stretcher bearer in the trenches in France and Belgium. And he wouldn't talk about the fighting for the rest of his life. He talked about what they did to help each other through, the artwork, the writing, the letter writing. I don't think my grandfather ever...
 purchased a piece of paper because he would slit open the envelope that a letter came in write his letter back on that and put it in an envelope um for the rest of his life and so that's my family's mementos are those letters written on envelopes um and there's uh something that magical about that that doesn't get conveyed in an email no matter how many emojis you put in it um
 So I wanted to thank you, but I also wanted to thank community members who wrote in about this proclamation to talk about that Armistice Day was about peace. It was about the United States coming in and joining the war and ending what was supposed to be the great war that was going to end all wars. And I remember my grandfather did say over and over, we were just hanging on until the Americans came in, because we knew that when the Americans came, we would win. And it was the same in World War II.
 that the rest of the world was hanging in there until America came in. So thank you. And thank you for bringing up that we are greatly at risk for having that all...
 shattered. I was really impressed last night not only with how many women and people of color that were elected but how many of those women and people of color are also military vets. We have helicopter pilots and others and MJ Hagar who wrote Shoot Like a Girl, which is actually a compliment, read the book, MJ Hagar narrowly lost her race in Texas and that she was the one who took it to the Supreme Court to allow women to be in combat roles and
 And so we are making progress even when we think we aren't. And public service, military service, it's about serving our communities. It's about trying to make things better. And I just so appreciate that. And I also appreciate remembering that the 100th anniversary is actually about peace, which I can't imagine happening.
 Anybody who would be happier about peace than somebody who was actively serving and the veterans who can now stop fighting and serve peacefully and go back to their families safe and sound. So thank you. Very good. I just have a couple of brief comments. First of all, I just want to say our country is obviously indebted to veterans for their quiet courage. Their selfless sacrifice continues to inspire us today as we work to advance peace.
 We're continually grateful for the freedoms we enjoy in Portland and all across the United States, thanks in large measure to the very personal sacrifices many veterans have made. On this and every day, veterans deserve not only our thanks, but they deserve something more than platitudes. They deserve our respect, and they deserve our support in a very tangible way.
 As Commissioner Fritz just said very eloquently, veterans are probably the best advocates for peace in our country. Just this morning, I received, and I think my colleagues probably received, an email from a constituent, a gentleman by the name of Daniel Shea. And he leads an organization called Veterans for Peace.
 And he wanted us to remember and he wanted me to remind you, as Commissioner Fritz just did, that the original purpose of Veterans Day was to celebrate peace.
 As she correctly pointed out, it was started after Armistice Day, and the whole point was that the First World War would be the last war. It would be the war to end all wars. Of course, that has not come to pass, but it is important that we remember that Veterans Day, at its core, is about war.
 It's about peace. And the veterans are the ones who work harder than everybody else to make sure that that is the case. And I want to thank you for that. I'd also like to take a moment to appreciate the 243 military members and veterans who work for the city of Portland. They honor us with their dignity, their courage, and their valor every single day, no matter what they do.
 for the City of Portland, and that includes Con Tran, who is the newest or one of the newest employees in my office. I saw Con floating around somewhere earlier. He's hiding from me over there. He doesn't want me to embarrass him, but we're thrilled to have him as part of our team, and we thank you. The City of Portland Veterans Empowerment Team is sponsoring a veterans profile display, as you just heard, in the North Atrium. I would certainly encourage people to take a look at it.
 And so without further ado, I will read the proclamation. By the way, Mayor, I just want to acknowledge, it looks like we have some demonstration going on in City Hall. I'm quite confident it has nothing to do with this proceeding. We don't control the timing and when people choose to demonstrate, and sometimes the noise filters into our chambers. But I'm quite certain it has nothing to do with our ceremony today honoring Mayor.
 Each of you and, as the mayor said, the 243 employees of the city who have served our country. Thank you. Whereas November 11, 2018, marks the 100th anniversary of Armistice Day, the day on which fighting ended during World War I,
 And whereas, since the inception of our country, the courageous men and women of our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard have exemplified and continue to exemplify selflessness and steadfast commitment while risking their lives to protect our freedoms. And whereas, by tirelessly defending our homeland, veterans have earned and deserve the highest degree of respect and support.
 And whereas veterans and military members who endured and overcame personal suffering and injury honor us with their inspiring dignity, perseverance, and valor. And whereas we admire and stand beside the families and loved ones of those who have served or continue to serve and the determined resolution with which they bear their hardship.
 And whereas we are forever grateful for the freedom that we are able to enjoy in Portland and across the United States thanks to the service and sacrifice of our military,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 11, 2018 to be Veterans Day in Portland and encourage all residents to honor those who have served and those who currently serve to preserve our values of justice, freedom, democracy, and peace. Thank you.
 So, Mayor, if we could take a picture and officially, if you could hand the proclamation to Eric Best on behalf of the Veterans Empowerment Team. And also I just want to, again, do a shout-out to Jamie Dunphy, who's standing on the back. Jamie is also looking for work in TV and film, so he's got a beard and a pair of Portland glasses. But he has been working tirelessly on this. Jamie, thank you very much. And let's grab a picture. Sure. Thank you.
 so we'll come back here all right right here
 Are we sure you're ready? Okay. One, two, three. One, two, three. Keep smiling. Awesome. No flash. One, two, three. Oh. That works in my office. I'm the unofficial photographer in City Hall. How long has it been? It's been so long. Thanks again. It's been a while. I appreciate it. Yeah. No, there's a couple of things. You're right. I've been working on trying to find something for the grandchildren. Great-grandchildren.
 Thanks very much.
 I should do the emergency then. He's going to be leaving. Yeah, let's take care of, why don't we do this? Let's do the second readings, then let's do the emergency one if we can. There's Commissioner Saltzman. Can we get folks to come in early for this one? Well, we can discuss with the agenda now. We've got five.
 Oh, that's a good point. Thank you. That's a good point. We don't need to do that. Let's go ahead and take care of the second readings for Commissioner Fish. 1152, please. 1152, grant residential solid waste recycling and composting collection franchises in the city. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. It's already had a presentation and public testimony. Any further discussion, please call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1153. 1153, authorized compliance and enforcement measures for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability administrative rules for energy efficient building requirements for planned development bonuses. Please call the roll.
 Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please read item 1154. Amend the heavy vehicle use tax code to remove the four-year revenue target. Colleagues, I'm going to pull this back to my office without objection. Please read item 1155. Thank you.
 amend the Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code to clarify language and improve program implementation. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. Could I be recognized for an amendment? Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, it's actually important that we have this in place on an emergency basis so that we can implement it.
 The new systems development code, I'm passing down an Amendment 1, which states as follows. Section 2, the Council declares an emergency exists because Portland Parks and Recreation needs to proceed with updating its system development code to clarify and improve management of the program. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of passage. I would ask for a second. Second. We have a second. Please call the roll on the amendment. Second.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Please call the main motion. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Thanks again to Sarah Huggins. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And then we will go back to item 1143, please.
 1143 declared 10 to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street sidewalk and stormwater improvements and construct a mass armed traffic signal at the northeast 42nd Avenue and Columbia Boulevard intersection in the northeast 46th Avenue and Saratoga Court local improvement district.
 Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor. This project is made possible by a partnership between the city, TriMet, Cully, the Portland Freight Committee, and property owners participating in the LID. This project will reduce the backlog of unpaved streets in Cully while also supporting the creation of hundreds of jobs at TriMet's new Columbia Bus Garage.
 It also supports PBOT's Vision Zero objectives, providing sidewalks and a new safe crossing along high-crash Northeast Columbia Boulevard, which currently has no signalized pedestrian crossings for a 26-block stretch, including the Northeast 42nd and Columbia intersection, which will be signalized. Signalized, that's a new word for me today.
 I would like to introduce Andrew Abbey with PBOT and Steve Wooder from TriMet to present the project details to the council. Welcome, Andrew and Steve. Thank you very much, Commissioner Udaly. We'll go ahead and switch to the presentation of... Thank you. Thank you.
 So the first slide here is a map of the area of the LID. So the map on the right kind of gives you a general overview that this LID is north of Northeast Columbia Boulevard and west of Northeast 47th. Just pointing out here the map on the left side of the screen, that is the LID area. And the green...
 rectangle that you see there is a new east-west street connection that we want to build to provide better access for these businesses.
 And I also just circled a couple of street names there to the south. One of the things that we've heard from property owners in this area is not only do they need their street improved, but the wayfinding in this area is a little bit difficult with three different street names in this area. You have Columbia Boulevard north of the railroad tracks.
 You have Lombard and Portland Highway south of the railroad track, so we're having some conversations about how to improve that. Here are the objectives of the project and the project scope. So we want to improve unpaid Northeast 46th Avenue. Just so you know, I've been getting complaints about Northeast 46th Avenue for 13 years, so this project is a long time coming. I mentioned the new east-west connection we want to build.
 Commissioner Udeli mentioned the new traffic signal. As a transit rider, I've had the very unpleasant experience of trying to cross Columbia Boulevard without the benefit of a traffic signal. So this will make it much easier to cross the street. We want to add street lighting to the area, relocate the bus stops in the area.
 construct a new stormwater outfall to the Columbia Flue. And just earlier this week, I met with the Bureau of Environmental Services Watershed Division. We are very intrigued about the possibility of PBOT and BEF partnering on some improvement to the Columbia Flue related to this project. So, Commissioner Daly, we might have another party for you to attend after that gets done. Oh, boy, my favorite LID party. Yeah, I can't promise a van, though, so...
 So what I'm really excited about is this is the largest LID in the history of the city outside the central city. And it's going to the most racially diverse neighborhood in the city of Portland. So we have worked really hard to pull together all the different partners to make this a possibility.
 We're looking at an overall LID amount of nearly $12 million, and TriMet would be picking up a little over three-quarters of that. We had a property owner meeting in September. We approached the other property owners, some of whom have been calling us for 13 years, and we posed the question to them, we're already going to be building at least half-street improvements for TriMet. Would you like to join in and build full-street improvements?
 There was no opposition to this proposal when we had the property owner meeting in September, and all the property owners were notified of this hearing today.
 So a couple other things, we may be even expanding the facility a little bit further to build some relief points for buses on Columbia Boulevard. That's not included in the 12 million project total. And I should also note that TriMet is very generously funding some scope elements that were not part of their required development, such as Northeast Saratoga Court. So this is what Northeast 46th Avenue looks like today.
 There's no stormwater management facilities on the street. It's in an industrial freight area. The street is really a wreck. Property owners have had a hard time keeping up with it. This is the north end of the street. One of the folks who showed up at my September property owner meeting said that he was now a grandfather. He had been trying to maintain this street since 1967. He was getting a little weary of doing it. He really would like to get the street fixed up and let somebody else take care of it.
 If you look at the far end of that picture, what you have right now is you've got stormwater making its way into the Columbia Flue completely untreated. And this project will treat that stormwater before it outfalls to the Columbia Flue. This is a picture that I took at the end of last month. This is Northeast 46th Avenue approaching Columbia Boulevard. This is a really difficult left turn maneuver to make. You've got a four-lane cross-section on Columbia Boulevard, no traffic signal.
 High-speed traffic, high-volume traffic. You're trying to look around that telephone pole on the left side of the picture. One of the reasons why we wanted to build that Saratoga connection is so that business owners, including but not limited to TriMet, could go out Saratoga to 47th and go to a traffic signal at 47th and Columbia. This is Northeast 42nd Avenue approaching Columbia Boulevard. This is where we are proposing to put a traffic signal in.
 And this will make it much easier for businesses to get out onto Columbia Boulevard. I drew a pink circle there around the alligator pavement on 42nd Avenue. We are going to reconstruct that portion of 42nd in concrete so that when TriMet buses start operating on it, we have a good pavement section for them.
 And I showed this picture to council a couple years ago, but this is an example of Marine Drive and Force Avenue intersection where we similarly had alligator pavement many years ago. We rebuilt that Marine Drive in concrete, and after 22 years, our inspectors went out, and it was in perfect shape with all the tracks going up and down. So what we're really trying to do is spend just a little bit more money on this LID, but build something that doesn't become a maintenance liability for the future. Yeah.
 And here's a recap of the infrastructure in Cully. So Cully has more than tripled the ratio of unpaid streets as the rest of the city. They've got less than half the proportion of sidewalk coverage as the rest of the city. And as you can see here from the equity score, we have a lot of people in Cully that need this infrastructure that don't currently have it. So we're very pleased to be providing that. One other thing I would just...
 Note, before I wrap this up and turn it over to Steve, that traffic signal on Columbia Boulevard is on the Columbia Lombard Corridor. Columbia Boulevard is among 8% of the streets in the city of Portland that make up 57% of Portland's deadly crashes. So we're very excited to be able to provide a safe signalized crossing on Columbia. So I just wanted to put things into perspective here a little bit.
 The last time TriMet opened a bus base was in 1980. Back in 1980, Portland had no light rail service, and the population of the metro area, not just Portland, but the metro area that TriMet served was a little over a million people. In 38 years, that's increased to over 1.8 million people.
 Average earnings for employee has essentially quadrupled over the last 38 years, but I would also point out that the average earnings in Cully is about two-thirds of that, so prosperity has not quite made its way to Cully. And TriMet is still working with three bus bases, and they have a very ambitious service expansion strategy, and one of the reasons why PBOT had a sense of urgency with its LID is to hit the ground running and help build the infrastructure so that they could work.
 expand their service as they have planned for the next few years. My final slide here before I turn it over to Steve, just to show you where the three existing bus bases are. The two ones, the two dots that are in red are bus bases that are in Portland. Those bus bases are completely full. There's no room for more buses.
 And so any new service expansion, for example, in East Portland, they have to shuffle bus lines over to the Beaverton Garage, which is in yellow. And I was riding a bus last month. The inner northeast Portland is very strange to ride a bus that operated out of the Beaverton Garage to serve Portland. So there's a lot of deadhead time that the buses are having to do. And when TriMet opens up that bus space, they can spend –
 Less of their resources deadheading and more resources actually carrying riders and passenger service. So with that, I'll turn it over to Steve Witter. Andrew, what's the word you're saying? Deadheading? Deadhead. Colloquially, the note is windshield time. So that isn't stopping and picking up passengers and taking them where they need to go. That's just leaving the bus space and driving long distances. That's the original definition of deadhead, but I'll take it. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Steve Witter. I'm TriMet's Executive Director of Capital Projects and Construction. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for supporting the LID to efficiently move and improve the transportation network in the Cully neighborhood. I also want to commend your staff, in particular LID Administrator Andrew Abbey. His diligence in leveraging economies of scale to the benefit of our community makes him a truly exemplary public employee. Thank you.
 Commissioners, to support TriMet's historic expansion of bus service, we need another bus garage, as Andrew mentioned. After a regional site search, we selected the property on 4421 Northeast Columbia Boulevard.
 In our search for bus bases, it was amazing that this one actually had the lowest deadhead cost and deadheading, just one more time, what kind of music they play on the bus, I'm not quite sure at that time. But essentially, we have to get a bus out of the garage to where its route would start, and oftentimes that bus is empty and not generating fares. Okay.
 This strategic location will help us minimize our footprint in traffic and also bring jobs to the Cully neighborhood. In order to continue with our bus service expansion, we need to be up and running here within the next two years, so it's a pretty accelerated schedule. This LID helps us meet the critical schedule while leveraging additional street improvements for the community as needed and wanted for years, as Andrew mentioned.
 Our project's initial phase will include storage of up to 170 buses and jobs for about 330 bus operators, plus 100 maintenance, cleaning, and traffic management other support positions. We are pleased to contribute to this LID to improve the sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, traffic circulation, and the stormwater treatment in the Columbia Corridor.
 We're also in conversations with the community-based organizations about other benefits we can bring to the neighborhood, and we look forward to that ongoing collaboration. This is another effective partnership between the City of Portland, TriMet, and the community, and I thank you for your support. Back in 1980, I never remember the fare being 39 cents. There we have it. Thank you. Thank you. That concludes our presentation. We're happy to answer any questions Council might have. Colleagues, any questions?
 Commissioner Saltzman, did you have a public testimony? Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up. Frank Josaitis and Pia Welch. Very good. Welcome. Three minutes, please, and name for the record and the microphone slide around. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Frank Josaitis. I work for Mackins Auto Body. We actually own a piece of the property in the LID. It's right on 4211 Northeast Crossroads.
 Columbia Boulevard and we're putting a call center in there and we we have all already been in the process to improve the sidewalks and stuff by the city been required for the construction on it we've been working on that plan since January 2018 so we're totally behind the project.
 Full disclosure, I am a Mackens Auto Body customer, but I did not know that Mackens was part of the LID until this moment. So happy to hear that it's going to benefit your company and your employees.
 Good morning. My name is Pia Welch. I am the chair of the Portland Freight Committee. I also work in this area, so I wanted to come here just for a few minutes and say I'm very supportive of this project, and I'm looking forward to having TriMet as our neighbor. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Does that conclude public testimony? That's all who signed up. Commissioner Fritz? That's very nice of you both to take the time to come to support. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Very good. Please call the roll.
 You, Daly? Well, I'm becoming an official transportation nerd. I love these LIDs. This is a particularly exciting one because of its scope, multiple benefits to the city, and collaboration with other bureaus as well as TriMet and the neighborhood wins on all sides. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 Fritz. Very glad that the community's voice has been heeded and that we're getting there after 13 years. That's actually quite fast in some processes. And I know that Commissioner Saltzman, you and Matt Grum have worked on this for a long time also, so thank you and Commissioner Udaly for bringing this forward. Aye. Fish. Andrew, thanks again for your good work. I know you always make this look easy, but this work is really hard.
 And building consensus at the community level is what you do better than just anybody I know. So thank you very much. Commissioner Udaly, congratulations. And in these and in future efforts, I'm very pleased at the progress we're making and the partnership between the Portland Bureau of Transportation and the Bureau of Environmental Services where we're leveraging our resources to get community wins. So very pleased to support this. Aye. Soltzman. Well, thanks, Andrew, again, for a great job.
 And this one has been around for a while, and it's great to have TriMet adding a bus base. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks, everybody, for your hard work. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Andrew. Thanks to the whole team. I vote aye. Resolution's adopted. Thank you.
 Next item, please, will be 1144, and I just want to state up front, today's hearing is just calling the roll to vote on the findings. I was not present for the hearing, so I will not actually be casting a vote. So you have to leave. Do I have to leave? Legal counsel. Very good. Please.
 Please call the roll. 1144. Sorry? I need a clarification on how... I need to read the title. So I'd like to make a motion to adopt the finding... I need to read the title first. But then did you have a... 1144. Considered the appeal of Deborah A. Byrne against the...
 the hearing officer's decision to approve a conditional use review for a new eight-space parking lot on Imago de Ministri's property at 1404 Southeast Ankeny Street, LU18-174083CU. And then, Commissioner Udeli, did you have a question? Yes. Well, sometimes the language is a little confusing, and since I'm the first vote, I want to make sure that I...
 I'm saying the right word. We are voting on whether to approve or accept the appeal. Yes. So the tentative vote last time was to deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the hearings officer, and then this would be also to adopt the findings. So it would be a motion to deny the appeal. David has adopted the findings. Okay.
 Okay. All right. The answer is yes and no. Last time we took a tentative vote denying the appeal. Today we're formally accepting the findings, and I move to adopt the findings. We have a motion and a second. Call the roll. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? I'm not voting. The ordinance passes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 And then the last thing is 1156, and we have four present. Accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $2,053,728 from the Department of Homeland Security through its Federal Emergency Management Agency for the purchase of new self-contained breathing apparatus. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Well, we're very happy that FEMA has chosen Portland Fire and Rescue for a grant to help us purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus for all of our firefighters. And with that, I'll turn it over to Chief Myers. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor and Commission. My name is Mike Myers. I'm the Fire Chief for the City of Portland. To my right, I have a couple of individuals that assisted us with this grant. I'd like to recognize them, Deborah Harrison, Gordon Williams, and Jay Guo. Absent is Deputy Chief Sarah Boone. She is out of the country, or she would be here as well.
 The purpose for the legislation is to accept, authorize, and appropriate a grant in the amount of $2,053,728 from the Department of Homeland Security through its Federal Emergency Management Agency for the purchase of new self-contained breathing apparatus, SCBA.
 The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA, requires that the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, NIOSH, certifies SPSCBA is used in any immediately dangerous to life and health IDLH atmosphere. This includes emergency responses to uncontrolled releases of hazardous substances and emergency operations covering interior structural firefighting.
 PFNR last purchased full SCEBA sets in 2002 and have upgraded several parts of the equipment to remain in compliance with the National Fire Protection Association and NIOSH standards. It is no longer a viable option to upgrade pieces of the equipment to meet these standards. The grant will provide replacement of essential personnel, protective equipment, and all PFNR firefighters. I want to thank you for hearing the legislation this morning. My hope is that we can support the $2 million grant.
 Chief, could you remind me, in last year's budget, I know we did the – I forgot the exact name of the apparatus, but the pull-ups. Did we fund any new breathing apparatus as well? We did. So we met together in a budget hearing probably in April.
 Sarah Boone was here with Division Chief Ken Burns and showed you the SBCB apparatus. You allocated approximately $2.4 million. It was broken up into these three parts. $600,000 from the general fund discretionary, $1.1 million in general fund capital set aside, $700,000 carryover from PF&R's 2017-2018 budget year. So just to set the scene.
 At the time we discussed the total amount, approximate amount that we thought the SCBAs would cost. It was about a $3 million coverage. We were able to come up with those three different buckets to provide about $2-4 million of dollars and we were going to look for some other avenue. We knew we had a grant out with the assistance for firefighters. We weren't confident that we would win that grant. About a month ago we did. So we now have the $2 million from FEMA.
 We still need to cover the $1 million gap to meet the $3 million total purchase price. And if you recall, Mayor, one of the issues that you made very clear to me was that the reason we were in this situation is over the past 10 to 15 years, Portland Fire Rescue had not established a capital replacement fund for these SCBAs, and I was bringing it to you at the last minute with the intent that this would not happen again.
 So we are in a position today where I'm very proud of the team that they went out. It was a competitive grant. We found the dollars. We were able to receive $2 million today. That's a big win. I'm excited about that. I think we probably all are.
 we still have a million dollars that we need to cover the total cost, and I would still encourage some thought about building some capital replacement fund going forward, so that in 10 to 15 years I'm not here, well, whoever will be here at that time won't be in the position that I was in last year. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. And my understanding from the City Budget Office is that that decision will be made in the spring bump, that we will decide whether fire gets to keep that, whether it comes back to other maintenance needs, whatever, but that
 that at that time they'll know exactly how much the breathing equipment cost, and therefore that's the time to chew it up and make that decision. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. All right. Is that the end of your presentation? That's the end of the presentation, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, very good. Is there a public testimony on this item? Yes, I think some of them have left. Lightning, Robert West, Starstoffer, Maggie, can't read this other name, and Charles Bridgecrane. Is there somebody who thinks they're on the list but didn't hear their name read? No.
 Okay, very good. You're up, Maggie. Okay. I get six minutes because you skipped over me dealing with the citizen with the bird. You get three minutes. So please don't start my time yet. I can't breathe because I'm in SAFES, Salvation Army Female Emergency Shelter, which is America's train to Auschwitz. And the reason is...
 We have people in there, older folks who go get their vaccines, and then they get sick because they get all their vaccines at once, and then they get a fever, and then everybody gets sick. And so now, can you please pay attention, Ted? Sure.
 You know, that's not very respectful. You talked about respect at the beginning of your time, and that's not respectful to talk while I'm talking. Could we just stop the clock for a second, please? So can you... I just wanted to explain that I noticed that you didn't speak when it was your turn. You were actually called, that you chose not to speak, so I'm sure the mayor will keep that in. No, it wasn't a choice on my part. It was Ted's.
 I'm sure the mayor will keep that in mind as you do this testimony. And that was what I wanted to bring to his attention. So I get my six minutes? Okay. No, you do not get six minutes. I get this time to talk about... Were you not sitting in the chamber when the attorney read the council rules? Were you sitting in the chamber? Yes, I was. And what did he say about public testimony and how long public testimony is? I'm on for communications. I'm on that piece of paper.
 Your name was called. Was your name called? No, it was not. Carla, was her name called? No. You were not on that communication. I was here. Are you M. Goodwin? I was here. For Laura Hunnell? Yes. No, it was only Ms. Hunnell who was on that communication. No, because you went out with the lady with the bird. I did. And when you came back, you did not, no one called me. She was not listed as an individual communications, and she was not on Ms. Hunnell's communication request. Okay, you were not on today. Sorry. Okay.
 Continue. We're already wasting enough time. Just continue your testimony. So anyway, everybody's sick in there. Everybody's got bronchial, viral bronchial thing. And we can't breathe.
 And so it's great that firefighters will get, you know, apparatuses so they can breathe. But I would like to breathe. All the people in safes would like to breathe. And, you know, every year the...
 The health department from Washington, D.C. says, oh, everybody's flying in on planes, and that's why everybody's getting sick. No, no, it's coming from the shelters. So, you know, all those babies getting whooping cough, that's coming from the shelters.
 And Ted, if you do this and this, it doesn't go away. So the next thing I would like to go on to is a couple weeks ago, I spoke to you about a woman who was excluded because her bed wasn't paid for.
 So it turns out that after two days of being out in the freezing cold... Maggie, we've played this game numerous times. No, this is not a game. It's not relevant. Homelessness is not a game. It's not relevant. You're wasting everybody's time. Stick to the issue at hand. Please. I've asked you 50 times in the last month. We can't breathe in there because our microbiome is...
 destroyed by all the cleaning products and the dial in there. And that goes on in the stomach and on the skin. And then you get asthma. And we can't breathe. So I would like some of that Homeland Security money to go towards women being able to breathe in the shelter. Thank you.
 Good morning. Charles Bridge, Crane Johnson. And I'd like to congratulate Point Vine and Rescue for finding this funding opportunity and going through and successfully getting the bizarrely $2,053,728. Interesting total there. Even though we had great results in the Oregon local election and the federal situation is less depressing today,
 I hope that voters and citizens and yourselves when you talk with us will say, it's kind of absurd that tax money has to leave Oregon, go through the Department of Homeland Security, and come back in grants so that we can finance contained breathing apparatus for local firefighters. It's great that we're astute and on the ball here in this municipal government and can chase down that $2 million, but...
 The idea that we're not exactly dependent. We could have found the money elsewhere. But on the overall idea of good governance, which, of course, I hope you're great advocates for. You've said so in the past. It's just a mess. And it's one of the things that I think is diluting some of these red voters into making crazy choices, that the Department of Homeland Security collects...
 tax money through the IRS, it goes to Washington, D.C., and now it filters down here to become the $2 million we need so that our firefighters can have safe, up-to-date breathing apparatus. I'm kind of glad that there wasn't a capital fund that took care of this with our local money, and we found this money. But things aren't going to get better in the bigger picture until we find a way to really shrink capital.
 some of the federal funding monstrosity and have revenue models where Oregon money stays in Oregon and serves Oregon citizens without layers of...
 bureaucratic shenanigans. But thank you to the team that the chief congratulated and the lucky one that's on vacation or doing interesting work out of the country for finding this $2 million to get from the feds. We live in a state that doesn't have any major military bases. So sometimes I think Oregon gets a short shift on the whole federal tax scheme picture. Thank you, Portland Fire and Rescue and commissioners for voting yes to grab this money. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Please call the roll. No, you may not. Please call the roll. Well, I remember this conversation... Excuse me, ma'am. You are in violation of... No, you're being very rude to everybody else in this chamber who has waited their turn. You got your time. You signed up and you got your time. Now either be quiet or leave. Sorry. Continue. Is Chief Myers still in the room?
 Oh, there. No, no, you don't have to come back. I was just going to say, I remember this conversation. I'm glad you found the money, although I question if you really need a breathing apparatus, because I think you've read your presentation without taking a breath. So I'm very happy to vote aye. Fritz. I'm glad to see that the good work of Portland Fire and Rescue went over the...
 abusive rhetoric coming down about sanctuary cities and how no federal money is going to come to us, that in fact good sense prevailed that this is a worthy cause. And I'm particularly glad that we're going to have that discussion in the forebomb as to whether this should start a maintenance fund for Portland Fire and Rescue or whether there are other needs that the money should go to. Aye. Saltzman. Well, thanks to...
 Chief Myers and all the people at Portland Fire and Rescue for chasing down this grant and winning it. That's a great win, and we're really happy to accept it. And I do think that, for what it's worth, this is an opportunity for Portland Fire and Rescue to establish a capital reserve fund, which is very necessary so we can avoid situations like this where we have very predictable capital replacement needs but no fund being set aside to help protect it.
 pay for those needs. So this is an opportunity that the council and the spring bump will have that opportunity to consider. Wheeler. Good work, Chief. Appreciate your planning, your team. You're trying to put some foresight into this. You're trying to plan in advance for significant capital expenditures. I did admonish you last year during the budget process to do that. Once again, you deliver. And I appreciate it. I vote aye. Thank you.
 The ordinance is adopted and we are blissfully adjourned. Blissfully? Yes. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday afternoon, November 7th session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you must sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you. Carla, we have two items today. Could you read the first item, please? Item 1157, adopt the fiscal year 2018-19 fall supplemental budget and make other budget-related changes. Colleagues, before us we have the fall supplemental budget, also known as the fall bump. The fall bump is meant to address technical adjustments to true-out budgets between our fiscal years.
 This year I issued, with the support of my colleagues, budget guidance to strengthen the framework under which the bump requests are looked at. The budget framework for my fall bump proposal, it holds the line on new investments. I even withdrew one of my own requests to honor this. Somebody called it out last week. I agreed with that. I withdrew it. Only funds urgent one-time needs that absolutely cannot wait, and it funds obligations that the council is previously committed to.
 The City Budget Office has advised us to retain as much in general fund contingency as possible this year due to the existence of potential large liabilities occurring over the next 18 months, and my fall supplemental budget adheres to this recommendation. A focus for me in this proposed fall supplemental budget is promoting a more fiscally resilient city.
 My proposed budget addresses critical infrastructure liabilities by addressing needed replacements of traffic signals and lamps. This budget fully pays for the Anderson settlement liability, saving the city $400,000 in ongoing general fund resources beginning in the next fiscal year.
 and it seeks to address future liabilities by providing $2 million in ongoing funding beginning in the 2019-2020, beginning in fiscal year 2019-2020 to address ADA needs in the Parks Bureau and the Bureau of Transportation.
 My proposed fall supplemental budget also provides funding for key council priorities, including the creation of the Office for Community Technology as a stand-alone office, including funding for a new director position for legal counsel and for a cost study. It includes funding for implementation of the rental registration system, for the creation of a pilot program to expunge records to facilitate housing,
 for the completion of the Portland United Against Hate pilot project, including implementation of the hate tracking tool, funding to provide safety guards on city trucks to enhance our ability to adhere to our Vision Zero safety goals, and funding to begin Census 2020 outreach work in coordination with jurisdictional partners to make sure that all Portlanders are counted in the upcoming census.
 Due to unique circumstances, the City Budget Office only recently became aware of additional available contingency. I'll be making a motion to move the substitute ordinance and exhibits with these changes to recognize additional resources. But first, I'd like to invite Jessica Kennard, our Interim City Budget Director, to walk us through the supplemental budget ordinance and this update to the contingency. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, and good afternoon, Mayor and members of Council. And, Jessica, I'm sorry, I'm going to have to leave for a few minutes, so could I do this slightly out of order? Absolutely. Could I put the substitute on the table, and then I know what you're going to say because we've gone through it. Yes. I'll turn the gavel over to Commissioner Saltzman. So I'd like to move.
 the substitute. Second. Can I just clarify? Yes, please. That substitute has the extra $2 million in capital set aside, continuing to be set over for a future decision? That's correct. Thank you. Yeah, very good. And that's what I will support. Good. So we have a motion and a second, and I will be back in 10 minutes, and I apologize. Thank you. Thank you.
 As the Mayor mentioned, my name is Jessica Kennard. I'm the Interim City Budget Director. I'm here with Jane Marie Ford, the Supplemental Budget Coordinator in our office. We held a work session October 30th where we reviewed the details of the proposed supplemental budget. Today, we're going to review the Mayor's proposed bump, including the changes that have occurred since that work session, and also discuss proposed amendments. After amendments are proposed, we'll have a brief presentation from the Office of Community and Civic Life on the Portland United Against Hate, or PUAA, program, as requested by Council during the work session last week. Thank you.
 For the benefit of listeners in the audience and at home, I want to briefly provide some contextual information related to the bump, which was discussed last week. In the fall bump, we drew up general fund ending balance to account for encumbrance carryovers, program carryovers, and other technical adjustments related to allocating resources and expenditures between fiscal years.
 For the last fiscal year, which was fiscal year 17-18, the remaining excess fund balance after making these adjustments totaled $11.9 million out of a $668 million general fund budget. This number is very similar to the previous fiscal year and is consistent with what we would expect given city financial policies of forecasting conservatively and a continued strong economy.
 As you are aware, this number is higher than what we discussed last week due to a couple of unusual circumstances occurring in this bump, most notably related to the declining of our outdated budget system, which we have been in the process of replacing with a new system that will thankfully be going live next month.
 Available capital set-aside now stands at $5.9 million. The Mayor's Substitute Ordinance assumes the allocation of $3.9 million to major maintenance projects, which is in line with the available resources that were discussed last week, and the $2 million balance now sits in policy set-aside contingency for appropriation towards capital set-aside projects. I would note that as part of your packets, you have a color copy.
 of the capital set aside ranked projects with a column that denotes currently funded amounts and a box at the bottom that articulates the available balance. As a reminder, these projects are ranked by asset managers according to a set of established criteria that seeks to measure risk, likelihood, and impact of asset failure, but council may allocate capital set aside resources to any project on that list. So that list, that document has the blue header here. So that's for your reference.
 Unrestricted contingency with the Mayor's proposed substitute supplemental budget decisions now stands at $6.3 million. CBO continues to recommend that Council reserve as much in funding in general fund unrestricted contingency as possible for current year and future year liabilities,
 Council has, in recent weeks, had a number of very compelling discussions around the need to better plan for and address financial liabilities. And these one-time resources may afford an opportunity to act on some of the strategies that have been brought forward, most notably in the work session led yesterday by CFO Cooperman. You have before you also Substitute Exhibit No. 4, which is the document with the orange header.
 This is the document that lists all of the changes to the general fund that are proposed in the substitute ordinance.
 And there are two items that I want to highlight for Council, which represent a change from the materials that we discussed last week. First, under new discretionary revenues, which is on page two, you'll see a negative number of $6.3 million. This actually, the negative numbers in this document reflect returns to the general fund. And this is the recognition of the Comcast settlement revenue, which is being placed in policy set aside to fully pay for the Anderson settlement.
 which is due in September of 2019, and this is what the mayor alluded to, will save the city $400,000 in ongoing general fund beginning next fiscal year. The second change is one that the mayor mentioned in his opening remarks, and that is to remove the $150,000 in funding for Prosper Portland for the PCC Swan Island Training Center. So it was also discussed in the work session, and that has been removed from the materials that you all saw last Tuesday.
 With that, my staff and I are available to answer any questions before we move to the next item, which I believe is to put forward amendments. So, Mr. President, I have an amendment. Okay. Are there any questions before we go to amendments? Okay. I'll pass my amendment out, and then I will read it. And, Carla, do you have a copy? Jessica, can I hand it to you? Absolutely. Sorry, I didn't have one. Oh, this is...
 So let me read this. Is this different? So amendment, FISH amendment one is increase bureau expenses in Portland Parks and Recreation's general fund budget by $50,000 to fund outreach programming at the Interstate Firehouse Cultural Center. Reduce general fund unrestricted contingency by $50,000 to fund this change. Update exhibits I, excuse me, one through five as needed to reflect this change. Second. Okay.
 So that's now on the table. Okay. I also have an amendment. Just bear with me for a moment. I didn't expect that to come so quickly. Okay.
 My amendment is to increase Bureau expenses in the Office of Community and Civic Life's general fund budget by $125,000 to fund additional costs related to Census 2020 coordination and response by reducing the general fund unrestricted contingency by $125,000 to fund this change. Update and update exhibits one through five as needed to reflect this change. Second. Second.
 Thank you. And Mr. – I'm sorry. Mr. President, I have a legislative history I'd like to put on the record. We may also get some testimony on this. Okay. In the full budget last year, council ended up agreeing to a budget note instructing the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to come back with an explanation as to how they would implement a so-called dark skies initiative.
 They delivered the explanation to council and a potential budget, but did not forward a budget request through the fall bump. We understand there may be some testimony today about that particular request. I'd like to simply establish as a matter of legislative record that the request will be addressed through the regular budget.
 While I'm disappointed that we're not making a down payment now, I understand why that is not likely to happen, but the expectation that I have as one of the sponsors of this is that it will be included by BPS in the full budget this coming summer. So I'd like that reflected in the legislative history. Okay. Any other amendments? Did you have anything further to present or –
 I believe that next on the agenda is actually to invite Civic Life up to provide a brief presentation as requested on the PUA program. Oh, okay. Isn't our normal sequence to take testimony first on what's on the table and then bring Civic Life up? Well, this isn't an amendment. It's a presentation.
 I understand, but we now have a – I'm not picking a fight on this. I just want to make sure we have the substitute motion, we have amendments, we have people who want to testify on those matters that we go to. I'm just wondering, does the testimony come ahead of a presentation on a matter for which there is no amendment? This isn't testimony. This is an invited staff member. I'm sorry. I'm also confused because it's in the budget, but we've been requested to give –
 presentation. So I was expecting there to be an amendment asking for more money than is in the budget since there isn't I don't necessarily need to have that but I wasn't given that information. As far as I know it's still in the mayor's proposed budget, the request for PUA funding. That's correct. The current proposed supplemental budget does include the requested I believe total $221,000.
 for the extension and expansion of the PUA program that is included in the curriculum. And is that different from what we discussed at the work session? That is the same package that was discussed at the work session. It is a new request in the fall bump, but it was what was discussed in the work session, yes. But it was not previously recommended for...
 funding or it was? It has been included in the mayor's proposed and as it was discussed as well last Tuesday. Let's take public testimony first and then if we still need the Civic Life presentation I'm not sure we really need it since it's in the budget or I'm getting that sense then we'll allow for that. We have four people signed up. The first three are Bob Sollinger, Cynthia Suloski and Donovan Smith.
 Okay, well, welcome. And we just need your name, and then you each have three minutes, and we'll start with you, Bob. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Sollinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Portland Audubon Society. And I'm here today, as Commissioner Fish noted, to testify in favor of including funding in the fall bump for a dark skies ordinance for creation of a dark skies program for
 I do appreciate the comments that Commissioner Frisch made about including it in the spring budget. And I understand the logic behind the decision not to include it now. I hope he will reconsider, though.
 We've been coming to you for many years talking about this issue. It is an issue that affects human health, wildlife populations, aesthetics. It's consistent with the city's goals of addressing climate change. We have a tremendous amount of light pollution in this city, and it's getting worse and worse.
 There is example after example, especially in this time of rapid development, of doing things exactly wrong or doing things in a way that is not consistent with current standards. Even the new Tilkum Crossing bridge is lit five times higher than is necessary for pedestrian walkways. There are 25 candles on that bridge. It should be five. We have a long history of over-lighting. We do it in some cases with the idea that it makes things safer. Actually studies show that it makes things more dangerous when you have bad lighting.
 Um, we have, uh, had many people come and testify before you in the past on this issue. We have over 700 people signed up to support our Dr. Skye's initiative effort. Um, we decided not to, to, to flood the zone today. We decided to spare you, uh, repeating all that testimony. Uh, but I have no doubt if we had put out the word, they would come here and be here. There's a tremendous amount of interest in this issue out there. Uh, I, I do feel that, um...
 I understand that you don't want to introduce new things into this budget bump. Our feeling is that it has been something that's been discussed over and over in the past. We tried to get it into the central city plan. The feeling of BPS was it made more sense to wait and do it as a standalone project. At the time that was adopted, council talked to the need to move that forward quickly.
 When the last budget came around, BPS was not ready, so there was a budget note put in to bring it back at the fall bump. Now we're hearing maybe this spring. So from our perspective, it's not a new thing. It's something that's gotten kind of kicked down the road, waiting for BPS to come back with a budget number, which they now have.
 If it's not possible, and again, we appreciate the logic behind that, we get it. We do really hope that you will move forward in the spring and make this happen. So thank you very much. Thank you. Sir? My name is Donovan Smith. I'm a member of the IFCC, Interstate Firehouse Cultural Center, IFCC.
 Community Advisory Committee. I'm here as an artist and a community member coming to y'all to vote in favor of the fall bump for IFCC's process to continue for $50,000.
 I don't have my talking points in front of me, so I'm just going to kind of spitball to you. But, you know, the IFCC is an important fixture in the black community here. We're sitting in a very important moment right now in this city where the city and all the different...
 parts that make this thing go are recognizing the racist history and present and how it plays out and trying to offer repair in various ways. The IFCC is one of those small ways that we can make a big difference and recognize the black arts, black arts excellence, and
 You know, I, as an artist, am a part of that tradition. I am friends with many people who are a part of that tradition. And if we miss out on this opportunity, we'd be doing a great disservice to the direction that the city is saying they want to go.
 And so I would just say that as we're looking towards priorities to put our money towards, this is an excellent opportunity to put money where your mouth is. You know that old saying? Yeah, we can do that. So I'm going to end my testimony there. Okay. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Cynthia Selasky and I'm a member of the IFCC Community Advisory Committee as well. I've come here today to ask that you do approve the $50,000 request in the fall bump to allow us to continue our community engagement process and to make the IFCC available for community use.
 Having lived in Portland and the Overlook neighborhood for 22 years, I have been very grateful for the existence of the Interstate Firehouse Cultural Center. I thank Charles Jordan and the other Portland City Council members in 1982 for funding the transformation of a mothballed fire station into the unique multicultural resource that IFCC has been.
 Unfortunately, for the last few years, IFCC has again been mothballed. But now we have an excellent opportunity to reopen it into a center of excellence that presents, displays, and honors rich and vibrant African-American arts and cultural offerings. But we need the funding to continue our work. And I thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. Thanks for coming. Can I say one thing for Mr. Saltzman?
 I just want to thank you. You were the one that actually kicked off the Dark Skies and Bird Safe Initiative many, many years ago. I've testified and worked with you on a lot of environmental initiatives. And I just want to say thank you. It's probably the last time I testify before you, and I appreciate all your work on that. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Was there one other? Sorry, there was two signed up on the line. It's Alan Warman and Colleen Johnson. They're next. They've signed up for the next presentation. Nope. Okay.
 So that completes the public testimony, and I guess... They actually have comments to make for the book. Yeah. Oh, okay. They sent that for the right one. So they're testifying on both? Okay. The other one's a report. I'm sorry. Come on up. No. You're going to get your money's worth today. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor.
 The Portland Utility Board serves as the community advisory. Give us your name. Alan Worman, co-chair for the Portland Utility Board. Thank you.
 Anyway, the Portland Utility Board serves as the community advisory board to the city council for the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Portland Water Bureau. In that capacity, we review the Bureau's requested budget adjustments submitted for your approval during the city's fall budget monitoring process and offer you the following input for your consideration.
 Pub is supportive of the request included in the approval in the Mayor's proposed proposal, but wanted to take a few minutes to raise some items with the Council as a whole. Last fall, Pub had a lengthy and deliberative process and discussion about the role of the budget advisory process.
 in the budget management, and we recommended six principles as guides for evaluating the changes to the Bureau during that budget process.
 Colleen Johnson, co-chair for the Portland Utility Board. Those principles are included in the letter that we sent you. The requests from the Portland Water Bureau align with those principles, and PUP is supportive of those adjustments, but notes that the changes to capital projects are significant. BES requests align in part with PUP's stated principles, but several issues were raised in our discussion. Thank you.
 The accumulated biosolids at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant should have been known and mitigated if the Bureau was using proper monitoring and management techniques.
 BES knowingly reduced scheduled trucking for biosolids, lacked contingency plans to address risks posed by weather and fire, and didn't monitor biosolids inflows and outflows to address the net buildup until it became an emergency. Thank you.
 As a result, BES will spend $7 million for emergency contracts, twice as much per dry ton for removal than it would have under normal operations. Also, given recent trends in underspending, Pub recommends BES use its budget monitoring management techniques to reallocate existing resources rather than draw on contingency for items that have risen to high priorities for the Bureau.
 With regard to capital spending, Pub continues to be concerned about the ability of the bureaus to execute on the amount, size, and complexity of capital projects and feels this should be closely monitored. Actual capital spending by both bureaus has been well below planned in the last few years, and the capital plans assume far more capacity than the bureaus can deliver.
 While the budgets are adjusted over time, annual rates are built on assumptions that include higher cost recoveries than needed. Thank you for the consideration and our feedback, and we'd certainly be happy to review the request with you or provide any additional input if you'd like. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Does that complete public testimony? That completes the testimony, yeah. Good. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions?
 I'm sorry, I do. Commissioner Daly? Yeah, I just received the run of show, and I am unclear as to when we discuss the amendments that we put forward. Oh, good. So you have not discussed the amendments yet? We put them on the table. They've been put on the table. They've been put on the table. Okay, good. Great, because I have some questions about the amendments. Okay, well, I'll just stress that at some point we're going to. Why don't we do it right now? Okay.
 And could we also have staff up, please, in case there's any follow-up questions? Commissioner E. Daly? Commissioner Fish, do you want to begin since you put the First Amendment on the table?
 Well, we've had a prior discussion about this. This allows us to continue with the public process. My understanding that my amendment has sufficient votes on council to pass, and it has, I think, been discussed with each office, so I don't have anything to add. Very good. Commissioner Daly. Yes, if I could have Michelle Rodriguez from Civic Life come up to answer any questions council may have.
 So, Mayor, you were out of the chambers. My amendment is to increase bureau expenses in Civic Life by $125,000 to fund additional costs related to the Census 2020 coordination and response. I have a lengthy rationale that I can share with you, or we can start with questions. Okay.
 I do not know if I have the support of the council, so this is all just coming together kind of quickly. So maybe I'll ask a question and that'll –
 start a conversation. So in the bump itself, we have allocated resources towards the beginning of this process, correct? That's correct. There's $100,000. And the ask was substantially larger than that. I cannot find it, but I believe it was 225. 225. Very good. And... 245. 245. Sorry. And I did not fund it in the bump for two reasons, and perhaps you can answer these questions to my satisfaction. I just didn't have the information.
 Number one, I didn't have a plan. I don't know what it is actually funding. What is the outcome that we are getting in exchange for $225,000, number one. Number two, why do you need it now? And number three, why can't this wait until the budget process?
 And I don't know if that's a question for the commissioner or a question for staff. Well, why don't I go ahead and share the rationale I have prepared and see if Ms. Rodriguez has anything to add. Thank you. So I think as everyone knows, the census has been conducted every decade since 1790.
 We know and can predict the decennial census, yet for whatever reasons, the function of preparing for, engaging community and bureau partners, and ensuring a complete count is not institutionalized within Portland City Government, thus making this request urgent and long overdue by a couple hundred years, give or take a decade.
 The Office of Community and Civic Life should be the convening bureau to coordinate city activities for each decennial census to come, beginning with the 2020 count. This request was not included in the FY18-19 budget proposal as the bureau did not have the opportunity to assess the city capacity for census preparation. We had a very new director who came in in the middle of the budget process, nor was the community or...
 conversation at the stage of readiness in January 2018. So coordination across jurisdictions and communities is essential to the 2020 effort, and too many efforts fractures our ability to deliver on the count. This is why Civic Life and the Census Funders Group have been meeting since January of this year and agree that this proposal will help us achieve an accurate count.
 We know that increasing the count by 1% can result in $7.4 million in federal funding. And it's very likely that we will find that 1% increase.
 with the right effort. With the increase in population, the amount of funding the city can lose by not counting anyone can be even greater. The projected $675 billion in federal funds will be dispersed annually based in part on census data. This includes investments in transportation, housing, Head Start, home services, supplemental nutrition assistance programs, and more. If Portland is undercounted, then the entire state suffers as a result.
 There's also a tremendous political cost to all of us, but especially for the emerging electorate if the city does not meaningfully prioritize this work. The introduction of the citizenship question by Trump administration on the U.S. Census has put fear into many communities who are already being undercounted. We need to dedicate local resources to organizations who can go and educate individuals on why participating in the census matters.
 We must not let fear keep our communities from being counted. Working with culturally appropriate organization means we get organizations dedicated to serving populations who are historically undercounted. So in our request, we asked for what we absolutely need, which was probably our mistake. We should have asked for more and then we wouldn't be...
 having this conversation, to meaningfully join community partners and the census funders group and eventually the state in our collective effort. I have removed the request for civic life staffing, but hope my colleagues will support me to secure $225,000 for this work.
 As the largest metro area, the amount of investment from City of Portland is an important signal of our seriousness to other partners, including other jurisdictions. With just $100,000 as proposed, our ability to reach hard-to-count communities will be diminished, as will the return on this investment for the city.
 The census matters because counting our community members matters. If we start this earlier than the city has before, we work with community organizations who will put boots on the ground, ensuring that severely undercounted Portlanders are counted.
 This means better counts for Native Americans, African Americans, Latinos, immigrants and refugees. Better counts for multifamily community members who have generations under one roof. Better counts for children. This means better counting for renters who move often due to lack of affordable, stable housing. This is better not just for those populations, but for all Portlanders. This means significantly more federal dollars as well as possible gains in seats in the U.S. House.
 What we saw in the election last night matters. Who controls the process of redistricting matters? Ultimately, if you want to see the city better prepared for and support the efforts of a better count, we need to pay our fair share. Luckily, we aren't going it alone. Civic Life has worked with community funders in efforts to leverage city dollars. They're merely waiting on us to show up. So I urge my fellow commissioners to show up. Let's not wait any longer. And we have a letter of support, which I...
 cannot find at this moment, but it includes organizations like Northwest Health Foundation, the Collins Foundation, Meyer Memorial Trust. I mean, several major philanthropical organizations who are going to be participating in this effort and who support this coordinated effort.
 Commissioner Fritz. So I think we all agree, Commissioner, with everything that you said, that of course it's important to count everybody and that we need to get started early. My question follows up on the Mayor's, which is why do we need all of the money now
 What would you do with this additional $125,000 that you can't do with the first $100,000? And then consider exactly how much more we need in the regular budget process after the process that you're going to use is a little more defined. I think that Ms. Rodriguez can speak to that.
 Mayor and commissioners, thank you for having us here. To answer that question is to address that immediacy has to do with all of our partners who already are putting their money on the table. And to be clear, it's not all of the money. We will be coming back for more ask over the course of the next three years. So this is kind of the kicking off and meeting where all of the funders already have started allocating and doing that work and sort of saying, okay,
 The city wants to be a part of that table too and doing so earlier. And why would 225 make that statement in a different way than 100 when we can allocate more in just six months in the budget?
 Sure. The question is not, are we committed? It's what's the appropriate process to figure out what's the right number and how and when to do that. Right. The community organizations worked with our director, Sukri, to discuss what the right dollar amounts were. And the money that came out, the 200K goes to eight organizations. 100K essentially would have who the organizations would be in half. So it essentially means...
 We reach half of the populations that we're... the hard-to-count populations we're attempting to reach. We don't... We can't tell you who the eight organizations will be because we have to put out an RFP, but they are organizations who are already equipped to connect with these communities, whether these are... They're culturally specific organizations. They're people who often experience language barriers. And so...
 Waiting until next July at the earliest to get funding to get this work started, it's too late. Also, as somebody who has done grants, it's not even just July. It's the time that it takes to actually get all of that grant funding and the contracting out too. So it's further. It's just pushing us further and further into the cycle that's already happening. Is there a comprehensive written plan for how this census work is going to be done? Yeah, I think that was submitted with the bump. Okay.
 Request. That didn't seem to be as specific as I would expect for a campaign like this, because it's very similar to an election campaign. Right. In making sure you get the turnout, who's going to be targeted. Mayor Wheeler was telling me that when he was at the county, Commissioner Cruz Walsh led the, what would it be, in the 2010 census? Yes.
 It may have even been earlier. Or the 2000. You know, this does need to be an all-hands-on-deck. And so, again, I hear what you're saying in terms of the grants, but, you know, what's the plan? What will they be doing? Or are we essentially funding the organization's ongoing operations and they won't be actually doing anything until later? No, it's not for ongoing operations. It's specifically for census work. So in the bump, let's see.
 I can read the language from there. It shows the $200,000 for eight organizations embedded in those hard-to-count communities. The activities include working with the specific subset of populations, as per Commissioner Udaly's remarks, that are the harder-to-count communities.
 the outreach activities would include the identification of barriers to census self-response, such as who are filling out census addresses that house multiple renters or unregistered departments or identifying households with internet access in anticipation of the
 emphasis of digital participation in 2020, developing shared strategies across organizations to address those barriers, developing and implementing interactive education campaigns that help community members return their forms, such as practicing filling out those forms, emphasizing the importance of counting children, because we know children are severely undercounted, especially in groups where it's multifamily.
 But the $200,000 investment to those eight organizations is staffing, outreach, and accommodations. And then there's the actual split out of it is...
 supporting staff for a census at $20,000 each, $2,500 with the targeted outreach and language specific groups, and $2,500 for program expenses, as well as a joint $5,000 that would go around the development of collateral to start engaging folks. So I have the letter here from the Census Equity Funders Committee of Oregon.
 And that committee is made up of representatives of the Collins Foundation, grantmakers of Oregon and Southwest Washington, Meyer Memorial Trust, North Star Civic Foundation, Northwest Health Foundation, the Oregon Community Foundation, Pride Foundation, Spirit Mountain Community Fund, and United Way of the Columbia Willamette. I'm not going to read it in its entirety, but I'll read the section that...
 addresses the plan most directly. So since January of 2018, as I had mentioned earlier, this group of Oregon funders has been meeting to learn about public philanthropic and nonprofit plans to engage in the 2020 census. We have heard from the U.S. Census staff, city and state partners, state-based and national philanthropic partners across the country, and community-based nonprofits. We believe that collaborating and coordinating our approach as funders is the best way to support and acclimate
 accurate, and equitable account in 2020. To that end, we have developed a set of shared principles and goals, chief among them, to align our funding to increase the response rate in hard-to-count communities. This effort will begin with an RFP to identify a coordinating organization which will develop a plan for a statewide get-out-the-count program.
 vote or campaign and help coordinate and align implementation of that plan across the state and the Portland metropolitan area, working with and across public, private, and community-based sectors. We as funders are committed to staying engaged through this process and supporting fundraising efforts to raise and align public and private dollars to this effort, ensuring resources are invested in communities that are hard to count rather than being dispersed without intention."
 And they close with, thank you for taking the time to consider this critical request. We are hopeful for an effective 2020 census and look forward to working with the Office of Community and Civic Life and others to improve our city, region, and state. So the funding that we're requesting would go to eight organizations who would be charged with outreach to these specific hard-to-count populations within the city of Portland.
 So how much of these community funders committed to this process? Yes, sorry. To date. Yeah, to date. Somewhere between $300,000 to $400,000. I'm not sure of the exact number. We can get that back to you. For the same RFP effort? Into this effort, the joint effort. It's a statewide effort, right? Statewide. So it would be about the same so far?
 in Portland is for the state, there's for the statewide. Jessica, could you remind me what the City Budget Office's response to this request was, please? Sure, as you know, Commissioner, the City Budget Office primarily only recommends funding for packages for new requests that fit into three primary criterias, and that is the request should be urgent, unforeseen, and unable to be absorbed within the city's budget.
 With this particular request, the concerns that were highlighted, I will say that the request in detail talks about the many benefits of investing in the census work and how important it is for all of the reasons that the Commissioner articulated. One of the concerns that we had was sort of the unknown, the commitment to funding something where the total amount of funding that is required is unknown at this time.
 And one of the other thoughts was around the –
 the unforeseen nature and the ability, whether or not the Bureau had the ability to absorb some of this funding within their existing resources, it would push out other work that is being done by their current contractors. So there would certainly be a trade-off there. And so that was our recommendation sort of drew that hard line around the unforeseen and the ability
 unable to be absorbed within existing resources. But again, council must consider our recommendations as well as other criteria in making their final decision. Mayor, may I make a comment? Commissioner Fish. So I think we can debate this all afternoon. Let me just offer a perspective. Sure.
 We have two amendments to a fall bump, which is probably something of a record in terms of council discipline, because I remember bumps where we've spent a long time. That's number one. Number two, it seems to me from what I'm hearing in this conversation that someone, any of my colleagues could approach this in one of three ways.
 They could decide that it's not appropriate for the fall bump, and depending on whether they want to give weight to the independent budget office or they think this is one where we're just going to be especially discerning or their questions haven't been answered or they don't think the plan is fully baked or whatever. But we uniquely get to make that judgment.
 We could, because of the importance of this issue, take it up as a freestanding matter outside the budget. That is, the council could direct that we want to see a plan that's a little sharper and bring it back, and it doesn't have to be part of the budget process. It seems to me the census thing stands on its own, and the upside to the city of getting a robust count is beyond dispute. So I think the council could decide that this is something we want to take on and do outside the budget process. Thank you.
 And the third is we can do it through the normal budget process. And we've, I think, ventilated those three options. The only question before us today is does a majority of council want to fund this through the bump? I think we've had a good discussion. We have two amendments and then we have a substitute to adopt. We have two amendments which are on the table. I would just move to a vote and see where the council is on this. Well, I have a couple more comments. Waiting for the next budget process is too late.
 The urgency is that we have a hard deadline. We know the census is happening in 2020,
 And we have an administration who is attempting to strike fear into the very communities that we need to count. So there's the urgency and the unforeseen nature of this situation. It also was unforeseen by me being a new member of council. I have not been here for two years yet. I couldn't have known that the city in the last 150 years has never gotten around to this.
 preparing for the census. So I'm attempting to make up for this historic oversight and ensure that hard-to-count communities, who happen to be the very communities that we are constantly talking about when we're talking about vulnerable populations, when we're talking about diversity, when we're talking about equity. I'm having a hard time understanding why...
 why this is remotely controversial. It is a pittance for what we stand to gain, and it is absolutely incumbent upon us to do it. So we have major organizations that are partnering with us on this. We have an opportunity to leverage the small investment. So can I just respond to one thing? And I'm inclined to support this request, but I will tell you that...
 Your most recent comment is not accurate, and I'd be happy as a new member to talk about what we've done. But Chair Khafre and I chaired the last city-county effort to get out the vote.
 and I don't remember all the aspects of it, but it was a large community-wide effort with community organizations that was precisely designed to get a more robust count. We had a logo. We had a kickoff. We had community partners. There was funding. So we don't have to go back to 1790, and I do think there is a tendency on this council to minimize things that have happened yesterday. So there is history for doing this. You've made a case that it's a small amount of money, there's a timing issue, and then there's an upside to the city. Okay.
 So given the belt tightening we've done on this particular bump and our broad discretion to each of us decide whether it's appropriate or not, I'm inclined to support it. But I do want you to know that there was very good work done 10 years ago, and we'd be happy to unearth some files and talk to Civic Life about it, because it is not true that the city and the county put its head in the sand. It may not have been robust enough.
 But it did have an impact, and I remember it had council support. My apologies, Commissioner. That was not the intent of my comment. The point I'm trying to make is that as we talked about –
 On Tuesday, in our work session, the city has not been setting aside money or enough money for anticipated expenses. And the census count can be anticipated every 10 years. So it was surprising to me to learn that there was no plan or fund in existence, and we're attempting to make up for that.
 I was not meaning to suggest that significant efforts had not been made in the past.
 Commissioner Fish, I appreciate your suggestion that this could be done as a separate request from contingency once we know the full extent of the entire package, and that would give certainty to the ongoing process. I'm wondering if we could have a brief presentation on Portland United Against Hate, because I would imagine many of the same organizations are going to be our partners in the census work, and I'd like to know the status of the organization.
 deliverables that were funded with the previous $350,000 and what the request in the bump will be for. Who is not part of the census count? Are you saying you want the presentation? At the beginning of this hearing, we talked about whether we would have a presentation about Portland United Against Hate. Oh, and we decided not to. Deferred that discussion.
 And so, as I just said, I believe that many of the same organizations will be involved, and I'd like to know about capacity and deliverables and what we're asking our community partners to do if we're providing the right level of support. PUA will not be speaking to the census request.
 report from them for the budget request that has already been included in the mayor's proposed budget, that's fine. They're still in the room, but they cannot speak to this. We'll be putting out an RFP. We don't know who our community partners will be on this project.
 I have another idea. It might be a stupid idea, but let me just throw it out there. There are no stupid ideas. You haven't heard my idea yet. But I appreciate your sense of optimism, Commissioner Fish. I think we're all agreeing with Commissioner Eudaly about the importance of this, and we all get the value of a proper census, and we also all understand –
 As Commissioner Fritz said, this has to be run like a competent field campaign. I mean, there has to be a plan behind this, who's doing what, when, how, and where. And maybe the third path here is we could agree to put some amount in a reserve pending a work session or a further discussion that outlines the plan explicitly. We could spend all day here wondering whether the plan is solid or not. I'd actually like to see the plan. I have that idea.
 So, Mayor, can I make a tweak to that? Because we've done that before in the past, so you're channeling the way we resolved a couple of similar disputes in the past. I would not make it contingent on a work plan. I would simply say that it's contingent on the submission to the mayor of
 of a work plan that the mayor considers satisfactory for the release of the funds. I really don't think it warrants a work session, which are hard to schedule, particularly in budget season. And we have used that trigger in the past to release funds. And I think we should be very clear that what you're asking for is just a plan with the funding and the deliverables that you're satisfied at this level, which is at the very beginning of the process, is satisfactory to launch this with the money that we've set aside.
 And I would urge that as, as the proposal. I think I'd like to hear some discussion on that. I'd like commissioner Daly's thoughts as well, because the mayor wasn't in chambers when I made the amendment. I want to make sure that you realize that the request was to reduce general fund unrestricted contingency for this request and that we are already almost too late to start this process. And, uh,
 approving this ask today doesn't mean we're going to have this money to distribute tomorrow. It's a very lengthy process. So I respectfully request that we include it in the fall bump and trust that my bureau and these organizations that we are partnering with, which I read into the record earlier, have a plan and a
 We certainly don't need a work session to go over it. So, Mayor, can I be recognized? Commissioner Fish. My suggestion then, because we're also bumping up against the next item. We have a number of things to work out today. I would suggest that we take a vote on the request. The person who puts a request in for an amendment has a right to have a vote of the council. I'm inclined to support it. If it doesn't have sufficient support on the council, then...
 Mayor, you've signaled a third way that I understand that you might be willing to make an amendment, offer an amendment that you can confer with the commissioner in charge. And if that has support, then that can be put to a vote. But let's – I think we're at the point almost like a land use hearing. Let's have a couple of votes and see where we are. I think the sponsor has a right to have the council vote on the request. If that's her desire, certainly. Thank you, Commissioner. I just want to mention that Director Rhee is now –
 in chambers, and if anyone has questions for her, I can invite her to the table. No? Okay. I would like to take a vote. This is really important to me, to my bureau, and to the city, and I would like to move forward on it sooner than later.
 Okay. And can I just clarify, Carla, we have taken public testimony. Is that correct? We did, yes. We've completed public testimony. We were through with it. Okay. Then what I would like to do is first take the vote on the substitute to get that done. And then let's get to the question of the amendment. So please call. This is to adopt the substitute. Please call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The substitute is now on the table. So now we have Udailey 1 and Fish 1. Correct. Please call the roll on Udailey 1. Udailey? Aye.
 I absolutely agree that we need an accurate census count. We need to get started early on it. And I would like more information and a more defined plan as to whether even this amount that's being requested is enough. I prefer the mayor's approach. No. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, I'm going to oppose both amendments on the grounds that I feel these are not urgent and unforeseen.
 With respect to the census, it is important. We're putting $100,000 into it today, and the least we can expect for that $100,000 is some sort of a detailed plan rather than the promise that we're going to come back and ask you several times for more money without knowing where it's going. So it's not an urgent and unforeseen request, and I think we're trying to get back to basics about bumps. That's what the bump process should be about, and that's why I will oppose both amendments. No. Wheeler.
 I'm going to vote no because I want the plan. So I'm going to stick to what I put in, which was the original, was $100,000. Is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. But I'm also going to make a commitment alongside this. In a moment, I'm going to offer up an amendment where Commissioner Udaly and I, in the next week, look at the plan.
 And I'm going to ask you all for the authorization that Commissioner, give Commissioner Udaly and me the ability to look at the plan, and I'll walk it around, and we'll get it done, because I hear what Commissioner Udaly is saying about the urgency. I vote no, the amendment fails. I'd like to put another amendment on the table. Second. I guess I already did. It's on the table. Call the roll.
 So the amendment, to clarify, is Commissioner Udaly and I, over the course of next week, by the end of next Friday, you will give us the authorization to evaluate with Director Rhee and anyone else a plan. And when we have the confidence, I have the confidence that we have a clear plan for expenditure.
 that you will give me the authorization to go ahead and deploy those resources. And the amount is? $125,000. $125,000. And to be clear, Mayor, technically would you like, as part of your amendment, to place this funding into a policy set-aside for this purpose? Put it into a policy set-aside. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? Are you sure a week's enough time for that?
 No. So, since we're authorizing the $100,000, wouldn't it be better to make sure that you have a robust plan? Director, give me a realistic estimate. Yeah, let's hear from my bureau staff. I think they're probably the best judge of the turnaround. Yeah, let's do that.
 I mean, I'd rather not have to get it done next week, but I can if I'm forced to. I know how hard it is to schedule time with you, Mayor, except if you've got it on the schedule already. That's what the pre-dawn hours are for. Yes. So, Secretary, Director of the Office of Community and Civic Life, apologies for not being here earlier. In terms of...
 Let me say this. Everybody is at this stage of preparedness. They are getting their institutional commitments. We are coordinating. No one is actually, oh, a few organizations have already put their, had their investment requests in, but almost everybody is at this exact stage. The point is, is that we need people to make their commitments now, to work together and to invest. The funders committee just last week,
 try to align their funding and RFP strategy to better align with the city's. So we're actually trying to adjust at the same time in real time because everyone's decision-making processes aren't perfectly aligned. So within a week, we can get to you our best effort of where the statewide and Portland Metro Regional funders
 are coming together in terms of a coordinated statewide strategy. It starts with a campaign analysis. Here's where I'm hanging up on this. I just want to know what are we spending taxpayer money on? And I get it. We're trying to get to a full count census. Right. But I don't understand. What does the $100,000 actually go towards? What is the plan? So the first $20,000. And then the $125,000. What is the plan? I don't need it today. Okay.
 The only question on the table, if I can just jump in here. Correct. The money has – the mayor's proposing to set aside the money in a policy set-aside and to have the sole authorization to release it. So you're on the cusp of a big win here. The only question here is do you need more than one week to present the mayor with some written plan that gives him something to review in terms of phase one of what you're doing, or do you need additional time to put that pen to paper?
 I would actually like to take the week and accelerate this process. What we can get to you is our approach to put together a statewide coordinated plan. We're already in conversations with campaign analysts and listening to the conversation on the drive-in. Yes, this is actually a three-year campaign approach.
 The first $20,000 of our request was for a coordinator to put alongside the investment of other funders because we actually need to do the planning together. So within a week, I can deliver something. To what level of granularity, I cannot guarantee at this time. So here's the question. I'm not forcing you to do it in a week. Commissioner Udaly said there's a sense of incredible urgency to this. Can it wait a month? No.
 I would actually like to try to deliver it within a week. Okay. Then you're lighting the fire. I respect that. I trust you. I trust Commissioner Eudalia. We'll get it done. You could have that as an aspirational goal, but have it within a month in the rules so that you don't have to be midnight on Friday next week.
 making a decision if you don't have all the information. If I may suggest, I have some language or technical language that we typed up as the conversation was going on for the amendment. It's not necessary... You weren't revitted to my every comment you were typing.
 Great, let's hear it. So the amendment could read, increase general fund contingency policy set aside by 125,000 for census 2020 coordination and response. Reduce general fund unrestricted contingency by 125,000 to fund this change. The Office of Community and Civic Life will provide a detailed multi-year work plan to council. Upon acceptance, council will increase bureau expenses in the Office of Community and Civic Life's general fund budget by 125,000 for this purpose
 through a separate ordinance. The only change I think needs to be to the mayor because we've given the mayor the proxy here. Oh, I see. Oh, okay.
 Well, the mayor's proposal was that he have the proxy and then shop it. Okay, so basically I'm going to take my amendment off the table with your approval and accept your written language as the amendment. So now it's coming back to council, but not to you. It would have to come back to council rather than go directly to the mayor. No, no, no. It comes to the mayor. That's cumbersome. We don't need to do that. Just give me the authority. Okay.
 And I'll work it out with the commissioner. And with this precedent for doing this, we have done this before where we've given the mayor the authority to make the trigger. Yeah, we'll do the rounds. We don't need a big to-do all over it. Okay, good. Second that. I have a motion and a second. Call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Fish 1. Call the roll. Udailey? Fritz? This...
 In some ways, Commissioner Salsamath has once acknowledged that I appreciate you sticking to emergency unforeseen.
 It is somewhat unforeseen that this process has taken longer than it should be, and as was testified to, I think it is a significant equity issue to halt this process, to decide what to do with the interstate firehouse, which is such a cultural icon in the African-American community at this time, what I think would be very damaging to our equity efforts. Therefore, I support this. I. Fish. If I could add to that.
 This also could be one of our test cases under the arts affordability plan. Everything is on the table in terms of how to make this a thriving center.
 And that includes whether it continues to be a parks property or spinoff as an independent entity or operates through some other bureau assignment. We have to be creative. But this is a process launched by Commissioner Fritz. There are community members who are devoting enormous amounts of time. Without this additional resources, it stalls. And this is a liability process.
 to the Parks Bureau at a time when we've been asked to come up with a very detailed report on cost recovery. And so this is not a moment where we can afford to lose any momentum. Commissioner Fritz launched this. It was a thoughtful process. We need additional resources to conclude it. So I would ask for support. Aye. Saltzman? No. Wheeler? I believe this does fit within the parameters of the bump process, given that it is a process underway. I sort of liken it to the work we're doing.
 with other organizations where the work is underway. But I'll concede to Commissioner Saltzman it's just barely. But I'll vote aye. The amendment's adopted. To the substitute is adopted. Any further discussion, colleagues? Please call the roll. Fritz.
 This set of funding is not entirely perfect in my regard, but it's very, very much better than we often do in allocating all kinds of different things in the full budget monitoring process. And so I appreciate your leadership in showing restraint for this. And I am very glad that we're saving as much as we can in contingency to fund the things that we know are coming down the pike. Fish? Okay.
 Well, let me first compliment the interim director and her team for guiding us through this process. I have made no secret of the fact that there was at least one additional ask that I had in this process. But given the ground rules which we established and the desire for some discipline,
 and some unforeseen expenditures that we wanted to prepare for, I think overall this worked smoothly by our standards. And I'm pleased that we not only have set aside money for some unforeseen matters, we've also will live to fight another day on the additional capital contingency money. So nice job, Jessica, and I appreciate the thoughtful consideration of my colleagues. Hi. Saltzman. Hi.
 Well, I appreciate the work everybody's been done. I do appreciate enormously the restraint that's been shown around amendments to the bump. I think we're getting there. And I know the mayor's – I think we're all sort of psychologically there that, you know, the bump process, which has no public involvement around how money is spent, other than what happens the day of the vote. We have no budget committee looking at this, making recommendations to us on any of this. And it's not –
 And we're not offering things that arguably are not urgent and unforeseen. And that's why I think the bump should be back to the basics of urgent, unforeseen expenses. And anything else should be pushed over to the full regular budget process where we do have residents at the table with us helping us deliberate. We do have public hearings. And so we're getting there. And I'm happy to support it. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. Substitute is adopted as amended.
 Next item. 1151. No. Did I get that right? Hang on. No, I didn't. Sorry. I've got the wrong one. Wrong page. 1158. Accept Portland Utility Board annual report. Commissioner Fitch. Alan, are you going to try to testify on this one again, too? I'll identify myself this time, though. Well, Mayor and colleagues, we have the distinguished co-chairs of the Portland Utility Board here to present their annual report to Council, and we're grateful for their leadership. Isn't this yours? Yeah.
 Thank you Commissioner Fish. And thank you Mayor. The Portland Utility Board known as the PUP provides council members with valuable input regarding our water and environmental services bureaus. PUP members volunteer their time, a lot of time, reading material, listening to presentations, engaging in thoughtful discussions to create recommendations. These recommendations have been compiled to create the report before us today.
 The report includes important information regarding the pub's feedback on strategic planning, communicating with the general public, bureau programs such as the Water Bureau's Financial Assistance Program, and budget proposals for the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 As the new commissioner in charge of the Water Bureau, I was very honored to attend the meeting last night. I learned a lot. Also to work with Commissioner Fish, who oversees the Bureau of Environmental Services, who's already given his remarks, and I'm very glad that we will be continuing to collaborate together. Okay. Thank you. I'm Alan Warman, co-chair of the Portland Utility Board. Yeah, that's not on. There you go.
 Colleen Johnson, second co-chair. Thank you. We'll make this pretty quick. As advocates for the citizens of Portland, pub members have needed and have broad understanding of utility management, bureau operations, and the city's budget process. In our third year, the pub has dedicated more than 650 hours of service. We've held 22 board members plus seven subcommittee meetings,
 We've had off-site meetings, including going out to the Johnson Creek watershed, the interstate facility for the Water Bureau, and construction of the Washington Park reservoir project.
 Last year in September, we had a plan to go to the Bull Run Watershed, but it was canceled due to the wildfire. But tomorrow, we are going to go out and look at the watershed. As part of its role, our role, as the Budget Advisory Committee for both bureaus, Pub submitted its initial observations for the fiscal year of 2018-19 requests in January.
 This included 10 values that Pub would use as a framework when we provided our input. In March, Pub provided additional information to the council, this council, including the in-depth recommendations on the final decision packages, specifically FTE requests.
 Last fall, we developed principles we felt would be a useful guide in evaluating the mid-year changes to the budgets of these bureaus, and you heard just a short while ago what our comments were. Other policy items come before the board as well.
 During the fiscal year 17-18, this included the city's consideration of water treatment options and after, of course, finding the cryptosporidium in the Bull Run watershed. And also we made comments with regards to the strategic plan for both bureaus.
 In addition to our regular board meetings, five pub members participated in 11 administrative review committee hearings for the bureaus. In our report, we highlighted a number of challenges and opportunities, and that we'd like to touch briefly on.
 For both bureaus, the operating budget and five-year capital improvement plans are products of previous developed programs, plans, and studies that guide the management of the bureau's infrastructure. Pub spent in the last three years working with these bureaus as they are or are beginning to update their strategic planning processes to allow the pub earlier input in planning and design phases.
 This year, the city is changing its budget process to move away from decision packages and have Bureau Submit Program offers, which is intended to focus on intended outcomes for the city program. Pub thinks this will allow review of the budgets in a more holistic way of looking at it.
 We're focused on outcomes as you are for the Portland residents, and we look forward to being a better partner with the bureaus and the city during this transition. Okay. The annual budgets of both utility bureaus are driven in large part by investments in system infrastructure.
 Most projects to invest in capital assets are the outcome of facility planning and system studies that span many years and result in large, complex, expensive investments that the bureaus will implement over several years of design and construction once the project is included in the capital budget.
 To provide assessment and recommendations to City Council, PUB needs to be incorporated into the initial phases of capital projects that will have long-term impacts on customers. PUB requests assistance from both the City Council and leadership of BES and PWB in this manner.
 As we talked about in the previous session on bump requests, Pub continues to be concerned about the ability of the bureaus to execute on the amount, size, and complexity of the capital projects and feels this should be closely monitored.
 Having the utility bureaus under the management of one city commissioner was a recommendation of the Blue Ribbon Commission. Portland residents receive a combined utility bill, and the individual decisions of BES and PWB are combined in their effects on customers. Pub has observed improvements in coordination between the bureaus over the last two years under the leadership of Commissioner Fish,
 And we thank him for that direction and thinks there can be additional improvements in how the bureaus present information to the public and in coordinating similar work such as communications, equity, budgeting, and financial planning.
 PWB and BES now have separate commissioners in charge. Pub encourages Commissioners Fish and Fritz to manage the bureaus with an eye toward the combined impact on customers and to continue the efforts to coordinate on the work of the bureaus. We appreciated the joint letter on budget guidance that we received from Commissioners Fish and Fritz, and we do look forward to working with Commissioner Fritz in the future. And thank you again for coming last night.
 Can I just make, because I know you have a lot of comments. No, I just have one small one. I'll wait until you're finished. Okay. I want to give you what I think you'll consider good news. Okay. I'll be quick. Pub was created to advise city council on behalf of and for the benefit of the residents of Portland. In the past year, Pub has encouraged PWB and BES to increase outreach to communities about capital projects and low-income assistance programs.
 Pub sees an opportunity this year to increase its engagement with increased communication initiatives and hosting meetings in neighborhoods across the city to elevate its presence, increase the understanding of the system challenges facing the bureaus, and build trust with the public. Thank you for your time, and please enjoy reading our long, detailed, wonderfully written report. Thank you. Thank you.
 So, Mayor, if I could, I want to just address two points that you made in your oral presentation. The first had to do with...
 the benefits that you saw of having a single commissioner oversee both bureaus, something that the Blue Ribbon Commission recommended, something that former Mayor Hales obviously thought strongly enough that he tagged me. And I don't think since Commissioner Saltzman of about 15 years ago that it happened, so there's been a gap. Commissioner Fritz and I have had a number of conversations. It is our intent.
 through the budget process to coordinate. So we'll be talking about our budgets. We'll be working off of a similar script in terms of how they're presented. So one of the benefits I found of having both bureaus is that we charged both of them with using a similar budget model so that you could sort of – they were comprehensible –
 and Commissioner Fritz and I are going to continue to try to make that happen. We're going to have some joint meetings around budgeting and try to fine-tune our presentation so they're comprehensible and the story is one bill, two utilities. So we're channeling the concern that you've raised, and we hope in this first year under this new budget process to get that right.
 The second thing I just want to respond to is you talked about capital projects and ramping up and other things. You know, I want to just make a plug here for the Bureau of Environmental Services because I think we've asked them to do something unique. We've asked them to do something that is groundbreaking, but we've asked them to do it in an environment where they're also experiencing high turnover because of retirements.
 They have to go out and recruit a lot of new people because they have to staff up. And so what you've identified around ramping up of staff and some of the uncertainties around capital projects is,
 The 10-year plan to sustainability, which, you know, Council has said we're prepared to live with 3%, you know, 3% rate increases for some time to fund a capital plan that's going to put all of our assets at, you know, hopefully good or better at the end of the decade.
 requires substantial change within the organization, and it requires ramping up hiring. You have been skeptical of some of those hires. If I recall, the commentary has been not so much they're not potentially necessary, but you haven't demonstrated that you need them right now. So you've raised questions about sequencing. Okay.
 But I will say that I just want to put a plug in them from the sense that what further complicates the task, and water is not immune from this either, is we're losing a lot of our key people who are retiring. And so we're having to go out and recruit people to fill those positions. That's an enormously time-consuming provision. And we're not, in many of our positions, we're not competitive with the private sector.
 So the really good people that we're competing for can make more money working for some of the vendors that we work with. So I hear your point, and we'll continue to.
 to try to get it right, but to do the kind of ramp up that we've directed BES to do, to reach a goal which is pretty audacious, is very challenging, and it's made more challenging by the fact that a lot of what we're seeing across the board in the city, the graying of our workforce, people choosing retirements. Some people are choosing to retire because they're uncertain about what's going to happen to PERS.
 So you've got a whole class of people that are locking in their PERS benefits because they're uncertain about what the legislature may or may not do or court may or may not do to their benefits. So there's a lot of factors. I appreciate you calling it out. I just also want to just put on the record that the task that we've asked Director Jordan to do is very, very complicated. And I'm hoping that with your continued guidance, we'll get it right. So thank you. Thank you. Very good. So this is a report.
 So I move to accept the report, Mayor. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Thank you very much for your time, not only at the public meetings, which I'll remind everybody that they are open for everybody to attend, but for coming here during the day as well and for all the thought you put into the work that you do. And so I really appreciate it. We did approve your reappointment as co-chair this morning on consent. I heard that. You know, big deal.
 I hope that's all right with you because it's too late if it's not. I want to let everybody watching at home know that we're having a public meeting for the Water Bureau tomorrow evening from 6 to 7.30 at OCO 103rd and North East Gleeson to talk about water treatment options. Whenever you talk about treatment options for our precious bull run water, people should be paying attention. And we're required to add things to the water and do things to the water by the federal government.
 So we want to be open and transparent and include community members in the decisions about the filtration plant. The council has decided we're going to have a filtration plant, but where it is, how big it is, and what kind of filtration are things that we want people to give us feedback on. And so there will also be free lead kits available.
 nice free water bottles and information on how to get your water bill reduced. Again, thanks to Commissioner Fish for his leadership in that program to make sure that everybody can afford to keep drinking our great bull run water. Thank you also to Melissa Merrill, our great staff person for the pub, Janice Thompson of the Citizens Utility Board who provides great feedback, and Carol Cushman of the League of Women Voters was there last night.
 And finally, Christina Nieves on my staff, who is really, as I am, very excited to be associated with the Portland Water Bureau and the pub. Aye. Fish? Commissioner Fritz, what time does that start tomorrow at ERCO? Six o'clock. So, Mayor, just an FYI, we may lose a quorum tomorrow, somewhere between 5 and 5.15, so just in terms of how we manage.
 What will be the first reading of your ordinance? If a light agenda, I think there's only one item. Well, it's also a first reading, but still, you might lose more. It's an insider joke. It's the mayor's proposal to have rules about demonstrations. There might be a few people showing up. Alan, apropos of what Commissioner Fritz said about what we took up on consent today, and if you're having buyer's remorse, it's too late. My great-great-grandfather was offered high office by a president,
 and he declined it, mostly because he was an older gentleman and was looking forward to his retirement. Concurrent with the request, it was submitted to the Senate, and it was approved that day. So for those of us who look back wistfully at when actually our federal legislative bodies work with some dispatch, they actually confirmed him before he could actually reverse that, and so he ended up serving. But...
 The President can play that card now. If the President tried to play that card today, it would still be subject to about six months of hearings and six months of filibuster. Thank you both for your service. Thank you for the report. Thank you for the hundreds of hours you put in. It has been our hope that after three or so years that you would begin to develop the kind of –
 institutional memory and understanding and expertise around our budget that you could go deeper. And I know that was your goal, that you felt at the beginning of the process there was a lot to take in. Well, you're now becoming old hands at this, and this is your second or third budget that you're reviewing.
 I anticipate that with each budget year, you'll be able to go deeper and broader and with more confidence bringing along your colleagues. I am very invested in the success of the Portland Utility Board, and while it was a great honor to lead both utilities, I also think that having two commissioners that are committed to working together gets you almost to the same place.
 and who are both sensitive to the impact of rates on the people we serve gets us almost in the same place. So we'll see. You'll be the judge of that during the budget process. Thank you for your report and your continued service, and I hope that my direction in writing to the Bureau of Environmental Services is to participate fully and to be a resource. And if at any point you feel like we fall short as a bureau, I know you'll let me know personally. So thank you both very much. Bye. Sol Smith.
 Thanks, Alan and Colleen, for your service and for the other members of the Portland Utility Board, too. We really appreciate it. Hi. Wheeler. Thank you for this presentation. This is very, very important in terms of public transparency and accountability and letting people hear firsthand what independent citizen advisors and overseers think and what the reporting back tests. It's great, and I'm really appreciative of your taking the time to do it, and thank you for your service. Thank you.
 The board's accepting. We're adjourned.