Good to go? Yes. Is Dan's not coming? Correct. No. He's absent. God, no. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the November 9th, 2017 afternoon session at the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Carla, please read the first item, the proclamation. Okay.
 Item 1204, proclaim November 11, 2017 to be Veterans Day. Colleagues, veterans, as I'm sure you all know and agree, are an exemplary group of people who often contribute service well after they've taken off their active military uniforms. And I know I don't have to tell the veterans in this council chamber that because they live this reality every day.
 We're here today to thank our current servicemen and women and veterans for putting their lives on the line and protecting our country and our community. We offer our deepest gratitude. Today, we're going to read a proclamation that honors veterans in our community on behalf of all of us here at the City of Portland. But before I do that, I'd like to call on some of my fellow commissioners for their thoughts. Commissioner Udailey?
 Well, thank you for being here today. I have limited experience with the military, which should probably come as no surprise to anyone who knows me. However, I do feel a deep connection and appreciation to Post 134 through my friend Sean Davis, and I've gotten to know an incredible group of veterans who have used writing as a tool
 for healing themselves and also sharing their unique experiences with the rest of us. And few of us will understand kind of the depth of your service, but we're certainly very grateful and happy to be here today to honor and recognize you and celebrate Veterans Day.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This is really nice because it will be a three-day veteran celebration, with the holiday tomorrow and then the parade and things on Saturday. I am very grateful to the American military. My grandfather was a stretcher bearer in World War I in Europe, and he told me once that they were just hanging on until the Americans came in because he knew as soon as the United States came in that we would win.
 And then my mother was evacuated after the Blitz in London and being bombed in Liverpool. She was evacuated here for three years during the war and had to leave to go back before D-Day because they knew that after D-Day that there would be no room on any of the ships.
 So because it was still wartime, she had to leave without telling any of her friends goodbye and just basically go back to a country that she had not been for most of her formative years. But she said the same thing, that we just were waiting for the Americans to get in. So from my perspective as a former European, we have...
 a great debt to pay to the American military that twice you have saved the world, quite literally. And I appreciate your ongoing work. I appreciate everybody who will...
 honor the folks on Veterans Day. It was one of my great honors in my first two terms of council to change the name of the Memorial Coliseum to the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, because we certainly need to remember who it celebrates. And I'm very happy to continue supporting that issue. And thank you again. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Fish. Well, I'm very pleased, Mayor. You're going to be reading a proclamation. And I'm
 I'm looking forward on Saturday to participating in the Hollywood Veterans Day Parade, which I think is the largest parade of its kind in the state. This year I'm not going to walk. I'm going to go in a car first. And then, of course, our friend Tony Starlight hosts the speeches that follow. And we honor a particular veteran, and we also have distinguished guests to remind us about veterans
 the deeper meaning of service and sacrifice. My dad was in the Navy, so I grew up hearing stories about all the decks he swabbed. And my grandfather was in the army and he fought in the trenches in France and during some of the bloodiest conflicts. Interesting, they both became people who were deeply committed to peace through their military experience and I always found their views on these things carried more weight than other people that I often heard from because
 Both of them had seen the side of war which is so raw and ugly and had seen people die and the carnage. And so both in their public lives became deeply committed to trying to avoid war and to use diplomacy and other means to prevent wars, knowing that wars often end up,
 in very brave men and women being sacrificed. But it is appropriate for our city to honor our veterans, and I look forward to joining the community on Saturday at the Veterans Day Parade and celebrating with all of our friends here.
 the work they've done for 200 years to keep us free. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner. And I'd also like to recognize and thank the Veterans Empowerment Team here at the City of Portland for their support and their contributions to the City of Portland. As many of you know, VET supports and mentors employees of the City of Portland
 who have affiliation with military service. They also internally advocate for needs of veterans here in the city. And all of us here on the city council are very, very grateful for the leadership provided by those individuals. So I will, without further ado, read the proclamation. Whereas...
 The first Veterans Day proclamation was signed on November 11, 1954, by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to pay homage to all of our veterans who have contributed to the preservation of this great nation. And whereas the brave men and women of our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard exemplify selflessness and steadfast commitment while risking their lives to ensure our freedom,
 And whereas wounded and suffering military members and veterans who return home honor us with their dignity, courage, and valor. And whereas veterans deserve the utmost respect and support which they have earned.
 while defending our homeland, and whereas we admire and stand beside the families and loved ones of those who've served and currently served and the immense burdens that they bear, and whereas we are continually grateful for the freedoms we enjoy in Portland and across the United States, thanks to the service and sacrifices of the men and women in our military,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 11, 2017, to be Veterans Day in Portland, Oregon, and encourage all residents to honor those who've served and those who currently serve to preserve our principles of justice, freedom, and democracy.
 And today, colleagues, we have Nicholas Carroll here representing veterans. He's with VET. He's here to accept the proclamation on behalf of the city council and to say a few words. And if there are other veterans in the room who would like to join him at the dais, we'd certainly appreciate the opportunity to hear from you as well. Mr. Carroll, and for the record, if you could just state your name again, although it's redundant, but thank you.
 I'm Nicholas Carroll. I work for the City of Portland Noise Control Office. And I served in the Navy for five years. And my last ship was the loudest ship in the Navy, the aircraft carrier. So I think it's appropriate that I work in the Noise Office. I handle all the noise complaints in the city. So it's not an easy job.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your proclamation and support on Monday for unveiling the display that we have in the atrium. And Commissioner Dukes-Daily, Fritz, and Nick Fish. I appreciate both of you, Fritz and Fish, for participating in last year's parade. And hopefully we'll see you again on Saturday, all of you, if you're able to. So I wanted to share a little bit about the veterans team.
 I started working for the city last year and that's when Matt Calhoun is actually the leader of the group. He was elected by the vet team to be our leader and I'm the administrator. So we formed a group of veterans and we meet once a month. And we have different speakers. We've done different projects such as volunteering to help veterans.
 fix up a house that somebody else couldn't do. That's a big PDS project, multiple houses, and we give to veterans home to help. We've also had speakers share about volunteer opportunities at the hospital with VA groups or nonprofit VA groups and different services provided for mental health and homeless vets.
 Mostly we advocate for city employees, people trying to get a job with the city. Sometimes it's difficult for them to translate their experiences from the military into what the city BHR department looks for, for qualifications for the job. So it's hard to translate, especially when they don't, they're not familiar with the
 the language that they need. So a lot of people are, they have leadership experience in 19, 20, 21. So we need to help them be able to find the right words so that they can apply for the jobs and hopefully get some city jobs. And then within the city, one of the things that we did recently when Rick Best, after that tragedy, we had a session where people who worked with them in the Bureau of Development Services,
 They shared what he was like in person, their memories of him, great tributes. I didn't know him personally, but it was nice to hear other people, what they said about him. And he sounds like an honorable guy. It was a deep loss for our vet group. And we also talked about what we would do in a situation like that.
 when to intervene, when not to intervene, how do you feel safe. And because of that, that meeting that we had, when I saw an opportunity for bystander training that was offered by ERCO, I took that opportunity and learned. And from that,
 Learning session I learned that I would have made all the wrong mistakes. So that kind of training was helpful for those kind of situations. And then finally I wanted to mention that we got a write up in the League of Oregon Cities magazine. So if you have it, I would recommend reading it. It's on page 28. So Matthew Calvin has mentioned in it and talks about our group. Great. Thank you. We appreciate that. Thanks for your leadership.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. Am I louder than? I'm Jeff Selby, Equity and Communications Manager for the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I'm also a member of the DEEP Executive Committee and an Army combat veteran. I would like to thank City Council and the City of Portland for its recognition of our warriors today and our contributions to our communities.
 During my 10-year tour in the Army, I had the honor of serving with diverse teams of soldiers, airmen, Marines, and sailors. I served alongside our nation's best, people who identified as LGBTQ, people of color, immigrants, people of all faiths, women and men. And let me ask, what image comes to mind when you think of a military veteran?
 as we gathered with Mayor Wheeler in City Hall on Monday to unveil the veterans' display. One couldn't help but notice the diversity in the atrium. For many observers, I'm sure meeting our city's diverse military veteran staff made them reflect on their assumptions of what a warrior looks like.
 So when you employ your equity lens, as you consider every policy, I urge you to continue to consider the impacts to our veterans and currently serving military members who live in Portland and also work for our city. Once again, I thank you for your continued support and recognition of Veterans Day today. Thank you, gentlemen. We really appreciate it. Would you mind if we met down here in the front and took a photo? Sure. Great. Thank you.
 Are there other veterans in the room? Yes, and if there's any other veterans in the room, we'd invite you up to come and have a photo with us. Yeah, it tends to work best. It's like we're being... Good picture. Thank you.
 Good job, everybody. I like the ones that click. I know. Well, thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. We're going to do this all day? Sure. Yeah, I need some shots. Please. Right this way. Right this way. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. You had your warning, man. I've given up. What message are you guys sending me? You know, as long as I, I mean, I figure I might as well be comfortable. Absolutely. All right. Carla, please call the next item.
 Item 1217, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of St. John's Cathedral Park sewer rehabilitation project number E10330 for an estimated cost of $7,740,000.
 Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. As you'll recall, the BES team was here yesterday at 9.30. They spent the entire day with us, went to David Douglas, hoping to be heard, came back, camped out here because they were hoping this morning we would start early, and here they are. So this is the embodiment of public service. So we're continuing this until next Thursday? We're joined by Scott Gibson, BES Manager for Design Services, BES,
 Margaret Russell, project manager. And Debbie, are you the public involvement person? Oh, great. Thank you all for joining us. The St. John's Cathedral Park sewer rehab project will repair and replace severely deteriorated sewer pipes, manholes, and related infrastructure in the St. John's and Cathedral Park neighborhoods.
 This project is part of Environmental Services' large-scale sewer rehabilitation program to maintain and improve the sewer system throughout the city. The project is set to begin in April of 2018 and will be completed by the summer of 2019. I've actually reviewed the map on this, and Debbie, it has significant impacts, both residential and commercial, so congratulations.
 And this one's going to even test you, and you're the gold standard. Hear from the Bureau of Environmental Services. More information, Scott, Margaret, and Debbie. Is the microphone on? It is. It's lit, but I – Debbie, would you tap on yours to see if yours is working? Maybe just swap one out. That one, for whatever reason, just doesn't – no.
 Maybe only this one. That works. Yeah, that one's the winner. All right. You can do the talk. All right. Great. My name is Margaret Russell. I am a senior engineering associate with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I am the project manager for St. John's Cathedral Park Rehab Project. This project is part of the large-scale sewer program, as Commissioner Fish mentioned. It is number 31 out of 39.
 You can see on the screen on this slide that our project is shown in green, the St. John's Cathedral Park project. It is bordered by North Columbia Boulevard, North Reno, North Gilbert, and then also North Edison on the south. Okay.
 The project is going to rehabilitate severely deteriorated sewer pipe and also construct six sewer extensions for 19 non-conforming sewer properties. It's going to be replacing mains, laterals, and manholes, and it will increase the sewer capacity in the area and the reliability in the area. It's going to be protecting public health, property, and the environment by reducing the risk of sewer releases to homes, businesses, and streets. Thank you.
 As an overview of what the project will do, we have 76 pipe segments for 15,000 linear feet of pipe. It is a typical large-scale sewer project with sizes of pipe from 8 inches to 27. The majority of the diameters are 8 inch to 12. And as Commissioner Finch mentioned, it is primarily in residential, but we do have two ODOT right-of-ways, and there is some work in downtown St. John's.
 To show you some of the defects that the project will repair, on the top row we have mainline defects. The first one is showing deteriorated concrete pipe. The next is broken clay. And then in the far upper right, it is the deteriorating rebar that's exposed in a larger diameter sewer. Other defects we have to deal with are broken lateral pipes and holes in laterals, often that are at the main of the sewer. Okay.
 For an overview of the construction methods, we have six segments where we have localized spot repairs to the main. We have lining for 17 segments and open cut construction for 34 segments. Also on this project, for 19 segments, we will have either open cut or open cut.
 pipe bursting proposed that the contractor will bid on when the project goes to bid. I'll explain a little bit more about that on the next slide.
 This approach for being able to bid on 19 segments, open cut or pipe burst, is being pilot tested on St. John's and also on the Portsmouth University Park project that will be coming up later in the spring. Are you going to explain what those two different construction methods are, open cut and pipe burst? Yes. Okay, great. Thank you.
 Open cut construction is when a trench is cut through the middle of the street and then pipe is laid. Old pipe is removed and new pipe is laid.
 Pipe bursting is where you would have a trench at the one end and a receiving pit at another end, and you would burst the pipe under the ground without opening up the pavement. You have to have proper geological conditions under the soil for that. You also have to have different slope for the pipe, and the existing pipe has to be in a state that replacing it can be done through pipe bursting. Okay, very good. Thank you. So those are the two. For the...
 For the pilot bidding approach, the reason this came about is because several recent large-scale sewer programs have had contractors propose to change orders for the construction method during construction to change from open cut to trenchless pipe bursting after the project had been bid.
 The goal of this contractor choice approach is allowing allow the contractor to select the preferred construction method during the bidding phase when pricing is expected to be favorable for the city. The option of selecting the construction method is only allowed where site specific constraints do not dictate a construction method such as lining or open cut only. And the only two
 Options for construction in these contractor choice segments of pipe are open cut and pipe bursting. To implement this pilot program, the bidding approach has also changed. Pipe bursting and lining have typically been bid on a linear foot approach. This approach is expanded in this pilot program to all segments that are being pipe replaced.
 the contractor will provide a cost per linear feet for each pipe run in the project. Which one tends to be cheaper? Pipe bursting. There are factors that are involved, such as how many laterals you have on a segment, because even if you burst the pipe, you have to dig down where the laterals are. So pipe bursting is very affordable if there are few laterals that have to then be open cut.
 And when they change their minds in the middle of construction, which way does it generally go? So it usually goes from open-cut construction to pipe bursting. And it also allows contractors who are experienced and have equipment for this, gives them an opportunity. So they bid it on the more expensive option and then they do a less expensive one? That is for...
 In the past, you could have an open-cut section of pipe, and during construction, if the contractor saw there was a cost savings, and that cost savings is shared between the city and the contractor. That was what I was wondering. Thank you. This allows it to be done in advance of construction, so there's less change orders, less shuffling of paper. It allows it to be done ahead of time. Thank you. Once again, Commissioner Fish, you've managed to make something like this extremely interesting. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. So for our public outreach, there's been extensive coordination with...
 over 300 email addresses getting mailings, as well as 600 addresses getting mailings from the public involvement staff. They've been at tablings, at presentations at new neighborhood associations. Also, the public involvement staff have been working closely with the St. John's Boosters, which is the local business association.
 to help mitigate any impacts throughout this project. We also have noise variances, which we have requested and been granted in seven locations, which are for the typical reasons of having traffic restrictions and or the lining of the pipe has a curing time that lasts into the evening. Okay.
 What does CIPP stand for? Lining of pipe, where you put a line through the pipe and then you have to cure it. Okay, thank you. So are these the main disruptions, the noise and the traffic, or is there a limitation on when people can flush or anything like that? No.
 Whenever you're lining, there would be a limitation that gets where you aren't to be flushing and they plug the lateral. And usually if the length of time is short enough, just plugging the lateral is good enough. And the flow can occur. There's only if you had a substantial amount of flow where there might be restrictions for a building to not flush or use their lateral.
 So does most of your public outreach focus on the traffic and the noise? Yes. Or do you, is there ever a time where you might say? Yeah. What, yeah. Um, yeah, for the, for the night work, it, the reasons for the night work is specifically because of the traffic restrictions we were required by transportation and the office of, or the Oregon Department of Transportation to have those restrictions.
 we don't normally like to work at night it's more expensive it's you know not as safe and then we did really have the public involved in this they actually came to the noise hearing members of the public and they said that they were extremely impressed this is kudos to the noise board for um their really
 felt that they were looking out for the public as well as our Bureau was too. And I happen to have two projects that night that I was presenting. So it was an exhausting night, but the noise board really does try to work with us and they understand what we have to go through to, to get this. But,
 And luckily, the St. John's boosters were extremely relieved to hear that we are doing night work on Lombard in downtown St. John's, which was a requirement, but also will help with the businesses. Right. So –
 Finally, for our engineers estimate, as was stated, it's $7,740,000. Our level of confidence is moderate. While the scope of the project is typical of past projects, we have a higher level of uncertainty due to this new bidding approach, as well as the input from the contracting community indicates that bidding prices may be rising in Portland due to the labor and material availability issues.
 from the rebuilding efforts in Southeast United States.
 So if it turns out to be more expensive, we often get coming back to say we need more money for the contract. If it turns out to be less expensive, does the contractor just keep that, or is there some way of splitting it between the city and the contractor? The contractor will be – the competitive bidding in that the contractor will be putting in, and whoever gets the lowest bid, and that will be the price that we will pay for the materials for this contract. Okay.
 If they save money or they get done quicker, they pocket it and we don't get any of it? So do you mind? Yeah, go for it. What we've seen is we don't have a complete understanding of basically the finances of the open cut versus the pipe bursting methodology. It's a new technique, new tools, and we believe it is saving money for the contractors. What we wanted to do in this case was...
 If you imagine five contractors bidding with the lowest price,
 by letting all of them know that these two options are available, letting them estimate what they could do with their tools, with their equipment, they can give us the best price in advance. And they will be competing against each other to offer the best price for us. What we've seen in the past is only select contractors had this ability. They would basically assume that this kind of a substitution would be made, and they'd come in under the other bidders.
 And we didn't feel like we were capturing that cost savings. Right. It is, I find...
 troubling when companies get it because they're the lowest bid and then they come back and say, actually, no, we need to do more. The other thing I just discovered this week about Pioneer Courthouse Square renovations that was built into that clause, if there were any savings over the estimate that the city would get 75% and Howard S. Wright would get 25%, which seemed to me very generous, especially when Howard S. Wright then donated their share back to the city. But it does seem like
 just in contracts in general, that it would be good to have some kind of an incentive to stop gaming it by bidding low and then coming back. And also, you know, they get to keep some, but we get some as well.
 I think this has been a, we've been trying to describe a process that we've put a lot of thought into in this conversation. And I think what we may have missed is that we believe by allowing the substitution for pipe bursting before the bids and letting the contractors know how we'll evaluate that, we will encourage all of the contractors to make that substitution, drive the prices lower for the city. And that's what we met yesterday with the...
 Northwest Underground Contractors Association, which are all of our contractors, went through this with them yesterday to make sure they all understood what the intent was so that they knew going into it that they should offer us the best price they possibly could afford based on their tools, their individual abilities and skills. Not to mention the time saver, which is a savings with hourly billing rates as well with the paperwork. Okay.
 In conclusion, this project is planning to advertise in December and begin construction in April with an 18-month construction period. At this point, are there further questions? Colleagues? Very good. Are there any people signed up for public testimony on this item, Carla? I didn't set out the sign-up sheet. Anybody want to testify on this item? Seeing none, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Debbie, we'll see you Saturday.
 With the deep? No. Are you the great? Oh, I'm not. No, I'm not. Sorry. But we'll be well represented, so thank you. Very good. We have no other business. We're adjourned. I'm sure. No, we have another one, 219. Yeah. No, that was continued to the 15th. Oh, okay. We continue that. Good. We're adjourned. We did 1218 too? We did 1218 at the beginning before you. Oh, okay. So this has gone to when? Yeah.
 The 19th. That was a 2 p.m. time certain, correct, for that one? By the way, it looks like we've made some progress on the clock. We're only half an hour off now. Which item? 219. It's because it hasn't moved. 1115. The clock is kind of ominous. It hasn't moved. It hasn't moved.
 At all, since we got here. Yeah, that is... Even a broken clock is right once a day. That's just regular agenda. Twice a day. Twice a day. On the 19th? Right, on the 15th. Okay, good. Next Wednesday, the 15th. 219. Sorry, I'm putting my 15s and 19s next week. Oh, thank God. All right. All right. Have a nice weekend, everybody.