you want to do that now nick or do you want we can let you start i'll just i'll talk to them off offline all right so i think we're ready to get started thank you for your patience uh we're a little behind schedule this morning welcome to the november 4th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll here here fish here saltzman here hails here
 good morning everyone we have a busy council day so we're happy that you're going to be here to participate in it we'll have communications items up front where people have signed up
 to speak on a subject of their choosing this morning then we'll follow that with our time certain items and council calendar items if you're here to speak on a council calendar item please let our clerk know and she'll have you on the list of those to testify we typically allow three minutes per person to testify and at least this morning I think we'll probably be able to stick with that rather than reducing that amount just to make sure everyone gets a chance to speak
 And speaking of everyone getting a chance to speak, we follow the rules of decorum here. So if you agree with someone and want to indicate your support, feel free to give them a wave of the hand or a thumbs up. And if you disagree with them, feel free to make a polite hand gesture to the negative. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view here so that we get to hear all of them. That's about it in terms of procedure and procedures.
 Let me ask first if there are any other items to be pulled from the consent calendar to the regular calendar. I have 1132. Any others? Okay. And we'll get to the consent calendar in a little while. We'll start first with communications item 1124. Request of Peter Natsios to address council regarding the Middle East refugee crisis. Good morning. Welcome. I'll get those. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, please.
 Is this a good volume? Yeah, you can pull it more directly close to you. That's fine. My name is Peter Natsios. I first learned something about the hardships and sorrow of a refugee's life in the person of our maid, Zakiya, when my family was stationed in Beirut in the 1970s. Now I watch images of refugees drowning there
 trying to reach the Greek islands where I spent part of the summer, and I think of her. We know our worldwide refugee crisis is severe, that Syria and its neighbors are worst affected, that we unintentionally and unfortunately contributed to this tragedy, and that the federal government's plans so far...
 To accept 10,000 Syrians in two years is not enough. And we know some Oregonians hold negative stereotypes of these people. For these reasons, we should invest extra attention to planning for refugees from the Middle East and in taking that opportunity to make our resettlement program the best it can be for all our refugees. So I'm here today...
 as a concerned physician and private citizen, to ask that the City of Portland develop an initiative assisting the resettlement and integration of Middle East refugees. My outline offers some ideas for this. In general terms, the initiative can be a statement of who we are, what we want to do, and a plan to achieve it, sponsored and facilitated by Portland City Government.
 One component would be clarification of the existing resettlement process and analysis for possible improvements. For example, the dedicated people who work in this area say there could be better cooperation and coordination of efforts and that the mismatch between city and county jurisdictions interferes with services. New strategies for housing are needed.
 Could new resources be identified? What's missing? How can the public help and be engaged? It's not clear. Two people have told me they'd like to house a refugee family, but don't know how to arrange it. I think our senators Wyden and Merkley would support an initiative from you. I recently discussed the refugee crisis with their Washington office staff.
 They thought coming to city council was a good idea and told me, in essence, we know we need to do more. But first, we need a grassroots effort from the local level to tell us what you want. And then we will support it from our side. So we have a window of opportunity here to do something special for our city, our refugees, and the providers who serve them.
 I hope you can help lead this effort. Please let me know what's possible and anything else I can do. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you for a very thoughtful proposal. Thank you. And I hope Rachel Wiggins, who's sitting behind Carla there, if we don't have your contact info already, please make sure we have it. We'll follow up with you. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take item 1125, please.
 Request of Charles Johnson to address council regarding review, divestment, hashtag BDS, and the Act 350 PDX goals, save trees, and Department of Justice USA versus city. That's a lot to cover in three minutes, Charles.
 I will add a little bit and hop around. Also, as you might notice, we'll have excellent coverage of the 350 PDX issue with the following speaker. I think it's important to take a moment, though, for me to appreciate what Dr. Natsios has just said. Right now in the Middle East, where the U.S. has involved itself largely because of petroleum issues,
 In Iraq, probably, excuse me, mostly in Syria, about a quarter million people have died in the last five years of their civil war. And it's certainly a good thing for the city to look at increasing its partnership with ERCO and facilitating families, especially that specifically want to sponsor refugees from some of the fallout from our political decisions in the Mideast, Syria and Iraq. Thank you.
 That is somewhat related to the idea of fossil fuels. And I just, I have some great speech writers, and they might not know that's their job. But today, three of Portland's five commissioners will have a chance to impose a small measure of sanity on the fossil fuel insanity this country is engaged in. Some of you may recognize those words and not feel too bad about being called traitors or having betrayed the city because...
 When you stand for sensible energy policy over the delusion of jobs that are going to hurt our children's future, you're doing the right thing. And so my remarks here are primarily addressed to Commissioner Novick, Mr. Schaltzman, and Mr. Fish, that you will see the light and power it with solar and wind energy and not oppose. We'll actually get a unanimous vote from this council to say that,
 We're going to focus on energy. That's a better decision for our children. We're not going to get a few fossil fuel current jobs at the price of climate chaos later. So I hope that when this issue comes back in the afternoon, you'll be frequently and fervently contacted by your constituents who will take a different position than the Oregonians editorial board, which is so often out of touch with people who probably aren't its customers anymore. Okay.
 The other issues that were mentioned is the ongoing struggle for the best in policing. Recently, I hope most of our city has been dismayed by the unfortunate decision of Daryl Turner, the Portland Police Association president, to mock black lives, even though he himself is a black city employee, and place a billboard saying,
 on Salmon Street, right across from the Black Lives Matter banner of First Unitarian Church. That's another issue that I hope citizens will fervently and frequently contact you about, is making sure that our police are equitably dealing with all citizens in a nonviolent way, minimally violent way. Every once in a while there are extreme incidents where, but I think we've seen an improvement
 And I hope that you all will continue the pressure so that soon we can have a year with no people killed by police and no police dying in the line of duty. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Item 1126. Request of Mia Reback to address council regarding climate change. Good morning. Come on up. Thank you all for having me here today. It's going to be a really exciting day with lots of discussion of climate change at council. Thank you.
 Climate activists, elected officials, and ordinary citizens were galvanized this summer when Pope Francis released his encyclical on climate change and poverty. In it, he lays out the many arguments for immediate and ambitious climate action, including the moral case for why leaders must act.
 And I agree. We all have a moral responsibility to stop hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people from suffering from the impacts of climate change, and to try to prevent some of the worst catastrophes known to humankind, like 30 to 50 percent of species potentially going extinct in the coming century. But I'm here to use the time this morning not to talk about the moral case to act on climate, but the economic case. Because in the days of climate chaos, fossil fuels are bad for business.
 Fossil fuels are some of the most heavily subsidized companies in the world. And without those subsidies, they would not have that same competitive edge over renewable energy. But it's not just that government gives them a handout every single day to continue their polluting business. It's that they, like other industries, don't have to pay for their external costs, pollution, things like that.
 These social costs, as they are called, get picked up by government to pay for. That's the cost that the city of Portland is going to have to pay out as climate change impacts people here today. A really great study was done by a think tank called Resources for the Future in which they looked at what would happen to our electricity sector if we actually included these social costs of carbon. And they found out that when you factor in the true cost of fossil fuels,
 Our electricity sector would not burn any coal by 2035, and we would transition away from all natural gas in that decade as well. That's how bad fossil fuels are. If we actually priced them, we wouldn't burn them. Not only does it not really make sense to burn these fuels, but the impacts of climate change are wreaking havoc already on our economy, and it's projected the lost productivity around the world will be astronomic.
 Crop yields will decline, workers work less hard when they're overheated and freezing cold in super storms, and that means our global economy and our global output will decline in the coming decades. And it's not just that. We also have to worry about stranded assets.
 When we leave fossil fuels in the ground to address climate change, existing fossil fuel infrastructure, which could include new projects if we build them, will become stranded. And a city like Portland can get stuck footing the bill for another company going out of business because climate change is bad.
 Fossil fuel companies have been actively deceiving the debate on climate change for decades, and as a recent study came out last week, ExxonMobil has been actively deceiving the U.S. government for decades on the human impacts of climate change, creating a false debate. I hope today that this debate can end in Portland and we can take a strong stand to address climate change, stop investing in this harmful economy, and really lead the way for a new future. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, one more, 1127, except I think that's not going to be read this morning. Is that right? Correct. Okay. All right. Then we can take up our consent calendar. And again, I had one item pulled to regular, which is 1132. Unless there are any others, then let's vote on the balance of the consent calendar. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, time's certain, 1128. All right.
 Proclaim November 2015 to be Public Art Month in Portland. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to ask our honored guests to come forward. Eloise Damrosch, Regional Arts and Culture Council Executive Director. Kristen Calhoun, Public Art Manager. And we have two local artists with us, Garrick Imatani and Yoon Hee Choi. Welcome. And colleagues, 2015...
 is a big year for the arts in our community. From the sculptures along our downtown bus mall to murals in East Portland, public art helps make Portland a vibrant place to call home. So this morning, I'm proud to read a proclamation that the mayor is issuing today. Whereas on April 10, 1980, Portland City Council unanimously passed a new Percent for Art program, creating a permanent funding source for public art,
 and whereas 35 years later the city is of portland is celebrating the collective impact and power of our public art and whereas the regional arts and culture council manages portland's public art program and collection integrating a wide range of public art into spaces throughout our community and whereas the citizens of portland now own a public art collection of more than 1400 pieces of art reflecting our diversity of cultures artistic disciplines and points of view
 And whereas the collection is open and accessible to all through the walking tour brochure, a guide to Portland Public Art, a public art PDX smartphone app, and a comprehensive online database. Whereas the tradition of a strong public art advisory committee has helped enrich our landscape by selecting artwork from hundreds of renowned local, national, and international artists. And whereas 2015 is a big year for Portland art, excuse me, for art in Portland,
 including the 35th anniversary of Percent for Art, the 30th anniversary of the Visual Chronicle of Portland, the 30th birthday of our most recognized piece of art, Portlandia, the 20th anniversary of the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and the 10th anniversary of the Public Art Murals Program.
 It's quite a mouthful. And whereas the city of Portland renews its dedication to supporting public art that celebrates our culturally diverse communities, enhances the built environment, and contributes to the spirit of Portland, now therefore I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 15th, excuse me, November 2015 to be Public Art Month,
 in Portland and to encourage all residents to observe this month. And now I'm pleased to turn the program over to Eloise, who's going to tell us more about our visionary public arts programs. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Hales, city commissioners. I know you're having a complicated and heavy-duty day today, so we're happy to be here to shed a little art light into your busy day. Before I turn the microphone,
 the microphone over to Kristen Calhoun who's going to show you a PowerPoint. I just wanted to introduce you to our public arts staff who are here today to celebrate with us, and I'd like them to stand up and be recognized. Good morning. Thank you for your work. And we have one more who's up in Seattle sharing her expertise with our colleagues up there on a panel today.
 It is indeed a busy year for Portland and Portland's public art, and it's wonderful to be able to celebrate all of this with you. And we'll be seeing you, as Kristen will remind you later on, at a big celebration here at the end of the month. So without, I think, anything else, I'll turn it over to Kristen Calhoun, who's one of our public art managers. Thank you, Commissioner Hales and commissioners.
 I'm sorry, Mayor Hales. And they're done that. That's from, yeah. Great. I know it's not really Throwback Thursday, but I'm going to share with you a little throwback video of our near Portlandia.
 Finally tonight, Portland's new symbol of commerce. Tasted champagne in noontime dedication ceremonies today. The copper-skinned Portlandia was toasted by a crowd of several thousand and the architect of the building on which she now sits. Dalton Toninaca reports. Admirers gave her flowers to hold. The deli across the street offered an edible tribute. The six-ton, 38-foot tall copper statue is definitely the toast of the town.
 as we all are today. It's a fantastic day and it's beautiful. The dedication culminated three years of work for sculptor Raymond Caskey, who modeled the statue's face after his wife Sherry. It also made critics of the Portland building feel better about the use of public money for artistic architecture. Michael Graves says the structure he designed was never really complete without Portlandia. Well, I think it's much better with it, absolutely. And it was originally conceived with it, and now that
 The city is seeing fit to complete the building to your 1% arc. It's a great day for all of us. I dedicate you to all those of the city.
 Sculpture, I think, should be a smooth jolt, and this is my toast to the city of Portland and to Michael Graham's Portland building. Arts Commission members say Portlandia is the perfect example of how public money can be used for artistic works, creations that will last long after the last dollar is spent. In downtown Portland, Dalton Tananaka, Channel 2 News. We just couldn't resist sharing that with you because it's sort of a unique experience
 blast from the past. And we only had to buy the statue once. Yeah. Right, right. Your 1% was very well spent. I don't know, Mayor. Have we had an analysis of whether Portlandia is seismically sound? I think so. She's got a big block of concrete underneath her. I think former Mayor Buck Bart had the last word at the birthday party a couple weeks ago when he said that Portlandia is held up better than the building. Yes, she has. I think we all agree with that.
 So we're here today to celebrate Portland's public art. And of course, coming to the current stage of Portland's public art wasn't an accident. We had citizens who were giving artwork to Portland over time.
 One of the best known, of course, was Stephen Skidmore's gift to the city. And, of course, the inscription at the bottom we all know very well. Architecture. Michael Graves says the structure he designed was never really complete without Portlandia. Well, I think it's much better with it. Absolutely. Technical problems. It was originally conceived. Let me close this. Never know where that mouse might go. There we go. Yeah. There you go. Okay. Sorry. Okay.
 So, as I was saying, the inscription at the bottom of Skidmore Fountain, Good Citizens are the Riches of the City, is something that's really important to our public art program because citizens are always involved in our decision-making process. So from the older works to the relatively more contemporary works that the city did in the 70s, and then in the 80s, of course, Portlandia and the passage of the Percent for Art program. So from parks...
 to the Fire Bureau, to the Police Bureau, to Transportation and other bureaus, we are always looking at what is the context of public art in this setting and how can public art give meaning, delight, all sorts of different aspects to our community.
 We also oversee the city's donations. Artist Anna Fidler made this donation. Some of the more well-known donations that you probably know of are Vera Katz over on the East Bank Esplanade, the Elephant. So we shepherd those projects for you as well. And we work on partnerships. This particular partnership was with our sister city of Sapporo.
 And, of course, we take care of all the city's public art. As Nick mentioned, it's actually over 1,600, if you include all the portable works. So we work hard to take care of that. And we work hard to establish new programs, like the murals program that now celebrates 10 years. This is a piece from this summer.
 One of the things we're also always trying to do is to create new ways for artists and the public to intersect. So one of the ways we did that was to set up an artist residency program. And Garak Imatani is here to say a few words about his experience as one of the artists in residence.
 Thanks. Hi. Okay. Yeah. Thanks. Good morning. So from 2013 to 2015, I was a joint artist in residence with poet Kai Sand within the City Archives. And this opportunity was, as Kristen said, part of the Intersections Program, which is funded in a way similar to a public art commission. However, rather than produce a single standalone sculpture, the program was funded by the
 The program allows artists like myself to produce public programming and to invest in the research of a site or community for a more extensive period of time. And so as a result, Kai and I were able to look at 30 years of surveillance documents collected by the Portland Police on different activist groups, which led to creating art, poetry, performances, lectures, and collaborations with other artists and citizens,
 that responded to this research-driven process. Part of this process entailed interviewing former activists who were surveyed and producing artworks that have been included in several exhibitions in Portland.
 as well as nationally at the Blaffer Museum of Art in Houston, Texas, the Art, Design, and Architecture Museum at the University of California at Santa Barbara, NYNKB Gallery in Copenhagen, Denmark. So in other words, the project's rooted in Portland's vibrant and important political history, but has physically extended itself to reach audiences in other cities and countries. On a personal level, I can say that since this project was my first
 public project that was funded. It represented an unprecedented opportunity for myself as an artist. And in many ways, the commission was a dream project. On the most basic and fundamental level,
 It allowed the time and headspace to think deeply, look into less known political histories, and present our discoveries to very different audiences than the typical gallery or museum goer. In terms of financial support, so often as artists, we spend a significant portion of our time self-funding and producing projects, and it would have been impossible to make the works I did through the residency at the same level, quality, and diversity of material exploration—
 without the financial administrative support of the Regional Arts and Culture Council. Lastly, I just want to say that from this project, I've been able to see how my work will continue to fit in in dialogue with the public, and I'm now trying to pursue opportunities to continue working in the public realm in a way that could result in either a more permanent outdoor piece or interior installation. So in that way, the residencies obviously shape my experience of public art in a positive way that encourages me to do more
 Also, I should mention that as a teacher that's been involved in academia for the last 10 years, I've attended arts conferences across the country, and the reputation of RAC's public art program precedes them on a national level.
 For those of you that might not be aware, providing models for programming rather than only permanently cited works within the context of percent for art is somewhat atypical and very forward thinking. So when I run into arts professionals in other cities that administer public art, they're all familiar with efforts happening in Portland and talk excitedly about the possibilities being pursued here.
 So I want to commend RAC and tell them to keep up the good work, and thanks for believing in mine. Thank you. Good morning. And actually, I have a couple more slides to show you, and then we'll introduce Yoonhee. So we also manage portable works. Most of you have portable works in your offices and throughout the buildings and city and county offices.
 We also have the Visual Chronicle of Portland, which also celebrates an anniversary year this year. So the Visual Chronicle was started by artist Hank Pander and chronicles over time the development of our city. The installation space across the street, I hope you got a chance to see this installation which came down last night for Dia de los Muertos.
 was a space that Yoonhee did work in, and Yoonhee will talk a little bit about her experience of doing artwork in the installation space This was an excavation of 20 years of installation space Thank you, Christine, and it is a great honor to be here So briefly, I want to tell you about my work Strata Escape
 I didn't have that much installation experience before this Stratoscape. But I knew that the artist selection process of this
 program is solely based on the proposal, not on the artist's portfolio, I decided to try. So without any particular project in my mind, I went to walkthrough. In that meeting, I learned that this program started in 1994, and since then, 136 artists had installed their work in the same space in Portland building.
 And kids who run this program mentioned there are 100 layers of paint under the surface from previous artists' work at that moment my project started So what I wanted to do was to rebuild I wanted to rebuild the 20 years installation history by excavating those remains from previous artists' work
 As I dig in more, I found many vibrant color layers, and I wanted to know more about each color's actual installation. So every night I searched the Rex Digital Archive, I ended up to make this feature index to share my discovery with my audience. At one point, I was scared, thinking of, wow, I'm vandalizing Portland building.
 Can I really do that? But once the proposal was selected, the RAC was fully behind my idea, and all the staff members wholeheartedly helped me to complete my work to a very fine level of detail. At the end...
 As a studio-based artist, this first public project caused me to rethink about who is my audience and what kind of work I wanted to pursue and also how I approached this very site-specific installation as an artist
 I think all the public art is a benefit to general public and also artists. This particular unique program is a truly wonderful opportunity to any artist in Portland who wants to explore their potential beyond their boundary. So I want to thank you again.
 to RAC for giving me a wonderful opportunity, and I hope you council will proudly continue to support RAC and all the public art projects in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Actually, I have a few more.
 And then behind the scenes, one of the things that we are really proud about is that we have excellent data. Now, that doesn't maybe sound exciting, but our excellent data is what allows us to do these amazing public art searches so that the –
 so that any citizens can, through the website, search for public art. If they want to know where a specific piece is located, it pops up. We have been able to develop a phone app. And all of that is because we have this fantastic data. And then we...
 bi-annually, tri-annually refresh our public art walking tour, which is part of the downtown core work. And then to share with you just a few things that we have upcoming, some of the bigger projects that we have upcoming. We're always working on new projects. The Selwood Bridge will happen in spring of 2016. Artist Mikyung Kim has done these strata poles.
 And we have two new parks projects in East Portland that we're really excited about. Artist Maurizio Robelino was part of the design team for Beach Park, and artist Horatio Hunyan-Law was part of the design team for Gateway Park. And then, starting next week, you will see a color explosion in City Hall here as we mount an exhibit of Portland's public art.
 And on Thursday, November 19th, we hope you will all join us in celebrating our public art. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, we're going to take a picture in a second if we could. I just want to offer just a further observation. I hope everyone can join us on the 19th.
 I think RAC demonstrated when we celebrated Portlandia's 30th that they really know how to throw a party. And the public art that's coming to City Hall will actually be dispersed throughout the building. So it won't just be downstairs in the atrium. It'll be on all three floors, and it'll include some of the best pieces from our collection. As the proud parent of two children, I've learned that you can never pick favorites among your children.
 But we have 1,600 works of art, and I just want to observe that probably everyone up here has a piece that's special. For me, it's probably the Lee Kelly collection. I think we have the largest collection of Lee Kelly sculpture of anybody, maybe outside of Susan Hammer. And whether it's the Lee Kelly that's up in the Rose Garden,
 or the Lee Kelly that's in front of Big Pink, or now the Lee Kelly that's in front of PNCA. His great masterworks are spread throughout our community. When Steve and I dedicated the improvements on Division Street not long ago, Rack had installed new art around Division Street. That won a national award.
 that particular piece when we opened the fields. There was some public art that was noted in your handout. I particularly appreciate that you included Fire Station 21. Commissioner Salzman dedicated Fire Station 21, and I think the public art on the front of the building was just genius of integrating art into a structure. Thank you.
 And then I just want to close by noting the murals, because one of the murals in this city features Jim Thorpe. And it was very interesting. When the Jim Thorpe mural hit, all of a sudden social media started blowing up, because lots of people in our community had some connection to Jim Thorpe. It turns out that in 1922, 1921, he actually played baseball in the old Thurman Street baseball stadium.
 And he was one of the greatest athletes in the history of this country. He played multiple sports, and he was, for a while, a professional baseball player. The Native American community honors him because, of course, he went to Carlisle, and he was one of the greatest Native American athletes. I was struck when I saw the mural because in 1911, my grandfather lined up against him in the gridiron for a national championship football game, a collegiate football game.
 And so my grandfather played against the greatest Native American football player in our history. But that mural sparked a dialogue in our community about Jim Thorpe and his history and our legacy. And it was a very beautiful thing. And so it reminded me how the arts inspire us and challenge us and bring us together. And I think one of the things as the arts commissioner I'm especially proud of is the public investment in this collection.
 The people of Portland invested in this collection, and we have a collection that's the envy of cities our size around the country. And we're fortunate, Mayor, to have a custodian of that collection that cherishes it on our behalf. So today we celebrate that collection, but we thank RAC for their tremendous work. You're here. Thank you all. Want to take a picture? Yeah, let's bring the team up. Thank you.
 Thank you all very much. Good work. Thank you very much. Okay, it is 10.15, even though our clock says 11.15. And we will move on to item 11.29. Thank you.
 I adopt the recommendations contained within the Tryon-Stevens Headwaters Neighborhood Street Plan as the guiding strategy for Portland Bureau of Transportation and Bureau of Environmental Services efforts to complete the transportation networks and stormwater system within the plan area. Mr. Herrick, would you like to lead off? Yes, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 Before Commissioner Fish and I introduce this item, we should recognize Denver Igarta from PBOT and Naomi Tsurumi from BES for their hard work. Thank you so much for all the outreach you've done to make this project a success. Colleagues, this is a joint resolution between PBOT and BES, the two most powerful bureaus in the city. And I think I can say that both Commissioner Fish and I are very proud of the work our bureaus have done together. Thank you.
 This plan lays the foundation for cross-bureau collaboration and creative thinking about both street and stormwater infrastructure. These infrastructure improvements are normally expensive. However, terrain and soil conditions in southwest Portland often make an expensive project that much more expensive. This plan moves beyond a one-size-fits-all approach to put improvements on local streets within reach for property owners and for the city.
 It allows greater flexibility to make improvements more affordable and more compatible with the natural setting. This approach to addressing both street and stormwater deficiencies can be applied to areas with similar challenges outside this study area.
 The Tryon-Stevens plan complements unfunded TSP projects on busy streets like Capitol Highway and Barbara Boulevard, which will remain the focus of future safety improvements. It extends safe street connections into neighborhoods, offering residents the option to walk or bicycle to nearby destinations, leaving space on our roads and commercial areas for others who need to drive. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. And Mayor and colleagues,
 One of the most rewarding things that's happened to me since Commissioner Novick joined the council and Leah Treat took over PBOP is the deepened relationship, the deepening of the relationship between these two bureaus. And it turns out we do a lot of work together, and that means there's a lot of opportunities for coordination and communication. And I'm pleased to report that the relationship is very strong.
 and that there is a lot of work being done behind the scenes to better align our respective missions and values and to coordinate projects, particularly with an eye to minimizing impacts on the communities we serve. I'm particularly proud of the work of Denver and Naomi. We'll hear from them in a moment, but now I will read the script that I was handed. Although the difference between my script and Steve's is the font is ten times bigger. Thank you.
 Now I'll try to be as spontaneous as I can with this. In areas like Southwest, development needs to be sensitive to the terrain, natural hydrology, water quality, native habitat, and biological communities. The plan advances new techniques to control, convey, and reduce pollutants in the stormwater and a creative approach to managing stormwater runoff from multiple blocks.
 The plan engaged southwest neighbors representing the community within the plan area, including those actively involved with the city, as well as groups not always represented. This is the first substantial collaboration between BES and PBOT at the neighborhood scale. Working together in that way allowed us to match tools that work for streets and stormwater and to see and understand better where our bureaus have mutual interests. And now I'll turn it over to Denver. Thank you.
 Carla. Carla. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, Mayor and commissioners. My name is Denver Agarda. I'm a senior transportation planner with the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and I served as the project manager for this plan. Hi. My name is Naomi Cerumi. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I am a staff lead on this plan for environmental services. Thank you.
 And we are very excited to present to you the recommendations of this unique joint planning effort between our bureaus to address persistent challenges to close gaps in both the street and stormwater systems in southwest Portland. This work was supported by a grant from the Oregon Department of Transportation's Transportation and Growth Management Program. Yeah, I got it.
 So, Tryon-Stevens is the third neighborhood street plan developed by PBOT to address street connectivity in areas with significant deficiencies in basic infrastructure, such as sidewalks and paved streets. The map shows streets with existing sidewalks citywide. These plans will serve as models for surrounding neighborhoods with similar conditions.
 The Cully Plan was adopted in 2012. The Division Midway Plan in East Portland was adopted by Council just last month. Following the Cully Plan effort, the Street by Street Initiative introduced more flexible curbless street options for low-traffic residential streets. At the same time, Environmental Services has been working to implement plans for the Tryon Creek and the Stevens Creek watersheds.
 Soil conditions and topography in Southwest make it difficult to talk about street improvements without talking about stormwater at the same time. So Transportation and Environmental Services decided to jointly undertake this plan for the Cheyenne-Stevens area to bring together creative solutions and create a tailored strategy for dealing with access and stormwater in the context of Southwest. So we started by developing a public involvement plan
 uh looking to the examples of cully and division midway as models the public involvement plan identified community stakeholders and outreach activities based on demographic data for the study area we translated key materials based on portland public schools data into spanish and somali we formed a diverse stakeholder working group that
 included representatives from neighborhood associations and business associations, and then also from groups such as the African Youth Community Organization, Kisar Israel Congregation, and resident of Stevens Creek Crossing, which is one of the home-forward affordable housing communities in the plan area.
 The project was kicked off of the booth and a walking tour at Southwest Sunday Parkways. That was in September of 2014. And Stevens Creek Crossing served as a venue for our two public open house events. The first open house event had over 70 community members attending. The second had more than 30. And we conducted surveys at and after both open house events, both on paper and online.
 We also held a special workshop with youth who live at the Stevens Creek Crossing apartment complex, where kids drew maps of places in their neighborhood and the routes that they used to walk there. We did presentations to other community groups, such as the Multnomah Village Business Association and the Portland Commission on Disability, and both of those groups were represented on our community working group as well. We maintained a project website.
 And we also gathered a lot of information from city staff across both of our bureaus and planning sustainability and parks through several meetings and workshops. Yes.
 So the southwest natural setting is what attracts many people to live in this part of the city. But the hilly topography, poorly draining soils, sensitive natural resources, and streams limit street connectivity and constrain opportunities within the right-of-way to make improvements to enhance access or manage stormwater. Stevens and Triant Creeks are two of the few remaining open streams in the city that flow to the Willamette River.
 In the early days, major transportation corridors in Southwest often followed the landscape. There were two commuter rail corridors along key flat routes that are current-day Barber, Bertha, and Multnomah Boulevards. Routes like Boone's Ferry and Taylor's Ferry led to ferry crossings at the river. Roads were built to get dairy products from the farms to local markets, such as Hoffman Road, which is the current-day Vermont Street.
 and neighbors used a system of trails to walk routes not connected by paved streets. As the area was plotted for development, a grid pattern was often applied without regard to natural features such as streams and sloping terrains.
 The two images on the left are examples. The top left image is from the Lair Hill area, and then the bottom left is from our plan area. And these illustrate the issue with applying a connectivity standard in the southwest context that makes more sense in a flat, less constrained neighborhood.
 In the bottom left and the right-hand photos, the yellow star shows the current location of the Burlingame Fred Meyers, and it's situated over Stevens Creek. So you can see in the example that in 1932 and 1940, there was a forested area, and Stevens Creek runs through there, and then in the bottom right, you can see that Stevens Creek is piped under Fred Meyers and I-5.
 So you can see from this example that pest development often removes sensitive habitat, vegetation, and puts streams in pipes. So when on a watershed scale, development leads to increases in impervious surface, which increases surface runoff and leads to problems such as water pollution, flooding, erosion, and degraded stream health and wildlife habitat.
 So our plan seeks to address street and stormwater connectivity by fostering both healthy walk sheds and healthy watersheds. And by walk sheds, these are places that offer residents safe options to walk, bicycle to local shops and destinations that are within a short walkable distance.
 This focus provides the opportunity to translate the concepts of complete neighborhoods that are identified in the Portland Plan and the Comprehensive Plan into a Southwest context. Healthy watersheds means when additional impervious surface is added as the result of development, that it –
 doesn't result in negative impacts to hydrology, water quality, habitat, and biological communities. So we're trying to achieve the objectives and the values of both bureaus. We initiated our outreach process by asking neighbors where they go in the neighborhood and how they get there, specifically how they walk and bicycle to local destinations.
 Often the most popular routes for neighbors use the combination of both busier and lower traffic, quiet streets. The busier streets are important because they're often the flatter routes, the most direct routes, the routes where destinations are. However, neighborhood streets serve as important links for neighbors to reach their homes, bus stops, parks, schools, and other local destinations. When destinations can be reached safely by foot or bike, residents are given an option to reach
 to choose not to drive if they like. And this reduces the pressure on the busy streets and as well as parking in our main streets and commercial areas. So based on our public outreach, we identified concentrations of destinations. And these are shown in the bottom left map as yellow circles. So these are areas where we have a number of destinations, where we have the possibility to shift more trips
 from neighbors to walking and biking. We worked with our community working group to identify the flat routes, the most direct routes, and also the lowest traffic routes to connect and link these centers.
 On the top right, you can see there are two corridors that we identified that were missing public right-of-way. And so the plan recommends adding future connections in these two locations to the Southwest Master Street Plan, which was originally adopted in 2001. And that's shown on the bottom right map. The plan also identifies kind of the key routes that serve people walking and biking in the neighborhood.
 These are on the left map shown in purple and on the right map shown in brown. The map on the left shows southwest trails, safe routes to schools, city walkways and city bikeways, basically the planned pedestrian networks in our city. Our plan recommends adding a few connections to fill in the gaps that were identified through our outreach.
 The map on the right also shows where we have gaps in our stormwater system, and these are shown as red lines. Those are essentially streets that don't have a stormwater facility. The map on the right also shows the darker areas, which are areas where we have concentrations of complaints about stormwater in the study area.
 So where our gaps in our networks overlap, those are shown in yellow on the map on the right. And those are locations where we have potential for our bureaus to collaborate when we're doing infrastructure projects. These two photos are,
 Common types of streets that are illustrating the challenges that we face when we're introducing infrastructure in this part of the city. Most of the streets in this study area actually are paved, so we had almost 88% of our streets are paved. However, nearly two-thirds of them lack a sidewalk. Okay.
 We asked in our surveys at public events as well as online, what is it that people would like to see improved on streets that are already paved? And where improvements needed, the top two responses were adding a sidewalk or dealing with the drainage for stormwater. This was followed by responses such as street trees and traffic calming and bicycle improvements. And all of those proceeded actually adding sidewalks on both sides of the street.
 And as you can see from the sloping topography and the drainage, there's a lot of challenges in building to our traditional standard. We also asked folks, what should we be preserving when we're making improvements? The top three responses that we received were to preserve the low traffic speeds as well as the natural landscape and mature trees and the unique character of the street.
 So the plan includes a number of recommendations to form a tailored strategy for dealing with addressing our system gaps in the study area. But the two primary products of our partnership were a street typology and a process for identifying suitable street and stormwater concepts that manifested as a flow chart. The street typology.
 allows us to define characteristics of different streets. And we use six factors to do that. Traffic volumes, adjacent land use, whether it's connecting destinations, whether it's on our pedestrian or bicycle networks, and whether there are natural features, high value natural resources, or steep slopes. So based on those factors, we were able to identify different categories of streets
 which help us to know where we have more flexibility. Busier streets in commercial areas and near important destinations have less flexibility and should be built to a higher standard. However, neighborhood streets and quiet areas provide a bit more flexibility. And also in natural areas, we should be flexible to preserve the valuable resources that are there.
 So, with our typology, we also developed a flow chart. The flow chart was a way for us to have a series of additional questions to determine what suitable concepts there are for improvements to street and stormwater. So based on the typology, the flow chart asks a series of questions about the street conditions
 and suggests suitable street improvement options that relate to the context of that typology. And then there's a series of stormwater questions, which does the same results in suitable stormwater concepts. The two illustrations on the bottom are examples of the combinations of the street and stormwater improvements. And so we've had street-by-street in place for a couple of years, but this is the first time we've actually combined those with
 with kind of stormwater facilities for curbless streets. And so the one on the left is a shared street, I'm sorry, a separated street, which has a pavement and a sidewalk on one side. And it's combined with a surface conveyance swale for the stormwater conveyance.
 So these are simply concepts to illustrate. Specific designs would be the result of project level development with engineering and survey and additional outreach to the community.
 The flexibility that we've developed within this plan, it outlines a way for us to allow improvements to be made within the right-of-way, both as a result of private development, local improvement districts, and public investment, to more closely match the context of the street context, as well as, hopefully, to see improvements occur sooner due to lower costs. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Other questions for our staff? Very nicely done. Thank you both. Thank you. Steve, you want to tee up the next panel? Yes. Actually, I do have a question, and that is how did you decide on the study area boundaries?
 so we used the um we started with the store the watersheds actually and we used um tryon and stevens headwaters areas to identify kind of where uh the boundary is then we looked at an area that was confined by major streets and in this case it was capital highway on on the west
 and Taylors Ferry on the east. And by focusing on a smaller geographic area, it allows us to collect a lot of data on that smaller area. And so we collect a lot of traffic counts that were done on local streets. So that's the general approach that we took. And it allows us to see some areas that have better connectivity, more infrastructure improvements, and then some areas that were severely deficient.
 So is there any thought of continuing a similar study to the south part of the Trine Creek watershed? Yeah, this plan was developed from the start with the intent that the tools and approaches could be applied to other areas of similar context, specifically surrounding neighborhoods in southwest Portland. And the tools themselves to...
 today actually can be applied. We focused on this small area as a pilot, but I think the tools themselves can be translated to other areas outside the study area. I think it's an absolutely terrific study. I feel a little like the folks in Centennial and Pleasant Valley when we talk about Lentz and Gateway as being East Portland, the neighborhood to the south area.
 which actually has Markham Elementary School, which is not in the study area. It's the only Title I school on the west side. It would have been really nice to have had the study, maybe even just taking in the Falling Creek tributary, not necessarily Arnold Creek and the others to the south, would have allowed more discussions of the equity of how the children at the mosques access the cool stuff that's further to the north.
 Good point. Other questions, comments? Thank you both. I think you have a panel ready. Commissioner? Yes, we do. We have Liz Safran, Lewis and Clark professor, Multnomah Neighborhood Association rep, community working group member who's going to talk about the importance of solutions that are sensitive to the natural setting. Sue Stahl, Markham resident, PCOD rep, will talk about access issues. Thank you.
 for those with disabilities. Trudy Raz-Frengel, neighbor and descendant of the Raz family, talked about the importance of solutions to respect the historic and existing natural neighborhood setting. And Mary Ann Fitzgerald of Sweeney will talk about neighborhood priorities.
 Liz, before you start, I just have to tell you that I got an email the other day from friends of mine on the East Coast, and they had come to Portland with their son who was looking for a college. They were shopping for colleges. And they fell in love with Portland, and they fell in love with Lewis and Clark because of the environmental programs of the college, and he's applied for early decision there. So I'm thrilled for them. That's always good to hear. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I'll just introduce myself again. I'm Liz Safran. I represented the Multnomah Neighborhood Association on the community working group for the Tryon Stevens plan. And I am an associate professor of geological science at Lewis and Clark College in the environmental studies program. I wanted to share a few thoughts about the process here.
 that gave birth to this plan. First, I was struck throughout by how inclusive a process it was and how responsive the team was to community input. From October 2014 to June 2015, there were four meetings of the community working group and three opportunities for public input. There was a roll and stroll event in the study area, and there were two open houses at the Stevens Creek Community Center
 And all events were sort of a good mix of short presentations about the group's progress since the last gathering and hands-on exercises to try out the concepts together.
 that the team leaders were developing, as well as opportunities for feedback from the public in the form of survey responses, all of which were always summarized at the beginning of the next meeting.
 Second, the collaboration between PBOT and BES at the planning and design stages, and not just at the implementation stage, serves as, I think, a great model for what better planning could look like in this city, which is known for planning.
 The street typology and design option flow chart that they developed provides a structured approach to joint planning that can, and I hope will, be adopted not just in the Tryon-Stevens Creek headwaters, but throughout other similar parts of the city once it's been field tested.
 The environmental benefits of this plan and of a joint planning process across agencies at the design stage are really significant. Most notably, it should permit smaller paved footprints, which lead to less stormwater runoff and greater preservation of trees, and
 This is extremely important in southwest Portland in particular, where hilly topography and soils with low infiltration rates make stormwater management a real challenge. The more that we can prevent runoff and keep infiltration capacity high by preserving trees, the better able the city will be to meet
 stormwater management goals that help preserve environmental amenities and reduce impacts on the few daylighted creeks that remain. I should note that tree preservation is also important for meeting carbon emissions targets. Many of the city's emissions reductions to date have come from energy conservation efforts.
 And the ongoing loss of mature trees could threaten these gains by increasing the urban heat island effect. That is to say, locally increasing temperatures associated with loss of shading and development of additional surfaces. So for many reasons, planning efforts like this, this one that reduce paved surfaces and preserve mature trees are really important.
 In fact, it would, my personal sort of response to this experience of participating on this group is that it would be great if the kind of inter-bureau coordination that was demonstrated in this project could be sort of pushed upstream and extended to the development stage. Of course, bureaus do interact during a development through permitting processes and so on, but
 This project shows a really kind of unique development of differentiated guidelines that are responsive to local conditions that I think could be inspiring for developing guidelines for location-appropriate development. Thank you.
 And the last thing I want to mention is that although this plan deals specifically with sort of smaller streets, lower traffic streets, I saw in the course of the process a lot of concern about those busy streets and interest in seeing those become more bike and pedestrian friendly. And I think this plan is great because it complements that.
 the ongoing projects that have their own budgetary attention and priority, but provides an opportunity to sort of wed those with neighborhood-scale projects in a thoughtful and seamless way. So I appreciated participating in this process, and I want to thank both Naomi and Denver for orchestrating such a fine project.
 Thank you. Susan. Good morning. My name is Sue Stahl. I'm the Vice Chair of the Portland Commission on Disability and Chair of one of its subcommittees focusing on accessibility in the built environment.
 During my tenure, I have worked with the city on a number of projects that involve the disability community, such as street design, disabled parking, the ADA transition plan, and now, most recently, the Tyron Stevens plan. I'm here to talk with you today about this plan and share with you why I'm supporting this plan and why you should, too.
 As a resident of southwest Portland neighborhoods, I am burdened every day with the lack of paved streets, sidewalks, and even curbs in the area. I live in what is called a 20-minute neighborhood. This means shopping, supermarkets, and other resources are within a 20-minute walk of my house. However, due to the poor condition of the road, I cannot even get on my driveway.
 Not being able to walk down the street severely restricts my access to these neighborhood centers. My 20-minute neighborhood can just as well be a 20-mile neighborhood simply because I cannot navigate the road.
 Southwest Portland is plagued by roads similar to mine, and they affect everyone, not just me. My neighbor, who uses a walker too, has stumbled on a few occasions walking across the street to get her mail when she first moved in. Sadly, I hardly see her outside anymore and believe she has become a shut-in.
 I have also seen children walking to and from school in a reasonably busy street or walk in ditches because there are no sidewalks or walk paths.
 Some of the streets are so narrow due to overgrowth that cars must turn into nearby driveways to let other cars pass through. We even had an issue where cars parked on the side of the road impeded a fire truck from getting to a house. Thank you.
 um oh another issue in my neighborhood deals with drainage simply put there is none this means when it rains the water flows where it wants to downhill collecting in potholes and unimproved streets creating lakes in people's yards and seeping into basements causing foundation damage after the downpour this past weekend
 I could hear the noise of many wet, dry vacuums. I was one of the lucky ones. I live on a hill. Having to wade through or avoid puddles puts pedestrians at risk.
 It is hard to describe all the mud, oil, leaves, and who knows what else that collects in these puddles. And you don't know how deep it is until you step in it. And walking into the street to avoid these puddles is just an accident waiting to happen. The Tyron-Stevenson Plan will address both the accessibility issues and water runoff by allowing more options in the Street by Street initiative.
 Southwest Portland is unique, and the topography is very challenging. Roads cannot be paved. Sidewalks and walk paths cannot be installed without affecting water runoff. Drainage and pedestrian improvements go hand in hand.
 Seeing the collaboration of PBOT and BDS tackle these issues has been exciting. Both bureaus have identified and studied the key problems, listened to public feedback, and developed a comprehensive plan. Recommended options include clearing overgrowth and widening the shoulders, allowing for better separation of car and foot traffic, adding vegetation swales or pipes to manage water runoff,
 improving walking paths by using impervious material and reducing the speed limit. Because the streets in Southwest vary from paved streets with sidewalks to dirt roads with no walk paths, each street will be handled differently and the design based on residential needs.
 As I mentioned before, my street needs a lot of help, and I am confident that the Tyron-Stevenson plan will improve the walkability and control the rainwater, allowing me to have access to my neighborhood and eliminating the need of wet drive-backs after a heavy rain. Thank you.
 I'll introduce Trudy Raz. Thank you. I'm a resident of Southwest Portland. Just pull that microphone a little closer. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I'm a resident of Southwest Portland. And when I walked in here, I looked at the historic pictures, and I saw, oh, my gosh, that's the house that my dad was born in, which I never knew existed here in the city hall. But he did spend some time in the city hall many years ago.
 So that was a nice welcome. Thank you. When I grew up, our area of southwest Portland was still mostly Swiss dairy farming country. As children, we walked almost everywhere. Through the fields, jumping over cow pies, or on paths which the older generations made,
 Also, there were lanes or unofficial roads going from one part of the farm to the other. Many other roads were already in existence. Nevada Court became a dedicated street in 1891 and Capitol Hill Road in 1918.
 Actually, my father, Werner Raz, deeded land for official roads, land from our farm. He wanted to make it easier to get around the farm during his lifetime and to provide for the generations to come. Before 1940, he deeded land for 21st Avenue, Stevens Creek, which is now Razbot Crossing, and 19th Avenue.
 In 1952, the day before our southwest area joined Portland, my dad deeded Caldew Street and 23rd Avenue to Multnomah County so that these right-of-ways would remain for the public use always. Yes, most of these official roads were in our cow fields, or at least near them. As a child, I knew that I had the right to walk on any public right-of-way.
 During those years, as even now, our southwest area was filled with fruit trees. Before the dairy farms, the area was an orchard. As children, we'd walk to Multnomah School from kindergarten until eighth grade, eating delicious fruit along the way. It was a paradise of eating. People knew us, and we felt like we belonged.
 We played together and we worked together. Children and sometimes their parents, too, picked crops for cash. Beans, filberts, berries, and so on. I remember one year when the strawberries came early and we had the choice of going to Multnomah School or picking, and probably that was the same choice all over Portland, I suspect. Foot travel was a given.
 Werner Rath's my father was by nature a trailblazer and a visionary. In 1936, he was appointed postmaster of Multnomah, and perhaps because of that, he knew of every right-of-way there was or could be.
 Always he acted in the interest of the community, whether it was to pay back every creditor who had lost money in the old Multnomah Bank, and Walter Rez's cousin did this with him, and that's his house is where Habitat for Humanity is now, where those houses are, or in creating public streets and trails.
 Trail making was a lifelong pursuit. His grandfather was a road maker in the Swiss Alps, so maybe trail making and roads were second nature to him. In 1956, the day Wilson High School opened, he completed a trail in Nevada Court right away for high school students. Later, he extended that trail. That trail is now the Rasbach Crossing. My dad worked on that trail for nine years,
 The neighbors didn't want the trail, even though it was on public land. And of course, Dad needed that land anyway. The city of Portland was not ready for urban trails during those years. My father saw this trail as a safe and a beautiful shortcut to the city bus stop and to Reekie School. I think that time Reekie was called Wilson Park Grade School and Wilson High School.
 During this time, Don Bach heard my dad talk about his trail and about the existing network of right-of-ways. I think Don's here today. Dad explained...
 explained that his trail could, by showing a map, that his trail could be extended from Wilson High School all the way to Gabriel Park by using all right-of-ways. And I have an official map showing that. When Don retired many years later, Dad just did that, Don became a trail maker. As long as Dad lived, he fought for trail making on unused streets.
 Yes, in 1984, the day he died, he was talking to a neighbor about building a trail on the 19th Avenue right-of-way. And that's finally going to be completed, thank goodness. Yeah, thanks to Denver and Naomi.
 and others. This neighbor was afraid of people walking by his home because he has children. And then that same day, Dad died. Anyway, so I hope he's here listening at this point that I'm in City Hall, right? Recently, this year, I attended two community workshops put on by Transportation and BES. We were asked how we would improve Southwest Streets.
 I felt that many streets should remain unimproved. I do agree with you, though, with some of the graveled roads, that the streets should match the neighborhood and its rural character. One kind of street does not fit all. One street that I commented on was a dead-end street with little car traffic but a lot of foot traffic. It was near a park. The street was a perfect unimproved street except for one flaw—
 One resident had fenced all the way to the street, preventing pedestrian traffic on the shoulder. I was shocked that he felt that he could do this because the fence was not his land, nor a lot of the land behind the fence. This encroachment needs to be removed.
 Right now we live on a dead end street that is a 30 foot right of way. Since only a few cars use it each day, we get a tremendous amount of pedestrian traffic. No street improvement is needed. Our unimproved street is ideal. Because there is little traffic, the gravel is not worn down. Also, we've made full use of the portion of the right of way on our side of the street.
 In that 15 feet, we've put in two benches and some tree stumps, plus flowers and vegetation, for people to enjoy and socialize. It's a very happy environment. The land is used for community purposes. Concerning the Tryon Streets Plan, I'm pleased that it takes into account the unique character of the Southwest neighborhoods. It addresses the many neighborhoods...
 It addresses the many ways neighbors travel. The plan recommendations help to ensure that the right-of-ways will remain accessible to the public, and the plan offers safe routes for walkers. It also recommends that when improvements are made, the improvements match the historic and the natural settings of our neighborhoods.
 Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Mary Ann Fitzgerald is back. Just before you go on. One more question. No, I just wanted to comment, Trudy. When you and I talked after the Rasbach crossing opening, you told me about your family deeding the land for what's now called Custer Park. Right. I want you to know that Commissioner Novick has initiated a process to discuss whether we should keep it that way. Okay.
 Wow. Go to the Multnomah Nation Association and participate. Yay. One thing about Custer Park is on the bottom, well, we owned until two miles. I mean, that was part of our farm. But where it's really swampy, we had a little pond there, yeah, where we would swim right next to Capitol Road, yeah. But, yeah, that's terrific. Thank you. Yay. Yeah.
 and welcome okay um good morning my name is marianne fitzgerald and i'm here representing the southwest neighborhoods coalition of 17 neighborhoods in southwest portland sweeney wants to express its very strong support for the try on stevens creek plan and we want to particularly thank the excellent staff work of denver and naomi i work with a lot of staff in both bureaus and they did a fabulous job in putting this plan together and it's a really really good product
 We especially appreciate them laying the foundation for improved coordination between the bureaus on these two issues that affect neighborhood livability and probably streets and the environment are the two most passionate topics you could engage with anyone in in southwest Portland.
 We strongly support the recommendations to coordinate between bureaus to address both street and stormwater gaps in southwest Portland. And yesterday, as I sat through the TSP work session, I noticed that nobody mentioned stormwater at all when we were discussing transportation. But for those of us on the ground, we know that the right-of-way has to handle both the water and the people.
 And, you know, we have to make sure that we have room for everybody, and this plan really is a really good step in that direction. We know we commended BES for doing the Stevens Stormwater Systems Plan about two years ago. It was a great landmark study that led to this study as well.
 But we also know that the other watersheds have watershed plans and not specifically stormwater plans. And I've observed over the years that some of the limits on what we can do in the transportation system are limited by how we manage the water that flows off those surfaces. Right.
 So I wanted to especially thank the staff for committing to a proposed pilot, Triune Creek Headwaters Stormwater Systems Alternative Analysis, that would help manage stormwater off Capitol Highway in between Multnomah and Taylor's Ferry and help make it more feasible to actually get that project built. So thank you.
 We had a lot of discussions at Sweeney about connectivity and the difference between busy streets and neighborhood streets. We supported the recommendations to close the gaps in the urban trails plan and in the Southwest Master Street plan in the area.
 But we also recognize that busy streets tend to be flatter. As Denver said, they followed the bridge lines so that you didn't have to go up and down, but you could go directly to access transit. That's where the transit lines are to access the commercial areas, the schools, and the parks, as noted in the typology report.
 But as many of you may know, the city has issued thousands and thousands of waivers of remonstrance, which did not require developers to develop any infrastructure on those streets. And
 And again, with that yin and yang of local streets and busy streets, we can pretty much walk on the local streets with potholes and everything else. But the busy streets are dangerous. And so we really want to no longer allow the waivers of remonstrance on the busiest streets where we need the infrastructure the most to access our destinations. Thank you.
 We also recognize the plan recommendations for widened shoulders as an interim solution. And I emphasize interim because there's a few of them near my house where traffic's going 40 miles an hour, zooming right by, cars are right behind you. It's a really scary place to walk on a widened shoulder. So the plan does include some criteria that we might apply before we really look at whether a widened shoulder is appropriate in that location.
 So I just wanted to kind of sum up a lot of what Liz said is that while the emphasis on the plan was on neighborhood streets and we love the flexibility, we love the typologies, we think it really fits into what could apply throughout southwest Portland.
 We also know that you get landlocked if the neighborhood streets are improved and you don't do the busy streets. And at one of the open houses where we did the ranking of where you want the improvements made, Capitol Highway and Taylor's Ferry Road were at the top of the list. So, you know, even though it's a neighborhood plan, everybody knows these are really key streets that need to be improved.
 So I just want to sum up by saying this is a landmark study. I was just pleased from the beginning when this got funded and really pleased with the direction that it went. And we just say, let's go for it. Let's implement this plan as quickly as we can. So thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Any questions? Thanks very much. The formal presentation, Mayor, just now. Ever signed up? Okay, thank you. So, Carly, do we have some folks signed up in addition to this invited testimony? Yes, we have two people signed up. Please come on up. David Murphy and John Gibbons. Come on up. Morning. Welcome. Hey, guys. Anyway, I'm a local resident. Okay.
 I don't need to give a straight address.
 We'll find that there's a right away the bes owns that comes through there so all the water from 29th street and all the water that comes from the capital and that whole area right there gets focused right into one spot and then that sewer line cuts through the property it's it's a combi storm drain sewer.
 Um, my whole half of the yard has gotten wiped out, especially with this last event, but it's a re reoccurring event because these storm drains will clog up. Um, I've called the city and had a soul Carlson come out from BES and sometime soon, hopefully sooner than soon, uh, they scoped this pipe.
 uh because i have a feeling that the uh western red caesar trees are exactly right on top of these lines i have a feeling that the roots have come in um i've also noticed lots of rats in the yard and when i cleaned up the other day there's lots of drownded rats out on the road my garage completely flooded whole side of the house there's a huge pond i got a bunch of pictures
 There has been a big form a huge crack all the way down the center of the garage one of the stem walls is cracked the side of the house is dropped and there's probably about seven cracks down the side of the house and I've had a terra firma come out and I haven't had a bid yet But what's gonna pray have to happen is the whole pads gonna come out in the garage It's got to get rebar report and
 and this is a recurring situation because these particular drains will clog very easy, and on 29th Street, if you walk up the road, the water doesn't hit any of the storm drains, and some of the neighbors have diverted the water from the property onto the street where it's actually supposed to go directly into the drain, and so there's a bunch of issues just right in that spot, and my neighbor just down below me,
 His garage also flooded. So that's about it on that. Wow. All right. Well, appreciate you bringing that to our attention. Obviously the staff was taking notes. Sounds like an issue where we need some follow-up. So thank you. Yeah. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. You bet.
 John, welcome. You'll be able to enjoy this before long. I'm off. Put your name in the record. And John Gibbon from southwest Portland, formerly of PERB. I'm back to take a valedictory laugh about a good project that got started with maybe a little help from me when I was on PERB. This is a great project.
 The combination of the two bureaus is absolutely essential. What you just heard from my neighbor is I've got to report something that you hear all over southwest Portland. I know of it happening in my own neighborhood where we have responsibility for our own stormwater, at least.
 So it's not surprising that you hear these kind of problems happening, and at least this is an approach that will start addressing these collectively as a community on a scale that will appeal to the neighborhoods.
 Because if you've been out there, and I know Commissioner Fritz has been, you will find people in southwest Portland, they're in love with their natural settings. And sometimes when you say, we need to improve this street or we need to have some storm drainage improvement here, they'll say, oh, well, you're going to ruin the rural character of southwest Portland.
 And I've got to tell you, just coming back from four days in Druzy, I have a little bit of a problem in focusing in on southwest Portland as having a rural character. But I understand that that's a reality in dealing with people. And by creating a scalable set of...
 proposed improvements that we can present to people hopefully will overcome that. They'll say, oh, well, this isn't really so much. It isn't full street sidewalk storm drainage, the whole thing, and more people will do a buy-in. And that's an important part in all these neighborhoods, and for Markham especially, because I'm going to turn to...
 wear my Markham land use rep hat for a couple of minutes and say there's a couple of points in here that are truly important. One is
 This project that I think represents great entrepreneurship, government entrepreneurship, because I think what happened was Denver came to one of our market meetings, discovered that a Green Street project was proposed at the bottom of 19th where it impacts Taylor's Ferry Road. And within the timeline of this project, we got some additional work proposed on 19th
 and that's great. We'll see how this flies within the next month, and we can give you some feedback on how that works. The other thing I want to say, I understand the issue about busy streets. I recognize that people with Capital Highway have a lot of problems, but what I will say is if you look at what happened in Markham, we said connect streets
 through the neighborhoods from northeast Markham to 26th, and we stayed away from asking for improvements on Taylors Ferry. So I understand Capital Highway is a different issue, but some neighborhoods bought into playing this game. Thank you very much. Appreciate your involvement. Thank you. Anyone else? Two more. I believe it's Glenn and Don Buck. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Morning. My name is Glenn Bridger. I live in southwest Portland. I wish to take this time to commend the team of BES and PBOT for their cooperative effort to try and resolve...
 The forever issue we've had in southwest Portland, and there's not a one of you up there that doesn't know it isn't a forever issue. We need to be making progress. I don't want to leave my grandkids with a city that still hasn't solved their issues. We need to have places to walk. We need to be effective. We need to take care of the water and pedestrian issues together effectively.
 I appreciate your attention to this matter. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, Commissioners, Mayor. I'm Don Bach. I live in Hillsdale, and I've been a member of this group that's been working on this probably since before it started. But we're really pleased with the effort that you all authorized and urged, first of all, and second, for the team that was put together to work on it. They've done a fantastic job. Thank you.
 The highlights, I specifically want to point out and express support for an important little part of this plan. It has a proposed Master Street plan change, making a connection from the Hillsdale Community Church or whatever. I don't think, I think it's the Portland Bible Church, to Southwest 25th, 26th along Texas right away generally. And this is a really key connection because people living at the crossing of Stevens Creek,
 with the connection that this would provide, it will be easier for them to walk to Safeway, Fred Meyer, the parks, and Barber when we have more high-capacity transit on Barber. Really key connection. On extended shoulders, while they're probably viewed as temporary, I'm sure many of them will be replaced in my lifetime because the kind of investment it takes to build sidewalks versus extended shoulders or widened shoulders is,
 It's like six to one, and we can build a lot of improvements that federal studies have shown. We get 80% of the safety benefits from extended shoulders versus sidewalks. And so it's really, really important for a lot of people to be able to move more efficiently.
 I have one small amendment request that I'd like you to consider, and I sent this to you by e-mail. My printer coughed, and I couldn't print out the copies for you. But basically, we currently are using Southwest Capitol Hill Road as part of the Urban Trails 6. It wasn't designated that way in the plan. It was an oversight for partially, and also because a park trail that has now been built, we utilize part of that. And all I would ask is that we put Capitol Hill Road about 300 feet on the Urban Trails plan,
 Not important right now, but you never know when something's got to be part of the plan or something. So it's being used as a trail. It would be part of the Hillsdale Lake Oswego Regional Trail. And, you know, we eventually will ask for a sidewalk or extended shoulder in that specific segment.
 As a high priority. But anyway, that's the only request in that regard. Thank you very much. And again, this is a great project. I really appreciate the cooperation that's happened. And it's been fun to watch it proceed. Thank you. Oh, and the 19th thing that John was talking about. You know, really, really important. And we really appreciate BES and PBOT.
 Moving forward to really make this happen. Thank you. Thank you very much Here I think I would just propose that as our customary practice
 Mr. Bach has put an issue into the record. It's now before us. We'll consider it as part of the testimony in support of the plan, and we will report back to you. Okay. All right, good, because this is being adopted by resolution, so you can obviously always amend the maps later. He made his record, and we will appropriately respond. Okay, great. Thank you. I move the adoption of the report. Okay, second? Second. No call, please. Novick?
 Thank you very much to everybody who's been working on this. And it's quite extraordinary to have this many people say this many good things about anything in the city. So really, really appreciate it. Aye. Great.
 Well, I see a lot of current and former staff from both bureaus in the room, and I greatly appreciate you being here. I think when you've worked on something like this, coming to see the vote is always very satisfying. Dan Bazzini, former BES, very much appreciate you being here. Also, my neighbor, Jeremy Grand, I thought you were very restrained to not hop up and talk about Capitol Highway. Thank you.
 That said, I appreciate hearing the history of the neighborhood from the Raz family, and I'm sure that Warner Raz is with us tonight, this morning.
 And also Dorothy Gage and Patty Lee would definitely want to be here and I'm sure are watching over it. And also chagrined as I am that we don't go further south on Capitol and further west on Taylor's Ferry. So thank you very much to the staff. Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Novick, really exemplary.
 exhibition of how bureaus actually do work together a lot and to have something coming to council as a joint project and in a particularly difficult area of the city to figure things out it's remarkable and I congratulate everybody who's been involved and thanks for all of the good work in a very short time. It was
 It seems like it's such a well-baked plan that I thought it had been many years in the making. So to hear that it was kicked off at the Southwest Sunday Parkways last year is remarkable, and congratulations. Hi. Well, first to Commissioner Novick's point, Steve, we've actually asked this –
 distinguished group to come to each council meeting in the future and testify in support of the first item that we're taking up. But in all seriousness, thank you to the citizens who took time today to come and testify in support of this. And as the Mayor and Commissioner Fritz have noted, thank you for telling us the history.
 Because there's a wonderful history that is underneath, that lays underneath the great work that the two bureaus have done here. So we appreciate that lesson, that history lesson. Commissioner Fritz, at a moment like this, and it's something she does that I love, she often, she takes the page in the report, the plan that lists everybody that's been a part of it and just acknowledges everybody. And so I can't read all the names, but to all the staff people, to the community working group,
 to the project team, to everybody that devoted time and energy to this process. Thank you. And, Steve, thank you very much for the strong collaborative relationship that BES and PBOT enjoy. To the comment that either, I guess, Glenn made about, or Don, about the forever process. I made a note about that.
 I don't know how many more years I'll be on the council, but I have a hunch that before we're done we will be able to replace the forever process with something a little more present. Because the issue that we're trying to address has eluded an easy solution, partly because of cost, partly because of regulations, partly because of some communication glitches.
 But with the inspired community leadership that is pushing us to get beyond forever, I'm confident that we'll get to that day and we'll be able to celebrate that. So thank you. And finally, one of the joys of my work is I get to work with a lot of really talented people. And this city has extremely talented and dedicated people who work very, very hard for the public and who probably don't get the recognition they deserve.
 And so while I want to offer a blanket thank you to everybody who was involved in this, particularly to Denver and Naomi, I just want to say how proud we are of your work. And when we have a forum like this in which the public comes up, comes forward, and affirms what we know through our close working relationship with you, it's very gratifying. So thank you for bringing credit to the respective bureaus that you work for. Thank you to my colleagues for their support, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 Well, I really appreciate the work that's been put into this plan. Not only do I live in this neighborhood, but I walk by the Rosbach Crossing every morning on my morning walk. And it's really gratifying. I think it's really gratifying. I really want to thank the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Bureau of Transportation for modeling such good behavior among bureaus.
 transcend commissioners in charge. I was in charge of BES for 11 years and a lot of these issues are not new to me.
 but the level of cooperation being demonstrated here by these two commissioners in charge and the two bureaus respectively is new, and it's a good spirit of cooperation that I hope will be modeled in a lot of different projects, but it's so important, particularly in Southwest, with the drainage and the lack of good roads. So this is great work. Thank you. Bye. Nails.
 Well, I want to second these comments. Commissioner Fritz used the word exemplary. I think that's right. This is exemplary in terms of the cooperation of both the bureaus and the community activism that fed this work. I'd also use the word heartening because we had a council discussion yesterday, one of many now happening and soon to come, about the update of our comprehensive plan, an effort in which we are going to try to accommodate 260,000 more neighbors
 and 140,000 more jobs in this city over the next 20 years, a daunting couple of numbers if there ever were. And one of the things that we have to be able to do in that big transition is address these deficiencies in our infrastructure that have been around, in many cases, for decades. And these here are critical.
 classic examples of that. And I think both because, yes, there will be growth in Southwest too, and because we have to have a low-carbon future where people don't have to drive to get to their neighborhood destinations, and because I think the credibility of the whole enterprise of trying to plan for 260,000 more people is undermined if we don't have an answer for what are we going to do about those 50 miles of dirt streets.
 And now, thanks to you, we have a big part of that answer. We also put a small amount of funding in the budget that the council adopted this year for supporting LIDs or otherwise getting these streets out of the mud, making that an ongoing commitment of the city's general fund I think is an important effort.
 will have to be added to but it's a nice start so i do think we all have to be able to look our neighbors in the face say well we're going to grow yeah what are you going to do about now we have part of that answer here and i think that's really important on a larger scale obviously it's hugely important to the people who live on these streets and who are dealing with the side effects of an incomplete set of stormwater improvements that need to be there to make sure that people's homes are safe and that they're not going to be affected by the effects of the stormwater
 life works at street level. So very happy about this. As a former resident of Southwest, as a former neighborhood activist there, just like Commissioner Fritz, it's great to see this kind of progress and this kind of accord about how we move forward. So well done all around. Thank you very much. I neglected to make an inside joke. What? I just want the record to reflect that Al Iverson being here makes it clear that we're
 We're here for a game. This is not just practice. Good point. It's not just practice anymore. Okay. Thank you. Very well done. Let's move to the one item that we pulled from the consent calendar and moved to the regular calendar, and that's item 1132.
 Authorize a grant agreement to Concordia University in the amount of $500,000 in fiscal year 2015-16 for use in the construction of the Fabian Concordia Early Childhood Development Center. Mr. Withers is here. Welcome and come up and tell us about this amazing project, please. Good morning, Mr.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Saltzman. It's a pleasure to be here. A dozen years ago, a group of civic leaders was sitting with then-Governor Kulongoski, and we were talking about the power, the importance of early childhood education and the need to make greater investments in early childhood education. And the governor sat back in his chair, his eyes lit up, he got this interesting grin on his face, and he said, I love this moment. Thank you.
 It's a moment where instead of reacting to crises, we get to look upstream and figure out how we prevent them. The city faces many challenges, and among those challenges certainly is the challenge of homelessness, challenges of food insecurity, challenges of behavioral health care. The 3 to PhD initiative, which is a partnership with Trillium Family Services, Portland Public Schools, and Concordia University,
 is one of those upstream solutions. As far as we know, it's unique in the entire nation.
 that a private university is coming together with an inner city school district and a very low income school to tackle the problem, closing the achievement gap, closing the opportunity gap, and doing it in a collaborative way where one plus one plus one doesn't equal three, but we hope it equals 3,000 or more. That's the power of this multiplier. So what we have
 in two years will be 132,000 square foot facility. It will house the Concordia University College of Education, the largest college of education in the state, and may I say among the best in the state. It will house 800 Fabian students, including 120 Fabian students in early childhood education, six weeks through 60 months.
 and we know that that's where we can make a difference upstream. I apologize for being a little bit late. We were finishing up with some donors who were asking some very difficult questions, and finally the husband and wife looked at each other and they said, what really makes the difference in this program?
 And they said, one, it's how teachers will be prepared. They're going to be prepared in an environment where they're working with the populations that Portland Public School serves every day, every day of their career from their freshman year through their senior year and beyond. They'll be prepared the way physicians are prepared. Then they said it's the wraparound services. It's the commitment.
 particularly from Trillium Family Services, to provide behavioral health care. And Pacific Foods will be providing organic, nutritious food through a food club at cost to families where food insecurity is a huge and significant issue. And then finally, it's the focus on science, technology, engineering, art, and math.
 We want to prepare young people to work with their hands as well as their heads and answer the question that Bill Furman and other leaders in our community have said, where is that team of talent who is interested in these jobs at $70,000, $80,000, $90,000 a year helping us build rail cars? We'll have an answer for Mr. Furman and for other CEOs in the community.
 It's been a community-wide effort. We've raised $10,055,000 to date. We're extremely grateful for your consideration and your support of our $500,000 request. The state of Oregon, through lottery bonds, is making a contribution of $750,000.
 Dan and Priscilla Wyden have made a significant gift to the science, technology, engineering, art, and math element in the building. And the university is proud, proud to be raising $15.5 million of what promises to be
 $48 million plus facility and one that Carl Talton, who's the leader and a leader in this community, the leader of the North Northeast Portland STEAM STEM Coalition, says is really going to provide for children of color in North and Northeast Portland a level of facilities that they need to thrive, to survive, to be able to meet the demands of employers in this community. Thank you.
 We're very grateful for your consideration of our request. Happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you very much, Gary. Questions for him? Thank you. With your concurrence, I would move an emergency clause so we can vote on this today in the presence of Gary. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? Let's take a roll call on adding the emergency clause. I see some language for the reason for the emergency.
 We have an educational achievement gap in our community, and the sooner we build this, the better. That sounds good to me. Okay, roll call. Novick? Aye. Fritz? We will. We will. Fish? Mayor, thank you for – It's just on the emergency clause. Thank you.
 I can tell when you're gearing up, Krishna. He's gearing up. Okay. Slow down. Hi. It's Altman. Hi. Hales. Hi. Okay. Gary, let us thank you and call up anyone else that wants to speak on this item before we take action on it. Mr. Lightning wished to speak on this. Come on up. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I absolutely agree with this project. One of the questions I have is that,
 I understand there was a bond measure in 2012 that was passed. And one of the concerns I have on this $500,000 grant from the city of Portland is we do have a public school here and a private university. And as you know, in the past, I've always questioned some of these grants on what the city of Portland, where they want to place the money. I don't have a concern on this development. I have a concern on giving...
 a grant to a private university and a public school. One of my concerns in the past was also on the youth passes on TriMet. I had a concern on that. I want to see the programs move forward, but I question where the funding is coming from. So I would like to look at this more from giving a loan on this, having it paid back in the future,
 and not doing a grant. And the reason why I say that, again, is we have many bureaus here, again, and I don't have to list them from transportation to housing and everything else, that I think we don't have enough funding at this time. And people in this room may question what I'm saying. I'm saying this is a great development. I want to see this happen. I just question the city of Portland doing a grant and not a loan and having it repaid back in the future. Thank you.
 due to, number one, being declared a state of emergency in housing. Number two, Commissioner Novick, a billion dollars in deferred maintenance and transportation, I think, would be a fair number. And you have to come up with some funding. So, again, I approve of the project. It's just the grant coming from the City of Portland during this time.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Any further testimony? Any further discussion? Then let's take a roll call, please, on the now emergency ordinance. Okay. I actually am very sensitive to Mr. Lightning's point, and I think it should be rarely that the city gives money to any project that's sort of outside the scope of our normal business. But I think that –
 investments in strengthening schools of education and early childhood education are among the most important investments we can make in this city, state, and country. So to have one $500,000 contribution to a salutary effort in those areas, I think, is worth it, even though it's a departure from what we normally spend money on. Aye. Chris. This is allocating the money that was discussed in the budget. Aye. Fish. No.
 I could just see you probably steal signals during ducks games too. Commissioner Fritz. I could just see you on the sidelines. Uh,
 looking for those tells. First, I want to thank the mayor for including this in his budget. And this is either the second or third time that the mayor has put a city contribution into a community partnership that benefits children. We did it in the David Douglas Early Childhood Program, which is now getting national attention. We did it in this. The bar is very high
 David Douglas, Early Childhood, Fabian. I hope we find another opportunity this budget year to support another kind of community partnership like this. But the truth is the bar has been set very high because of these programs. And what I especially love about this program is it involves Concordia and Portland Public Schools. And President Schlimpert has for over 30 years provided great leadership there.
 Concordia has distinguished for many reasons, not the least of which is their women's soccer team keeps winning national championships. But it's the notion that they view themselves as part of a community. And one of the things I love when they put a turf field in is they invited the community to use their facility. That is not typical in local colleges and universities. So it's part of their value system.
 Last year when I was principal for almost a day, one of my assignments was Concordia, I mean, was Fabian. I'll never forget arriving. It's a wonderful reception from the principal and a big sign saying, welcome, Lou Frederick. And Lou had actually beat me to the punch. Lou was already there giving orders, so I was the assistant principal for the day.
 But this is really important, and it wouldn't happen without Gary Withers and Elyse Brown and Ken Thrasher and all these people that believe in our kids. And of all the things we invest in, this is one that touches my heartstrings, and I'm really proud that the mayor has prioritized every year a contribution for the benefit of our children in this campaign. So thank you, and I'm proud to vote on it. Saltzman? Thank you.
 Well, this is a very exciting partnership between Concordia, Portland Public Schools, and many others. But it's a great effort on behalf of kids, and it's a very exciting concept for your education of your future teachers, too, or our future teachers. So great work. Hi. Mills. So let me reinforce the rationale. I appreciate these comments from my colleagues because it's very important that the city be prudent and thrifty in our grant-making function.
 because we only should do a little of it, but we should do it for the right reasons, and the reasons that have been articulated here are good. But let me reinforce that a little bit more. Schools, parks, and community centers are the anchors of our neighborhoods. We don't operate schools, but we partner with them all the time. In fact, they often are literally twinned with a park.
 and the use of those facilities to make community life work for all of our citizens is a core responsibility of city government. The ownership and operation of the facility, whether it happens to be a public school operating on its own, or in this case a public school operating in partnership with a university, is unimportant to the fact of that core partnership.
 Secondly, it's ironic and appropriate that Assistant Chief Modica, former Captain of the Youth Services Division, is in the room because we have a stake in the safety of this city. And the more we get upstream in the lives of our kids, the better chance we have of them being safe.
 and if we do a better job of early childhood education and a better job of keeping kids in school and a better job of achieving the third grade reading level and ninth grade transition and high school graduation, there will be less people for the Transit Services Division and the gang violence unit and every other part of the police bureau to deal with because we have unsuccessful kids in our city.
 So I see that rationale as well, and everything we can do to get upstream in the lives of the kids of this city in partnership with other organizations, with our Parks Bureau and our Police Bureau and our neighborhoods, is money well spent in terms of leverage. So I think this is a great partnership. It deserves our support, and it's also completely appropriate that the City of Portland be this kind of partner. I'm very proud that we are. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Looking forward to it, Gary. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to item 1130. No, sorry, that's done. 1136.
 Adopt a waste reduction plan and accept and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro to receive Metro Waste Reduction Challenge funds of $283,408 and $336,189 for the Recycle at Work program in fiscal year 15-16. Second reading, roll call. Novick?
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. 1137 and 1144 together, please. I guess all of them. Sorry, 1137 through 1144. Why don't you read them all? 1137, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet,
 and City of Forest Grove for transit police services. 1138, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and City of Gresham for transit police services. 1139, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and City of Lake Oswego for transit police services. 1140, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and Multnomah County for transit police services. 1150.
 1141, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and Oregon City for transit police services. 1142, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with City of...
 with City of Tigard for transit police services. 1143, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet, and the City of Tualatin for transit police services. And 1144, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet, and the City of West Lynn for transit police services. Okay, Assistant Chief Modica and Commander Leloff are here. Come on up. Explain why are we doing business with all these other governments? What's going on here?
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Council. Quite frankly, these are the intergovernmental agreements between the agencies that help staff the Transit Police Division. And we can't approve IGAs unless they come before Council. There's no fiduciary cost to the city. The finances basically pass through with our fiscal services management team.
 So we end up being the fiscal agent for these other cities in that transaction, even though we're not spending money to police Tigard? That's correct. They're actually helping us police the system. And, you know, the overhead is covered by the extra 5% on the reimbursement that TriMet provides the city of Portland for each officer or command-level officer assigned to the Transit Police Division.
 Just a qualitative question I guess I would pose, and that is, in your opinions, as the managers of this function, are we at the...
 level of effort in terms of the number of officers that this whole multi-agency program is funding in terms of the level of public safety protection on a very, very busy transit system? Are we where we should be? Are you feeling like we're run ragged? Where are we? I know we can always use more, but how much, how badly is that, how severe is that concern at the moment?
 So I think we're at about the right size. We're 67 sworn members throughout 570 square miles with 60 miles of light rail track and 14 miles of heavy rail track. And at peak time, as you all know, we have five to 600 buses on the road transporting 320,000 trips per day.
 So all cities and all this task force model, all the cities get influence, and we provide four different stations in which we operate out of the three different counties. I'd say we're right-sized. We just added five more positions for the Orange Line station,
 The Orange Line has exceeded all expectation of ridership, and the parking rides are full. So I feel confident. This is about an $11.5 million package that TriMet provides policing services throughout the 570 square miles. Yeah, as a rider of the Orange Line, I can attest it's really hard to find a seat by the third stop. Yeah, good problem to have. Okay, questions for Assistant Chief Marika or Commander Luloff?
 Thank you both. Please stand by if we have any others, and we'll see if there's anyone that signed up to speak on this item. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. One person, Charles Johnson. Okay. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Commissioner Fitzgerald, because she knows we think the same about this. Obviously, the safety and health of our citizens and neighbors while they ride TriMet is something that we all share value about. And I hope that...
 The issues that Commissioner Fritz raised in her previous comments on this will influence your work as police commissioner, mayor, to make sure that the ultimate focus of this policing effort is a strong sense of community and safety for everybody riding on TriMet, that nobody will feel profiled and that people of diverse backgrounds and economic circumstances will feel they're getting equal respect and respect.
 from the TriMet system. TriMet has a separate fair inspection division of people wearing white shirts, and I want to encourage this whole community to take more seriously Commissioner Fritz's words about the overall budget of TriMet and how we can more equitably make sure that people who have financial hardship are able to participate in that system and people who are better able to contribute financially to its operation can.
 do so so that the police will just be looking for the occasional theft or the people who might need mental health care and not so worried about whether somebody looks like a less likely to pay person. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, any other questions or comments before we vote? If there's no objection, I'm going to ask that the council vote on items 1137 to 1143 as a package since they've all been read. Can we do that?
 43 or 44? Sorry, 44. 1137 through 1144. All emergency ordinances, all essentially identical. I'd like to do that with one roll call vote rather than eight, unless there's an objection. Without objection. Okay. Then roll call on. Council Clerk was thinking about it. She's looking nervous about that, but I think we can put it into the record. I'm kind of amped. Sorry, but if that's a council decision. We can do them separately. Okay.
 Is that a problem, Carla? We've never done that before. Well, come on. We need a task force. I move to consolidate 1137 to 1144. We'll call on consolidation, please. Novick. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. I hope this isn't a dangerous precedent. B. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 I'll steal Commissioner Novick's line. This is counsel gone wild. Aye. Roll call on the package, please. Novick. I very much appreciate Assistant Chief Modica and Vandalilov for their diligence in making sure that the language we worked out before is in each of these. And also your commitment to working with the Equity Committee moving forward. So thank you. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Schultzman? Aye. Hales? Just to pause on that huge number of the number of people that ride this transit system every day. This region would not work. This downtown would not work. This city would not work if our citizens didn't think it was a safe and positive experience to get on a train or a bus. So this is important, and it works, and it works regionally, and I appreciate the good effort that makes it so. Aye. Okay. Item 1145. Aye.
 Accept a grant in the amount of $373,569 and appropriate $168,460 for fiscal year 2015-16 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, fiscal year 2014, Intellectual Property Enforcement Program Competitive Grant to address intellectual property criminal enforcement in the Portland metropolitan region.
 I believe Detective Waddell is here. Is that right? Yes, there she is. Good morning. Good morning. And for the record, my name is Cheryl Waddell. I'm a detective with Portland Police Bureau White Collar Crime Unit. I am currently the acting sergeant for the unit. In 2011, the Portland Police Bureau was awarded the BJA grant for intellectual property, and we had several successful investigations. Thank you.
 Two of them were in health and safety for pharmaceuticals that were fraudulent, and they were successfully prosecuted. One of the pharmaceuticals was Cialis. The other one was for Viagra. Both of those investigations started outside of the city of Portland, but the suspects came into the city of Portland to sell their goods. Okay.
 Another of the successful investigations from that first grant was for software. It turned out that the suspect was in the city of Canby. We did an undercover buy and subsequently a search warrant, and it turned out the suspect was a registered sex offender and successfully prosecuted.
 The other software case that was successfully investigated in the city of Portland was
 was also an undercover buy. A search warrant was executed, and automatic weapons were seized during that search warrant. The suspect was a felon, and he was successfully prosecuted. So during these investigations of intellectual property, it's not only a health and safety issue that we've discovered for the greater Portland area, but also leads to stifling other types of crime.
 I am asking that the city council will accept the...
 a grant that we were awarded for the two years of 2015 and 2016, and I believe the total amount was $379,000. We've expanded our task force to include three other agencies that assisted us in our investigations from the 2011 grant. That was Canby Police Department, the Tigard Police Department, and the Woodbourne Police Department.
 The money from this grant will go to training these three other agencies as well as enforcement for overtime. Question, just the software case, just briefly.
 brings to mind, and that is have you and others from this unit sat down with the Technology Association of Oregon and tried to see around the corner what they see are the threats? I mean, we are such a software center now as a city, and I half understand that industry
 but I suspect there are opportunities for intellectual property crimes there because wherever there's money and commerce, there's that opportunity. So I don't know if you're having that dialogue with those that are a lot smarter than me about how software is –
 developed and sold, but there are a lot of those people doing that work here in Portland. Correct. That's why we're going to focus on health and safety as well as the electronics aspect of this grant. We're not specifically speaking with the group that you mentioned. I will definitely steer us in that group. We will be speaking directly with the
 the federal government's IPR center, which is the clearinghouse of all intellectual property infringements for the whole nation. So they will be able to steer us in areas where we need to look. Yeah, I'd recommend the conversation with the Technology Association of Oregon, Skip Newberry, who heads that, is a former employee of the mayor's office in Portland under Mayor Adams. So he understands city government, and he also obviously understands the industry. So I'd recommend that contact. Any other questions for Sergeant Waddell?
 Thank you so much. Appreciate you being here. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, we'll take a vote, please, on the emergency ordinance. Newick. Thank you. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Item 1146. Accept bid of Emery and Sons Construction Group for the Piedmont Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $3,098,500. Ms. Moody, come on up.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Emory & Sons Construction. The engineers' estimate on this project was $3.4 million, and on September 10, 2015, four bids were received, and Emory & Sons is the low bidder at $3,098,500. Thank you.
 The city identified eight divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 29.2%, with work being performed in concrete cutting, hauling, and traffic control. I'll turn this back over to council if you have any questions. Any questions for Christine? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 and do i have a motion to adopt the report so move second discussion roll call please novick hi fritz hi fish hi sheltzman hi hales hi i'm 47. adopt the fiscal year 2015-16 fall some supplemental budget and make other budget related changes scott welcome uh andrew scott city budget director and i'm uh joined with uh by jessica canard uh city bump coordinator
 So briefly today, we had a work session on the fall bump last week, so I won't go into a lot of detail. But from a process standpoint, we are going to be discussing the fall bump today, take any amendments if there are any proposed as needed, and then a vote will be taken next week. And that's to ensure that we have the correct DJC five-day notification so that we can have another public hearing again for next week for public testimony. We can also take testimony today and next week.
 So it will be scheduled for hearing and adoption next week, not just second reading? Yeah, it's technically not a second reading. It feels a lot like a first and second reading, but budget ordinances don't need to have the first and second reading. So anyway, we'll be taking testimony today and next week as well.
 So very briefly in terms of the fall bump, the supplemental budget that you have in front of you today contains an increase in general fund appropriation of about $6.6 million. That's a combination of $4.6 million in encumbrance carryovers, revenue and program carryovers, $1.4 million in excess beginning fund balance, and about $500,000 in bureau-generated revenue.
 Per city financial policy, a minimum of 50% of the $1.4 million excess balance must go to capital set-aside, major maintenance and replacement projects. The remainder falls to unrestricted contingency. And so the proposed budget, the proposed bump in front of you exceeds this minimum capital infrastructure investment with a $1.7 million investment in major maintenance and infrastructure costs.
 and the two projects we talked about last week. There's the 911 Center uninterrupted power supply, and then also $1 million for the Sears Center occupancy needs. There are also $5.6 million in new general fund expenses in the bump. Again, these are funded by the Excess Beginning Fund Balance, by reallocating $2.6 million of Portland Building debt service expenditures in the current year, and by allocating $1.6 million of unrestricted contingency. And again, those are listed in the ordinance that's before you.
 And then finally, there are some CalTarget adjustments based on fair wage adjustments, budget notes, and then also a $10 million increase in Portland Housing Bureau's current appropriation level target. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have. Okay. Questions? Andrew, Jessica. And is it time, perhaps, before we take public testimony, to put amendments on the table? I think amendments, yeah. Proposed amendments? Mayor, I have a proposed amendment. I'll pass this down. Okay.
 My amendment would be to fund the Age-Friendly Portland Initiative to the tune of $51,765.57 from unrestricted contingency funds. And if I can get a second, I'd be happy to discuss it. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Very briefly, colleagues, as you know, this is a partnership with Portland State University that dates back to 2010 when the council adopted the Age-Friendly Portland Plan
 Portland was the first city in America to be designated age-friendly by the World Health Organization. Since then, the implementation work associated with this plan has been led by Portland State University on a volunteer basis. Alan Delatore, Margaret Neal, community members, and student volunteers have done great work, but it's all been done on a volunteer basis. We have asked them to play a leadership role and to step up.
 And I believe it's now our turn to support them. Or quite frankly, colleagues, I fear that this partnership will be strained beyond repair. And we have an opportunity in this bump to not only support their broader work, but to specifically support their work with the Age-Friendly Housing Committee in looking at ways of ensuring that our future housing stock is accessible to older adults.
 Okay. I might speak to the motion also. I seconded it despite my reservation about funding things that are expected to be ongoing as part of the bump process. We're already funding things that are expected to be ongoing as part of the bump process, so that's one thing. But secondly, I agree with Commissioner Fish that this is a priority and that it's a relatively small amount of money in order to both preserve a great relationship and leverage all of the other resources we get with this program at PSU.
 And if the council makes this adjustment, contingency will still stand at? It'll be just over $1 million, $1.1 million currently. Actually, it's $1,145,000, so it will be just under $1.1 million. Is this an ongoing request or a one-time? It's a one-time. So we fully understand that we have to make the case again.
 Okay. Anyone, any other amendments? Let's take up other amendments. Sorry, we should vote to accept that amendment and then take testimony, and we'll take up other amendments. So roll call. No, Vic. Just yell. You can go from there.
 A lot of drama, Steve. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, other amendments to propose? So I'm not clear in terms of the budget notes whether the allocation of the second part of the costs at the Phase 1 parks employee conversion to union and bargaining unit jobs is
 Is that already in the proposal, or is that something that I need to – So it's not based on the email exchanges yesterday. I do have a proposed amendment if you'll pass that. I'm going to be moving the amendment that Andrew is passing out right now. All right. Just to refresh everybody's memory or for the public watching at home, the proposed budget adjustment includes $900,000 from contingency as part of that.
 cost which the employees are already in the new positions and in already incurring costs it leaves an estimated 700,000 that's not yet funded and this amendment would with the mayor's guidance with leadership would require all of the bureaus to help pay for that so the amendment is it does say that
 The City Budget Office will set aside $900,000 of general fund unrestricted contingency, and then we will add $700,000 from general fund compensation set aside in this fiscal year for personnel cost increases associated with the Portland Parks and Recreation Arbitration Agreement. Okay, I'll second that. So, Andrew, describe how this will work. We have a compensation set aside overall. It will now be –
 We'll have a call on that of $700,000. What will remain for other adjustments that are needed for bureaus that need to access that set-aside for the rest of the year? Right. So the compensation set-aside currently stands at $6.5 million. Setting aside this $700,000 would reduce it to about $5.8 million.
 million dollars, a little bit more than that. And it would reduce bureau compensation set-asides proportionally, again, based on how many personnel, what their costs are within that. And so we did look at that very briefly this morning. Obviously, police and fire...
 are the largest in terms of personnel costs. So it would reduce police bureaus' compensation set aside by about $350,000 and fires by about $187,000. Parks is the third largest, and they would be reduced by about $75,000, and then other bureaus much smaller amounts than that. And as we discussed at last week's work session, what this amendment does is it essentially spreads that $700,000 to all city bureaus
 So the guidance, if it passes, that we will give city bureaus as a result is to expect less compensation set aside available and managed accordingly for the rest of the fiscal year. Essentially, this is giving all of the bureaus notice that we do have this unexpected cost in this fiscal year and that we will all need to tighten our belts in order to be able to pay that, given that we don't have a large quantity of contingency left. Andrew, what's the impact of BOEC?
 Oh, thank you. $19,322.
 And colleagues, my expectation too, and in discussion with the city budget office, is that if it turns out that any of the bureaus look like they're going to not be able to make that, that there may be additional requests in the spring budget adjustments. I couldn't responsibly, as the commissioner in charge of Portland Park and Recreation, continue at our current level of service without making cuts unless we're sure that we are going to be spreading this year's costs citywide.
 Commissioner Fritz, just for clarification, if we adopt this amendment, we are, in essence, setting aside this money, but then the next step is we have to determine what we are going to invest on what schedule. So this does not decide the underlying question. This just allocates the available funds. This is just for this year, which we've already decided the Phase 1. This doesn't address the question of Phase 2.
 So this is what we're spending this year to pay staff who are currently doing the job and have been since the summer. So this funds the agreed-upon phase one approach that we discussed as a council? Correct. Okay. Thank you.
 And the reason for the set-aside, in total, this would set aside $1.6 million, which was at the low end of the estimates for Phase 1. We think, though, working with the Parks Bureau, we're headed towards that low end. But when we get to the spring bump, we will have a much more certain estimate as to what the actual costs are. To the extent they come in less than $1.6 million, we'd be able to allocate some of this money back. To the extent it comes in more, we'll need to find other sources. So I'm – go ahead, Dan, questions. So explain the compensation set-aside.
 So, compensation set aside, every year we take the increase from cost of living and health benefit increases, and we budget it separately from a bureau budget for one year on a one-time basis. The rationale for that is in most bureaus, there are vacancies that occur during the year, and they can fund those cost increases through those vacancy savings. This has been a long-time practice of ours.
 of the city, and it's a little bit of a cost-saving mechanism. But essentially, if you are fully staffed all year long, you will need to come in the spring bump and request your share of the compensation set aside because your adopted budget does not have enough to pay for all of your employees for full-year wages.
 So we're talking about the compensation set aside for the current fiscal year? The current fiscal year, right. And so what this means is that bureaus, again, as they're – and, you know, police and fire usually request and receive most of their compensation set aside every year. They don't always spend it every year, but they usually request it. And this means that they will have less available to request. So they may need to hold some vacancies for longer as a result.
 I use those two. This is true of all bureaus. Those two, though, are obviously the largest share of the compensation set-aside. Does FIRE have vacancies? Fire and Rescue? They do have vacancy savings, although, again, FIRE generally requests most of its compensation set-aside, and depending on the year, some years they spend most of it and some years they don't. I'm supportive of this approach, even though it does mean that all of our bureaus, all of our general fund bureaus are going to be asked to run –
 a little lean, that's more difficult than others in some bureaus. It's difficult in fire because they're close to fully staffed. It'll be difficult in police, not because they're close to fully staffed. They've got lots of vacancies, but because we're burning overtime at an enormous rate because we're short-staffed and we've had the worst year on record for gang violence. And so the gang unit and neighborhood patrol folks have been using a huge amount of overtime.
 And blessedly, that rate of activity has fallen off in the last couple weeks, and we can hope and pray that that's the case for the rest of the year. But it's been bad in terms of their use of overtime. So when we get to the spring bump, we're going to have to have a clear-eyed look at where we are in each of these bureaus. But the other reason I'm supportive of this is that we're in a partnership with a labor organization here that has won an arbitration case and where we have a moral responsibility to make good on our –
 need to pay our employees appropriately and we in effect need to show that we're taking every available dollar and dedicating it to this work because we have to work together on a transition over time and so that's why i'm prepared to do this is to show that we really are serious about finding all available dollars in the city's budget to make good on on our responsibility
 and knowing that even in a relatively healthy, stable, more stable general fund budget than we had a couple of years ago, there's not a lot of wiggle room in this budget. We still have 50 less police officers than we had in 2012, 2013. You know, we have firefighters who are paid for by a grant fund.
 that will have to be returning to general fund support in the next budget. We have a housing responsibility that we've all committed to, and we have a parks bureau that's doing great work, serving a lot more kids with community centers that are open and free, and where we need to take better care of our employees. So it's going to be a challenging budget year. This just makes, I think really puts us all on notice, including all of our bureaus, that everyone needs to operate properly.
 very efficiently and very prudently, even though, again, we have a healthier budget than we had a couple years ago. So I hope that message is understood and received throughout the city family. Other amendments? I'm sorry, we need to take a roll call vote on accepting this amendment, and then we'll take testimony. So roll call on the amendment, please. Novick?
 I'm very sympathetic to the intent here. I confess I haven't consulted thoroughly with BOEC as to whether they can handle that $19,000. So with the caveat that I need to talk to them about it between now and next week, aye.
 Thank you, colleagues. This is a citywide issue and needs a citywide solution, and Parks is not able to absorb this level of a cut without making programmatic and personnel cuts. So we will be having some very challenging conversations in the main budget next year. This is the right thing to do for this one. Hi. Hi.
 Aye. Soltan? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, any other amendments to propose? All right, thank you both very much. Any public testimony on the fall bump as now amended? Yes, we have five people signed up. Okay. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Bernier, Ted Bryan, and Erica Askin. Good afternoon. It is now afternoon. Welcome. Welcome.
 good afternoon my name is terry bernier and i've been working for the city of portland as a seasonal part-time employee at east portland community center for over 13 years six years ago my life was turned upside down my husband of 30 years was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer we were the average middle age middle class family this changed overnight
 Talking with our financial advisor, I was told it would be nearly impossible at my age to find a full-time benefited position. When my husband passed away, I was given the maximum 1,200 hours a year for a seasonal part-time employee, but that did not afford me to live without dipping into what little savings I had. Two years ago, my oldest son and three grandkids moved in with me. Being a single parent, he was not able to afford to live on his own and provide for his family.
 I was given the opportunity to become a 30-hour temporary benefited city employee with a living wage of $15.02 an hour. With this increase in wage, I've been able to afford some basics that I wasn't able to afford before. This temporary position is helping me to be able to feel a bit more comfortable that I'll be able to stay in my home of 30 years while still able to help raise my grandchildren in a familiar and safe environment.
 i understand there's an amendment being presented and that i'm in favor spreading the cost of this beyond phase one because the city's budget has been for too long been carried on the backs of the park workers i appreciate the city has stepped up to provide more rec workers with a living wage and that these temporary jobs be brought into the budget as a permanent position and to be funded on an ongoing basis thank you thank you good morning good afternoon i mean hi
 I'm Ted Bryan. I work at the Community Music Center in southeast Portland. And as a result of phase one, I was also temporarily appointed to a recreation leader position. For me, it's a halftime position. I work 20 hours a week. Before this, I was working in the customer service representative two position. And my job has not really changed, but my benefits and my wage, of course, have changed. And as
 As a result of that, I am living with much more financial stability right now, and I also have a regular work schedule. Before this, I was sort of roughly doing 20 hours a week, but there was always uncertainty, and so now I have a set schedule. And that's been really beneficial for me personally, and it's also been very beneficial for our organization at the Community Music Center. What I do there...
 requires a lot of site-specific knowledge, and it requires a lot of familiarity with the community. We have a very close community there. We have families who are bringing their children in for lessons for, you know, 14 years of their lives. And I can tell that...
 I really value being a part of that community and connecting with them. And I can tell that the customers appreciate having stability and continuity there and someone who knows their situation and needs.
 I would encourage that investing in stability for parks employees at my position in the long term is a very good idea because it strengthens the community centers. My position is we have a fairly small staff and what I do is really important to the integrity of the center.
 I think that's true at a lot of other centers around the city. And so I want to thank you for putting this phase one into play because it's been a big help for us. And I think that moving forward, really this would be, could be seen as investing in the strength of our communities in Portland because, you know, having workers who feel that they're valued and that they're fairly compensated for their time is really important.
 that feeds into the strength of the organizations and sort of that feeling, the well-being, investing in the well-being of the workers. It pays forward. It trickles down. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Erica Askin. I'm the business manager of Laborers Local 483.
 I don't think I can say it any more astutely than our new members have just said it, but I really appreciate Commissioner Fritz and the mayor's amendment and your vote on that amendment for funding citywide of the Phase 1 arbitration compliance. I think also their statements are a reflection of what happens when you bring people into a union, that these very important voices are now shared.
 I also appreciate, Mayor, your comment earlier that
 The community centers are a core function of city services. And on that point, in the future, if the city keeps on investing in the community centers and looking at it as a citywide problem, as Commissioner Fritz said, because it already is the contingent labor problem is a citywide problem. But in the future, if they keep on investing in this way –
 There's the possibility that all of these new teen mentors that are currently working in the centers under your initiative will now have fair wages and benefits. And I agree that these kinds of services, like others that are provided in the community centers, are core services to the city. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, I think we have a couple more folks signed up. Thank you all for being here. Michael Bunalcor and Jill Smith. Yeah. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. Thanks for having us here today. I'll be brief. Jill is going to speak to an issue that we are asking for you to co-invest with us to help solve. Recently, when Kurt Krieger presented the state of housing report, he said that one of the indicators of the rental market
 is the success rate of the housing choice voucher lease-up rate. And we are now at a level that's below 75%, which is considered a significant problem. And around the statewide average is now, I think, around 50%. So as bad as it is, there is the possibility of it becoming worse. So again, Jill will speak to that, but I just wanted to –
 take the opportunity to say that commissioner saltzman and his staff and the portland housing bureau staff have been really tremendous partners in helping us look at this issue and the investment request before you
 is one of a number of ways that we are working to address this issue both sort of programmatically and at policy levels. So know that we are working hard in all of the ways that we are partnered together around working through this housing crisis that we face. We're just deeply grateful for the partnership and your consideration for this investment. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Welcome.
 thank you for the opportunity to address you this afternoon i have this morning down um the housing choice voucher program known as section 8 in our community is a huge resource for our community and it's a very unique program which makes it the most popular one that people really want access to because it it it was designed to provide choice
 People can choose to live in a good neighborhood, near a good school, near medical facilities, near transportation. And unfortunately, that choice is diminishing because of the market. It's a market-driven program, and the market is having a really negative impact on our ability to use this amazing resource.
 Home Forward provides assistance for up to just under 10,000 households with vouchers. We have that many vouchers. It's approximately $70 million a year that comes into the community that Home Forward distributes to landlords.
 The program is designed to serve families earning under 50% of area median income. At Home Forward, over 82% of the people we serve earn less than 30% of area median income. And just so you know what that amount is, for one person,
 They earn $15,450 a year. And for two, it's $17,650 a year. And these are the people. That's 30%? That's 30%. Yeah. So that really helps you to understand who these folks are. These are the folks that would be homeless without our help.
 And unfortunately, even those with vouchers are struggling as they're being asked to move due to an increase of affordability issues in utilizing that voucher. I wanted to provide you with a few current data points that are effective right now today to help put this in perspective for you. Home Forward, between September of 2014 and September of 2015, put...
 Almost, well, we put about 1,700 vouchers in people's hands coming off of our waiting list. Unfortunately, we have a success rate right now of about 72%. Who is getting those vouchers? I told you about their income. Something else you should be aware of is 60% of those voucher holders that were successful finding a place are people with seniors that are seniors and people with disabilities.
 44% of those vouchers are being utilized by people of color.
 Some other things I thought you'd find interesting is, while we're down to a success rate of 72%, really because of the market conditions, our VASH voucher success rate is 78.5%. And we're doing better with that. And the reason we're doing better is because of the supports that folks need that have high barriers that are low income. And that's what the Section 8 Success Fund is all about, is trying to mirror some of those things that we know work
 Landlords are critical. We continue to do landlord outreach. We've trained well over 1,000 landlords in the last year, all over the state, actually. The state bill with the Landlord Guarantee Fund is helping us a lot, and your support is truly appreciated. And just to reiterate what Michael said previously, Home Forward's Board of Commissioners is aware of our request to you.
 and staff plans to present them with a resolution requesting additional funding that matches your authorization that it sounds like you'll be giving next week.
 and again thank you we appreciate this thank you that really helps illustrate the importance of this definitely sure everybody understands the success rates these are people to get a voucher and they can't find housing within what's the period of time so what what happens to put it in perspective is people will wait on a list the lucky few that made the lottery that have been on the list right now people have been on list over three years
 They go through quite a bit of work to actually get the voucher. They attend a three-hour class. They turn in a lot of paperwork and income verifications. And then after they attend the class and have that voucher in their hand, which is very valuable, we give them initially four months to find a unit, and we extend that to six months as needed.
 Right now, the average household is taking about 80 days when they're successful. And unfortunately, we're having a high number that aren't. And if they're unsuccessful, they have to surrender the voucher. They do. They do, yes. Right. And so we should be up around 90. You historically have been up in the 90%. We were in 2011, shortly after Commissioner Fish led the Section 8 Task Force. We're still...
 aggressively doing everything we were doing at the time of the task force and more, much more. This is the market. If I could just add a comment. The fact that we're down to 72% is not a reflection on Jill, who is the
 arguably the most influential person in Section 8 policy in the country. It's not a reflection on Michael being the new ED. It's not a reflection on Dan. It's a reflection on the fact that Congress has chosen to use these market-based tools, and just like low-income tax credits, which tanked during the recession, Section 8 vouchers don't work very well if you don't have an inventory of affordable units that people can rent.
 It is the underbelly of a market-based system. But, Dan, I thank you for bringing this forward. I think this is a great investment. Jill, I thank you for all the work you've done to streamline Section 8, because I think we're generally recognized as being one of the more friendly, landlord-friendly programs thanks to your work. And I also want to say that
 I appreciate the work you did on the low-income discount task force that the Water Bureau led. And, colleagues, for years there's been a solution that's eluded us as to how to get the discount to people that don't have a water meter. It's a fundamental flaw in our system. But we're very proud of the partnership with Home Forward and Michael and Jill's commitment to pass the discount through to Section 8 voucher holders.
 That's an example where if you have the right partner, you can overcome some of the obstacles. And so we are looking to get as much of that discount to existing Section 8 voucher holders. It's not easy, but we couldn't ask for a better partner. So thank you both. Thank you. I neglected to tell you a really important point about,
 that is part of the Success Fund, HUD sets their fair market rents based on three-year-old American Community Survey data. They've shared that with us. And when you're in this kind of market, three-year-old data lags behind a little bit, 20% to 30%.
 So we have partnered with you all, hopefully, as well as our neighboring housing authorities. There's three neighboring, and we've all gone in together to contract with Washington State University, who has successfully...
 submitted a survey meeting heads requirements to have Seattle's fair market rents reset. And they're in that process of doing that right now. We've all contributed to that effort. That would result in us being able to offer higher payment standards, enabling folks to get into more units. That's great. I hope that works. Thank you. Good work. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 if not then the ordinance as amended passes to next week's calendar for another hearing and adoption thank you all very much we have a few items remaining from the morning calendar i'd like to try to power through those and give the council at least a little bit of a lunch break um so let's let's maybe take all the second reading items uh let's take 1148 and then the second reading items and then we'll return to 1149.
 1148 authorized a participating agreement with Office Depot Inc. for the purchase of office supplies for an annual not to exceed amount of $1,500,000. Ms. Moody. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners.
 Did you want me to make this fast? Yes. Okay. It's great, though, but it is good what you're doing. Thank you, Christine. Your time is up. I move the motion. Okay. So I have sent you a memo about this contract, and what we're requesting is the ordinance is recommending the authorization of a participating agreement to the Office Depot Cooperative Contract, which is under the Western States NASPO agreement.
 for an annual not-to-exceed amount of $1,500,000, and that's through January 4, 2017. This is essentially an on-call agreement that we buy supplies as needed under this contract and we may or may not use up the entire $1.5 million. That's correct. The 1.5 is an estimate based upon our historical spend. Okay. Questions for Christine? Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 Okay. It's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, this looks like a very good deal, particularly Office Depot's commitment to meeting a lot of our sustainability goals and things like that. So that's great. Aye. Thank you.
 Good work. Thank you. Aye. Okay, 1151. The mail-in gallons a day. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Project Phase 1, project number E10475, for $10,800,000. Roll call. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. 1152. Aye.
 Authorize a contract with Century West Engineering Corporation for professional services for the design of the Wheeler Basin Reconstruction and Green Streets Project, number E10219, for $590,872. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. 1153. Aye.
 Extend contract with Murray Smith and Associates, Inc. for the Fulton Pump Station Replacement Project in the amount of $885,701. Roll call. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 1154. Aye.
 Amend Chapter 3.30 to add administrative review of stop work orders. Amend Titles 24 through 27 to add administrative appeal provisions. Revise external appeal board provisions to conform to the state building codes. Add term limits to all external boards. Delete obsolete provisions and make other technical changes. Call vote, please. Novick.
 Fritz. Thank you, Nancy Thorrington, for your outstanding attention to detail. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Nancy. Aye. Hales. Well done. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's return to the one remaining item, which is 1149. Declare intent to pilot the community-initiated neighborhood trails process to allow community organizations to identify and improve and develop right-of-ways to trail standards. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, at the first hearing on October 14th, Council asked staff to draft four amendments and get further clarification of ORS 105.668, or what is more colloquially known as recreational immunity. Eric and Ivo, my staff, work with PBOD and the city attorney in a memo that was shared with your offices and the public yesterday, which outlines these changes and findings, the memos in front of you today.
 Before the amendments are submitted formally, I wanted to take another opportunity to highlight the amount of feedback the community has offered PBOT throughout this process. It continues to be my hope that everyone stays engaged, because everybody's feedback is and will continue to be important. I want to thank the residents and trails advocates who showed up two weeks ago for taking the time to testify, including but not limited to Southwest Trails for their volume of feedback, which PBOT has considered and incorporated in polar and part.
 Elizabeth Duncan, who encouraged us to take a closer look at the recreational immunities standard statute. Arlene Kimura for inspiring Commissioner Fritz to ask staff to craft an amendment that we'll talk about shortly. Marian Fitzgerald for being Marian Fitzgerald. And advocates for Baltimore Woods and St. John's. I think that this pilot process is a great start. PBOT worked hard to balance and incorporate diverse opinions to get to what was presented to us two weeks ago. The amendments in front of us today will make the process better.
 And it's important to remind ourselves that this is a pilot project and thoughtful changes can be made if the need arises. Now, as to the amendments, one of the amendments, which is referred to as Amendment 3 on the memo in front of you,
 It has to do with the availability of information to community members who need translated materials. PBOT will work with OD and BPS to develop a template letter to accompany outreach materials. It will be made available to the applicant on PBOT's website. PBOT needs some more time to actually craft this document, but we'll be ready by January 2016 when the pilot process launches.
 Amendment 4 in the memo clarifies the role of PBOT's director in the advisory nature of the trails process. This addresses concerns about the perception that neighboring landowners would have veto power that came up during the first council session from community members and some members of council.
 So this amendment clarifies that the ultimate authority does rely on rest with the PBOT director. I'm actually proposing an amendment to the amendment. The amendment currently, as originally stated, says that the ability to complete the steps outlined in the process will be the primary determinant in whether or not PBOT will allow the group to move forward with building a trail or,
 I suggest changing the primary to a major, which I think further underscores the advisory nature of this process. I second that. Thank you. Okay. Do you want to do those as a package? No, I don't. Oh, okay. Okay, you don't? All right, so just that one then. Yes.
 So I've only just seen these amendments, and I appreciate all the work that's been done. On Amendment 4, it's proposed to add it to the end of the background section, which I'm very concerned that that doesn't give it as much force of law as having it actually in the process. And my request had been to have it at the end of the process, where the language talked about, you know, basically –
 you're tough luck if you didn't get this done. And then I was proposing to make it really clear that, no, actually, this is advisory. So I don't think that having it in the background section really works. And then, secondly, I appreciate the amendment to make it a major determinant rather than the primary. Very concerned that it's the PBOT director that has the final authority. Surely the commissioner in charge of the bureau has the final authority. Who is the –
 Who should the public complain to if the director says no and there's no appeal to counsel? And then thirdly, it says bureau-owned right-of-ways are used. I don't think the Bureau of Transportation owns the right-of-way. I believe the public owns the right-of-way. So it needs to be the public right-of-ways are used. And really, the public should have the say in how the public right-of-ways are used. And as currently defined, adjacent property owners do have veto power.
 Well, again, I don't think they have veto power. They don't have veto power. But changing from bureau to public is easy. And actually, I'd like to ask Sarah Schooley to address the question of the placement of the language. Sure.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'd be happy to address that, Commissioner Fritz. So we did get your suggestions to put it at the end of the document. The end of the document, as it was put on the website, is a section called Mutual Respect. And so we didn't feel that it was appropriate to put in that section. We were also a little concerned that because of that section and also just documents in general, people often don't read to the end.
 and so didn't want to put it there, thinking that a lot of people actually might not get there. And so we're hoping by putting it in front, more people would get it as part of the context of the program. Thank you.
 I guess my experience has been that people don't generally read the background information. They dive right into what are the steps that I have to follow. And so unless it's in the steps that can be followed. So we could, so that mutual respect section at the end isn't actually one of the steps. And so we could incorporate it into step number three. We could put it at the end of that step. And that's the step that involves the community involvement and neighborhood support.
 So we could put it in there. Yes, thank you. Does the language in that paragraph work for you, though, with the changes suggested? Well, except I believe it should be the elected official who has the ultimate responsibility, not the PBOT director.
 I will pass that on to said elected official. I don't want to have any more responsibilities, but okay. So that would be commissioner in charge rather than director? Correct. I mean, obviously, we all make decisions in concert with our commissioner in charge or with our bureau director, depending on which side you're on. I would like to be really clear that there is an elected official whom citizens feeling aggrieved by the outcome of the process can appeal to.
 Okay. Thank you. I can do that. Somehow I don't have any of this in front of me, but I did read the stuff over the past couple days. But I just want to make sure I understand what we're doing here. We are backing off a little bit from the work. This is a pilot, right? This is for how long? A one-year pilot. One-year pilot. And so the amendments that we're considering right now will allow the, I guess, the commissioner in charge now to take under advisement the result of any kind of a vote.
 of neighbors. Correct. It's only, it's a major factor. It's not the primary factor. And it's ultimately up to the discretion of the commissioner in charge or PBOT. Okay.
 Right. And I think one of the reasons why Commissioner Fritz suggested this paragraph and why we were very willing to put it in is that really any community input process is in essence an advisory process. And so if for some reason the trails process goes through and because of one step or another it comes out a way that the commissioner in charge doesn't believe is the best use of that right of way, we want to make sure that
 that the power and the understanding is that the commissioner in charge is the one with the final decision. And so although we believe that
 That responsibility was implied and also mentioned in the first draft, or what I guess was the third draft of the trails process that came out. I think this language just puts it out there a little bit more and helps clarify that responsibility. It makes clear that these elections are not binding in any sense of the word. Right, that they are advisory. Mm-hmm.
 Exactly. I think the concern is where the immediate neighbors simply don't want people walking past them. We heard from Trudy Raz this morning how there's a fence in the right-of-way and it needs to go. And that's under the current voting rules. The immediate neighbors do have a certain sense of they're entitled to say no. Mm-hmm.
 So I appreciate the amendments, which make it really clear that, no, actually, people who live far away might want to walk past that particular property, whether that particular neighborhood says, no, this is our private enclave, no, it's public right-of-way.
 Basically what you're doing in this process, we're saying we want people to work these issues out with their neighbors, including the neighboring landowners. So we hope people will try to do that. But that doesn't mean that the neighboring landowners have the ultimate authority. Yes. Because I think my experience has been that there is often an attempt to work with the neighbors when the neighbors say no.
 other people like, well, isn't this public right of way? I have the right to be there. And it is also important to remember, if you all can flashback a couple weeks ago to the presentation, there were three different options to get that community and neighborhood support box checked. And so only one of them actually was getting a
 high majority of 75% of adjacent property owners. The other two options, we were getting 50% of residents or of property owners within a quarter mile of the trail, trying to look at some broader user base. And then the third option was getting 50% of adjacent property owners along with a neighborhood association letter. So there were a couple options. But all of those are very parochial. They all are about the neighborhood association. When we're
 We're encouraging people to walk further distances, and plus some neighborhood associations are really, really small. We shouldn't give the neighborhood association the right to veto. Right. And I'm not seeing an option in which I would like to see, and maybe this is a pilot so we can see how it works, and I'm going to be particularly interested to see how it works on the Coronado Street right-of-way, which is so contentious. Maybe there needs to be a fourth option of vetoing
 the neighborhood coalition or petition of 500 people or whatever it is that allows anybody beyond that. I'm certainly willing to try it as such. We actually had a conversation with one of the neighborhood coalitions about that, and I think their immediate reaction was, ah, but we might revisit that in the future.
 Do you want to move the amendments? Yes. Actually, there's one of them, which actually, Sarah, I want to make sure exactly what kind of amendment it is, because we have a reference to Amendment 5, which is a statement that staff will be adding a section to the Q&A for individuals that own property next to an unimproved right-of-way that detail the benefits of having an adjacent unimproved property.
 right-of-way developed or trail standards. One of these benefits could potentially be less than liability as a result of 105.668, and we provided language, the kind of language that we think we will add to the Q&A. And I want to know, is this really an amendment? Are we saying for sure this precise language will be used, or just sort of advising people that we plan to add this kind of language?
 Yes, this is advising people that we look to add this sort of language. And right now the Q&A is up on the website, and that's definitely a living document. And so as we get closer to this process being implemented, as questions come in, we'll be looking to change around that Q&A to make sure that we –
 We answer the questions people are asking the most. But I think there was an acknowledgment that ORS wasn't referenced in the Q&A, and that obviously, as you have found out, has been a very popular question. And so we want to make sure that we have language in there and have been working with the city attorney to make sure we get the right language. I don't think you have to actually amend the ordinance to do that, but you can if you want. And thank you, Commissioner. With your acceptance of my friendly amendments, I'm happy to vote on them as packages.
 Great. So I move amendments one through five as package A. And the corrections or revisions that we made to what was amendment four that now is going to be at the end of step three is changing director to commissioner in charge and changing bureau to publicly. And also moving the location in the document. That's right.
 And then we changed primary to major. To a major, yeah, the primary to a major. Major, okay. So those capture the changes. The change bureau to public. And also we're going to move that into step three rather than the background. Step three, right. Move that in from what was, it's still amendment four, but now it goes into the end of step three, right? Right. Okay, those are the amendments. Let's vote on the amendments and see if anyone wants to testify on the amended ordinance. Novick?
 Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Sarah. Thank you, Erica. Thanks, everybody. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, Sarah, thank you very much. Does anyone want to speak on this item or not in unison or otherwise? We have five people signed up. We have people signed up. Okay. For the amendments, John Gibbon, Elizabeth Dinen, and Glenn Bridger. Okay. Duncan.
 May I just note that there's a time check. We may lose a quorum. Are we testifying in favor or against? I'm in favor of the amendments. I think that the – Is there anyone who's testifying against the amendments? Okay. Okay. So we've got a diversity of opinion there. Go ahead. Okay. I'm in favor of the amendments. As I understand it, it's going to lessen the adjacent owner's veto to this, and I think that that's necessary. I still believe that it's on a case-by-case basis. Okay.
 and I think putting it in the hands of the commissioner in charge is probably the best way to make a judgment on case-by-case basis. I know of the situation with my homeowners association. We have neighbors who probably would have a veto but are completely fenced off from the right-of-way, not even affected by privacy. So I kind of have a problem with that. I also would like to see this process move forward because –
 I don't think this solves our problem for my homeowners association, but we have something called a public pedestrian pathway that runs through our private land, and I'd like to move to some place where we have more certainty about reduction in liability if we're letting the public go through our private lands, so.
 Those are critical things that I think this process helps us with. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Elizabeth Duncan. I testified before you on October 14th about the liability issue. I am not anti-trail, but I am anti-liability. And I don't think it's fair to put a lot of our citizens in the position that they're in today.
 PBOT's amendments explain the limitations of ORS 105.668. They explain the protections for new trails under PBOT's plan, but they do not propose any protections for property owners who live along existing trails, and that is absolutely reprehensible to leave people in this sort of situation.
 I'd like to ask each of you, if you would want to be liable for a trail that is published on the city's map and that currently look like this and like this, no one in their right mind would knowingly take on that sort of liability.
 and this is not a theoretical problem walkers are being injured on these trails a lady in my neighborhood died because she fell down a steep trail she suffered a brain injury and a few weeks later she died at ohsu southwest trails meeting a few weeks ago they mentioned four or five serious injuries that have occurred on these trails when the present condition of these existing trails
 With the present condition of the existing trails, the fact that walkers are being injured when using these trails should not surprise you. The important point is that this council has the opportunity to fix the mistakes of the past. Don't allow PBOT to move forward and totally ignore the hazardous condition of existing trails. This is a plan that I would suggest. Require Southwest Trails to assume all liability for existing trails. They built them illegally without permits.
 They are proud of them and promote them at every possible opportunity. Let Southwest Trails assume liability for them in a written agreement with the city. Second, have a city engineer go out and inspect each of these trails and document conditions deemed unsafe to the public. And third, follow the same maintenance provision detailed in PBOT's proposed trails plan at page 3.
 If the city engineer deems the conditions to be unsafe for the public, PBOT shall formally inform the group responsible for maintenance of the deficiencies, and if they are not resolved by the time set forth in the maintenance agreement, PBOT may close the trails. But one caveat, follow this procedure for existing trails first. Don't allow Southwest Trails to use its resources to build future trails when their existing trails are in such a hazardous state.
 Please do the responsible thing today. Do not pass this trails plan before you today until it is amended to cover the existing trails and protect walkers who use these dangerous trails and the innocent property owners currently liable for them. Otherwise, the condition of these trails will never be addressed, and they will only continue to deteriorate. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bridger?
 Good morning. Glenn Bridger, Southwest Community Activist.
 I appreciate the amendments that have been discussed here today, as well as the additional amendments that Commissioner Fritz made, and I support those amendments. I'd like to focus on the liability topic, because that is an issue of concern for all of us. I believe that too frequently liability is being used by some of the adjacent property owners as a red herring of how they say NIMBY, not in my backyard. I don't want to have people walking by here.
 And I think we need to not allow it to be used as a bullying technique to help the city avoid enforcing their own existing rules to clear the rights away so that they're available for pedestrian access as required by code.
 I do thank Trudy Raz-Frankel for her bringing forth to us that these trails are not a creation of any one organization. These trails existed as she was growing up, where she knew she had the right to walk on the public rights way.
 That was an inherent right that the public has, and that pathways or trails have been created since day one in this community. And so it is not just an issue of any individual organization, but it is a community issue. And if we can have maintenance funding, which is not in this amendment, not in the proposal, that can help on that. Maintenance funding from PBOT can help overcome some of the issues that people have about the condition of the trails.
 So we need to move forward, and I'd like you to move forward with this amendment so that we can build and hopefully maintain trails in the future. Okay. Thank you all very much. Others that are signed up on this item? Don Buck and Hugh McGavick. Doubleheader today. That's very unusual. Commissioners, Mayor Hales, I want to, first of all, just stepping back, I think Ms. –
 prior speaker talking about maintenance it's really important it's really important and trails has basically because the liability issues not addressed maintenance since 2008 we have sought with the city to try to fork out something to do that and we want to continue on that basis but the just for the record the trails were built by the Southwest neighborhoods incorporated committee of committee which was Southwest trails at the time we are a total separate organization in Southwest trails PDX
 Moving to the amendments, basically I support the amendments as presented, but I have a couple of things that I think are really important. Staff in their memo to you said we're going to send out this announcement when there's a trail approved or through the first vetting process. Because their announcement was very defective that they sent out to the existing property owners, they didn't tell them they had liability for the adjacent trails. They didn't tell them there's an opportunity if you work with a nonprofit to have that immunity from –
 from, not suit, but whatever, the immunity process that the state ordinance provided. That needs to go out to everybody now so that we don't end up with everyone trying to close off the trails in front of their houses. Now, I'm going to go down here, and really we fear more property owners will be led to do the same thing as others have done to try to close off these trails that people are now using or would like to use. Now, I don't foresee everybody, every little bitty right-of-way where we're getting a bunch of phone calls saying we've got to open that up.
 But where there are some critical ones, it's important that the people be able to have the city address these issues. Let me give you an example of one. In Southwest, we had a letter written by Christine Leon several years ago to a property owner saying that they had to keep a platterway open. Since then, it's been closed down by putting brush in front of it, planting plantings, and so on. So we asked the same writer of the letter, Christine, to tell us how we're going to get this back open so as she provided in her letter, we can go through there.
 We got a response saying you've got to go to Title 59, or I'm sorry, 29, and BDS has to be involved. So we went to BDS, asked them to get involved. They went out and posted it. And then, lo and behold, PBOT said, oh, you can't post it. It's not a legal trail because it hasn't gone through the trail process.
 Well, if you look at the ordinance, which I quoted in my note that I gave you, it's very clear that says these remain open to the public unless specifically authorized by permit or ordinance to do otherwise. Now, I don't think there's any way that permits says – there's no permits out there that says you can't do this. So PBOT's sort of making the law on their own, saying, no, we're not going to do that. And that bothers us a lot. And it's causing conflicts within the neighborhood. What I'd like to see, send this note out to everybody saying this is the law.
 And these are the options you have, rather than just sending it when there's a project specifically approved, because it's the other ones that we're worried about. And then there's another one where they're not removing, my time is up, so I won't go on. It's lunchtime, but I'd encourage you to read it. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Hugh McGavock, and I live in Southwest, and I live on Coronado right-of-way.
 Thank you for giving me an opportunity to be heard. It's interesting being juxtaposed with Mr. Bach because we represent completely different views in this particular circumstance where I live, which I'm not here to discuss, but it's just a great juxtaposition to conclude this lengthy process.
 And that juxtaposition can be stated in our instance as environmentalists versus hypers, and those needs are what this whole policy is addressing to balance those both critical needs to the city on a case-by-case basis. I'm not going to argue the merits of anything that's happened before. I'll answer any questions that I'm given. But I do think there are a couple of changes that I would like to see made to address the amendments.
 First, Commissioner Fritz, with due respect, I think it's a bad idea to put more weight on yours and your colleagues' busy shoulders. I think it should be a decision by the head of PBOT. And it'll leave you out of this already highly politicized arena. I suggest you revisit that and go back to as was written coming in. Second, the immunity amendment.
 is written by the very capable Sarah Schooley, who's done a brilliant job throughout and has interacted very well with everyone who's wanted her ear and many who she would rather not. But she stated it as a recommendation for,
 that Staff recommends in this language. I don't see what I'd like to see there What I would like to see is I would like to plug this recommended language in under immunity for certain landowners Right now as drafted there there are many kudos to Southwest trails for brilliantly getting this legislation passed and misrepresentations about what it accomplishes the new I
 language that staff recommends is more in line with the legal memo that Peter Fenley Fry presented from Duncarnie at the last meeting that caused Commissioner Fish to request this amendment. This language, I think, is a more benign, more policy-proper language.
 statement of law and fact that the layman could follow. And third, and finally, very quickly, the Second Amendment is about inspection, and that's on the last page, 8, and it comes at step 6. Right now it says...
 The proposed language says the trails organization shall contact PBOT once construction is complete so staff with a representative of the applicant have the opportunity to inspect. It should just be complete for an inspection period. That's all. Thank you. All right. Thank you both. So questions, recommendations? I guess I'm a little confused.
 i'm a little confused about where we are on the liability issue um at this juncture so um i appreciate the work that's been done i also appreciate ms duncan's testimony so commissioner or city attorney or anyone else where we feel like we are on that issue at this point i'll defer to the city attorney
 Counsel, I'm Ben Walters with the City Attorney's Office. So I have been working with PBOT related to the concerns raised about the liability statute issue.
 We've tried to come up with language to include in dissemination to the public that tries to describe what the liability statute addresses in language that we hope is understandable. I disagree with some of the conclusions that Ms. Duncan described in terms of what the liability statute does or does not address at this point in time.
 And part of what the policy is hoping to address is that right now, at least, we have situations where work is occurring in the right of way. It's not being done necessarily in accordance with standards developed by the city. And to the extent that the policy hopes to get people
 trails up to a prescribed standard under the supervision of PBOT that does bring it into a situation where the city will assume some responsibilities for establishing standards. And if the work is done in accordance with the standards, then the city will be shouldering some of the responsibilities for those trails and taking that off of the abutting property owners.
 and the organization that's doing the work. And that's more of a process result than it is a statement that we need to include or somehow extracting a commitment from the organization for prior work that was performed. Any questions? Okay, I think that's helpful. Thank you.
 to the suggestion uh ms duncan made about having the city engineer inspect uh existing trails or
 Any thoughts on that? Do I have any thoughts on that? Sure. You know, I suppose, well, right now at least we have a complaint-driven process where if people have concerns about the condition of the trails, then they can submit those to BDS, and BDS would coordinate with PBOT on whether or not the conditions necessitate some correction. So it's complaint-driven right now? It's a complaint-driven basis. Okay.
 So maybe not today, but sometime soon. I guess I'd like just a tutorial about scenarios in which there would be an injury. Who ends up with the liability? I still hear that. Well, frankly, that's going to depend on the circumstances of each case. The liability will be resolved on a case-by-case basis. Okay. The statute affords some significant protection for budding property owners as it stands right now. We think. Okay.
 Well, we think, yes. Perhaps this is a discussion that we should be looking at in our legislative agenda if we need to toughen it up. The statute only applies to cities over 500,000, which is us. So perhaps it might be something that we could get some tweaks if necessary. The statute allows cities below 500,000 to opt in if they choose to. Okay. Okay. All right. Other questions for Mr. Walters?
 And let's see, where are we with this? This is a previous agenda item, so it's been amended. Well, what's it? It's a resolution. It's a resolution. We can vote on it today. It is now an amended resolution. Okay, so we can take action on it today. So, further discussion? Roll call. No thank you.
 Thank you, Sarah. Thank you, Christine. Thank you, Erica. Thanks to Southwest Trails. Thanks to Marianne. Thanks to everybody who participated in this process. Thank you, John. God bless you, Mr. Stormwater. So, again, this is a pilot. We'll try it out for a while. We'll monitor how it's going. We'll see how it works. I hope it works well. Aye.
 Ritz. I appreciate hearing all of the concerns on all sides. And as Commissioner Novick said, this is a pilot. Sarah Scully, I've been really impressed with the work that you've done on this. And when you have people on all sides who disagree with each other quite a lot, but they all agree that you have done a great job, that's very telling. And I very much appreciate your work. Aye. Selfsman. Well,
 to be the third one to underscore. It's a pilot. So I do look forward to careful evaluation. I think our goal is we want to advance the creation of trails in Southwest and throughout the city as alternatives to getting from point A to point B. And we want to make sure that liability issues that I think we want to resolve the
 the concerns adjacent property owners have about liability, but not at the same token to give absolute veto power to adjacent property owners. I don't think that would be a chilling impact on any trails happening, in my opinion. So we need to do this pilot, and I think we need to further figure out what the options are and make sure people know, if they are adjacent to a trail they feel is unsafe, that they do know there are channels that they can...
 bring their complaints to and certainly as the commissioner in charge of bds i'll make sure that that that channel is working and uh so i think this is a great pilot i do want to make sure that it doesn't stifle trail creation hi
 else was a social experiment under hopefully adult supervision by the city of Portland and I'm committed to making it work I don't want to put property owners at risk and hopefully the legislative protections that we have assured that but I take your point Commissioner Fritz about we need to go back to the legislature make it stronger we should do just that but let's go forward to the pilot project and see I thank you all very much we are recessed for one hour
 All right, everybody ready? Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the November 4th Portland City Council meeting. Would you please call the roll? Novick?
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Ales. Here. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome. We have really important work to do here this afternoon, and we're glad you're here to participate in it. We have a time-certain item at 2 o'clock, which we'll get to in a moment, and then a pair of items at 2.30. The council's going to work until 6, so it's my hope that we'll hear from everyone and take action by then. If not, we'll have to carry things over, but we'll see how that goes. And...
 We're obviously going to take public testimony when we get to each of these items, given the number of people here and our interest in hearing from everybody. I want to ask you to be brief. We'll probably limit testimony to individuals to two minutes. And obviously, if you're here on one of these items and you've already heard your point of view expressed, you can certainly defer and say that your points have been made. Thank you.
 If you do want to sign up to speak, there have been sign-up sheets outside, so please let us know that you'd like to testify. If you're here to testify, you need only give your name. You don't need to give us your address. And we practice the rules of decorum in this room, and that is if you agree with a fellow citizen's point of view and want to indicate that, feel free to give them a wave of the hand or a thumbs up. And if you disagree, feel free to make a polite gesture.
 hand gesture to the contrary, but we ask that we don't make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view here so everybody feels that they can be heard and so that they actually can be. That's about all the procedure there is to it, so let's begin, please, with item 1155. Thank you, sir.
 Proclaim November to be Native American Heritage Month in Portland. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very honored to present this proclamation today and invite our invited speakers up. I understand we have a drum solo to start with, which is a treat for all of us. Is that still on? I think so. Looking at my part, Stephan, if you'd like to come forward, please. Come on up, Judy, please. We have Judy Bluho Skelton and Donita Sue Fry. Come on up. Good afternoon. Hatsumei. Hi.
 hello good to be here um we're uh really honored to be um here today to um once again celebrate and acknowledge and read read the proclamation foreign uh native american heritage month
 It follows right on the heels of Indigenous Peoples Day last month, which we're all starting to feel like we're part of being council chambers a lot. Good. For many good things. And so it's really an honor to be here again and know that there are many of us who are here in spirit but cannot get to the council meeting today to share in this exciting celebration today.
 We have a number of things to offer, gifts, but good words and a performance. And I'm going to let each person introduce themselves, but I'm Judy Blue Horse Skelton. I serve on the Portland Parks Board and I'm on the faculty with the Indigenous Nation Studies Program at Portland State University. And so many of our students are...
 Really excited about the energy and feeling that part of the city and that recognition. We have a lot of events scheduled in the city and at PSU and around the region to acknowledge. Been asked to speak to the Native American Community Advisory Council. We've now been meeting for four years. We meet monthly and are very happy that the Parks Bureau has been convening, especially...
 grateful to Elizabeth Kennedy Wong for the long-term commitment to keep meeting every month as we look at policy we look at land management we look at the naming of parks we we've had several events as I think you were at the last one mayor hails with the Westmoreland Park salmon celebration our second annual
 celebration of that salmon coming back home in the only unimpeded salmon run in the city of Portland the salmon coming up from the Columbia up the Willamette up Johnson Creek
 up the Crystal Springs to the headwaters hidden in Reed College Canyon. And so this year we partnered with PBOT as part of Sunday Parkways. It was huge attendance. We had salmon baking traditionally, thanks to Christine and Clifton Bruno. We had a storyteller at Edmo. Just so many in the community. The Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission was there talking about
 The fact that at these headwaters hidden in Reed Canyon are the Pacific lamprey. And so a real regenerative process.
 time in the city. As the salmon come back, the people are heartened. We are in Salmon Nation. My tribes Nespers and Cherokee and many of us are from all over the country and call Portland home. And when the salmon come back, now they knew, they didn't know they, we had changed the schedule from October to September 27th. So they weren't in Crystal Springs that day.
 But we have since seen them there, salmon spawning in October. And so it gives us –
 great heart in a way that nothing else does. Other events have been the Native American Family Day, which Parks is hosting at Mount Scott Community Center, November 28th, Confederated Tribes of Siletz, and Portland Public Schools Indian Education Office, and others are on hand to do activities, dance, share culture, and the Parks provides free swimming and other things. So
 It's a reciprocal opportunity to recognize that the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers have been home to people from time immemorial. It is a huge economic and social network. Coming in here today, I can feel that it still is. And so in the 21st century, we are...
 We recognize our ancestors were looking out for us seven generations back. That's why we're able to sit here today. Even when we were facing disenfranchisement and relocation and, for many tribes in Oregon, termination. Tough word, but that was the policy. And so as Salats and Grand Ronde get ready to celebrate restoration...
 regeneration with their powwows, we're excited to remind that we're still here.
 In fact, if anything, it's an opportunity for us to share how we will live here for the next thousands of years in the face of climate change. Where will we all live? What water will we drink? What are our healthy foods? How will our children be? And how will we all share this place that we all call home? And so we're very excited about being able to share that.
 And Verdine has agreed to share a little bit and introduce herself. Hello. It's nice to be here. Thank you for having us. My name is Verdine McGuire.
 I'm a member of the Confederated Tribes of Salets Indians. I work here at the Portland area office for my tribe. I'm the community health advocate. I'm part of the NACAC board when my schedule allows it. And my tribe is celebrating their 38th year of restoration this year at the Chinook Winds Casino in Lincoln City. So I will definitely be attending that.
 It's one of our favorite events. But I'm honored to be here and looking forward to the agenda and the proclamation today. So thank you. Thank you. We have a special guest coming down from our northern relatives. And I'm going to let you introduce yourself. Natsyam. Natsyalakasyam. Hyshka.
 I'm saying family and friends of family, thank you for being here. You're wondering how am I related to you? If I'm going to call you family, what I'm going to say is that we are related to this special moment. From now on, we'll remember this time together, I hope. My elders would say at gatherings ever since I was a little boy, the greatest gift anyone can give is their presence.
 and later on i thought my uncle art especially was trying to get out of giving me a present christmas but now i know what he really meant what he meant was the greatest gift anyone can give is their presence and at this time in gratitude i want to acknowledge the generosity of your service to this community i want to thank you for stepping forward
 and choosing this sometimes thankless job of being a public servant. And out of that gratitude and the recognition and acknowledgement of your generosity, I'm reminded that there for thousands of years here was a sustainable economy. That may seem like an impossibility, the notion of a sustainable economy. But if it is based on generosity and if it is based on gratitude, then we...
 can not only share this beautiful past that we have, this peaceful time that we have, we can celebrate a shared future of sustainability, a shared future of prosperity, a shared future of spiritual healing. In 1983, Native elders met at the University of Lethbridge up in Canada to celebrate and to address the issues that relate to substance abuse.
 They celebrated in this gathering, and they realized in that gathering that the hurt of one is the hurt of all, and the honor of one is the honor of all. On this day, I'd like to perform a piece I wrote that was inspired by that gathering with the intention that you hear and accept the notion that your honor brings honor to everyone. As you are true to your skills, gifts, and talents,
 muster up the courage to feel all of your feelings, recognize and acknowledge that you are significant. Others may recognize and acknowledge that you're significant, but that would be insignificant if you don't own your own significance. And act on the passions of your heart. That honors us all. That honors everyone. So this piece was inspired by that gathering with the simple notion that one person honors their skills, gifts, and talents. And then generations from now,
 a lifetime from now, how that has an impact on everyone around us. This is called the honor of all. If you don't mind, I'm going to stand while I play. Oh, please. That's fine. ¶¶
 ¶¶
 ¶¶
 . . .
 . .
 Let's suspend the rules and say thank you for that. Thank you. I sincerely believe that I've lived my whole life for that moment and to remind us all that my music is a direct product of a well-supported public school music program. Hear, hear. Applause
 I thought there was no clapping. No clapping. I'm just kidding. It was too great to not clap. That was beautiful. Well, we appreciate so much you as leaders being here today. It's my privilege to read this proclamation and make this official. So thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your help with this.
 to each of you for being here. It says, "...whereas Native Americans, the indigenous peoples of this land, flourish with vibrant cultures, developed one of the largest trade economies and are the original stewards of Mother Earth, and whereas the city of Portland now rests on lands at the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers, a major crossroads for the economic, social, and political interactions of the indigenous tribes for thousands of years."
 And whereas indigenous people hand down oral histories, science, governance, a distinct relationship with water, land, rocks, native plants, birds, fish, and animals, and invaluable cultural knowledge and rich traditions that continue to thrive in Portland, supporting community health,
 And whereas indigenous peoples who have been here since time immemorial continue to contribute immeasurably to our country, state, and city's heritage, distinguishing themselves as scholars, veterans, teachers, athletes, artists, entrepreneurs, and leaders. And whereas the indigenous population of the Portland metropolitan area is over 40,000 people, descended from more than 380 tribes and bands from across the nation.
 And whereas the community continues to contribute to the cultural fabric of the city of Portland through many events throughout the year, such as traditional powwows, festivals, celebrations, active community organizations, and tribal intergovernmental relationships, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland,
 the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the month of November to be Native American Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all our residents to observe this month. Again, let's suspend the rules and say thank you. Mayor Hales and Commissioners, we have to thank you and close out today. Oh, yes, please. A drum song from one of our select tribal members and one of our NAIA staff members here in the City of Portland. That would be wonderful. Thank you.
 My name is Fish Martinez and I'm just going to sing up what's an honor song, what I learned from a gentleman that I knew from here in Portland and his name is Gerald Sinner.
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
 ¶¶
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
 I
 Oh, yeah.
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
 All mere relations. Thank you very much. Our Native community members have handmade some honorary gifts for our elected officials to wish you well in your leadership. Thank you. Come around. If only we could begin all our deliberations that way. Thank you so much.
 All right. Well, we're going to get people rearranged. I know some may have to leave and others are trying to get in. I think there may be still a little room upstairs. We probably have an overflow room as well. So we'll try to accommodate everyone. We welcome you all here for this afternoon's work. Let's read the next two items together, please.
 1156, adopt a policy opposing all project proposals that would increase the amount of crude oil being transported by rail through the city of Portland and the city of Vancouver, Washington. 1157, oppose expansion of infrastructure whose primary purpose is transporting or storing fossil fuels in or through Portland or adjacent waterways.
 thank you well let me set the stage for this work and then turn it over to commissioner fritz to discuss the first of these two resolutions there have been other times when portland and oregon have led whether it was land use planning or light rail and streetcar transportation green buildings green roofs and energy policy there have been other times when our city has led and cities lead
 in this work of environmental innovation and policy. But there have been no times in the past, I think, that equal the importance of our leadership now.
 The world is at a turning point. We have a chance to make a difference. We have a chance to make a difference here that will then be just as those other things were replicated in other cities and then become a movement that then has a global impact. So I'm very proud of the work that we have before us this afternoon. I'm so appreciative that you're all here to participate in it. And with that, let me turn it over to my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, to talk about the first of these two resolutions. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, everybody, for coming. We didn't expect quite such a wonderful turnout on a Wednesday afternoon, so we're working to set up an overflow room because I think the fire marshal is going to be pretty concerned pretty soon.
 Thank you again for coming. And I'm very honored to propose the first of these resolutions, which is to oppose the transport of oil by train through our region. As many of you will remember, because you were part of the previous effort when Commissioner Fish and I partnered with Mayor Adams to have a similar resolution opposing coal trains, I see many of you are wearing the Beyond Coal t-shirts and were part of that effort. And indeed, it was a significant effort in
 helping to change the tide of public opinion in the state of Washington, the state of Oregon, and the entire United States. And so here we are to do it again, and this time opposing the transport of crude oil through our city, and particularly through the city of Vancouver, Washington. This is a very happy occasion because I'm proposing that the City Council of Portland be in absolute agreement with the City Council of Vancouver, which sometimes isn't always the case.
 So this matter was brought to my attention over the summer when Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility and others came to my office and told me about the proposed terminal. I think I was most...
 persuaded by the longshoremen's union there uh opposing that terminal on the on the basis that even if there were jobs for their members those jobs would be so dangerous that they couldn't put their members in harm's way and so you're going to be hearing from one a representative of that union today and i i'm going to try to keep the my presentation and the mayor's short we're going to have presentations by staff and invited testimony then we're going to have a short amount of time for um commissioner fish and commissioner novick to ask questions
 questions and perhaps propose amendments. And then we're going to get to testimony as soon as we can. And I'm going to be helping the mayor with timekeeping because I'm a mom and I'm good at that. Yes, you are. And yes, you are. Thank you, Commissioner. Let me briefly describe the second of these two resolutions. Okay.
 Portland's businesses and residents are moving away from fossil fuels, and we must because we have been told we have only a little time to make a difference in climate change. I had the opportunity this summer to go to the Vatican and meet with Pope Francis about his encyclical about climate change along with 60 other mayors from around the world, and there were really three key lessons that were reinforced for me in that discussion. One is that...
 There is very little time. We must act now.
 The second is that it's not too late. It was an optimistic message. It wasn't that all we get to do is damage control. The climate is warming and will warm by at least 1.5 or 2 degrees, but we have a chance, the scientists all tell us, to avoid that 5-degree rise that would be catastrophic. So it's really bad. It's not too late. And the third lesson was the most striking of all. In order to make it not too late,
 We have to leave much of the fossil fuel that we've already discovered in the ground, strand it there and not use it. And frankly, that was revelatory to me. I think to a lot of good environmental Oregonians, the knowledge that not only what much we change, but we must not use some things that we've already found and counted on. That's...
 Kind of a new phenomenon, I think, for us as Americans. But it's the truth, and we have to acknowledge it and live it. Now, this is not an original action here in Portland in this sense, in that we've had a long history of environmental leadership. Like I mentioned, we adopted the nation's first local climate action plan in 1993 when I sat where Commissioner Novick sits now as a new city commissioner.
 Just two months ago, we passed a resolution that adds fossil fuel companies to the city's do not buy list for how we invest your money in financial markets to take care of it. We're installing solar panels on city buildings, and under your leadership, Commissioner Fish, we have an amazing project going on where we're using biogas to run some of our vehicles.
 So we're doing the right things in what we do here in the city, and these resolutions are of a piece with that. So I'm very pleased that this is before us today. We're going to call on a series of panels and staff to come up and explain the substance of each of these resolutions. We have some invited testimony, and then, as Commissioner Fritz said, we'll try to get to as many of you as we possibly can who want to speak to these items this afternoon.
 So with that, I believe we're going to invite Christina Neves up to the floor. Before we invite a panel, you mentioned the fire marshal earlier. We're probably going to get a pass because I think there is a firefighter somewhere around here. But the one thing we are required to do is maintain circulation because we're an accessible building, which means that people have to be able to enter and go the full loop.
 If you're blocking someone and it might be an older adult that wants to leave to go to the bathroom or something, we have to correct that. And these corridors here have to be open as well. And apparently the Lovejoy room is going to be open in about five minutes for some overflow space as well. So that will help. Good. Okay. Is Christina ready to come up, Commissioner? Yes. If she can make her way through the crowd. All right, Christina. And Michael. Great. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Oh, we'll wait for Commissioner Fish. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Christine Anievis. I'm with the Office of Commissioner Amanda Fritz. And I want to take this opportunity to give you a little bit of background on the oil train resolution before you today. So there is currently a proposal to build a very large oil terminal in the city of Vancouver, Washington.
 This terminal would provide space to transfer oil from trains to ocean vessels that would then travel down the Columbia River. This train-to-sea terminal would have the capacity to transfer approximately 360,000 barrels of oil per day. And with that enormous amount of oil comes an enormous amount of risk. I brought some visual aids to show you today.
 So this was a picture of a train derailment in Quebec, July 2013. This train derailment killed 47 people, and the cleanup and rebuilding costs will exceed $2 billion. This is a similar situation in Alabama. A train derailed and spilled 630,000 gallons of crude oil to a nearby wetland.
 This is another train derailment and explosion. This one spilled 476,000 gallons of oil. And finally, my last slide is of Lynchburg, Virginia in April 2014. Not only did the train derail, but it also spilled into the James River, and as you can see, it set it on fire. So these are just some of the consequences that happen from oil by train transportation.
 There was such concern in Vancouver that the City Council of Vancouver actually voted to oppose the oil terminal and also to urge the final decision maker, Governor Eansley, to oppose the terminal as well.
 One of the main arguments in support of building this terminal is, of course, job creation. People are concerned with the lack of jobs. However, the International Longshoremen and Warehouse Union of Vancouver, that represents some of the workers that would be most impacted by this terminal, they all voted to oppose the oil terminal. And we have a panelist who will give you a little bit of insight as to how they reached that decision.
 So the oil train resolution does two things. Number one, it acknowledges the dangers and negative impacts that oil train transportation and oil train projects come with. Number two, it makes clear our support of Vancouver City Council's decision. And hopefully, I hope that the resolution will also urge Governor Eansley to oppose the project as well.
 But I think that both of these resolutions do a really good job of getting to the fundamental beliefs that we have as Portlanders, and that is to increase our ability to be responsible stewards of our resources and to protect our environment. I also believe that the City of Portland does a good job of looking at innovative and creative solutions to our energy needs. Thank you. Thank you. Michael.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. Commissioners, I would just echo your observations, Mayor, about cities really being at the forefront of this. Last week I was with counterparts of mine from 100 cities across the country sharing lessons learned around climate action plans. And as you noted 20 years ago, we were the only one with a climate action plan. And today there's this kind of superhighway of information back and forth between cities and breaking new ground. I think this effort is in that same spirit.
 I'll get a little closer to the mic there. There you go. I can do so. Thank you. So development of tar sands shale oil fracking across the western U.S. and Canada has, I think as we've
 understood here led to a number of very large fossil fuel infrastructure projects proposed up and down across the West, pipelines, terminals, export facilities. We already have crude oil passing through Portland on its way to Klatskanai, where it's transloaded onto ships. Christina described some of the concerns about safety and traffic impacts of the oil trains here.
 Transporting other fossil fuels, certainly coal, natural gas, propane, raises similar issues both locally in Portland and also in neighboring communities throughout the gorge. Tribal communities have been especially compelling in illustrating the risks these projects pose to their economic livelihood and to their culture. We're also mindful that the infrastructure projects create jobs and potentially significant numbers of jobs as they are built and then much more modest numbers once they're operational.
 with all these new fossil fuels coming out of the ground across the West, and at the same time,
 urgency mounting to reduce carbon emissions to respond to climate change. The climate action plan that was adopted earlier this year directed city staff to develop options for a fossil fuel policy that would give guidance both to bureaus and also to the Planning and Sustainability Commission about how to handle these situations. We've not had them in the past. Anything like the scale that we're being faced with today. Thank you.
 So the second resolution specifically addresses the expansion of infrastructure whose primary purpose is to transport or store fossil fuels. So we're trying to get at the growth of the fossil fuel industry and Portland's potential role in that. So it does not deal with existing infrastructure. It also doesn't deal with infrastructure like roads, for example, where, yeah, you have a
 fossil fuels are coming across roads, but the primary purpose of roads isn't specifically for that fossil fuel infrastructure. So we're really trying to get a dedicated infrastructure whose primary purpose is to expand the movement of fossil fuels. The resolution also states it's not intended to restrict improvements, for example, to improve the seismic resilience or to eliminate leaks or otherwise improve the efficiency of infrastructure. That investment is important. Improves safety, improves efficiency.
 The resolution is also not intended to restrict provision of service directly to end users. So for example, a new building that's built in town could still have natural gas service or a gasoline station could still be sited. That's what that provision is trying to get at. That definition of end user is a really important detail. So that's the kind of thing where this resolution by itself does not have force of law but it
 and the Planning and Sustainability Commission brought guidance to
 come up with code language that they would then recommend to you, that we'll need to define that very carefully. And that's something I think we'll probably hear about from some folks today and does need. We do need to establish a shared understanding of what that's trying to get at, so that staff have clear direction when they go off to do any subsequent work. Can I ask a couple of questions about that now? Sure. What is a gas station if it's not a facility for storage of fossil fuels?
 So the distinction we're trying to make is between a facility that's providing the fuels directly to an end user and one that's simply passing them through. And the reason that's significant is that typically...
 providing them directly to an end user is going to involve much smaller volumes. And so, for example, from a safety perspective, there's still risk to that, but it's not concentrated all in one large facility. It's distributed. And so the consequences from a safety perspective are much lower because if you're going to have an incident, it's going to be small. Same thing in terms of impacts on traffic, for example. You don't have the mile-long traffic.
 oil train or coal train, you've got distribution to a much smaller end point that's providing service directly to an end user. That's what that's trying to get at. Okay, but I'm actually kind of confused by the exemption for service directly to an end user, too, because if what we're concerned about is climate disruption, aren't we trying to restrict service to end users ultimately because it's the end users that are burning the carbon? Yeah.
 we're definitely trying to reduce use of the fuels by end users so for example natural gas there you go all right thank you uh natural gas um we've got a lot of new construction going on in town many of those buildings will have natural gas service you know northwest we want
 over time to see Northwest Natural sell less gas. But that doesn't mean that it will necessarily be provided to fewer people. It's going to be provided to more people. We've already seen the same thing happen with gas stations, where fewer gallons of gas were sold in Multnomah County in 2013 than in 1990. So we are adding people who are served by this infrastructure, but we're still reducing use. That's the scenario we want to be able to accommodate more.
 If we simply said no more gas, then we need to sort of cast this into a different and more constrained kind of energy options. Let me get you to hold the rest of your questions, Commissioner, because I think we want to have the two invited panels, and then we'll bring staff back up for council questions. Okay. So this question of end users clearly is important. Okay.
 So the resolution sort of establishes this broad policy, tries to clarify what its intent is. The resolution asks bureaus to review existing laws and identify opportunities to improve public safety, improve public health.
 The resolution also directs the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, my colleagues, to develop code changes, again, that would go through the legislative process, come back for your consideration. That's a process that typically takes at least six months for non-controversial issues, so just to give a sense of timelines. Thank you.
 And then the resolution calls for the city to consult with tribal governments, with the state, with other local governments. Since these are issues that really span all of our jurisdictions, no single public agency controls, we need to have a kind of broad approach to this. And so our expectation would be we need to work across all levels of government as well as with private sector stakeholders. So with that...
 Okay. I would say why don't you two stand by. Let's bring up our invited panels, and then we'll get you back up for council member questions before we move to public testimony. Thank you both. Thank you. Mayor, at what point are you going to entertain amendments? After the panels. So do you want me to call the first panel here, Commissioner, which is Regna Merritt, Dan Sears, Michael Lang, and Cogger Claybaugh?
 Hi, my name is Regna Merritt. I'm a retired physician assistant, and I'm the program director at Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. Our program is a healthy climate program. Sorry, go ahead. We're just working out logistics behind you. Okay. So Oregon PSR uses science and evidence-based expertise to protect the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the climate that sustains us.
 Today, we're here to express profound gratitude to Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz for bringing forward two resolutions which can prevent harm and protect the health of Portland residents for generations to come. As we heard, the rapid development of fossil fuel resources in the interior west has resulted in a stunning increase in new projects proposed to transport oil, coal, tar sands, propane, and other fossil fuels through to the west coast.
 In the Pacific Northwest, almost all the proposed oil trains and coal trains travel or will travel along the Columbia through the scenic gorge, and many will move dangerous cargo through Portland. In fact, we could see 100 oil trains every week in the region, many of them moving to and fro between Portland and Vancouver, each with trains a mile and a half to a mile and a quarter in size, moving.
 What makes these projects so bad is that some of these trades are already moving through our neighborhood, but many more could come. There's no doubt that Portland needs good family wage jobs. However, the economic opportunities presented by fossil fuel infrastructure are modest, with few jobs and little value added when compared to related health care costs. We heard that already we've seen 47 people killed, thousands of people evacuated from their homes, billions in property damage, and city drinking water supplies shut down.
 Our team at PSR analyzed 125 peer-reviewed journal articles and connected proposed oil projects to increase rates of illness, hospitalization, and health care costs.
 Oil trains can and will lead to fires, explosions, derailments, increased air pollution, first responder delays, excessive noise, oil tank fires and explosions, spills, and climate-induced impacts. That translates very simply into heart and lung problems like asthma and COPD, cancer, growth and development problems, stress and mental health problems, injury and death.
 And we have to think about the populations in our community that are already at risk. Children, the elderly, and those at increased risk due to the race, ethnicity, income, or level of exposure and pre-existing conditions. We find that oil transport and storage represents an unacceptable threat to human health and safety. And we call on the council to support these two resolutions and leave a legacy that protects our health and our climate. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Who would like to be next? Musical chairs. You're doing fine. Thank you. Mary Hales, commissioners. My name is Dan Sears. I'm the conservation director for Columbia Riverkeeper.
 Columbia Riverkeeper and our 8,000 members and supporters are here to tell you that we support both resolutions in front of you today, but I'm going to address the oil train resolution first. We'd like to thank Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hales for your leadership in bringing this issue before the Portland City Council. It's a very important issue. Communities along the Columbia River are faced with an unprecedented and new threat, the idea of moving vast quantities of fossil fuels, particularly oil trains, down the Columbia River in trains that are known to derail, spill, and ignite. Thank you.
 The oil turn resolution you're considering is both timely and appropriate because there are over 100 trains per week that could be headed down the Columbia River. Each train carries 3 million gallons of oil in rail cars known to spill, known to ignite. A spill in the Columbia River would decimate salmon habitat, disrupt river traffic, and threaten drinking water supplies downstream. As you've seen from Christina, Bakken oil has a tendency to explode.
 What you may not know is that these trains can also carry very heavy tar sands crude, which when it spills may sink into the Columbia River and be very difficult to clean up, as happened in the Kalamazoo River in Michigan. Taken together, all of the oil tank projects in the Northwest would exceed the capacity of the Keystone XL pipeline. If someone were to propose building a new pipeline the size of Keystone XL down the Columbia River, we'd say that's crazy.
 What Portland can do today with this resolution is to stand up, enter into this debate, and say that they don't support, that we don't support the establishment of a pipeline of rails through the city. So I want to address a couple things that are really important. You'll be standing with the city of Vancouver by taking this important resolution. The city of Vancouver voted in 2014 to oppose the oil trains.
 The Vancouver Firefighters Union very recently took a position against the project, stating that a derailment could cause, quote, local residents being caught in the blast zone, oil spilling into the Columbia River, and first responders rushing to deal with an explosive situation with inadequate training, manpower, or equipment to handle. It's a quote from the president of the Firefighters Union in Vancouver. And a majority of voters last night elected Eric LeBrandt to the Port Commission of Vancouver. And that was a very clear referendum on the oil by rail issue in Vancouver. Thank you.
 What we're pointing out today in support of this resolution is that this resolution empowers the city to weigh in in a full-throated way in opposition to oil by rail, a new risk to our river.
 It also empowers the city to lead the entire region in a different direction, away from projects that threaten the health, safety, and environmental integrity of our Columbia River. We're playing Russian roulette, essentially. Every time an oil train comes down the Columbia River, you are well-suited and well-positioned to help the region not load more bullets into that gun, and we ask you to do that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Can I ask you a follow-up question? Please do. Thank you.
 On a related subject, what do you think it will take to get the federal government to conduct a comprehensive impact statement on coal dust? You know, that's a good – I'm sorry, coal dust? Coal dust, yes. Oh, it's somewhat unrelated. I actually would defer on that to Michael Lang. He's here with Friends of the Gorge who could potentially speak to that.
 Michael, welcome. Thank you, and may I address that question after my prepared statement? Please, yeah. Thank you. For the record, my name is Michael Lang. I'm Conservation Director for Friends of the Columbia Gorge. I also serve on the Executive Committee for the Stand Up to Oil Coalition, whose mission is to stop proposals for oil by rail terminals in the Northwest from
 from endangering our children, our communities, and the climate. Friends of the Columbia Gorge thanks Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, and the City Council for allowing us to come before you and testify today in favor of resolutions opposing oil by rail terminals and also additional fossil fuel infrastructure in Portland. The Columbia River Gorge is a national scenic treasure and an icon of the Northwest.
 The Gorge is protected as a federally designated national scenic area, but today the Gorge is facing its biggest threat since Congress designated it as a national scenic area in 1986. Crude oil shipments by rail through the Gorge and massive oil terminals in the Columbia River and throughout the region are a threat not only to the Gorge and the region's inhabitants, but this is a direct threat to the core values that make us proud to live and work in this region.
 More than a dozen proposals for oil by rail terminals are pending throughout the Northwest, including the largest oil by rail terminal in the United States, DeSoto's Vancouver Energy Project. If approved, all of this oil would be transported by rail through the gorge. These terminals would far exceed the refining capacity in the region. We don't need them.
 Tesoro would transport an average of 15 million gallons of oil per day through the Columbia River Gorge on rails to Vancouver and then down the Columbia River in oil tankers or barges. If Vancouver Energy and all other terminals proposed in the Northwest are approved, 100 oil trains per week would travel through the gorge. This would convert the Columbia River Gorge from a national scenic area into a national oil pipeline.
 This is especially alarming in light of the oil-trained derailments and explosions that have shaken the country over the past two years, and you've heard a little bit of this testimony. An oil-train accident, spill, and fire in the Columbia River Gorge would be devastating to its communities and the environment.
 Transporting crude by rail is inherently unsafe. Even the newest federal rules that would allow tank cars to proceed into the future could puncture at speeds as low as 12 miles an hour. Twelve miles an hour. Think about that. If an oil-loaded car just tipped over with gravity, it would probably puncture at 12 miles an hour. It's inherently unsafe.
 That's why firefighters from across the region are opposing the Tesoro Terminal and other oil by rail terminals, because they'd be unable to respond to a spill and unable to keep us safe. And I think that's a big message here. When our emergency responders are telling us that we cannot keep you safe, it's a message that these terminals need to be denied.
 Public opposition to Sosoro's oil-by-rail terminal and other terminals is intense, and it's growing every day. So communities along the Columbia River Gorge, from the Dalles and from Hood River, all the way down to Vancouver, have adopted resolutions opposing oil-by-rail to the gorge. And I think today they're reaching out to you and asking for your support and your solidarity in helping protect their communities and all of our communities from oil-by-rail.
 So this is an opportunity for Portland to join with other local and regional governments along the Columbia River and approve resolutions that would oppose oil by rail terminals in the region and also set a policy opposing new fossil fuel infrastructure in the city of Portland. So Friends of the Columbia Gorge, I ask you to take this opportunity today, reach out and support communities throughout the Northwest and adopt these resolutions.
 So thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mr. Claybaugh, welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Commission, for the time. I appreciate it. My name is Cager Claybaugh. I am Vice President of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union Local 4 in Vancouver, and I'm here to speak in favor of your resolutions today. In June 2013, upon learning about Tesoro coming to the Port of Vancouver or wanting to, at our union meeting, the membership voted unanimously to oppose the project.
 because we know that one spill in the river will destroy the river, put the whole system out of business for as long as it takes to clean up the spill, putting us all out of work. Now, we listened to Tesoro tell everybody how safe the product is, that it wouldn't explode. One month later, 47 people die in Canada.
 And since, knowing that they're going to be, you know, under a microscope, the industry basically took no steps to learn how to move their products safely. And as a matter of fact, they've proven without a doubt that they cannot. Many derailments, spills, explosions, fires, rivers on fire, fireballs 800 feet wide, 1,000 foot tall.
 BNSF recently said that they were not going to build their three or five thousand safer rail cars. Tesoro's saying, oh, well, don't worry, we are, and they have maybe 200 built. We know that the industry touts safety. You know, the shipping industries, the rail industries, they tout, that's all they talk about, safety, safety, safety. And I'm here to tell you, as a longshoreman who's worked in the industry for 20 plus years,
 Safety always takes a backseat to production. They tell you what you want to hear, and then they want to move it as fast as they can. Get it on a ship, get it out, get their money. We're tired of seeing our tax dollars go to putting in infrastructure for dying industries. We basically export every natural resource we have. And, you know, what are we left with? Job loss? Yes.
 We don't make anything. As a longshoreman, I export raw material. One of the first jobs I had was putting a lumber mill on a ship in pieces to send to the Philippines. You can go over the Lewis and Clark Bridge and see all the timber we send out. It's time we start investing in America, and I believe this resolution is a good way to do it. Let's not make it easy to send our natural resources overseas. Let's do it here. Let's build stuff here. Let's export finished product.
 The IAFF, the firefighters, we talk to them and they tell us, actually we tell them, thank you for all the work you do. We're glad that you oppose this. And they're like, man, this isn't about us, this is about you. You guys are going to be right down there in the line of fire. You're going to be stuck between railroad tracks and a river.
 So you're either going to probably, you know, get burned or drown. And that's what they say. They say how they fight these fires is they use their rule of thumb. They stand back far enough to where their thumb covers the fire, and they evacuate everybody behind them. And they just say that this is dangerous and that they hope if there's a problem, they hope there's not a problem, but if there is, that they can get to us. So I'm really here on behalf of...
 The longshore workers, to ask you guys, please support this resolution. Help us out. Thank you. Thank you so much for coming down. Appreciate it. Thanks. Can I just ask our friend from the gorge just on the question of a federal comprehensive impact statement on coal dust?
 residual issue from something we talked about a couple years ago. Are we any closer to the federal government conducting such an assessment? Unfortunately, the answer is no. And despite calls by the Northwest Senate delegation and a number of members of Congress and local governments throughout the region calling for a comprehensive programmatic environmental review of all of the coal and fossil fuel proposals together, particularly the Corps of Engineers refuses to do that
 and instead is doing the narrowest scope of environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act that you could possibly do. And we believe that that's illegal, but a number of different elected officials across the region have asked for this, and it hasn't been done. So what's happened is universities have taken this into their own hand and have received funding to do coal dust studies in the gorge.
 And I'm not at liberty to speak a lot about this today, but there is a coal dust study being released this week that will demonstrate that coal trains emit twice the amount of pollution, particularly fine particulate pollution, as compared to normal freight trains. Thank you very much. Thank you all. So now we want to call another panel. Actually, I'm going to modify this just a little bit and bring up –
 Okay. So, folks, the Lovejoy and Petty Grove rooms are available now for overflow. We'd like to ask as many of you as we're willing to please go relocate to those rooms so we can circulate people through.
 And I want to ask... So there is video and audio there, so you'll be able to hear. And when your name gets called to testify, we'll get plenty of time for you to get back here. We're not really supposed to have people standing up in the... Marshal's being kind to us, maybe because we're trying to avoid some fires. I want to invite Peter Cornielson from Hood River City Council and Kat Schultz from the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission to come up first, and then we'll call the rest of that panel after you.
 Peter, welcome. Thank you. My name is Peter Cornelison, and I'm a member of the Hood River City Council. We are one of 10 regional governments in the Columbia Gorge that have passed resolutions of concern or outright opposition to oil transport by train through the Columbia River Gorge. Those governments are the Columbia River Gorge Commission, the DALS, Mosier, the City and County of Hood River,
 Vingen, Stevenson, Washougal, the Washougal School District, and the Skamania County Fire District, number four. Opposition to oil trains in the gorge has been overwhelming because every day our communities face the threat of an oil train accident, either a fire or a spill, that could destroy many of our homes and businesses. Portland faces the same threat from oil trains moving through the city, bound either for California or for ports along the Columbia River.
 Every new oil project increases oil train traffic through the gorge or Portland. There's another role of the roulette wheel upping the chances for a catastrophic accident. Dan Ceres called this Russian roulette. I call this railroad roulette. The resolutions you're considering could establish Portland as a national leader regarding fossil fuel policies at a time when leadership is crucial.
 We in Hood River and the Gorge urge you to pass these resolutions and join our communities in standing up to oil and helping to bring about the new clean energy economy. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your leadership and for coming out. Thank you. Thanks for coming down, River. Cat, welcome. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Cat Schultz. I'm Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 I also participated in the advisory group that provided perspectives on options for the fossil fuel policy in front of you today. Both of those groups had a wide range of views and voices. Earlier this year, when the PSC was considering the zoning amendment that was necessary for a propane terminal to locate at Terminal 6, it became quite clear that we needed policy to guide our deliberations.
 What looked at the beginning like a discussion as to whether or not we should allow a pipe to cross the E-Zone quickly evolved into a greater debate amongst the Commission and the community. It was challenging for the PSC to have to weigh the proposal with little established policy to guide our deliberations. While I think it's safe to say that the members of the PSC had different views on the Propane proposal, I believe we all recognized the need for the City to establish clear policy guidance.
 That is why we supported the action in the updated climate action plan that called for the city to establish a fossil fuel policy. And it's not just to assist us, the planning commissioners. When businesses are considering major investments, they need clarity and predictability. We owe it to them to establish clear policy. Personally, I've been conflicted.
 To combat climate change, we need to think globally. Discontinuing the use of fossil fuels at home and abroad is daunting as it is critical, and we're going to need all the tools in our toolkit. I believe that natural gas and propane can be one of those tools by using it as a bridge fuel. That being said, Portland needs to balance all of the goals that we have set forth in the Portland Plan to create a more prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient city.
 And I'm not convinced that a fossil fuel terminal creates long-term jobs to justify the risk to our health, safety, and environmental welfare. Therefore, I'm in support of the proposed policies. In addition to my humble opinion, you'll hear from many people today who support the resolution and some who don't think that it adequately balances the economic considerations.
 There's a lot for you to consider. As you move forward with your deliberations, I encourage you to maintain as much clarity as possible with the overall policy direction so that the Planning and Sustainability Commission can work more carefully and effectively with BPS staff to develop a recommended code language to bring back to you. Thanks. Thanks.
 Thank you. I appreciate that point very much, Kat. We need to give you guidance from the council. Please. We appreciate it. Since you're here and it anticipates an amendment I'm going to offer, can I ask you a question? So the provision of the Climate Action Plan that has now led to what we're doing today is at page 69.
 And it was the request that the Commission made to get guidance. Establish a fossil fuel export policy that considers life cycle emissions, safety, economics, neighborhood livability, and the environment. And it goes on. The advisory group that you were a part of met twice in October, and I had a chance to look at the minutes. And for some reason, the advisory group chose not to take up the economic consideration side of the conversation.
 And my question to you is, why was that? And how would you frame that question? I'm not sure I'd say that there wasn't discussion about the economics. I think there were individuals on that advisory group that expressed thoughts that we need to understand the economic implications of it, but perhaps didn't exactly know what they were to be able to weigh more thoroughly into it. And sorry, what was the second part of your question again? Yeah.
 Well, when we say considers life cycle emissions, I think I understand that, safety, neighborhood livability, the environment, what did you intend by consider economics? What was the issue that you wanted us to consider in balance as part of a policy? If there was a tremendous amount of employment created,
 I think that needs to be weighed in and considered. And like I said, personally, I feel that there's at least the proposals that have come before us to date haven't exactly created a lot of long-term jobs. Therefore, when you start to balance all of the things that we're asked to look at, I question whether that employment mix is enough to kind of outweigh the other. So I guess economically, going back to it, I see it as tied to employment. Thank you both very much. So now let me call on...
 carlos smith from the confederated tribes of warm springs javier hurtado from the business here in portland cha cha cha and mia rebak from 350.org 350pdx.org good afternoon
 Go ahead. Sure, that's fine. You don't have to go in that order. All right. My name is Carlos Smith. I'm a tribal council member for the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs. I'm here representing my tribe. I'm also here representing the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission, which is made up of our tribe, the Warm Springs, the Yakima, the Umatilla, and the Nez Perce tribes. And we're here in support of the City of Portland's proposed resolutions and resolutions.
 On behalf of the four treaty tribes that make up the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission, I'd like to express my appreciation for Portland's leadership and oppose an expansion of the fossil fuel transportation development and oppose an increased crude by rail transportation. I appreciate that Portland is a good neighbor.
 and that you reached out to the Columbia River Treaty Tribes to hear our concerns about the fossil fuel transport. Let me offer a few reasons why I think the two resolutions before you today are timely and needed and appreciated by the tribes. The Warren Springs, the Yakima, Umatilla, and Nez Perce tribes have uniquely bore the impacts of rail and waterborne shipment policies that have dramatically altered the Columbia River landscape and the dams and rail lines.
 Actions by the City Council of Portland have and will continue to shape and impact the entire Columbia River Transportation Corridor. Proposed coal and oil port developments in Oregon and Washington would injure the tribes' interest. The tribes oppose the Coyote Island coal port facility, as you're aware of. The tribes also oppose the Teresa Savage proposal at the Port of Vancouver, which would be the largest oil port in North America. The additional scrutiny...
 that the city bureaus would bring, a bureau would bring as a result of these resolutions would help ensure that the concerns and risk involved in these projects would be adequately studied and evaluated for future generations.
 First responders along the Columbia River are not prepared for a crude by rail derailment, and it's not their fault. They didn't ask for this crude by rail shipments. Federal and state agencies have convened several discussions, but local, city, county, and tribal governments will bear the burden of an oil spill. Thank you.
 Like the City of Portland, the Columbia River Treaty Tribes are very concerned about climate change, particularly on salmon and our other first foods. Reducing fossil fuel use of this movement is in the right direction for addressing climate change, we feel. The Warm Springs Tribe is a member of the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission.
 We have the closest ties to the city and its judicial. It's been determined that we're a successor in the interest of the seven bands of the treaty signatory to the treaties of Middle Oregon, June 25, 1855. The 1855 treaty specifically secured off-reservation fishing rights for the Warm Springs tribes at all usual and accustomed stations.
 Federal courts have ruled that this fishing right can be located both within and without the reservation in its tribal-seeded areas. This includes the area that's now occupied by the City of Portland, and the largest and best known of the Warner Springs Tribe off-reservation usual and custom fishing places is Willamette Falls, located just a few miles upstream from the City of Portland.
 We feel that it's very heartening that the City of Portland, under this council's leadership, has proposed what would be the most substantive and aggressive fossil fuel policy ever adopted by an American city. Our entire region is defined by the Columbia River, and its protection should be on the forefront of our thoughts and our actions. Thank you so much. Thank you. I just want to also address the question you had earlier about coal dust. I have on my office and my tribal council a bottle of coal dust that I just went down to the river and collected.
 Now, we had the coal companies meet with our tribe and told us there will be no coal dust that will enter the Columbia River at any level at any time. And I showed them the jar, and they wouldn't answer our question. And they told us that they spray it with a chemical so it doesn't fly off the carts. And I asked them what that chemical was, and they've never released to our tribe what that chemical is. Thank you. Thank you very much. Javier, welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Javier Hurtado. I'm the owner of the local business here in Portland. I have seven restaurants, and I employ about 140 people. My concern with the environment is that I'm here as a citizen, I'm here as a business owner, I'm here as a father, and I'm here as a businessman because I'm worried about my supply chain. Most of the food that
 wine that we buy comes from Oregon or Washington. We buy a lot of our pork from Washington, a lot of wine from the Colombian Gorge. We buy a lot of beef. All of our beef comes from Oregon, a lot of vegetables from the river. So I'm really concerned because prices is a huge thing to consider as a businessman. And I know that when things become scarce, prices go up.
 And if there were to be an accident due to derailment or some kind of accumulation of dust, that will impact the farmers that I work with. That will impact the winemakers that I work with directly. I have been working with local farmers, local winemakers, local produce people, and trying to establish this supply chain that is direct from farm, from winemakers, from ranchers to restaurants.
 I recently met with some scientists, and they expressed that 67% or 70% of the food that we consume comes from restaurants. So as a business owner, I feel the responsibility to offer healthy food to all the people that come to my restaurants. I feel, as a business owner, to contribute to society by buying from these local farmers, local ranchers. But I also feel like one of our biggest...
 biggest challenge and biggest goal as business owners here in Portland is to conserve our environment. So Cha-Cha-Cha has worked very closely with wetland conservancy programs. We have also started buying a lot of seafood that has been MBA or MSC certified. So it's really, really important to us how we get our food, and if it's not contaminated, that it's not exposed to some type of derailment,
 that it's healthy for children. So I'm here supporting both resolutions, and thank you for having me. Thank you very much. Thanks. Ms. Reback, welcome. Thank you, Mayor Hales and other commissioners, for having me here today to speak out in support of both of these resolutions. My name is Mia Reback, and I'm the staff organizer with 350 PDX. As you know, the climate forecast is grim.
 The world's best scientists tell us that if we stay on the business-as-usual path, we have at best 15 years until we blow through the world's carbon budget. That is the amount of fossil fuels we can safely burn without crossing catastrophic climate tipping points. In spite of that, the world's most destructive energy companies are proposing some 28 new or expanded fossil fuel projects in the Pacific Northwest.
 If even half of these projects are built, it would likely mean game over for the planet as we know it. Portland, like many cities in Oregon and Washington, is geographically between new fossil fuel extraction projects and the market where these fuels are burned. Because of this, Portland is a likely candidate for new transport projects and storage terminals. Many of these fossil fuels come from newer developments in North Dakota, Utah, Montana, and Alberta, Canada.
 The burning of any fossil fuels emits climate change causing greenhouse gases, but these unconventional fossil fuels come at an added cost. Not only are they harder to get out, but they are more prone to spills, derailments, and explosions than conventional fuels. So communities like Portland bear the risk of a highly volatile product being transported through our city with little to none of the economic benefit.
 And then we get hit again with a second round of hazards when these fuels are burned and their carbon pollution adds to global climate change. In order to stave off a warming climate, we must establish a truly sustainable economy that keeps all fossil fuels in the ground. At just 23 years old, my future looks bleak without meaningful climate action, and the time to act is now.
 The grassroots all across the Pacific Northwest have risen up in a green line of resistance to keep the remaining fossil fuels in the ground. From Pembina to Shell, ordinary people have stood in the way of this rogue industry whose insatiable need for profit is destroying our ability to live on this planet. And city governments are leading the way too, pushing the status quo of what government action can look like to meaningfully address this crisis.
 In writing and implementing a world-renowned climate action plan, our city is garnering worldwide attention and inspiring other jurisdictions to take action. Only by stopping to participate in the fossil fuel economy can we truly start the real work of addressing climate change, potentially creating tens of thousands of jobs as we upgrade to a cleaner grid, fix up our homes to be energy efficient and weatherized, and ensure that everyone has sustainable and healthy food to eat.
 This December, global leaders are gathering for the Paris Climate Talks to discuss ways we can do more, together, to address climate change and dangerous fossil fuels.
 These global leaders are watching what we do here today in Portland and waiting to follow our lead on the charge to stop new fossil fuel infrastructure. And with that, I am proud to introduce our next panelist, who will be joining us on video, international climate leader and co-founder of 350.org, Bill McKibben. Do I hit that? Uh-oh. Is it...
 Hello, I very much wish I could be there with you today, but I'm glad to join you by low-carbon Skype. I'm actually in Washington today with Senator Merkley introducing an important bill about
 fossil fuel on public lands. Because of the dysfunction of our Congress, that will take a long time to get passed. We're very hopeful though that the Portland City Council will demonstrate its full functionality today and demonstrate profound leadership on the most important question that faces us. Look, climate change, about which I wrote the first book for the general audience 26 years ago,
 is fully and firmly out of control. Things are really escalating and escalating fast. All you have to do is look at the pictures today from the first hurricane ever to pound into the desert nation of Yemen. It's almost unthinkable, but there it is.
 So that's why we need powerful steps like the ones that the council is considering today to stop fossil fuel infrastructure from being constructed going forward. We have to move quickly off the fossil fuel age. We now are able to do that. Our renewable technology is good enough now and getting cheaper and better almost by the hour. But this kind of step is no longer possible.
 At all, Quixotic, instead, it's sensible and smart, and the only thing that stands in its way is the kind of endless inertia and momentum that's gone with the century of burning oil and gas and oil. Somebody needs to take the lead, and we're so grateful to Mayor Hales, to Councilor Fritz, and so hopeful.
 that at least one of their colleagues will join them in this remarkable step. Portland will go down as an absolute leader among all jurisdictions, cities, counties, states, nations. If it does this, it will be a beautiful segue from the great leadership that Portland's Climate Action Plan has shown.
 One of the first cities to do that, too. And, of course, it would be a great testament to the amazing work of people like 350 PDX and all our other colleagues out there who really roused the world's conscience with their amazing protests against drilling in the Arctic area.
 earlier this year. If those protests roused your conscience too, then, councillors, you are in exactly the right place to put those consciences to work and do something of the first order of importance. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Any other questions for this panel? Thank you so much. And it's great to have Mr. McKibbin here in our chamber again. So let's call staff back up to answer any questions that council members have, and then
 then we'll move to testimony so come on back up michael christina okay do you want to take up amendments and then questions or questions and then amendments
 I think we should do amendments first. Okay. Steve has his up, so I'd love to hear it. All right. Mr. Novick, would you like to talk about your proposed amendment? Actually, I have a number of them. And I'd like to preface this by saying that what we are talking about here today largely is climate disruption, which is the most important issue the human race has ever faced. And it's more important than homelessness because –
 A generation of homelessness can hopefully end in the next generation. It's more important than income inequality because we proved from 1929 to 1960 that spectacular income inequality, horrible as it is, can change in a generation. What we're doing to the planet, if we continue doing it, cannot be changed in a generation or two or ten or a hundred.
 I actually am planning to bring my own climate-related resolution to Council within a few weeks, which would be to say that we call on Congress to establish a carbon tax of sufficient strength to force the market to renewable energy, that we have an offsetting income tax rebate for low- and middle-income people so that if they actually use less fossil fuels, they'll come out ahead,
 and that we have a massive national program to invest in transit and bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure and the development of new renewable energy sources, and that that should be paid for by taxes on rich people and by massive cuts to our blood defense budget. So that would be my climate resolution. Thank you.
 I'm going to raise some amendments that I think some people here might be concerned about and disagree with and ask some questions that might have the same reaction. I do so because I think because this is the most important issue facing the world, we need to treat it very carefully and thoughtfully. And I'm particularly sensitive to the idea of committing the sin of hypocrisy because most of us, like it or not, are part of the carbon economy and most of our hands are not cleaned.
 This council actually, in April of 2013, arguably passed an ordinance forcing the expansion of fossil fuel infrastructure because we passed an ordinance requiring that apartment buildings above a certain height, above a certain number of units, would have to have parking spaces built into them.
 And parking, I think, could be reasonably categorized as fossil fuel infrastructure, given that most cars run on gas.
 So I think that our hands are not necessarily clean. And I actually didn't vote for that because I wasn't here that day, but I was prepared to vote for it. Only Commissioner Saltzman voted against it. I'm not sure that was the right thing to do. We were reacting to concerns of citizens in the city about apartment buildings going up without parking, and we made a decision. But I think that's an example of how we need to recognize that.
 In the immortal words of Pogo the opossum, when it comes to climate issues as well as other environmental issues, we have met the enemy and he is us. So it is with that background that I offer a number of amendments to both of these resolutions. First of all – Steve, can we wait until we get copies? Oh, I – okay. Thank you.
 The first one is actually not particularly substantive, except it's an amendment to the third whereas clause in 1156, and there's a reference in that to serious risk being caused by adverse health impacts of train noise.
 And I'm suggesting deleting that because train noise is in particular to oil trains. Train noise is generic to trains. And I don't think we want to make a statement that trains are always bad, particularly when I think often the alternative to travel by train is travel by truck, which is generally more carbon intensive. Also, I like the noise of trains, but that's a personal preference. Mayor Hales, just so we can keep this orderly, I'll second it for discussion. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Second, and this I think would be a more controversial proposal, we in Portland rely on the transportation of fossil fuels. Our gasoline generally comes from the Olympic pipeline, which comes down from Washington State. And I think that the oil that's used to generate that gasoline is generally brought to Washington State from Venezuela or Texas or somewhere else by tanker ship.
 So we are implicitly, whenever we go to the gas station, endorsing the transport of oil in one of those forms. I think that it makes sense to say that we're opposed to unusually dangerous forms of oil transportation, but I think that we should implicitly and explicitly, in fact, acknowledge that we are not in a moral position right now to oppose all forms of transportation. So I'm proposing that...
 The first be it resolved in 1056 be amended to say, now therefore be it resolved that the City of Portland opposes oil by rail transportation through and within the City of Portland and the City of Vancouver, Washington, unless and until transport by rail is demonstrated to be as safe and carries the same level of environmental risk as transport by tanker ship and pipeline. Is there a second for that?
 All right, let's hear the next one. First Amendment to 1157. The Eighth Whereas Clause reads, whereas extraction of fossil fuels through fracking and tar sands processing, which has become widespread throughout the western United States and Canada, has especially damaging impacts to human and environmental health.
 I'm concerned about the word especially because it seems to me that extraction of fossil fuels in a wide variety of forms is extremely dangerous in all sorts of ways. For example, mountaintop coal mining is pretty darn dangerous, and deep water drilling for oil is pretty darn dangerous. So I would feel more comfortable if you removed the word especially. I also wanted to add a risk that wasn't referenced here, which is that fracking increases the potential for earthquakes, right?
 I think that's been demonstrated to be clear in Oklahoma, for example. So I propose deleting one word and adding a few others. All right, I'll second that one. The next one, actually, I'm going to delete my second amendment because it's not that big a deal. The third amendment that I proposed to 1157 is to the 14th whereas, which says, whereas economic opportunities presented by fossil fuel infrastructure are modest.
 I think the intent there was to say economic opportunity is presented by expanding fossil fuel infrastructure because, obviously, our current economy, unfortunately, depends on fossil fuel infrastructure all over the place. So I suggest adding the word expanding. I'll second that one, too. Thank you. Thank you.
 the uh next amendment is to page three um the first be it resolved um now therefore be it resolved that the city council actively oppose expansion of infrastructure's primary purposes transporting or storing fossil fuels enter through portland adjacent waterways and add except for those infrastructure investments that improve the integrity of the current fossil fuel supply in portland
 What do you mean by – I guess I'll second it. We'll find out later what you mean by integrity. Well, I also have – my Fifth Amendment, I think, sort of illustrates some of the examples of what I've been talking about. It is – I propose that we add in the fourth be it resolved –
 It's further resolved this resolution is not intended to restrict improvements in the safety or efficiency of existing infrastructure, including improvements in new infrastructure needed to prevent fugitive gas emissions, improve seismic resilience, develop emergency backup capacity, or that allow companies or organizations to ultimately move towards alternative fuel sources without increasing emissions. This is language that my staff developed after consultation with Angus Duncan, one of the state's leading authorities on climate issues, saying,
 One of the issues I'm concerned about, for example, is that right now virtually our entire liquid fuel supply is in tanks near Linton on liquefiable sources, and some of the tanks are really old. And actually one of the major dangers of an earthquake is that those tanks might break, and that could be damaging to the environment and human health. It could also mean that, again, unfortunately, since we are now –
 reliant on fossil fuels to do almost anything, that if those tanks broke, it would be impossible to revive our economy in the short term. So I actually have been asking the oil companies to make sure that they have – that they replace those tanks with ones that will survive. MR. Well, I'm going to second this and also – and we're going to come back to staff because we have some written testimony raising this issue about –
 improving seismic resilience tripping one of the wires that's in the existing resolution. So I want to give you a chance to tell us if that's a real or perceived threat. Just a clarification on that one. Do you mean including but not limited to improvements or including only these improvements?
 Good point, including but not limited to. That should have been the language. Thank you, Commissioner. Finally, I would note that I've got two versions of my Fifth Amendment, one of which would delete the language we discussed earlier, which says the resolution is not intended to restrict the provision of service directly to end users
 Because, again, I'm not sure that we don't want to restrict the provision of fossil fuels to end users, and I'm still not quite sure what this means. However, staff obviously is going to elaborate on that, so I presented two versions of this particular amendment, one of which keeps the end users language and one of which does not. Thank you.
 So I'll second the one that doesn't delete the end user language, because I'm convinced of the briefing I got yesterday from staff that that is essential to the balance they've crafted. So I'll second the one that doesn't delete end users. Okay. We've got those. So do you, I presume. I have all but the last one. Okay. Carla, we'll make sure you do. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. We've got those on the table. And then are there others? I have some others, Mayor, and I'm trying to make sure we don't.
 create undue complication. Do you want to go through these and then come to mind, or do you want to put everything on the table? I think it might be useful in this instance to take testimony before we act on amendments, just because we've got so much on the table. But what do you think, Commissioner Fritz, is your resolution? Yeah, we do need to have a vote on the oil train resolution today.
 So as long as we leave time at the end of testimony to vote on the amendments. I'm going to let people speak about these and then take them up again. We've got them here. Sorry, we're going to let people talk about these amendments if they have thoughts about them. So we're not going to act on them yet. What I'll do is I'll put my amendments on the table.
 See if we have seconds. Oh, and by the way, one housekeeping thing before you do that, and that is we now have another room, the Rose Room, on the third floor open that will hold more people. So if you get tired of standing and want a place to sit until such time and you want to come back in here, we've got the Rose Room open as well. That's got the biggest TV I've ever seen outside of Austin Stadium. So I'm going to hand out Fish Amendments 2, 3, 4, and 5. Okay. Following Steve's lead, I'm going to ditch one of my amendments. And...
 Let me walk you through them. Fish Amendment 2, and these are all to Mayor Hill's resolution, 1157. Okay. Fish Amendment 2 inserts a new directive on page 3 that prior to any council action, and that was intended to be after a vote, prior to any further council action after a vote. So if we don't have a vote today, if we have a vote at some point,
 the mayor shall schedule, one, a work session to review any proposed code changes, and two, an executive session to review the legal considerations of any proposed code changes. Okay, I'm fine with both those. I'll second those. And again, legislative intent was any further council action after we've voted on the resolution. Fish Amendment 3 is a new directive following –
 in the Be Therefore Resolved section. Bear with me. Another action item. Another action item reads as follows. Be it further resolved that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability shall undertake an analysis of the economic impacts of any proposed code changes with a particular focus on potential impacts to local blue-collar jobs. Second. All right. Fish Amendment 4 is a... is a...
 They get funnier. Fish Amendment 4, which I actually worked up with some environmentalist friends of mine, recognizing that there's a blue and a green alliance for how we move forward on this matter, is a new directive that reads as follows. Be it further resolved that the city and applicable bureaus shall explore opportunities to invest in Portland's human infrastructure infrastructure
 by supporting programs to retrain our workforce as the city transitions to a clean energy economy. Good. I like that. I'll second that. Mayor Hales seconds that. I like that idea. We'll get the PDC to help with that. Yeah. I thought it would be PDC planning and whoever else you directed. And then Fish Amendment 5 takes the penultimate – I love that word –
 I didn't know what it used to mean, but it's actually second to last. The penultimate resolve clause is amended as follows. Be it further resolved that the city shall consult with its tribal government partners, the state of Oregon, local governments, and other key stakeholders, including labor, business, environment, and neighborhoods in advancing this policy. Seconded.
 And that applies, obviously, to the whole resolution. I think it was implied in the resolution, but since the only directive that you consult with anybody was to other governments, I wanted to make sure that the other stakeholders were also part of those conversations. Okay, good. All right, we've got two packages of amendments in front of us, and everybody understands those, I think. Any reactions or questions with staff? No.
 And then other questions? Question, Michael? I just want to make sure I have my hands on, I think it's your Fifth Amendment, Commissioner Novick. Do you have any more of those? Carla? We'll make sure you get one. That's about the end users? Yeah. I was going to ask you some questions about that, so that's a really good point of departure. He's got extras. All right. So given we have over 100 people waiting to testify. Yeah, let's try to keep questions brief and then let testimony begin. Okay.
 I'm just going to strike a second. Okay. Yeah, that's what I'd like to do. Okay. We're not going to get into that. Figuring out logistics. Okay. All right. That's not a bad idea. Okay. So Commissioner Fish is saying he's going to hold most of his technical questions until later. Well, I have a few. I'll do it. I think Commissioner Fish said I had ten minutes. I'm making it five now. All right. Speak fast. So...
 Michael, first of all, thank you very much for the time you spent yesterday briefing me on this. Sonia and I thought it was actually one of the best briefings we'd ever received on a complex subject in our office. So thank you for the two or three hours you spent working on this. One of the things that you and I agreed is that there are some words in the HALES resolution that are open-ended.
 And one of your challenges is going to be, if it passes, to sort of give life and meaning to them. But because they frame the discussion, I want to take a handful of them and give you a chance just to say what you understand they mean. That's all. And I think that will help the testimony that follows as people can focus on. So taking the mayor's resolution, it begins with a statement of principle, oppose expansion of infrastructure. And expansion of infrastructure means what? Would mean?
 An increase in the capacity of the infrastructure, whether because it's a larger size or because the flow through is increased. Or because it's new. Or because it's brand new. Exactly. One question that's come up, and we'll take this up later, is Portland Public Schools has a propane tank capacity, which they use as they're moving all their vehicles to clean energy. Right.
 And the concern that's been raised is if they were to add capacity to their tanks, does it run afoul of this expansion of infrastructure prohibition? So that's a good example of why the language about providing service directly to end users is in there, because the intent is not to keep PPS from adding to the school buses that run on propane.
 Second, the resolution talks about expansion whose primary purpose is transporting or storing. What does primary purpose mean? So primary purpose would be infrastructure that is designed and built specifically for transporting and storing fossil fuels. So there's a lot of ancillary infrastructure that contributes or enables transportation.
 Storage and transport and roads being the example I used earlier. It was the example of I-84, that that wasn't built for the primary purpose of transporting fossil fuels. Correct, and yet fossil fuels do cross it and they are driven down it. And so we're trying to acknowledge there's a lot of infrastructure that can support that, but whose primary purpose was not to transport fossil fuels. Okay, the scope of the resolution is it applies to things going through Portland or adjacent waterways. Adjacent waterways?
 The Columbia River is the specific reference there. Now, the end user language, which is important to Commissioner Novick's amendment and which you spent a lot of time walking me through, that shows up in the third from the end, be it further resolved. Thank you.
 It says that this resolution is not intended to restrict improvements in the safety or efficiency of existing infrastructure or to restrict the provision of service directly to end users. So what do we mean by the provision of services directly to end users? Okay.
 A moment ago we had the example of whether it's Portland Public Schools or another fleet converting to propane or compressed natural gas where they are fueling their own vehicles with it. And providing service directly to end users would allow that. In the same spirit, a new system.
 you know, a new light manufacturing facility that uses natural gas to power, excuse me, to power whatever, you know, industrial process they're doing, this would allow that because the fuel is being used on site, either burn to produce energy or as a feedstock. So we're trying to recognize that there are circumstances where that is probably in the interest of the community.
 And one of the questions I asked you yesterday is that sentence is limited by the reference to safety or efficiency. So it's not intended to restrict improvements in the safety or efficiency. Commissioner Novick, as I understand it, wants to expand that.
 When we come back to you after some testimony, if you could help us understand what's the impact of expanding it along the lines that Commissioner Novick has proposed. And in fairness, he has picked up some concerns we've received in correspondence that have come into the council. So I'm inclined to, particularly around resilience, support him on that. But I'd just like to know how that changes your view of end users. A couple other questions, and then I'm on a tight clock.
 Has the governor weighed in on this issue, on this resolution? MR. Not to my knowledge. MR. And so my last question then is, in light of the fact that the State has set low-carbon fuel standards, and let's say propane, for example, is listed as a bridge fuel, how do you harmonize this proposed action with what the State has established?
 Are they inconsistent, or can you harmonize them? So there are a variety of ways to achieve the low-carbon fuel standard. And so less carbon-intensive fossil fuels like propane would be one of them. But there are also other ways to get there through biofuels, through electric vehicles. And so this has the potential to...
 restrict some parts of what have otherwise been thought of as pathways to comply, but it certainly doesn't undermine the whole intent. And I think especially over time, where the low carbon fuel standard is sort of the next step to get to a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of transportation fuels.
 Here we're working with a goal to reduce emissions by 80%. And so in part, I think we are taking a longer-term view of it, and it would require accelerating the transition to some of these much, much lower carbon fuels rather than just a little bit lower carbon fuels. I appreciate your questions, Commissioner Fish, and I guess let me elaborate a little bit on Michael's answer, and that is I think your question is very helpful in making sure that we're clear about what the Council's intent is here. Another way I would state it is that
 It's not the intention and nor will it be the effect of this resolution for the City of Portland to determine people's individual choices about what fuels they use.
 whether they are public agencies like Portland Public Schools or homeowners or businesses. So we're not attempting to steer people's choices about what fuels they personally use. However, it's a decision about the macro question of are we going to be part of a large-scale infrastructure that expands to move more fossil fuels around the world. That's the distinction that I would draw.
 this is an important discussion and i'm going to call okay you're right you're a good time keeper because i have to give commissioner novick a chance to one last question you have one last question i see the the the your eyeball in me so we'll do one one last question and uh well that was the last question well the mayor's comment prompted something um michael um there's been a little confusion in the communication i'm getting we've been getting about what's the impact
 the legal impact of adopting a resolution versus the legal significance of adopting the code that you would be instructed to draft. Can you just succinctly tell us what the difference is? Sure. So for something to have the force of law and to require compliance, it needs to be adopted by ordinance through city code. And that's not what you're contemplating today.
 It sets direction, and it tells staff to go forth and do a number of things, including develop that code, which, if adopted, would have the force of law. Mr. Noe, did you have a further? Actually, I had one comment, which is that I want to recognize Ben Wilson and his colleagues from the Metropolitan Learning Center, who I hope is still here. And because if I didn't, then his mother, Kathy Kaufman, wouldn't forgive me. But I do have a comment or a question for the mayor, which is that,
 Ultimately, yes, we are trying to affect people, the choices of individuals. I mean, if as a result of our actions, less oil goes to India, then that ultimately means that fewer people in India will put gas in their cars. I mean, ultimately, the goal of all this, I think, is to change the context within which individual people make individual choices. Context, yes, but we're not determining it for them, right? Right.
 Okay. Other questions now? I think we should move to testimony. I think we should. Thank you both. And we'll move to the sign-up sheet again. We're going to limit testimony to two minutes apiece because we have a very large number of people signed up. If you have heard your points well made, feel free to give that person a thumbs up and wave off the opportunity to speak. But if you do want to speak, that's why we're here. Mayor, just to be clear, my understanding from you and Commissioner Fritz is that we will pause at 545.
 take up any amendments germane to Commissioner Fritz's resolution, seek to get a vote of the council on that, and in the event we have another 50, 60 people still in the queue, we would have a second hearing to finish the testimony. I think that's right. Okay, thank you. That's right. So go ahead, please.
 We have some students here. Oh, students, yes. I would like to take students and anyone. We have some from the Sunnyside students, if you're around. They're right behind you, I think. Let's go with you first. They're right behind you, Carla. Here they are. Oh, they're also in front of you. They're everywhere. All right, Sunnyside students, welcome. Hi. Just give us your name as you proceed in whatever order you'd like. And speak up to the microphone so people can hear you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Olivia Miller, and I'm an eighth grader at Sunnyside Environmental School. I am worried about my future, but to be honest, why wouldn't I be? We are only plotting our own deaths by putting out fossil fuels into the atmosphere, which is creating the environment that we live in today. The problems we are facing now not only affect you as adults right at this moment, but that burden will be put on us and our children, and maybe even our children's children. Climate change doesn't only affect America or the city of Portland, but it
 but it affects the entire world. By exporting coal, propane, natural gases, oil, and much more, we as a nation are burdening our younger generations with having to live with and fix the effects of climate change. By stopping exports of fossil fuels through Portland and its nearby waterways, we can change people's views on climate change. This is an incredible opportunity for our city. We can turn our lights off or take shorter showers all we want, but none of that will matter unless authority figures like you take a stand and set an example.
 Right now, everyone is watching Portland, and we as a nation are setting the example for everybody. Oregon and many states around it are starting to lean towards renewable sources that can help put a dent in climate change if we spread the word. Building more infrastructure is not the answer. That is not what we as a nation need to respond to climate change. Portland is starting a chain reaction along the West Coast, and as the city of Portland, we are beginning to change the world.
 A few days ago, my little brother, who is eight years old, said when I mentioned this testimony, oh, that's about climate change, isn't it? Climate change, the thing that's going to kill us all. That scares me that an eight-year-old is thinking like that. This is what he will have to live with his entire life, and then he has to worry about that now? That shouldn't be what a third grader says before going to bed. His only care should be what baseball cards he's going to get for Christmas, not that he's going to die of something because past generations created.
 I, as a part of Portland's youth, support the Climate Change Action Plan. But we need to walk our talk. These resolutions can help us do that. We need to take major action as a nation if we're going to put a dent in climate change. And today we are setting an example for the rest of the world, and right now that's exactly what we need. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 If we could hold applause until the end of all the students. We do suspend the rules for all the students, but the reason we don't applaud is because it just takes time and we want to hear as many people as possible. We will suspend the rules at the end of the students, though. Go ahead. Hello. My name is Leilani Van Dijk, and I'm an eighth grader at Sunnyside Environmental School as well.
 I am worried about the issue of climate change. Not just worried, but scared. Not just because I'm in the climate change cohort or because I go to environmental school, but because every time I look at my baby sister, I wonder what the world will be like 12 years from now when she's my age, or 20 years from now when she's grown up. I think about these things and I'm scared for her future because I don't know. I have no idea what the world will be like then or how climate change will have affected it.
 The city of Portland prides itself on being full of nature and having lots of trees and parks. We show that off like it's a gold medal. It's the first thing that people notice when they come to visit. But if we don't do something about all of the fossil fuels we're importing and exporting, then we won't be able to have nature and trees throughout our city, and we won't be able to have that close-to-nature lifestyle we're so accustomed to.
 Humans are killing the Earth, and if we don't act now, then no one will. We, as the youth of today, have to at least try to save our planet. But we can't do it alone. We need your help. Please, don't let past actions become a problem for future generations to solve.
 Please don't let them look at a dying planet and think of us as the generation that killed the earth Let them look back and say we're the generation that saved it. I want to make a difference I don't want my children or my children's children to be born into a world that they can't change or that they can't be proud Of the first step is saying yes to these resolutions if they don't get past if we don't start taking the steps to save our Planet then there won't be any hope left. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. I
 thank you for the opportunity to speak today i am ella schreiner and i also am an eighth grader at sunny side environmental school i was born here in portland and i am proud to live in a city that is taking steps towards solving a global crisis through local actions as you know the burning of fossil fuels is the major cause of the increase of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere resulting in changes to our climate we are already seeing the impacts that a warming climate will have on our way of life and our health
 The parts of nature that we most cherish as Northwesterners, like our salmon and our forests, are threatened. It is our responsibility to help them and ourselves. We must remember that humans are not the only ones affected by climate change, but we are the only ones that can do something about it. This resolution doesn't call for the end of fossil fuel use. This is about changing the path that we are on. It is about stopping the increase and about saying it's time to prepare for the future.
 Think about it. To build additional infrastructure for fossil fuels seems to run counter to the progress we have been making as an environmentally conscious city. The resolution is also about protecting what we care about from more immediate damage that will come from increased transport of fuels, dangers such as coal dust and the inevitable spills. The whole world is watching Portland, and this is our chance to be national leaders in the movement to counter climate change. The thought I would like to leave you with is this.
 it is better to look to a future with opportunities than to find ourselves looking back with regret thank you thank you very much let's hear it for our students i think we have some more students is that right come on up one of the best parts of being a member of the city council is when we get students here in the chamber saying thoughtful things and that's exactly what's happening this afternoon so we love having you here welcome who'd like to be first just get close to that microphone so we can all hear you
 Hi, my name is Esham Reddy. Hi, my name is Marcel Eden-Mord. And my name is Ben Wilson. We go to Metropolitan Learning Center in Northwest Portland. We're in sixth grade, and our teachers are Ned Haskell and Amy Odom. This year, we have been learning about the causes and effects of climate change and how fossil fuels create pollution and global warming around the world. We decided that we want to change that.
 After all, this is our future planet, and we want it to be a place where we can live.
 This is why we agreed to the position on banning companies that export fossil fuels throughout Portland. We would like to thank Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hales for supporting this position and helping to change the story of the world. We invite the rest of the Commission to agree with us and slowly help the world to be a better place. Thank you. Thank you.
 Wow, who'd like to follow that act? I don't know if we have other students. Yes, we do. Okay, so we'll have other students first, and then after we have all our students, we'll move to adults. Welcome. Hello, I'm Sabela. I'm Isabel Rich. And I'm Stella. We are sixth graders at the Metropolitan Learning Center. We would like to represent all of the young people who care about their futures. We are here to support stopping the development of new oil, coal, and gas facilities.
 We believe this new policy will keep Portland citizens safe and healthy. This is the first step to show other cities that if we don't make the changes and sacrifices that we need to make, we will never be able to grasp the opportunity to stop climate change. This is our future. We are the ones that have to fix it in a way that never has been done before. This is up to us, and we feel that all the weight is on our shoulders. Our voices should count in the fight against fossil fuels.
 Everyone will be put at risk with the extraction and containment of the dangerous and environmentally unsound fossil fuels. This will affect our lives, and this does matter to everyone. Commissioners Novak and Fitch, we beg you to join Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz. Vote yes on these new resolutions and continue the fight against fossil fuels. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, do we have any other student speakers this afternoon?
 If not, you're all great. Thank you so much. Let's move to whatever adults would like to follow that. Go ahead, Carla. The first three are M. Mayo, Patricia Colberg, and Dr. Pat O'Hara. They'll be followed by Bob Sollinger, Inga Fisher-Williams, and Mike Stanton. Okay, thank you. Michael, go ahead. Good afternoon.
 My name is Michael Mayo. I am the secretary of the Cascadia chapter of the Pacific Green Party, and I would like to put a larger frame on the first speaker today who hasn't been invited as a setup position to put the thing in your point of view. I'd just like to speak as a member of a public of a larger frame of reference. The Pacific Green Party is already on the case of
 and has a state initiative already being signatures being collected to stop infrastructure improvements and infrastructure for fossil fuels being implanted throughout the state of Oregon. So we are obviously aware of the valid parts of what's going on here. But Mayor Hales, our party already assumes that sustainability means
 the amount of resources that a generation receives are then handed on unchanged to their progeny. And that's what sustainability means to the Pacific Green Party and the allied green parties of the United States. In that case then, we'd like to tell you, you members of the City Council and the people who are attending this meeting, you are no longer top predators.
 You are not at the top of a food chain. You are not a master of all you survey. If we are to take the implications of what is happening to our environment seriously...
 then we must learn to be just one among a whole network of cooperating actors, which includes members of all of the rest of our species and members of lower forms of life, as well as the Earth itself. Michael, thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to testify. My name is Patricia Kohlberg. I'm a physician with an advanced degree in public health and I spent a couple of decades as medical director for the Multnomah County Health Department.
 Most of my points, I think, have been made. I'm going to be very brief and summarize. There is the risk of catastrophic derailments and explosions. We saw those slides. And these derailments occur a lot more than I think the industry wants to let on. There's the rail traffic-related air pollution that increases the risk of a whole host of disorders. There are the slow-moving trains.
 that create blockages and lead to problems with traffic, but also holding up emergency vehicles. There's the noise and vibration, and I know that that is not an issue when you've got one or two trains coming through, but when you've got 20 a day, that can create a lot of urban stress. There are the storage tanks that can explode. There's the oil spillage. There's the negative impacts on environment and public health.
 And that brings me to a point that I think no one has made yet, which is that these railroads and storage facilities tend to be located in communities of the working poor and people of color, those with the least resources.
 resources to fight back against this degradation of their community safety and livability. I believe this is also an environmental justice issue. Lastly, I don't think Portland should be contributing in any way to global climate change by supporting the fossil fuel industry. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you for this opportunity to speak and to support both these measures. My name is Dr. Patrick O'Heron. I'm a resident of North Portland, a board-certified emergency general surgeon, and board president of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, where I focus on the health impacts of climate change. Portland has a great opportunity today to protect the health of its citizens by preventing further oil-by-rail traffic and blocking the building of new fossil fuel infrastructure.
 Inherent to the fossil fuel economy is the existence of sacrifice zones. Sacrifice zones surround all fossil fuels at extraction, transportation, storage, and burning. They include our bodies, our air, our land, our communities. In Lac-Megantic, Quebec, an oil train explosion killed 47, leveled the whole town, instantly creating a sacrifice zone.
 Climate change raises the stakes to an entirely different plane by extending the fossil fuel sacrifice zone to include the entire Earth and all people. How serious is climate change? Perhaps the title of a talk delivered by geophysicist Dr. Brad Warner at a meeting of the American Geophysical Union, which is a venerable and fairly stodgy organization, gives some clue. His talk was titled, and please pardon the language, I'm quoting here, Is Earth Fucked?
 His answer was not short or simple, but basically his answer was, yes, it is, and we are too. That is, unless we make radical changes, like rapidly getting completely off fossil fuels. In order to prevent turning our entire world community into a sacrifice zone, we have to reject the model that accepts sacrifice zones as a cost of doing business and affirm that the very idea of sacrifice zones is morally reprehensible. Our actions have to show that everyone matters.
 that we love and care for each other, and what we value most is happiness, health, and well-being. We have a chance today to not just talk about building a better world, but take active steps. Rather than ponder just how F the Earth may be, I prefer to ask a different question. What can we do about it? And the answer is a lot.
 To me, not fighting to protect the livable climate means relegating all the people and places I love, my family, my friends, my neighbors, this beautiful city and region, the entire natural world to a sacrifice zone of climate devastation. And I love them too much to accept that.
 I hope that you do too. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you very much. Thanks. Next, please. Our Bob Schallinger, Inga Fisher-Williams, and Mike Statton, and they will be followed by, I believe it's Cheryl Lou Bajon, Katie Brent, and Juliana. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. My name is Bob Salinger, and I'm here representing the Audubon Society of Portland and our 16,000 members in the Portland Metro region. First, we want to thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz for your strong leadership on this issue. Audubon strongly supports both resolutions. I've worked in this building for over 20 years, and we've done a lot of important things for the environment, but there are very few things that you could truly say are historic. This is one of those times. This is historic. Thank you.
 I've heard some people suggest that we can't make a difference, that you can't fix global problems with local actions. Any activist knows that the only way you can catalyze global change is starting with local action. Any activist also knows that whenever they tell you that you can't make a difference, they're really not that concerned about you, that you won't make a difference. They're concerned that you will make a difference. This decision will reverberate across the country, across the globe. It already is.
 Some people ask what kind of message it sends to the local business community. I say it sends a clear and important message. It tells the community that Portland is not hitching its economic wagon to the very industries we should be driving toward obsolescence, that we want businesses in Portland that are safe and sustainable, that we are more concerned about the health of our communities than the wealth of distant shareholders.
 And we support Commissioner Fish's suggestion that we need to start transitioning our workforce to a new economy. We need to stop looking backwards. We need to start looking forwards. You'll also probably hear that we need more information. I'll submit to you that we already have all the information we need. We know that you cannot make fossil fuel transportation safe. We know that you can't make these facilities safe. We know that we already have an incredible liability along our river that we need to deal with and we shouldn't be adding to that.
 We know that fossil fuel economies are not sustainable, and we know this infrastructure will last for half a century or more. We'd be perpetuating the very industries that we want to drive to obsolescence. We can't make it safe, we can't make it sustainable, but we can make a difference. We hope that you will all vote for these resolutions and set us on a path to a future where our economy is sustainable and fossil fuels remain in the ground where they belong. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Inge Fisher-Williams. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hale for bringing this forward. We owe you a debt of gratitude. Can you sit closer? Closer? There you go. Is this better? That's better. Okay. I'm here to support both resolutions as presented, and I hope as you fine-tune the language that it will be done in the intent to be supportive and not create loopholes.
 and that it will be done in the spirit of clarity to make good choices possible by future investors and businesses who want to work in our city. The adoption of both resolutions will make a policy statement that fills a glaring gap in Portland's long-range climate action plan.
 a plan that's already been adopted by council. And I'm encouraged that subsequently there will be rules and laws and regulations follow consistent with the intent expressed here. It is a visionary step. Make no mistake about this, but it logically follows the investment policy that you have already embraced, and we applaud you for that.
 It embraces community values consistent with transforming Oregon and the U.S. towards a carbon-free emissions future. It will bring us closer to achieving our state's emission goals, which are in jeopardy, as we heard this week. It follows the proud tradition of Oregon as a leader in land use planning, the bottle bill, and sensible, people-centered government.
 I'm urging your yes vote in the hope that the Council's consensus decision will reflect the growing global urgency to limit carbon emissions. Your step here...
 is consistent with the urgency of transforming our economy and the much-needed tasks to build a renewable energy future. You can lead the way by allowing a framework to evolve, and we know there will be fine-tuning and adjustments possible. The task ahead of us is very large. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 The next three are Cheryl Lou Bajon, Katie Brent, and Juliana, and they'll be followed by Alice Shapiro, Adriana Voss-Onriel, and Tadeen Roos. Good afternoon. Just get nice and close to that microphone, and you can actually slide that whole big box closer to you if you need to. Okay. Whoever would like to be first. Honorable Mayor? Yes.
 City Commissioners, my name is Sherylou, and I'm a volunteer with 350 PDX and a student at PCC Cascade. I was born and raised in the Philippines, and I have been living in the U.S. in Portland for a year now. I am here to give voice to the people from the Philippines and to other developing countries around the world who are in severe distress and danger due to global warming and who do not have any say in the policies of the developed world.
 develop world that are causing our suffering. My own country is suffering increasingly from climate change. For us mainly, a severe worsening of typhoons resulting in thousands of deaths and enormous damage, especially in the past few years. Until 2010, we never had super typhoons in Mindanao, my island.
 But since then, there have been three super typhoons in our area, the Washi, Bupa, and Hayan, with 10,000 deaths and billions of dollars in damages. I survived such a horror in Cagayan de Oro in 2011 when Washi hit in the middle of the night and killed more than 2,000 people in the district right next to mine.
 The fear, pain and suffering is indescribable. We had never before had such disasters in our area, and there is no doubt that it is because of climate change. This is why I am here speaking to you today. Portland is in a key position to help lead the change to protect people here and everywhere from devastating and consequences of fossil fuels and lead the way for others to do the same.
 I want to thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz, for bringing this resolution to City Council. I call on the rest of the commissioners with all urgency. Vote yes to both of this resolution. Do what is just and necessary for Portland and the world. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Juliana and I'm 13 years old. I'm here because I am deeply concerned about my own future and that of my whole generation and all future generations. If we don't act now, we'll miss our last chance to preserve a livable planet. I feel as if my future is an unnecessary dark cloud. All it would take for it to be lifted would be for our elected leaders to listen and lead.
 The City Council has the choice now to stop all new fossil fuel projects in Portland. All the time, I see scary and dangerous-looking coal, oil, and gas trains rolling right through the middle of our city, in the middle of our neighborhoods. And I wonder, why are our elected leaders letting this happen? Maybe the adults should let us youth help you make these decisions, because they seem so obvious.
 Keep us healthy and safe by doing everything in your power to stop these dangerous and polluting fossil fuels from coming to our city. This will also influence other cities across the country and world to do the same. If you care at all about your children or grandchildren, vote for these resolutions today. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. My name is Katie Barrett. I represent Portland Rising Tide and the Climate Action Coalition.
 In a few weeks, leaders from around the world will gather in Paris for the 21st round of climate negotiations. But we would be naive to expect any real solutions to come out of them, because for 20 years, we've watched our national leaders bow to corporate money and power. For 20 years, they've chosen to prop up a failing financial system rather than implement real solutions. And for 20 years, fossil fuel use and emissions have continued to rise, despite endless pledges to cut back.
 Our national leaders continue to fail us because they are bought and paid for by the very industries that are causing climate change and profiting from maintaining the status quo. We can't afford to wait for them to save us because it's likely they never will. We need to take action at the local level. It's the only place where people have any chance of being heard. And we have made ourselves heard here in Portland. It's because of the people in this room and many more who couldn't be here today that you are considering this measure.
 It wasn't long ago that you appeared ready to rubber stamp brand new fossil fuel infrastructure without a second thought, because a company offered a lot of money, and that's what our system prioritizes. You didn't expect resistance, but you got it, and it won't end here. Not only will we continue to fight against the destructive industries that threaten our future, but we will be pushing for real and just solutions.
 In order to get to the root causes of climate change, we need to take responsibility for our actions and the roles we play in maintaining the destructive and oppressive systems that cause it. As the biggest consumers of energy and resources, we should be the first to cut back, and we need to ensure that solutions are accessible to everyone, not just those that are financially privileged. It's time to begin a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards a sustainable and equitable future. Thank you very much.
 The next three are Alice Shapiro, Adriana Voss-Unreal, and Tadeen Rous. And they'll be followed by Skip Turr, John Talburt, and Joe Wesby. You brought a backup group, I see. Backup singers. Hello, I'm Alice Shapiro, and I'm here with the Your Portland Raging Grannies. And if it's okay with you, we'd like to sing a little song in support of the resolutions. Of course.
 No one can say no to a granny. Thank you. Oh, give us a home where oil trains can't roam and we're safe from explosions and fire where children can play and the birds and fish stay free from harm, that's our simple desire.
 fuels are not clean. Make all of our energy green. We say no to those rigs, and there's terminals so big, and companies that rape our land. There are so many ways to make power these days. From the wind and the sun, don't you see?
 Let's use trains to ship grain, not oil or propane. This is good for our economy.
 Even harder than the students to top, right? Yeah, I know. That's where it's just harder to follow. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. My name is Tadeen Roos, and I live in Vancouver, near the edge of the bomb train blast zone and across from the tank farm, sited on non-reinforced soil across the river.
 As a girl, I learned much about the revered U.S. Constitution, the balance of powers, the we the people, pursuit of happiness language, and I believed it all for a good half century until I read Howard Zinn's People History, and I learned about the struggles of the vast majority who were not included in the we the people.
 Our governing document was written by and for the 1% of that day to protect and enhance their assets. Then I read Charles Beard's An Economic Interpretation of the U.S. Constitution, first published in 1913. The dots really began to connect.
 The governing system worked very well for the 1% of 1787, and it has worked very well for the 1% for the next 240 years and still protects and enhances the assets of today's 1%.
 We, the disenfranchised majority, are not only denied education, medical care, housing, and unadulterated food, but today we are denied breathable air, clean water, and even the physical safety of our bodies. Our living planet is being sacrificed to corporate profit.
 I urge you Portland City Council members to vote in the direction of an updated code ordinance to prohibit projects to create or expand infrastructure or store or transport fossil fuels. This is probably unconstitutional, but do it anyway. This is an opportunity to do what governments should do, protect the citizens and promote their welfare. On Cascadia. Thank you.
 Thank you. Okay, welcome. Mayor, Hale City Commissioners, I'm Adriana Vos Andre, Chair and Co-Founder of 350PDX, and I want to begin by reading a brief statement of support for these resolutions from Reverend Joseph Santos Lyons, the Executive Director of APANO, Asian Pacific Network of Oregon, who could not make it here today.
 Quote, one of the best ways to make change is to transform our systems and build the structures that reflect our values. I support this effort because it invests in a future that protects and preserves life. This is a moment of turning away from fossil fuels we know are destructive to the people and the environment,
 that ultimately undermine our economy and family well-being. I can't deny these changes are hard, and yet together we can move into a healthy new way with sustainable infrastructure." I also want to add my own brief statement. I speak as a scientist, a doctor, a mother, and a part of a movement of people who are watching you today.
 We all came out to City Hall today, many taking time off work, off of school, off of busy lives, because we are in a state of ecological, public health, and humanitarian crisis. These resolutions cannot wait one more year, one more month, or even one more day. The time to show leadership is now. We here in City Hall, along with thousands more who could not come,
 are taking close note of who stands today with the bold leadership of Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz on the right side of history. Thank you very much. The next three are Skip Turr, John Talberth, and Joe Westby, and they'll be followed by Randy Camp, Rob DeDellins, and Gregory Monaghan. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you.
 We'd like to go first. Just pull that microphone down closer to you. There you go. Mr. Mayor, City Council, thank you for this opportunity. My name is Skip Tarr. I'm here today representing the Oval Oregon Rail Users League. I'm the owner and president of Tarr LLC, a distribution company engaged in petrochemical distribution for the region. Can you just pull that whole box a little closer to you there so we can pick you up a little better? There you go. That's good. It's low tech, but it works. I would...
 Start off by elected mention of the tribal people are here earlier today and I've been in there reminding us of our ancestors settling this region as a region for trade, thank you, and it's because of that is why I'm here today the trade in our modern-day world is manufacturing an agricultural base and it stretches across the United States in the world and
 A strong, efficient, safe rail system is vital for a region like Oregon, unlike any other region in the country. Things that we love so great about it is we're remote, but there's a cost for that, and it requires a good rail system.
 I have some issues with the resolutions the first resolution to me is too broad and it is too many opportunities potentially for challenges to come to stop other projects that could help that could impair other commodity movements such as green or apples or just shoes coming through the region
 That would be an unfortunate situation, and I think that because of the loose wording of the resolution, that is a potential. Secondly, I'm not sure that I agree that it's government's duty to single out commodities and eliminate them. I don't think that's the role of government. Thank you.
 lastly I just I would ask that at the very least the the train you slowed down a little bit and in review the resolutions because it appears there are inaccuracies and misstatements in the resolutions that I think can be addressed by further involvement with the business community and the railroads in particular thank you thank you for your time welcome thank you very much mayor Hales members of the City Council
 My name is Joe Wesby and I'm the Director of Operations for Farrell Gas Propane. I am also the past president of the Pacific Propane Gas Association and the chairman of the Oregon Governmental Affairs Committee, which works under the PPGA. I believe it was my testimony that Commissioner Saltzman was questioning earlier.
 Commissioner Fish, can I take the compliment? Oh, sorry, Mr. Fish. That's okay. It was your letter that referenced Portland Public Schools. That's correct. That caused me to ask staff if that was intended to be covered. Yes. And I think you've got an answer that you like. I do have an answer that I like. And there was a second point in here, and I'll just make it rather quickly since we did cover that. And I do appreciate the fact that you looked at the material and you read it. It provides faith in the system that you guys are paying attention to all of this.
 Secondly, propane is listed by the federal government as a clean fuel and is important for reducing greenhouse gas in transportation. During the discussion on Oregon's Clean Fuels Program, in the state legislative process, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality wanted propane dealers to become credit generators. The ability is optional for propane under the new law. The success of the program is dependent on getting enough credit generators to participate.
 Propane would be an important part of this program's success. My company and other propane dealers are currently considering whether or not to become involved with the Clean Cities program. However, if we are constrained from expanding our infrastructure for transportation-related projects in the state's largest city, then we may decide it's not worth participating in. Ferrell Gas and the PPGA encourage you to slow down and rethink the wording of this resolution.
 Its effects would be broader than you might realize and harmful to the state as a whole. Portland is a fantastic city and you guys are doing great things. Everybody is watching. So we appreciate your diligence towards this. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Mayor Hales, Commissioners, good afternoon. My name is John Talborth. I'm President and Senior Economist for the Center for Sustainable Economy. In addition to implementing what appears to be the will of the people by a large margin,
 Passing these resolutions also makes good economic sense. And let me give you just three quick reasons. Number one is the public financial liability issue. As we transition away from fossil fuels, the vast majority of fossil fuel infrastructure will become obsolete brownfields that need to be dismantled and cleaned up to free up that land for other beneficial uses.
 Now, it's something I think this is – labor would support this as part of a just transition. But experience has shown that without bonding and other financial assurance mechanisms in place to guarantee that corporations and not the people pony up the funds needed to do this, cities like Portland will inevitably have to foot the bill or a large part of it. So as more infrastructure is built, this potential liability rises as well.
 Add to this the chronic under insurance and financial and economic risks associated with accidents, spills, and explosions. It's clear that new fossil fuel infrastructure has become a very risky proposition. Number two, the cost of meeting the climate action plan.
 Portland's status as a climate action champion hinges upon successful implementation of its cap, but routine approval of new fossil fuel infrastructure subverts the cap goals and makes it significantly more expensive to achieve, for example, by facilitating expansion of automobile-dependent communities throughout metro and growth in transportation sector emissions,
 which, as you know, is the weak link in Portland's cap. This means that in order to meet other cap goals, we have to squeeze greater and greater efficiencies out of other sectors. Expenses grow exponentially in this situation. Number three, the cost of climate change. The whole motivation behind new fossil fuel infrastructure is to both respond to and foster growth in consumption, the opposite of what the cap seeks to promote. And growth anywhere in the world helps grow the enormous bill expected from climate change, something in the order of $300 trillion
 by many models. Portland should no longer be an accomplice in growing this debt. Generations down the line will have to pay. Thank you.
 Thank you. You know, you've raised the super fund issue in a way that I think hasn't been well articulated, so I appreciate that. I mean, Commissioner Fish and I spent a great deal of time on Portland's super fund liability, and, you know, the super fund used to be a fund. Now it's not. It's just a mandate from the federal government to clean up often orphaned sites, and I don't, frankly, expect that funding situation to improve. So I appreciate you making that point so clearly. Thank you.
 I appreciate your point. And as we continue to build new fossil fuel infrastructure, that liability and risk continues to grow, which is why we have to stop it right here. Thank you so much. Thank you all. Thank you. Next three are Randy Camp, Rob DeDellins, and Gregory Monahan. And they'll be followed by Julie Chapman, Claudia Keith, and Dr. Theodora Tsongas.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Howdy. My name is Gregory Monahan. I'm a resident of Portland for the last 20 years. I'm speaking on behalf of my grandchildren and my children who all live here in Portland. I have two points I want to raise, and I'd like to get a response from the council. The first is that it's unclear to me whether there's going to be a vote on both resolutions today. Yes.
 Okay, get a little closer. There you go. It's unclear to me and I think others whether or not both resolutions will be voted on today And I wish you would clarify that The second thing I would say if I could be so bold as to speak for the supporters of this resolution we'd much rather have the Vote taken today then to then to keep saying how bad this is
 it would be to not approve these resolutions. I think our youth and our community leaders have been extremely eloquent about that. So those are my two points. Well, I think we'll try to give you some clarity about that as the hearing goes on. We wanted to give as many people as possible an opportunity to speak, and we wanted to make sure that council members that wanted to propose amendments or get questions answered got a chance to do that. Okay.
 So my objective personally was, and always here at this council, is to reach a very high level of agreement on the council about what we do. It's okay to pass things by a 3-1 or 3-2 vote, but the best way to pass things is unanimously. So, frankly, if a full discussion and complete understanding of the amendments enables all of our colleagues to join Commissioner Fritz and me in voting for these, then I'd be prepared to take more time. If that's not necessary, and I think we'll know that a little better in half an hour or so,
 then there's certainly it's certainly still possible we could act on both today it is important that we act on the the uh the first of the resolutions today because of timing issues in vancouver thank you welcome thank you mayor hales members of the council my name is rob dedilius i'm the general manager of lake railway in lakeview oregon i live here in portland about a quarter mile from the railroad tracks i'm here to oppose both resolutions before you today
 Lake Railway does not transport oil, but I'm very concerned about the overall economic impact these resolutions would have on Portland and the rest of the Pacific Northwest. Portland is and always has been a transportation town. This community has a large industrial base and a lot of high-paying jobs in industries like manufacturing, chemicals, rail transportation, and at the port. These industries would be severely impacted by these resolutions. A lot of good jobs would be lost.
 In addition to hurting our current industrial base in Portland, these resolutions would dissuade further industrial development in this city and in the region. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, our state has the sixth highest unemployment rate in the nation at 6.2 percent. The last thing our government should be doing now is chasing away high-paying jobs in industry and in transportation. These types of measures hollow out our middle class and create further income inequality in our society.
 In summary, these resolutions harm our city's bright future. Instead of just serving a very vocal activist minority, our government should consider those harmed by these measures, such as labor unions and the working class. These ill-considered proposals need to be studied more carefully and thoughtfully. I urge you to rethink these resolutions. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Welcome.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Honorable Councilman. My name is Randy Camp. I'm from CoEnergy. I'm a small businessman. I have operations in Albany and Redmond. But I felt that there was a need for me to make the trip to Portland because I have some concerns about these resolutions. The resolutions mentioned...
 It doesn't intend to restrict provisions of service directly to the end user, which I presume that would include propane customers. However, this resolution could restrict service, especially if we have what we had a couple years ago in the winter, the polar vortex, or if our neighboring states happen to use an enormous amount of propane for crop drying, which has happened in the past.
 At that time, I had customers that didn't necessarily go without propane, but I couldn't get propane to them in the quantities they needed because there wasn't enough propane to support taking care of those customers in the Pacific Northwest.
 So with that in mind, the state's ability to transition to greener fuels also would restrict propane, autogas, as well as natural gas as motor fuel.
 It's been brought up here a little earlier. Propane is a huge part of this country's move away from foreign oil by reducing the amount of gasoline and diesel used in this country through switching their fleets to propane or natural gas, which is much better for our environment and our economy.
 I oppose the resolution 1157. Please vote no for this resolution. It casts a cloud over Portland's economic future, and many unintended consequences could be affected not only in the state but in the region. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Thank you.
 Welcome. Appreciate you coming in. Okay, let's hear from the next three folks, please. Julie Chapman, Claudia Keith, and Dr. Theodora Tsongas, and they'll be followed by Chris Fontaine, Don Steinke, and Alana Steinke. For those who are standing in the lower chamber, there are now seats upstairs if you're interested in going up there. Welcome. Good afternoon. Can I start? Okay. Yes, just pull that microphone close as you can there. There you go. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, commissioners. I'm Dr. Theodora Tsongas, an environmental health scientist retired from the Oregon Health Division and formerly adjunct associate professor of community health at Portland State University. This past September was the hottest globally in recorded history, and 2015 is on track to be the hottest year globally in 160 years of recording. Thank you.
 Seeing it as a major threat to civilization, 200 countries will demand action on climate change at the upcoming international meeting in Paris. Many world leaders in medical, public health, and scientific bodies have expressed deep concerns about climate change as a threat to human health and well-being and are speaking out about these threats with increasing urgency.
 I've testified before the city's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability on the many hazards to health and safety of propane terminals, and I've supported and congratulated you on the Climate Action Plan. In addition to noting the many climate-changing impacts of the fossil fuel industry, public health professionals have demonstrated that diesel emissions from trains, ships, and supporting infrastructure contribute significantly to the adverse health impacts
 of air pollution, including asthma, heart and lung disease, cancer, and developmental disorders. Today, the City of Portland can take the national lead on climate policy and protect the health and safety of its residents.
 The fossil fuel policy resolution and the oil train resolution together show that the city recognizes the exceptional health, safety, environmental, and climate risks associated with transport, storage, and use of coal, oil, propane, and gas. Responsible climate leadership means that there is simply no place for new fossil fuel infrastructure that will lock in decades of dangerous pollution. There is a better way.
 I'm pleased that Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz have sponsored these policies, and I wholeheartedly support passage by the full City Council of the fossil fuel policy resolution and the oil train resolution. Please vote yes for all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Julie Chapman, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The League urges the Council's support of Resolutions 1156 and 1157.
 Any major increase in fossil fuel industry infrastructure is not consistent with the current League of Women Voters natural resources and climate change positions, nor with Portland's climate action plan. Both of the proposed resolutions recognize the implications of shipping fossil fuels within the U.S. and for export to foreign ports.
 The methods of transport and storage are dangerous to public health and safety, and the remote use of fossil fuels has global and local climate effects. For example, a large body of research confirms a significant transfer of atmospheric pollutants from Asia to U.S., and specifically to the Pacific Northwest.
 Asian pollution accounts for about 20% of the total ozone pollution in the spring in the western states. In a widely cited study from 2014, the authors demonstrate how air pollution in the U.S. is affected by China's production of goods for the American market.
 Pollution emitted elsewhere does not drift off harmlessly into space, as we know. In order to stay true to Portland's climate action plan, we must take into account the effects of these business decisions. We can ride our bikes to work in the rain, we can use TriMet instead of driving, but unless we adopt a global view of the impact of our local policies have on carbon emissions, we risk fiddling around while Rome burns.
 We might be designing solar-powered robots in our LEED-certified workshops, while weather patterns become increasingly extreme and the oceans no longer support the life forms necessary to marine food webs. The League wholeheartedly supports the proposed resolutions, and we hope you all do as well. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. My name is Claudia Keith. I represent the League of Women Voters, Oregon.
 given a number of testimonies that the League of Women Voters Oregon gave in Salem this last session, we are in total agreement with the testimony supporting both resolutions. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Okay. Let's hear it for the next three folks, please. Chris Fontaine, Don Steinke, and Alana Steinke, and they'll be followed by Linda Garcia, Timmy Hessler, and Andy Magg.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. I would like to preface my remarks by saying that these remarks have been submitted by Alistair and Janice Roxburgh, Hayden Island residents who are in support of Agenda Items 1156 and 1157. Professor Roxburgh is an E.E. professor, chief systems engineering architect in applied science and discrete math,
 and he is also one of the founding members of the Northwest Citizen Science Initiatives and author of a two-part, 120-page white paper illuminating the risks of the proposed Pembina Propane Terminal. Professor Roxburgh's comments have been edited to fit into the testimony time allowed. To Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz, a heartfelt thank you for your wise leadership in opposing the building of new fossil fuel infrastructure in Portland.
 The predicted devastating Cascadia subduction zone megathrust quake of magnitude 9.0 plus is, according to geological history, an absolute inevitability.
 The construction of any new transport and storage facilities in the earthquake liquefaction zones along Portland's rivers would add to the already dangerous and explosive situation presented by Portland's existing fossil fuel tank farms, especially on the Willamette. These tank farms are built on water-saturated riverside alluvial fill, subject to an extreme seismic liquefaction threat.
 The mind boggles at the prospect of the Willamette tank farm, let alone an even bigger future version of it, in post-earthquake disarray, burning and exploding. Few tanks, even new ones, can be expected to survive.
 Given that the seismic liquefaction threat in Portland is arguably the worst in the Cascadian subduction zone, Portland is not a place to expand fossil fuel infrastructure, whether on the Willamette or at Terminal 6 or across the Columbia River in Vancouver. The coastal areas of Oregon, such as Coos Bays, are no better due to extreme subsidence and tsunami risk.
 To survive the multiple challenges of climate change and earthquakes, Portland should say no to oil trains and new fossil fuel transport and storage infrastructure.
 Portland needs to build new business infrastructure that trades in commodities other than highly explosive fossil fuels and on increasing renewable energy, not combustible fossil fuel expansion. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. Thank you. I'm Don Steinke. I'm a retired science teacher from Vancouver. I'd like to begin by thanking you for keeping exploding propane trains out of Spokane.
 Camas and Vancouver. There have been at least 14 oil train fires in the last two and a half years and 10 exploded. The FRA says the only way to prevent the fireballs is to slow the trains to 12 miles an hour. On March 10 of 2014, the Seattle City Council passed a resolution opposing new oil terminals until the tank cars could be proven safe.
 A few months later, the Vancouver City Council passed a resolution opposing all oil terminals, period. Then the city of South Portland, Maine, voted to prohibit a crude by rail facility at its port. Yes, life is full of risks, but we have a right to choose which risks we accept and which we don't.
 Yes, we came in gasoline-powered cars, but our cars use half the gasoline as our previous cars, and our next cars will use far less. Norway plans to ban any new car that requires gasoline by 2025. We don't need to grow the oil industry.
 The Gorge Commission, the tribes, the firefighters of Vancouver are opposed to oil terminals. So are 30 cities, including Spokane, Stevenson, Washougal, Hood River, the Dalles, and Mosier. Two months ago, by a vote of 15 to 0, the Los Angeles City Council passed a resolution opposing an oil terminal that would bring only five oil trains per week through their city. The Oregonian ignores the risks, but you don't need to.
 I urge you to join South Portland, Maine, Los Angeles, Vancouver, and 30 other local cities throughout in opposing the fossil fuel infrastructure. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Alona Steinke. I'm a retired RN and one of your neighbors from Vancouver. I was born and raised in Portland and graduated from the Good Samaritan Hospital School of Nursing. It was that long ago.
 You've already heard so many good reasons to approve the resolutions before you. The unsafe cars, derailments, spills, fires, and explosions. The poisoning of our air by the increasing amount of diesel emissions, which results in higher rates of cancer, heart attack, stroke, and asthma. There are the issues of overcrowded rails and big oil's callous disregard for the safety and well-being of their workers.
 This is not just a Portland issue. The health and welfare of all the communities along the rail route are at stake. Please join the following who have also passed resolutions of concern and opposition to oil trains and terminals. The City Councils of Westport, Ocean Shores, Hoquiam, Aberdeen, Monteceno, Elma, Bainbridge Island, Edmonds, the Quinault Nation,
 the Port of Olympia and the Columbia Waterfront LLC, and 14 neighborhood associations and 101 Vancouver businesses. Last night, Vancouver again spoke up against the oil terminal by electing Eric LeBrant to the Vancouver Port Commission. Portland and Vancouver share the same air and the same great river. Did you know that our beautiful Columbia River has been designated the second most endangered river in the nation?
 Our air is being poisoned and our cities are in danger of failing to meet air quality standards. It's urgent that we transition away from fossil fuels and into a future where we have clean water and air that doesn't make us sick. A future that is safe for our children, grandchildren, and generations to come.
 i urge you to pass these resolutions thank you very much thanks for coming may i leave these with yes please just leave with carla and make sure we get copies thank you the next three are linda garcia timmy hessler and andy mag and they'll be followed by patricia bellamy kelly o'hanley and kristen sharon good afternoon welcome thank you
 good afternoon first i'd like to thank you all for listening with open minds to everybody here today and for giving me the opportunity to speak in favor of these resolutions i know you've heard a lot of statistics today from many large organizations and businesses but i'm here to speak about community just give us your name again please linda garcia commissioner fish you mentioned earlier the need for a study on livability
 I'd like to address that as a resident of Fruit Valley, the closest neighborhood to the proposed oil terminal in Vancouver, Washington. Fruit Valley is an amazing place filled with people who care, who want the best life for their families and for their neighbors. It is a blue-collar, hardworking community that will rise up to fight when needed. In 2013, we entered the biggest fight we've ever encountered when Tesoro Savage proposed the largest oil terminal in North America.
 If sighted, this terminal will be less than one mile from my home. And from the moment it goes online, it will put massive amounts of poisonous gases into the air. The amounts of those are listed in the FSEC papers. Every minute, every day, from the second that it starts up, this is what we're facing. I've said it before, and I will keep saying it until people start listening and people start hearing. There is no invisible wall around Fruit Valley anymore.
 or Vancouver for that matter. What is emitted from that terminal will permeate the air within neighborhoods and communities throughout the Vancouver and Portland region. We don't want to knowingly endanger our families, our children, or our neighbors. And I'm sure I speak for so many when I say we have expectations for those who represent us to protect us, our livability, and our futures.
 Mayor Hales, you stated earlier today, the world is at a turning point and we have a chance to make a difference. I appreciate you stating that. I encourage all of you to consider it and listen to those who are speaking here today. Please approve these resolutions. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Dr. Tim Hilzer. I'm a resident of Portland, professor of quantitative and qualitative research methods.
 and a co-founder of Northwest Citizen Science Initiative. Northwest Citizen Science Initiative is a Portland-based association of civic leaders, scientists, engineers, environmental researchers using valid and reliable scientific methods to study and report on serious challenges to our systems of livability and sustainability across the Pacific Northwest.
 Here's the problem, as you well know. Since 2013, fossil fuel train disasters in North America have increased, and Portland, Vancouver has been playing, as we've heard numerous times today, Russian roulette with the rail transporters and manufacturers, testing agencies, and congressional oversight committees.
 hundreds of fossil fuel rail car wrecks with major incidents across Canada and the United States. Portland and Vancouver may be next, date to be determined. Portland has become a beta site, a testing site for the industry. The causes?
 National Transportation Safety Board reports serious design flaws in all rail tank cars, including DOT-111, DOT-112J, and DOT-117. The couples don't work very well. They've tried to make some fixes. Those fixes have forced those couplers to snap off and become rams to these vehicles.
 these container cars. We have a manufacturer here in Gundersen who's building some of those tank cars. I'm not accusing them of anything. I'm grateful for their jobs and the things that they contribute to our society. But you need to be proactive in what they're doing and take a look at improving what they're doing. And I think a beginning first step is passing these two resolutions. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Ailes, commissioners, my name is Andy Magi. I'm the director of the Sierra Club here in Oregon, and I'm proud to be representing our thousands of members that reside here in the city and our volunteers. Thank you all for having us here this afternoon and evening to discuss what is a critically important issue to our community, neighborhoods, and region.
 I also want to take this moment to thank all the volunteers and organizations who've made this possible, groups like 350 PDX, Columbia Riverkeepers, Physicians for Social Responsibility, the Audubon Society, Climate Action Coalition, and our tribal partners and businesses. I want to applaud the leadership of Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz and offer my encouragement to the other commissioners to join them in supporting these two resolutions today. This is not a new issue.
 The negative impacts of climate change driven by the burning of fossil fuels are well documented. The health and safety risks of fossil fuels and its infrastructure and transport to local communities are well documented. And perhaps more importantly, the city of Portland has had for some time a climate action plan. Its newest version passed in June of this year, and that plan calls on the city to develop and establish a fossil fuel policy like the one you're considering today.
 What we do in Portland matters. Leaders from across the country will watch what we do here today and look for local strategies to push back on fossil fuels in their communities. Nor are you alone. The Safe Energy Leadership Alliance is a group of local elected officials who recognize the significant threats and impacts coal and oil transport brings to their communities. And when proposals emerged, they came together to use their local authority to protect those
 and represent and even say no in some cases. From the Northwest to the Gulf Coast, local elected officials are taking action on climate.
 We at the Sierra Club encourage you to do the same today, and thank you for your time. Andy, since you've waited so long, can I ask a question? You may. So we've gotten some emails or letters from people that have raised a question about the HALES resolution in the context of the governor's, the state's clean fuels program.
 And so I want to separate out coal, oil, and coke and put that off to the side and just ask you about natural gas and propane because we've got enough inquiries about this. I want to give you a chance to respond. Under the state clean fuels program,
 There is an explicit encouragement that we're going to move to a cleaner energy future by using so-called bridge fuels. And there's a specific encouragement that we're going to displace diesel consumption with natural gas and propane. In fact, we have locally a manufacturer of heavy industrial trucks that's moving to a natural gas-powered fleet.
 How do we reconcile the action taken by the state through that program with the prohibition in the Hales Resolution about infrastructure for propane and natural gas? Thank you for the question. I'll be the first to admit that I am not an expert on the specific language of the bill. The fossil fuels. I'm asking as a matter of policy. Yeah, I think the point here is that,
 I think what we're talking about today is the need to move beyond traditional fossil fuels, the need to bring about cleaner burning or cleaner fuels, more renewable energy. No one is arguing that in the short term we're not going to continue to use some fossil fuels or some forms of energy. And I think that these two things can coexist in the same world. I don't think there's a prohibition on cleaner fuels in Mayor Hale's resolution.
 I had a comment. Your question was how do we put these two together. And you recognize what the state is encouraging us to do. I understand. Thank you. The state has been ill-advised in preparing their position, and I think it's an opportunity for the city council to make a significant correction in that. We have provided to the city council as well as to the state –
 Our white paper, parts one and two on Pembina. You've all had copies. You all have disks on that. And I recommend that you look at it because propane is not a clean fuel. It is not a safe fuel. And for you to go down that track, it will blow you up. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Okay.
 The next three are Patricia Bellamy, Kelly O'Hanley, and Kristen Sheeran. And they'll be followed by Jim Hauser, Paul Spindell, and Gwen Sullivan. And after those folks, I think I'm going to take a process check here. So go ahead, please. Yes.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak and urge you to support this binding fossil fuels resolutions. I'm here for many reasons. I'm a great-grandmother and a 30-year resident of our beautiful city of Portland. I'm worried about climate change and my dear grandchildren's future health and safety. Thank you.
 I also have 40 years' experience as an RN caring for heart and lung patients. Nurses are worried about multiple mile-long diesel, oil, and coal trains rumbling through our cities, communities, and countrysides. These dirty trains spewing out soot and toxic fumes known to cause cancer, heart and lung diseases, and risks of fire and explosions from oil trains, just to mention a few health hazards.
 I'm also a member of the Oregon Nurses Association, ONA, which has over 10,000 RN members. ONA has sent a letter to Governor Kate Brown urging her to continue to support Oregon's no to coal exports. I'm also a nurse in the Sierra Club's Beyond Cold Health Outreach. Sierra Club is a non-profit organization that supports Oregon's no to coal exports.
 Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal and partners have retired 205 coal plants, but there is still much to do. Coal is the single largest contributor to environmental CO2. These resolutions are steps in decreasing CO2 and thus climate change.
 Nurses know climate change will bring many extreme risks to our citizens' health and safety, risks from vector-borne diseases to food scarcities from floods, droughts, and rising sea levels. Vote yes on these resolutions. You have a real opportunity to show leadership on how communities and cities can impact climate change and keep our communities safe. Thank you again. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 In the interest of time, I'll truncate my remarks. Just give us your name. I will. Thank you for allowing me to speak, and thank you for considering these resolutions. My name is Dr. Kelly O'Hanley. I am representing Greenpeace USA and its thousands of members here in Portland. It takes climate leadership by the people.
 and those who represent them to make necessary peaceful transition to a clean energy future. The type of leadership Portland can show today right here in these city chambers. At a time when Oregon and the Pacific Northwest are under assault by fossil fuel industry, currently facing 27 or 28 proposed projects that would power climate chaos, the City of Roses can be that beacon of light,
 Setting an important example for other cities while joining in solidarity with those who have already taken climate actions. To stop dangerous fossil fuel projects in Portland that put our environment and community at great risk takes bold climate leadership. Please take a stand to protect the sacred by passing these resolutions. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hello, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. My name is Dr. Kristen Sharon. I'm here as Oregon State Director of Climate Solutions. We're a regional nonprofit working to accelerate practical and profitable solutions to climate change. I've submitted our comments online for the record, so I'll be brief because I know others that are waiting. Thank you.
 As a core member of the Stand Up to Oil Coalition and as a central player in the Power Pass Coal Coalition opposing coal export in Oregon and Washington, Climate Solutions strongly opposes expansion of coal and oil transportation, storage, and export facilities in Portland.
 You've heard many of the reasons, moral, environmental, and economic, and I'll touch on some of the economic ones I think haven't been mentioned here today. The tide of global energy investments turning around us, the cost of renewables continues to fall dramatically. For example, the cost of wind power in the U.S. is now cost competitive with coal and other fossil fuels and will continue to decline dramatically.
 U.S. oil firms are reporting sharply lower profits. The U.S. coal industry is in decline, and though many are unaware, coal imports in major Asian coal-consuming countries is falling dramatically as well. The clean energy revolution is underway, and the investments in renewable energy must be ramped up in our city and in our world to transition to a low-carbon future now.
 Investing in long-lived, capital-intensive coal power infrastructure and oil infrastructure will irrevocably lock us into a global emissions trajectory that guarantees catastrophic climate change. Portland and the Northwest have been and should remain a leader in the transition from fossil fuels to a clean energy economy. Proponents of coal and oil infrastructure project a false choice between environmental protection and the economy and jobs.
 Pioneers in energy efficiency, renewable energy, and sustainable fuels call the city of Portland, the state of Oregon, and the Northwest home for a reason. We can succeed economically by innovating, commercializing, and marketing energy strategies that reduce fossil fuel dependence, promote clean development, and deliver real climate solutions. Thank you for your continued bold leadership on climate and clean energy. Thank you. Thanks for your advocacy. Let's call the next three, and then we'll take a pause and check on some.
 Jim Hauser, Paul Spindle, and Gwen Sullivan. Come on up. Oh, you called him Gwen Sullivan. I'm standing up for Gwen. Oh. You look a little like her. I don't think so. Thank you. Okay, welcome. Hi, I'm Jeff Geisler. I'm not Tim Hauser. Tim already testified. I am the current chair of Hayden Island Neighborhood Network, High Noon. I'm also a co-sponsor of the Northwest Citizen Science Initiative, and I think...
 First of all, we want you to know that the North Portland neighborhoods all support both of these amendments, the resolutions. High Noon took that direction months ago, and the North Portland chairs followed us. So it's time again for a new direction. Lewis and Clark had Sacagawea for a guide interpreter to follow directions. Today we have Siri. Might have the same accent, but quite different. Okay.
 Both qualify for their intelligent assistance, but the difference is most compelling in that Siri relies on electricity and satellite technology. So the two-year journey that Lewis and Clark took cannot be completed in four days roundtrip.
 This amazing transition was made possible in just 210 years by fossil fuels and technology. You have to admit that. But our earth science teachers have long explained the sources of energy are finite. And indeed, we should not exhaust these resources, but find new ones. And we must stop living on this planet as though we have a spare planet in our back pocket. Volcanic...
 And more importantly, I guess, to the issues today, and try to cut this back in time, but the transport and storage of fossil fuels in this northwest region is just really in the wrong place.
 I won't say any more. I've got the written testimony, but I think the kids actually did a great job. They were wonderful. They covered everything from the seismic problems and everything else. But I would like to say I think it's courageous that you wrote these resolutions. I think that you're looking for an intelligent way to implement them.
 and to encourage our current businesses to stay in business, but to find new businesses and new sources of energy. And I think that's to be applauded. We appreciate that. And one last comment. We are fighting a terrible odor problem from the oil re-refineries on Hayden Island. It's from ORCO and APES, APES, curiously, interesting acronym. But we do need your help. Thank you very much. Thanks. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks very much, Mayor Hales and commissioners. Thanks for taking our testimony today. And thanks for the segue, by the way. My name is Ned Haskell, and I'm a teacher at the Metropolitan Learning Center, and I was lucky enough to witness my kids come up here and testify before you today. But I'm standing in for Gwen Sullivan today, who had to go off and run her own executive board meeting, so she sends her regrets.
 But the message is the same. I'm here on behalf of 4,000 Portland Association of Teachers members who voted unanimously to support the position of 350 PDX, Columbia River Keepers, the Audubon Society and many other organizations in supporting Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz's propositions.
 We strongly support the resolutions as written, and we support these resolutions because we don't want our communities put at risk. We support these resolutions to help aid in transitioning to low-carbon energy sources while supporting renewable technology and resources.
 We support these resolutions for so many reasons that are already stated here, but mostly we support these resolutions on behalf of the children and the children that you saw here today, 11- and 12-year-olds, who, if we look 20 years ahead, they'll be 32 years old in the prime of their career, and they're the ones who's –
 shoulders this falls on i'm a white hair i'm surrounded by a couple of white hairs here i mean um and i'm asking that we lead by example for them thank you thank you welcome i guess we're on a theme here my name is paul spindell and
 I was here about a month ago when you passed the proclamation for Indigenous Peoples Day, and I was grateful that you took that lead. And to see more of that today, I came here today prepared to talk about the indigenous concept of seven generations, that everything we're doing, are we keeping in mind its impact on seven generations from today? And yet, as I listen to the kids today, I came even to this generation of children,
 It absolutely made me sad to listen to kids who are 12 years old talking about the pain and anguish that their younger brothers and sisters have about their concerns for the future. If that doesn't touch our hearts and wake us up, I don't know what will. So I come here representing them and generations that are not yet gone. Thank you.
 Thank you all. Let me take a pause in our work here for a minute and work on some logistics. We're going to, I believe, lose a council quorum at 6. We have some amendments in front of us, and I know we have more people who are signed up to testify. So here's what I would suggest. First, we're going to take a five-minute compassion break for everyone, including the city council, and then we're going to come back. I want to thank you all for your support.
 I want to put this to you, and that is that we have the opportunity to act today or we have the opportunity to act later. If we act today, we'll deprive some of you of the opportunity to testify.
 If you really object to that and really feel like we must hear you today before we act, you should talk to our clerk and let her know that, and we'll see if there is still time to hear everyone today if we're going to try to act today. Secondly, then I want to, regardless, I want to come back, and I do want to act on the amendments today. So I want to put that to my council colleagues. I believe we should take action on both sets of amendments and both resolutions today. But...
 I don't want to cut short the process needlessly. So let's take a five-minute break. Let's come back and go to work on that. And, again, my apologies to those who have signed up to speak. And if you really feel like a point you want to make hasn't been heard, let our clerk know. So we'll be back in five minutes and take it up then. Thank you. Just a moment. Tell me that stuff. Let's do it. It's resolutions. Okay. Okay.
 I haven't heard anyone speak upon what I want to speak about, which is about the terrorism in the economy. What's your name? Edith Gillis. Oh, good. You're still a friend. I'm a member of the past. I haven't heard anyone talk about terrorism or about how harmful it's our economy to have. Thanks. Congratulations. Thank you. Close to the end. Oh, sorry. Okay, so you want to speak? Okay. All right. I just wanted to get a quick point in, because I have to leave the fire for 30 or so minutes. What are you at on the list?
 I'm right here. I want to know if you know if I'm speaking or not. All right. You do? Okay. If you're here, we'll call you. Thank you. A week or two, but that's what I think is the most important. Okay.
 He's the very Oh, I, I You did want to speak still? Yes You wrote your own name down? No, I probably made it Hold on Yes, this is only Rob I saw He spoke Okay, sorry
 Oh yes. If there is a . Yes. Hello. If you still want to speak, and you think you've got a point, okay, Erwin? Okay. Okay, I'll make sure they get it. I'm in the . Okay. I'm in the . Okay. Okay. Okay.
 I think I might have been actually the next person.
 Maybe. I don't know. I think I know my name. Yeah, doctor. Oh, doctor. Yeah, that's me. Am I next? We will be in the next room. Great. I just wanted to ask you about your name. You already have a question. And you do want to speak still? I believe I would like to withdraw. I'm sure that I have a problem. Oh, you can send that to me. Okay. Mm-hmm. All right. Thank you. I was going to ask if you had a rough ballpark of where I am in this. Sure. What's your name? Eric.
 Oh, sorry. So we are page six. We are page four right now. But if you want to still speak, let me know. If you still want to speak, if that's something that hasn't been said. Do you have an idea of a time frame? I do not. It could be soon because some people will not speak. So it could be sooner. Okay. Okay.
 Like, do you still want it to be there now? Well, sure. Sure. Oh, I think I still want it to be there. I think so. I think it's even better. Really? No. No. I think it's going to be there now. Yeah. That's good. This is the thing.
 Okay. I deserve it. Oh, no, that's just for... Yeah, yeah, no, I... All right, I'll be right back. Yeah, we'll be right here. I think we can. What's the name? I'll make sure the camera gets that. I'm curious how much it is. I'll walk you up.
 I really like the I'm probably not I'm probably not going to be in a car before 530 and I I want to ban the wrong group you're on my phone okay thank you
 I can qualify myself for the opposite. I like that. I love it.
 I have to leave at 5.30 for an appointment, so I don't think I'm going to be able to, because it's almost 5.30 now. Yeah, it's 5.23 right now. Okay, what was your name? Raquel. Raquel. Did you submit written testimony by chance? No, not written. You could submit written testimony, because they may not be voting. I think they're going to try to vote on this one. Oh, do you just do it online? Do you just do it online? Yeah. Uh-huh. You can either send it to me. Well, it's email. See?
 Email? Uh-huh. Okay. Email. Okay, thanks. Yeah, because then I can email, I can say, you know, they should use, uh...
 commercial and dust well I signed up but I should have been up on it what's your name? Peter Kenno T-E-N-E-N-O I saw your name down there you're on the next page do you still want to speak? real soon? yeah I do even though I've been listening things invariably come up that you want to answer you cut stuff out of your own
 and he responded what you heard. I'll mark that you still want it to be in the show. Yeah, yeah, I do. Okay. What was your name? What was your name? Sorry. I'm Dave. Okay, it doesn't matter. Yeah, sorry, not sure where you are. I'm David. You don't want it, right? I knew it. I actually thought so.
 Thank you.
 me the
 Thank you.
 oh okay thanks
 Did you give the clerk the opportunity to put your written testimony?
 Hi. I represent a handful of folks in the building trades. They signed up, or I signed them up earlier. What's your name? Well, their names are Russ. Let's see, we have Russ, we have Dave, Dave Tischer. You signed them up? I did, yeah. And what was the third one? And it was Dave... Hold on a second.
 I had Russ Garnett, Willie Myers, and Dave Fisher, all three together, same handwriting, didn't call the address. So, Russ went home, but Joe Esmond would like to speak in his place. So, Joe, so across the mountain, put Joe, I-S-M-O-N-D-E-S-M-O.
 they would like to speak and they were wondering how many pages back they are in the mix. Yes, I'm still eager to do that. I'm just wondering why we're dragging our feet on the other one.
 but this counts because I'm so Nick what do you want to do? I would like to have Dr. Myers and Dave Kishan yep I'm not going to entertain you but I'm going to take a minute okay so we've got about a dozen people
 vote on it and set over the other one, in which case I will not consume it. Okay, well then everything will cancel. Do you believe you can get to voting for it? Of course. To the other one? No. Then if you're going to vote no, vote no today.
 I don't know that was no I can yes oh all right that's what I'm saying yeah no I'm not I'm not no I didn't hear it it's not delayed for the sake but Mike ask me my preference because in the last 24 hours I've been extremely diligent I'm getting some years that's where we're headed and I'm always willing to Charlie you have my word
 that you're not trying to suffer from your faith. You're not trying to get to this. And you and I will have a conversation about that before we have the next hearing. Okay. All right. I think if you... All I would ask... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Okay, okay. Folks, let's get back to work here.
 I understand that we have 13 people who still want to speak, and so first thing we're going to do is hear them, right? And then we'll see what we can get done. So because I both want to move on these issues. They're hugely important, but I also want to respect the process, both your opportunity to speak and my colleagues' opportunity to get to yes. So bear with us all as we work on that, and let's call people that would like to speak.
 Okay, the first three who requested still are Dr. Nikki Navazadal, Akash Singh, and Peter Tano. Good evening. Come on up. Thank you for making time for us. My name is Nikki Navavizadal. I'm a resident pediatrician up at Doernbecher, and I'm here to support both resolutions, and I ask you guys to do the same.
 I want to kind of speed it up and keep it brief, but I'm not the only pediatrician concerned about climate change and the effects on children. Actually, just recently in this past month, our national organization, the American Academy of Pediatrics,
 released a statement encouraging healthcare professionals, local and national legislatures, and community advocates to help blunt the health hazards associated with climate change in any way possible. We talked about some of the health effects already, such as asthma, cardiovascular risk, but I also just wanted to highlight what climate change will cause in regards to families in climate-sensitive regions of the world.
 Due to climate change, the struggle for nutritious foods essential for children's development and overall growth potential will be greatly increased.
 greatly put at risk. If we ignore the global impacts associated with the continued fossil fuel transportation and use locally, increased CO2 admissions can lead to decreased quality of grain worldwide. This subsequently sacrifices nutritious components of a child's daily diet such as protein, zinc, and iron and jeopardizes brain development and overall health potential for children. Currently malnutrition accounts for almost half of deaths in children under the age of five worldwide.
 Studies have projected up to a 20% increase in globally malnourished children if climate change continues to occur at current rates. So as a pediatrician and concerned citizen, I hope that we work together, pass these resolutions today, and keep our children healthy locally and globally. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. My name is Akash Singh, and I'll keep this very, very brief because I would love for both resolutions to be voted on today. Okay.
 For the planet, all of us depend on for everything. The effects of climate change have arrived at the most critical juncture. For example, the sun's temperature is not, as is generally assumed, stable. The sun is warming rapidly as more and more of its heat is being trapped within the Earth's atmosphere. When the Arctic caps disintegrate, the fresh water that will be melting into the salt water is simply not mixed with it, but instead it will be creating a mixture more akin to ocean and oil, which not only has the effect of dehumidifying,
 prohibitively damaging aquatic ecosystems. It also traps the heat that is rising from the ocean floors onto the ocean surface itself. Um...
 More to the point, the term hypocrisy has been used repeatedly. But within this context, hypocrisy is always used as a crutch to mitigate climate change legislation. The real hypocrisy is not, for example, getting gas at Costco to go to work because the infrastructure for people to not use fossil fuels in order to perform their daily tasks doesn't exist yet. The hypocrisy is using India and China as a crutch upon which to eschew the fight against fossil fuels
 a crutch that is cloaked under the guise of patronizing generosity. Portland bills itself as being a climate leader around the world. It is time with this resolution that we uphold that very belief. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Peter Teddow. Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz. In my opinion, we today, in considering this resolution, are addressing the single most important issue imaginable. Why? Because Portland is a choke point in a global issue which strikes at the heart of the environmental crisis and Portland's identity. Which do we want to be known for? Trendiness or world-class leadership influencing the planet's future?
 There is no need here for me to expand on what is amply enumerated in the resolution before you. Allow me personally to call out one particular issue, since I live within one and a half miles of Blast Zone,
 of an oil route into Rivergate. Do not try to assure me that in the inevitable subduction earthquake estimated around Richter 8, there will not be loss of life, massive destruction of property, and huge and permanent environmental damage. To prevent any facility, Pembina and the like, is to be recklessly irresponsible. It is insane.
 Risks that never should be. So say no to the oil and coal terminals and transport. Enough of Port of Portland pushing Pemina on us. Enough of oil companies' sweet talk of money and jobs. Are we not creative enough to find many more jobs and sustainable energy? And I say yes. Let's preserve our magnificent gourd.
 gorge and its communities. Let's find our heart and soul. We, the red shirts, call on you to show the integrity and intelligence of guts to pass this resolution. Please let the world know who we are in a great moment of decision. Let's lead. May I make one comment, though, one more comment to Commissioner Fish? The concern for
 bridge fuels. We should be leading in this. We should not delay action for the state to act. The state is behind us. Portland is a leader. We do this now and let the state follow. Ted Gleickman, I forgot, did you still want to testify? Thank you. Thank you. Edith Gillis, Eric LeBrandt,
 And Erwin Bergman are the next three. Thank you very much. Thank you. I care passionately about this, and I'm willing to risk my life and my future over this.
 I was a kayaktivist at St. John's, an ultimate arrestable, not only prepared to embarrass my kids and have one child never forgive me, but to be imprisoned, beaten, malnourished, and raped for many years because I care. If you have the existing and increased oil, coal, propane, methane gas, don't call it natural gas, there's so many extremely toxic fumes,
 And methane, depending on what time you're talking about, heats more than 100 times what does carbon dioxide. If we have those, it will destroy our economy. We will lose jobs. We will lose businesses. We will lose business profits. We will lose worker productivity. Okay?
 We will have increased insurance. We will have increased business and city costs. We will have reduced bond value. We will have increased insurance. We will have increased liability and increased lawsuits. We will lose the good businesses, the good creatives, the good workers, the good scientists that we need.
 More and more of our families will not be able to work productively, will not be able to volunteer, will not be able to add to our hidden economy as good citizens, as activists, as scientists, as volunteers, because we'll be home taking care of our children that have increased learning disabilities,
 and increased dementia of our elders because of the increased diesel. We will have increased terrorist risk. Because people don't like all the drones killing them, they're going to want to put an end to that. Since political reasons don't work, it's very simple. A simple pebble on a train track. We have unstable railroad tracks. We have
 land rock slides. All you have to have is one oil train explode near Bonneville Dam. You will lose Bonneville Dam. We will be flooded. We will lose the NSA, Google, Facebook, and the drone factories. We'll lose the jobs that they have. We will destroy our shipping. We already are losing money from the Apple industry
 and the wheat because they have to hold their product for the more profitable oil and coal trains. They are late to market. We cannot afford the harm to our economy, to our individuals. We will lose our jobs. Say yes. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Welcome. Good evening. I'm Eric LeBrand, chair of Vancouver's Fruit Valley Neighborhood Association and recent commissioner-elect for the Port of Vancouver, USA. Thank you.
 I'm here this evening on my own behalf. It was once taken for granted that some folks were less equal than others stuck living in less desirable parts of town. The wrong side of the tracks where the coal dust settled near the refineries downwind from the paper mill. But the Pacific Northwest is creating a future in which waterfronts, transit lines, and hillside properties are attractive and pricey, but no one gets stuck raising a family in Cancer Alley because Cancer Alley is no more.
 Carbon stakeholders desperately want to move oil and coal along the river upon which our economy relies heavily in order to chase large but declining markets in Asia. Expect dire warnings if they do not get their way. You will be urged to keep up business as usual, but these days, business as usual means falling behind. In 19 countries, solar power has reached price parity with coal. That means it's cheaper to make power from sunshine than from coal.
 The U.S. will reach that tipping point next year, changing the way we think about energy and its role in business, the way the Internet changed the way we think about information. Portland is healthy and strong in part because of its progressive reputation. Taking this large, aggressive step forward builds that momentum. It paints us as hostile to the coal and oil barons of the 19th century, but it's a strong competitive advantage for the century we're in now.
 If you consider the growth industries for our region, cited in the Greater Portland 2020 Plan, you'll notice areas we're already developing. Healthcare, clean tech, agriculture. What you won't see on that list are resource extraction, fossil fuels, or petrochemicals. They simply don't make the list. They're not a part of our long-term future. Drawing a clear boundary today helps us to avoid getting distracted by the industries of the past and continue building for our future ahead.
 Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations on your election. Thank you. You're welcome. My name is Irvin Bergman, and I appreciate your opportunity to say a few words. I'm here in total support of the resolution, and I support this resolution with...
 Two concerns that I have, one is safety issue and the other is climate change. And living in Cali, I learned that Pembina planned to run 100-car propane chains through our Cali neighborhood. I contacted Sandia National Laboratory today.
 a world-renowned facility, and they advised me that they felt that transport of 100-car propane train cars is highly unsafe and very irresponsible if they are run through a metropolitan area.
 Transport of other fossil fuels such as Wyoming coal accrued from various cracking operations in Canada and U.S. together with gas shipments over the same tracks through Cali obviously involved various levels of risk both to humans and the natural environment. Derailment in the Columbia Gorge comes foremost to my mind as an environmental catastrophe. Obviously a conflagration in our metropolitan area
 could be likewise catastrophic. Accidents and climate impacts, however, are not on the radar screen of fossil fuel producers. Maximum production and getting it to the greatest quantity to greatly expanding market is their sole concern, as it means revenue growth. New and expanded markets would allow the Athabasca Tar Sands to plan for doubling or tripling in the near future.
 The obvious should be aware that climate change does not just manifest itself through rising sea levels and warming. It causes rapid changes in the environment. And let me just permit me to add this to, as a note of interest, be aware that very recently the 3,600-member Aboriginal band in Prince Rupert, B.C.,
 when offered a payment of over $1 billion to allow a natural gas line to cross its land to the Pacific, said no, leaving on the table approximately $300,000 for every man, woman, and child. Portland, this is your time for your nickel. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next. Next three are Raquel Valer, Monica Balmer,
 Marion Haynes. Come on up. Welcome. Hi. Are we still going to wait? No, you go ahead. I think she may not be here. Okay. So my name is Monica. I'm actually here on a company called – on behalf of a company called EcoLube. So before, I would have been all for this amendment, all the resolutions and everything, until I started working with this company around three months ago. They're actually a startup, and they're going to be taking –
 crankcase oil from different companies and they're actually going to be re-refining it so that it can be used again. But if this resolution passes with the way it sits right now, they're not going to be able to do that. Portland's a city all about innovation, but with this how are we going to be able to take a
 crankcase oil and re-refine it, if we can't bring it in, if we can't bring it all together, it's just going to be going to the landfill. So that's one of the reasons why I think that you guys need to add an amendment to this. I'd also like to end this with a quote from Obama. The solution to our problems is a new green economy. The last thing I want to do is delay it. If not, just it's not just bad for our planet, it's bad for our economy.
 Thank you. I think we can make sure that when we write code on this that reuse of existing material is not intended to be covered by this restriction. Okay. It's really great that you stayed this long and brought that new concern, you know, even at this late hour. So thank you very much. Well, so I guess I'm new to this. So how do we make sure that we're not going to be, like, a thalassemia?
 affected by this? Well, what happens is these are resolutions, and so they're stating the intent of the city council, and then they actually, the city bureau, particularly the bureaus, particularly in this case the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, brings back code that says, here's how we actually change the city's laws and regulations to reflect this sense of the council. So that's where we do the fine-tuning on issues like this. So it is really good that you raised this, because it was not our intent to affect recycled oil consumption
 kinds of operations. Actually, as Commissioner Fritz noted, it's the first time we've heard that issue, so testifying matters. Yeah, it does help. Under one of the amendments that's before the council, there would be a work session before the council took up the code.
 And that would be a work session where you'd get to come and observe, and if we drop the ball on it, you can let us know. Make sure we get the language right. So when you guys vote today, it might not actually have an effect on us? It doesn't have an effect right away because, again, we have to write code, and that's how we turn resolutions into law. Okay. But thank you. It was really great you raised the issue because it had not been raised before.
 And if you turn around, Susan Anderson, the Director of the Bureau of Palliative Sustainability is right there. If you want to give her your contact information so you can be added to the list so that as this project continues to move forward, we make sure that your company is pulling
 is pull in, wow, what a great employee after three months that you just take the initiative to come down here. Thank you. You changed public policy in your first three months on the job. You're doing fine. Great. Good work. Thank you. Marion, would you like to be next? Sure. Marion Haynes with the Portland Business Alliance, but I am also here on behalf of a broad coalition of businesses and organizations both here in Portland and statewide that employ thousands of workers both in Portland and around the state.
 I really urge you to delay action on the fossil fuel policy today. The process has been a little bit lackluster. I think from our perspective, we did participate in that. We participated in the work group. There was really very little analysis of the current supply chain or market realities to inform the discussion. Thank you.
 Little understanding of the statewide impact, which is why so many of the organizations on the panel that I submitted to you are statewide organizations that are worried about impacts of this policy that might have an effect in eastern Oregon or southern Oregon, other places throughout the state.
 It's an extremely complex issue. There are lots of intricacies to it, like you just heard from the person next to me. I don't know what all of those are. This is the first time I've heard about yours, but I know there are many, many instances of things like that out there, of people doing innovative things that this could potentially interfere with.
 And I would just ask that we take some time to fully understand what all those things are. The amendments today that were introduced, I appreciate. I appreciate Commissioner Novick and Fish and approaching this in a thoughtful way to try to avoid some of those unintended consequences that something like this could bring up because it is such a far-reaching policy. We don't see the need to act today, and we do see the need –
 and what we should do is take a little bit more time to explore what all of those types of different situations are so that any policy doesn't result in unintended consequences, hurt these types of companies, run into legal issues of which there are some related to the city's authority and things of that nature. So it's a very complex topic.
 we really urge that the vote not happen today the amendments that were introduced again have had no vetting nobody's had an opportunity to see if these address their specific situations or not and we ask for more time to allow that kind of stakeholder input to occur thank you welcome mayor and the commissioners my name is dick harman i'm a resident i'm 79 i'm here as grandfather great-grandfather and father of family in portland
 I have three quick points. The urgency question comes down to numbers. How many years is the best estimate for how long we have before the systems go nuts? So the estimate that I look at is between 2030 and 2038. That's not very far away at all. And the kids who are here today are going to get hit hard by that. So that's urgency.
 There is a huge opportunity in this situation, which has to do, I'll just be very quick on this, a specific opportunity in this situation is radical conservation of energy in big commercial building. That's going to require changes in incentives between utilities, investors, and building owners. There's a way to do this, and my testimony has a link to that source.
 very creative new way of looking at those incentives. The last point I want to make is about legacy and birthright. We have a breach between the generations, including this question. We have an opportunity to heal it. The question has become vivid for people over 50. What is my legacy in this situation? Not the stuff that I give away, but the values and vision that I present.
 to my offspring. So we have a choice here about whether or not we honor the elders by honoring that legacy. And so the question here on the other side is birthright. Do the kids who are here today have a right to flourish just by virtue of being born? Finally, I want to support the resolutions. I want to support the resolutions. Here's what I want. I want a situation in which
 Our young and near young can flourish and exercise their birthright and say about us, they did not fold, they did not betray us, they stood up for us with great courage and determination. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next three are Joe Esmond, Willie Myers, and Dave Tischer. Good evening. Thanks, Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 Go ahead. First? No, you go ahead. All right. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, thank you for taking my testimony today. My name is Willie Myers, and I'm the Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the Columbia Pacific Building and Construction Trades Council, representing more than 15,000 union working men and women in the northwest region of our state, 15,000 families that receive as compensation for their labor, including family health care coverage, retirement with dignity with a defined benefit pension plan.
 the craft's best training in the industry and family wages. We are the middle class. The negative impacts on the middle class from these resolutions by opposing infrastructure will be devastating and will add to the wage inequality in our state by the city taking a stand against the working class to earn a living in these sectors, which through our Helmets to Hard Outs program also includes many veterans returning from service to our country.
 Our ability to provide these important services is contingent on our ability to have jobs in every sector, including heavy industrial and in infrastructure. The state of Oregon and all the communities that make up our great state rely on fossil fuel to operate our transit systems, whether they're personal or public. They rely on fossil fuels to heat and light their homes and to grow and harvest their crops. The vast majority of all fossil fuels imported to the state come through Portland.
 And it's not just about Portland. I can tell you I've received several phone calls from concerned citizens in some of our neighboring counties that heavily rely on the jobs created from the import and export of these fuels. I'm going to skip ahead since I'm running out of time. With respect to Commissioner Novick and Fish's amendments, yes.
 They certainly bring forth some interesting ideas that should be explored further and deserve further discussion. I urge you to delay a yes vote for the public vetting and review to have time to take place. Thank you. Thank you. Who's next? I do.
 Good evening, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Dave Tischer. I'm a proud 27-year member of Labor's Local 737. We're the folks that bring you the windmills, the solar farms, the geothermal energy, and all that clean energy everybody's talking about today. I'm here tonight to oppose these resolutions for actually a number of reasons. First,
 One of which I think they're broadly written in Commissioner Fritz's resolution, the primary purpose of transporting could be defined in a lot of different ways. I think it's problematic. I do believe that...
 in the other resolution that Mayor Hales has put forward that I believe that when you say that they'll be actively opposed and you're looking at codes to actually change the way Portland does business, I think, and I've sat in these rooms and I've heard from all of you folks about the needs of Portland, of we need affordable housing, we have a homeless issue, we have a road and infrastructure issue, and I think that's a very poor steward of the taxpayers' money to place a special interest
 Fight on the burden of the taxpayers because basically what Portland is doing is taking on the fight of special interests I believe that these resolutions are bad for jobs. They're bad for business They're bad policy and they're bad for Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Mr. Mayor members of the Commission My name is Joe Esmond. I'm Resident of Portland. I work for the IBW number 48 I
 I was appointed by the governor, Kitzhopper, for the low-carbon fuel standard. That took about, I want to say, eight months to hash out. We had all the interested parties, not all, most of the parties in the room. A lot of give and take, some bad feelings, but at the end of the day, we came up with a policy. Part of that policy was propane, but we'll move on from that. I was also asked to serve on the Fossil Fuel Export Advisory Committee.
 and I served there for two meetings. We were told that we would have input into anything coming out of that committee. We've had none. I heard about this resolution from somebody else on the phone. I brought up the subject of people, how come other groups aren't in there, like people there of color or low-income advocacy groups who would be affected by this. I was told that the city council would be able to handle that, would reach out to them.
 as far as I know, and their story. Very disappointed in the process, and I think it's very unfair. I have the documentation on that before I go. I wish the people in this room had the same passion for income inequality as they have for fossil fuels. Thank you.
 And I want to especially mention Michael Armstrong, who works for BPS, has done a very good job for the city. Good civil servant. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next three. Oh, questions? Oh. The last person who signed up at the break requesting to speak was Rob Mathers. Okay. Come on up. Actually, I did sign up originally.
 I am Rob Mathers, Kinder Morgan, the Working Waterfront Coalition, and the Portland Freight Committee. Kinder Morgan owns and operates a significant amount of critical energy infrastructure in Portland and in Oregon. We provide facilities and services to a range of customers, including refiners, traders, suppliers, marketers, and occasionally end users.
 We serve as a key link in a complex supply chain whose purpose is to deliver on-spec, fit-for-purpose fuels to the market in a safe, reliable, and timely manner. And we blend a heck of a lot of renewable fuels into the conventional fuels. My understanding of the proposed resolutions were that they were to oppose the development of major projects related to fuel exports.
 However, it's clear that the city is using fuel export resolutions as a pretext for declaring war on the working harbor and on the use of all fossil fuels. As economic prosperity is one of the guiding principles in the comprehensive plan, the resolutions are actually counterproductive and will negatively impact, directly or indirectly, all of the other guiding principles, including equity. And regarding the process being conducted by the city –
 I think it was a contrived fossil fuel export policy advisory committee. And the whole process is typical of the city's ready, fire, aim approach to conducting business. These are polarizing policies that divide our community. I urge the council to vote no, but at least take some time before finalizing and signing the death warrants. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, anyone else that we have on the list at this point? There is a request for someone else who wanted to speak still. I'm sorry? Someone else wanted to speak still. Okay, sure, come on up. Hi, I'm Rose Christopherson. I'm a retired physician at the VA, and I also have a PhD in philosophy and used to teach logic a long time ago. And thank you all so much for coming up with these resolutions and for listening to all of us with all of our opinions.
 I didn't choose to speak initially, but I had this instinct that the people that were going to choose to keep speaking were going to be the people that kind of had money in the game. So when I saw that that was true, I thought I would just speak a little bit from the logic point of view. We basically have two kinds of reasons for both of these resolutions.
 First is the local. The local includes two things. The danger of these storage tanks that can blow up for a variety of reasons, of the trains and so forth. That's number one reason. Number two, the ongoing illness that will be caused by the air pollution, etc.,
 Well, maybe some economic reasons also when you can't ship apples because of the oil trains. But then the second important reason for supporting this is the planet, the really large picture. So we have two reasons, two levels there.
 Either of these is a sufficient reason to support these resolutions, either one and certainly both. Thank you. Thank you. That was very logical. You don't mind me saying it? Thank you.
 Good evening. Thank you for your patience. I'm Sydney Herbert, Conservation Chair of the Trails Club of Oregon, which is a 100-year-old, 400-member recreational organization. We have two lodges. One is on Lodge Mountain in the Columbia River Gorge National Recreation Area. So we have an investment, you might say, in the gorge where our members recreate, as well as citizens living in the communities that are impacted by these developments. Thank you.
 The Trails Club is a member of the Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs. And at their annual meeting in 2014 in August, passed a resolution having to do with yours today called Transport of Fossil Fuels through the Columbia River Gorge. I gave five copies of the resolution to your clerk. I don't know whether they're in your packets or not, but you can borrow any where-as's you like from them. We have an abundance.
 But the Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs, is the resolution, is adamantly opposed to the export of fossil fuels. All efforts should be expended to support local communities in their opposition to export terminals, while at the same time working to increase safety. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's bring staff up and talk a bit about how we would like to proceed. Okay.
 and maybe we can sort of poll our colleagues here and see how people would like to proceed. I've got some thoughts about that, but go ahead, Commissioner Fritz. You look like you do too. Thank you, Mayor. I do. And, you know, Commissioner Fish and I said at the outset that we needed to leave at 6, and so it's already past that. Okay.
 This has been such a great hearing and with lots and lots of thoughtful testimony, including thoughtful people who didn't give their testimony at the end so that we could get to this debate. So I very much appreciate everyone showing up. I believe that everyone on the council is resolved that we are going to –
 adopt these resolutions, at least I hope that's the case. I hope I'm reading the will of the council correctly. In order to be able to give the second resolution the amount, the time that it deserves, given that most of the amendments are on the second resolution, what I would suggest we do is to discuss and vote on the amendments to the first resolution and take a vote on the first resolution, since that's the one that's time sensitive, and then set a time certain to come back and
 to discuss the other amendments and to finalize the fossil fuel policy. I agree with that approach, and I want to hear from our colleagues as well. But let me both explain and reassure people. There are two reasons to not complete this work tonight. One's legitimate and one's not.
 The legitimate reason is that it's always good to measure twice and cut once. I know they've heard that too often, but I should apply it to myself in this instance as well as in others. And I respect the...
 the process at this dais in which we work with each other and try to resolve each other's concerns about important public policy. And I believe, actually, that if we take a little more time on the second resolution, we will get to a four or five zero vote on this really important piece of work. And that's...
 an ideal outcome that I would love the chance to get to. And so if I push my council to move too quickly tonight, I might not get that level of support for this resolution. So I'm willing to be that patient. I am,
 unmoved by arguments that we should just take this off into some amorphous process and get back some other time. We've been there before on other issues when particularly business interests have argued that, and we got nowhere on one thing or another. So if we are not going to act tonight on the second resolution, I'm going to set a time certain probably next week.
 for when we will vote on the second resolution, because it is very important that we do this soon, if not now, because we don't have much time and because we've had this extraordinary interest in the community for us to take a clear stand. But I do believe that the Council is willing and able to take that kind of clear stand. The other caveat that I'll lay down on the table, and I don't think there's any disagreement
 with those who are sitting at this table, is that we will not water down or dilute the intent of these two resolutions by whatever wordcraft we do to make sure that they work the way we intend them to work. Okay?
 both Commissioner Fritz and I and our staffs put time into the drafting of these resolutions, and they're good, but I do want to acknowledge at least some of the amendments that have been brought forward tonight and prove them. And I always want to give my colleagues the chance in the collaborative work that we do in this chamber to improve something that I bring forward, and I think that's going to happen tonight. I think it's going to happen over the next week, and then by the second vote that we'll take next week,
 we will have completed that process. So that's my suggestion. Commissioner Novick, your thoughts?
 I can live with that. Ms. Bish? I support it. I'm ready to vote on the Fritz Amendment. I would ask that we set a time circuit for next week, even if it means displacing some other issue, because I think this has to be resolved next week. Okay. What's the time available for us to take a second reading and vote on 1157? I've got 15 minutes on the 12th. Might need a little more than that. Then we're looking at the 2 p.m. on Thursday the 12th.
 And is Commissioner Saltzman scheduled to be there then? Yes, he is. It would be really great. That's another reason, I think, to defer. It would be excellent to have all five members of the council voting on this. Okay. November 12th at 2 p.m. Okay. So now let's take up the amendments to 1156. We need to review and discuss those. We've got four different amendments. I think it's just two. It's two. We have the Novick 1 and 2. Novick.
 Kuchninovich 1 is removing the adverse impacts of train noise because that's not specific to these kinds of trains, right? If I might speak to that, because Kuchninovich spoke to why we should do that. I'd like to speak to why I don't want to support that. Dr. Coburg and others mentioned in testimony about the increased impacts of increased frequency of these very long trains, and also if people are worried about the trains exploding and whatever, then that is going to add to this problem.
 the stress of having more and more of these trains coming through. And, in fact, Oregon Physicians with Social Responsibility has looked at the literature, and there are peer-reviewed studies showing adverse health impacts from living with train noise. So that's why I won't be supporting this. Thank you.
 okay other comments um well if the question is the total number of trains um causing noise then maybe we should adopt a restriction on the total number of trains that can come through i just think that this is this resolution is specific to oil trains and the issue of noise is not specific to oil trains so that's why i offer the amendment i move the amendment second all right then let's take a vote on that amendment please no thank you aye
 Fritz. No. Fish. Aye. Niels. I am concerned about the adverse impacts of train noise, but I think we do need to target these resolutions specifically to these environmental issues that are discrete and related to fossil fuels, so I will vote aye. So that amendment's approved. Now, the second one. This is...
 This is this caveat that unless and until transport by rail is demonstrated to be safe? Is that right? Be as safe and carries the same level of environmental risk as transport by tanker ship and pipeline. Okay. Further discussion of that amendment? Yes. I would like to feel vehemently opposed to this amendment. This one, there's no gauge when it's going to be safe or safer. It implies that we are going to be building more pipelines, which I don't think is correct, and it weakens the resolution.
 So I don't support this one, and I ask you not to support this either. It has significant concern for the advocacy organizations that helped craft this resolution. Am I missing anything, Christina? No, I think you hit it right. And my concern is that we, every day, rely on the transportation of fossil fuels by tanker ships and pipelines because that is how the gasoline that we use in our cars gets to us.
 And I think that for us to say that we are OK with it, if we want to ban the import of fossil fuels, then I think that it's OK for us to ban any fossil fuels coming through here. But we don't. So I am uncomfortable saying that we're going to ban a form of transportation if that form happened to be proven to be as safe as the form by which we get our own fossil fuels.
 So it's a matter of being able to look at myself in the mirror and thinking and not being hypocritical. Now, it's quite possible that nobody will ever be able to demonstrate that transportation of oil by rail is as safe as by pipeline and by boat. But I think that that's something that we should at least allow people to try to demonstrate. How would they do that? They would have to come back to council to get rid of the policy, which they could do without this language. Right.
 I think they can demonstrate it to us. They can come back to demonstrate it to us.
 i think that they can do that without having this language in here this language implies that somebody can which in fact at the city club last friday the proposers of the terminal vancouver said it's just as safe as all of the other ways so they're going to say well this policy therefore doesn't apply because it's just as safe we've already said so and we had testimony to that effect from the vancouver folks well it says that resolution would say the city opposes oil transportation
 unless and until transport by rail is demonstrated, et cetera. So that clearly implies that we oppose oil by rail for transportation until somebody comes to us and proves that it has become safe. Okay. So I think you two have articulated the two views of this amendment. Let's take a vote, please. Move this. So, yes, Commissioner Novick moved, and I believe Commissioner Fish seconded this amendment. Thank you. Novick? Aye. Fritz? No. No.
 yes i seconded this for discussion i've listened carefully to the discussion and um i'm actually not persuaded no else and i'm also not persuaded i think later if somebody wants to make the case later that's fine but this is solid policy for now no okay those amendments uh have been dealt with yeah i moved the resolution okay any further discussion let's take a vote please on the resolution novick aye thank you commissioner
 This has been a really amazing afternoon. We started with the Native American cultural celebration with the amazing violin playing and the reminder from the children that this is about the future. And each one of you has come in good faith whether you have supported or opposed and have stayed here all this time because it's really important and it's not just symbolic. This is about the future and we do need to start taking specific steps.
 So I'm very honored to have worked with the community, with my colleagues on the council, with my amazing staff, Christine Yanievis, who's put in an enormous amount of work on this project, and in partnership with everybody who's been involved in it to make this significant step. Thank you so much. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for bringing this resolution forward.
 Today, we are asked to stand in solidarity with Native Americans, with the city of Vancouver, with the Gorge Commission, with first responders, and with other communities and advocates who have spoken out against oil trains. While this action is largely symbolic because federal law preempts us from interfering with railroads and so much of the constitutional law goes against us.
 Part of our job as a city council is to be explicit about our values, even if our authority is limited. Safety is a core value. Clean energy is a core value. Supporting our regional partners is a core value. And today I vote aye. Nails. Let me talk about a couple of small moments and a big moment. Thank you.
 We've talked about all the aspects of this resolution this afternoon. It has been a remarkable hearing and a remarkable piece of leadership on your part, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. And one of those issues that was touched on but that I want to return to is safety. A couple of small moments that occurred in my thought about this issue.
 My wife and I own an old sailboat. We spend some time on the Columbia. And because it has a mast, it means that the railroad bridge has to rotate and open when we pass through going up and down the river, inconveniencing no one because they make us wait for the trains. But...
 This summer, once we actually took that trip, went down to Soviet Island and back, and they were having trouble with the bridge because it's 100 years old. And...
 Believe it or not, they couldn't get the bridge to close all the way, and they sent a worker out onto the bridge with a big sledgehammer who whacked on the rails until they were aligned enough that they could bring a train across. Now, we're often assured by corporations that there's nothing to worry about, everything's safe. Laughter
 But as an Amtrak passenger, frankly, that scared the hell out of me. And that's the same bridge that, of course, would have to carry even more oil trains if we facilitate that movement. And that's not safe.
 Secondly, we have a wonderful fire chief. Because she's the first woman fire chief, some people probably assume that she's a radical, but actually she's a firefighter's firefighter. She's as tough as they come. And I had a very disturbing conversation with her after Lac Magentique, and I asked her if we had a major oil fire in Portland, are we ready? And she said, no, that's pretty bad.
 Scary. That's not safe. So the safety issue is serious. So those two small moments reinforce why this is good public policy and why a city of Portland, whose fundamental responsibilities include public safety, has a responsibility to weigh in on this issue. Now back to the bigger moment. I do believe, as I've said today, that this is a chance for Portland. These two resolutions are
 are that chance for Portland to start changing the national debate and the international debate. It sounds egotistical for us to say that, but we've done it before. We've done it by adopting the first city climate action plan. We've done it by building light rail on the first modern streetcar in the United States. We've done it with green roofs and bioswales and bike lanes.
 And we have changed the world by what we've done here for us and the way we want to live and the way we want to reflect our values. Finally, back to values. The city has a charter that informs each of us about what we're supposed to do. And there's this big, vague general provision that describes the mayor's job.
 And it's an old language, so I'll reinterpret it for you. It says, and it's on my desk on a little piece of paper, it says, the mayor shall exercise a careful supervision over the general affairs of the city. I think the translation of that in today's more succinct words would be, pay attention, vote your conscience. APPLAUSE
 We're adjourned. Thank you all very much. Have a great evening. Thank you for coming. We're adjourned. On the process.
 point of clarification on the process ordinarily Would not carry over the intent of counsel that you'll carry them over I can inform the clerk for that Yeah Yeah Yeah Well also
 I think by delaying and... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I mean, we could have done it anyway. Because... Oh, yeah. And I think actually... Say that again? I know. But you did that at my funeral. I do. I just... I do. I just wanted to know. Yeah.
 Sorry, did you keep in contact with the ? Yeah, I keep in contact. OK. Yeah. But so before this council, there's all kinds of projects ahead of time. Yeah. And then an option would be advisory before the council.
 Hey, how are you? Thank you. Thank you very much. I hope not.