oh yeah they did get it fixed good good afternoon everyone welcome to the November 5th meeting of the Portland City Council would you please call the roll welcome everyone we have two completely different items on the council calendar this afternoon the first is a time certain at 2 o'clock which we'll get to in a moment and the other one will come after we finish that
 So, stand by if you're here to speak on the second item. If you're here to speak on one of these council items this afternoon, you need just let our council clerk know, and she will have you on the list of those that are speaking. We have some invited speakers, at least for one of these items this afternoon.
 If you're here to speak, we typically allow three minutes per person, and I don't think we're going to have such a huge crowd that that won't be possible. I possibly will limit testimony on items depending on the number of people here because we want to make sure that everyone that wants to speak gets a chance to be heard if that's at all possible.
 And also on the subject of being heard, we maintain the rules of decorum here in this chamber. So if you agree with somebody that's speaking and you want to indicate your support for their position, do feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree and feel compelled that you just have to show your displeasure, give them a polite hand gesture to the negative. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations or applaud in favor or against our fellow citizens when they're here having their moment to speak to their city council.
 That's about all there is to it. Welcome, and we'll proceed, please, with reading items 1158 through 1161 as a package. 1158, adopt the Broadway Corridor Framework Plan as the guiding document for future development of properties located in the study area adjacent to the Broadway Bridge, including the United States Postal Service site.
 1159, authorize intergovernmental agreement with the Portland Development Commission to provide general fund secured interim financing for River District public improvement projects. 1160, authorize 45 million of financing for the cost of carrying out the urban renewal plan for the River District urban renewal area and authorize refunding of any interim financing.
 1161 authorized 90 million dollars of interim financing for the cost of carrying out the urban renewal plan for the river district urban renewal area and long-term bonds to repay the interim financing
 thank you very much i am very pleased to be bringing this package of decisions to the city council this afternoon we have been talking about this particular city shaping opportunity for at least 20 years that i can recall
 And it's wonderful that we're now at the point where we can actually make that city-shaping moment real. The post office has been located in its current position in downtown Portland because that's where the trains brought the mail. That's how long this particular location has not made sense. Okay.
 This is a story about growth management and the story about the continuation of the success of the Pearl District, the creation of a new neighborhood in what was once a railroad shipping and switching yard. It's a story of an urban neighborhood that fits changing urban demographics, and now we can shape it further to fit the demographics and housing needs of today.
 It's a story of about 1,000 affordable housing units and more on the way, a story about transit investments that have reduced our carbon footprint and made us a more livable city. It's a story about brownfields being reused and parks that weren't there before and now work for people of all ages and abilities. And it's a story about Portland as a destination.
 The Pearl District and the other areas where we have created new urban life in the heart of our city are one of the great attractions of our city. In fact, we'll be joined a little later by a delegation from Hirosaki, Japan, this week's group studying our city. Just one more affirmation that we've created something special here.
 So we have an opportunity today to write a really important chapter if we act soon. It's not something that will be around for the next 20 years if we don't seize the moment. There are a couple of locations right now where the United States Post Office mail sorting facility can be relocated. Next year there might be one. A few years after that there will be none.
 So we have the moment now, and we have a team who've worked really hard on queuing up this opportunity for us as a city, and want to welcome Patrick Quinton, Lisa Abloff, and Ken Rust, our chief financial officer, along with other staff who are here to support the presentation. And then we have some invited panels after that. So with that, Patrick. Thank you.
 Please. Great. Thank you, Mayor Hales, and good afternoon, commissioners. I'm just going to do a brief introduction here. The mayor actually covered much of it, but I'll turn it over to Lisa first, who will walk you through the Broadway Corridor Framework Plan and the action before you, and then Ken Rust will walk you through the three different actions related to the
 to the financing. And as the Mayor kind of walked through, we've spent a lot of time over the in the recent time, the past few months, discussing this transaction and really thinking about the nuts and bolts of the transaction, the financing and the risk.
 the planning around it, and that's all appropriate. That's what people expect us to do when we take on a transaction of this magnitude. But I've been reminded by many that we don't talk about the opportunity enough. And just to follow on what the mayor said, this really is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to acquire a significant amount
 piece of land so close to many different assets within our city and accomplish so many objectives at the same time. And so I do, in my role as the head of PDC, I view it as part of what we're supposed to do, which we're supposed to seize these opportunities. And so I and my team are very excited about this. And I think what's special about this moment in time, as opposed to
 all the other moments in time in the past where we thought we had the opportunity to acquire this site is that I think we're beginning, we can see better the purpose of doing this because of the challenges that we now face as a city, a city that is experiencing tremendous growth and we need
 additional places within the city to accommodate that growth, but also to provide public benefits that our city needs. We have the opportunity to bring this into our arsenal and to add all the different resources
 to it that I think the city needs. And in particular, and we'll talk about this, Lisa will talk about this, but when people think about the challenges of growth that we're facing as a city and what that means for residents and neighborhoods, this adds new space for all that to occur that doesn't displace, that doesn't...
 actually put pressure on other parts of the city. So even from a growth management perspective alone, it actually begins to address a lot of issues. But more than that, we have the opportunity to express our values around affordable housing, around open space, around density, and around connectivity, around finally making connections between these vital elements to our central city, which include the downtown, Old Town, Chinatown, and
 the pearl district and and and union station right now these are in somewhat some respect disconnected because of the existence of of the post office and each of those areas is now has these crucial moments in time where with this these added connectivity they can actually achieve their fullest potential so um uh this is this is definitely exciting time and so i hope we all we all we all think about the magnitude of it um
 What's happening today is we have this high-level framework plan that Lisa will walk you through really to kind of create the context for the decisions that both City Council and the PDC Board will make. So the framework plan doesn't lock us into a prescribed development plan for the future. It establishes principles and assumptions for the future.
 to guide us in the future, but also, like I said, for the decisions that are in front of us. So this, obviously, will come back, and Lisa will talk to you about the process for master planning and whatnot. And then Ken's going to walk you through the financing pieces.
 We're incredibly grateful for the partnership of Ken's office to make this happen and the partnership between the city and PDC to help this financing package come together. And I think when you think about, you know, right now we're talking about financing. There isn't a deal yet.
 to actually buy the post office and move them. We're working on that. But locking in the financing to make that happen and making sure all the parties are taken care of gives us the certainty to go forward and actually finalize a deal with the U.S. Postal Service and with their eventual home. So this is the key foundation that we need to then go ahead and finalize our agreement with the post office and bring that –
 to our board for approval, and we hope that that's going to happen in the next few months. So some big decisions in front of you, and like I said, I feel confident that we've done a lot of homework to answer all your questions, but we're happy to follow up on any additional questions.
 We have three panels afterward, and we can introduce those after we do the presentation. But one panel is to kind of give the context from the city's perspective in terms of planning and housing and whatnot. One is to give the perspective of the stakeholders that were brought in to advise us on the framework plan. And the last one is a group of real estate professionals who can give you a sense for how the market views
 opportunity and what it means for the city and PDC to be and take on this risk and this investment. So with that, I will turn it over to our central city manager, Lisa Obloff, who will walk you through the action for the framework plan. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you and good afternoon, Mayor Harrells and commissioners. Just as a reminder, because we have a lot of guests in the audience who weren't here as a work session, I'm going to go rather briefly over some of the updates based on work that we did subsequent to a work session that we had with City Council regarding the framework plan. Before I jump into kind of a brief recap of the framework plan and those updates, I did want to say a bunch of thank yous.
 So not only did we have an extensive public outreach process where we got over 1,000 points of feedback from the public, and so first and foremost, thank you to the public for engaging in the process. It really was indicative of how exciting an opportunity it is. I also wanted to thank our advisory committees. So we had both an advisory committee made up of staff across all of your bureaus. We also had a stakeholder advisory committee. And I also wanted to make a special thank you to Sarah Harpole, who's really carried the yeoman's amount of work
 in getting this process underway and kind of engaging the public and really being there on a day-in, day-out basis. So as a reminder, the framework plan actually looked at an area broader than the USPS site. It looked at that with intentionality because PDC does actually own and control a lot of the properties adjacent to the post office site, and it's what you see in this map.
 properties like Union Station, what we call Block R, and then the significance of PNCA having recently relocated their central campus to
 to the area. Adoption of the framework plan is really intended to be multi-fold. As Patrick mentioned, it does kind of set the stage and gave us a feasibility modeling to understand the financial performance of the site, the public benefits that could be brought out of the value of the site. It is also intended to guide PDC's investment in those broader areas. So if you imagine we have multiple properties within the framework plan area, understanding what the public's priority for redevelopment of those other sites
 were as well. And then finally, and we'll talk a little bit about this at the end of my presentation, it's intended to set the stage for a future master plan, which is called for in the Central City 2035 West Quadrant Plan.
 We listened to your feedback during the work session. So, again, what we heard, we heard questions around the financial risk, around making sure that the affordable housing target aligned with the Central City 2035 goals. And you'll see we did a lot of work with the housing bureau as follow-up to that. And then making sure as we thought about next steps for the project, that we thought about other public improvements like the park in front of the PNCA campus,
 the plaza in front of Union Station, et cetera, making sure that those are kind of
 as we enter into a master plan scope. You know, before you leave, sorry, just looking at that site, it's important to remember, I think, in terms of the scale of this opportunity, that that area, about 20 acres, is just about exactly half the size of the Hoyt Street Yards property that was the heart of the Pearl District. In order to unlock the development potential of Hoyt Street Yards, we had to take down an aerial roadway, build a streetcar, and do a lot of other infrastructure to even make it develop
 This is a much more favorable situation to the city. I'm just curious, is the park to the west of PNCA part of the framework plan because PDC intends to have a formal role in developing that park, or you're just looking at it as part of the overall vision for the area, or both?
 so as part of the framework plan it was something that we heard i would say both from the public as well as from parks is making sure that the part as we thought about the park and or park space within the post office site that it was done intentionally as a terminus to the park blocks
 We speak to, and we'll kind of see this at the back end, it's clearly in parks ownership and control. I think we heard from Commissioner Fritz during the work session that she certainly has interest as we move forward with a master planning process that it be included in the master plan. And we think about it as part of the financial package of what happens within the framework plan area. Yeah, and by the way, just...
 I'm not sure whether it's the terminus of the North Park blocks or it's the ankle into the river district. We could debate that. But I also think there's some public-private partnership opportunities that we should capitalize on. Absolutely. And the benefit of having PDC engaged is Parks has already stretched pretty thin and has an equity agenda on the other side of the river, but there might be an opportunity here to develop something in connection with this overall plan. Good. Thank you.
 so again kind of staying at that broader framework um level we just wanted to give you a quick refresher in terms of the strategic vision and the unique opportunity that this area does pose the other thing that hasn't been called out in kind of this brief discussion is the regional role that union station plays so if you think about the fact that the airport is the gateway
 to Portland when you arrive via airline, the Union Station is really our gateway for anybody arriving via rail, either from the south or from the north. And so it's really kind of an important component, as we thought about the framework plan.
 The strategic vision had a series, kind of laid out a series of concepts, one of which you see here, which was kind of diagramming out the different kinds of public realm that could exist should the post office site and the broader area redevelop. And those are three different categories. Clearly there was an area around the North Park blocks, be it the terminus or you'll see the connection of green into the Pearl District. The second was at the Broadway Bridge. It's quite an actively used area.
 pedestrian and bicycle connection into the central city. And the central city 2035 plan did call for a green loop. And so you'll see in the preferred concept, we did incorporate that into our design considerations. And then the last is really thinking about what is that front door to Union station, either for folks who live or work there,
 here or folks coming to visit Portland. It also took a look at thinking about multimodal connection through the area. So Union Station doesn't just play a role as kind of a plaza, but it also plays a role for our light rail as well as heavy rail. And then thinking about gateways. So these are clearly kind of all gateways not only for the region, but actually for neighborhoods. So moving between Old Town Chinatown and the Pearl District, how do we start to link those neighborhoods together?
 So this slide summarizes where we landed on from a preferred concept for an urban design form. So if you imagine this is the preferred concept now just for the post office site. So we took kind of that broader strategic vision.
 for the 24 acre site and said what does that mean for the post office is 15 acres we landed on something that really became a template for looking at different urban design options with items that that were always constant and those items being park avenue and johnson street as major public rights of way two blocks of the north park blocks that's kind of sitting north of the pn pnca block and really thinking intentionally about the green loop
 the framework plan does model the financials just to test the feasibility in terms of affordable housing of reserving 25 percent of all of the residential floor area ratio that we modeled as building for residential use for affordable housing we then following on our discussion with council worked with the housing bureau to identify how we could get to 30 percent and that's what came before council last week as part of the set aside policy package update
 And then the last but not least, it does include a recommendation or a model development at a higher entitlement, what we would call a higher entitlement, than currently sits on the books. So it does model development at 7 to 1 FAR.
 whereas today it's at 4 to 1 FAR, and it's something that you'll see also will come back as part of the Central City 2035 work as well as the master plan because that ties not only to the program of what kind of density of development can you realize on the site, but also some of the financials that Ken will walk you through. Thank you.
 This gives you kind of a general concept of where we landed as our preferred approach to the density and the layout of the site. There's a lot of interest, and we heard this from the community, of thinking about additional height on the site, so not just development capacity, but really creating a landmark gateway for Portland. If you think about our downtown skyline, we have a lot of areas where you have kind of high towers that mark the site, and there was a lot of interest as to how that would play out, particularly at the Broadway Bridge.
 In the lower left, you actually see what the breakdown is that was modeled between commercial use and residential use.
 It's about one-third commercial use, two-thirds housing. And that one-third commercial use, there was a lot of interest both through the Central City 2035 process as well as our outreach with the public to make sure that we don't lose the jobs component of the program of what happens on the site. At that density of commercial development, you would actually have just as high a ratio of commercial use on that particular parcel as we have in our Central Business District. Okay.
 We also took a look at phasing. It becomes important as we think about the ability of our market to both take down the developable potential of the site, but also thinking about making it accessible to different kinds of commercial tenants, different kinds of residential tenants.
 And so what you see that we phased is kind of starting from the northwest corner, moving south, preserving. There's actually an existing parking garage on that site today, as well as the existing postal building, and thinking about what portion of that building could potentially be reused and re-tenanted for some of our local companies.
 There's about 100,000 square feet of retail. And then the new development as part of phase one was pretty heavily focused on residential. And this was both tied, again, to kind of programmatic goals, but also tied to financial goals.
 That's really kind of the value of the property that generates the amount of resources that we would need to invest in some of the infrastructure during phase one. And then phase two shows the full build out of the site at about the four million square feet. So an additional million square feet of residential gets added.
 and another about million square feet of commercial. And that would be the time when we would actually demo the remainder of the U.S. Postal Building and the garage. You'll note this is a pretty extended development timeline, so we did tie what we would call the absorption or the development of the site to market performance that we've seen in the past in Portland. Okay.
 The financial analysis recommendations both recommended kind of starting with residential and then having the commercial or the new commercial come in on the back end, but also coordinating infrastructure and development so that we're not getting ahead of the game in terms of our infrastructure investments as a city.
 So just to go over a little bit in terms of the affordable housing approach, we heard a lot from council as well as the Planning and Sustainability Commission about PDC working with the Housing Bureau to make sure that we were targeting the 30% figure that is the goal of the Central City 2035 plan. And so what came before council last week as part of the 2015 set-aside policy recommendations was for the River District to allocate $20 million –
 towards affordable housing in the River District urban renewal area, with a significant portion of that serving to acquire rights...
 for PHB to acquire rights within the development of the postal site. And that's what you see before you. This is just a kind of a resummary for folks who are in the audience and putting the pieces back together, so to speak, in terms of the framework plan and the set-aside policy. This really kind of commits and reserves 30% of the residential FAR as it was modeled.
 for PHB to develop affordable housing. And then there was also kind of a commitment that PHB and PDC would work jointly as we move forward with the master plan and the development solicitations on the site. This slide reviews assuming that $13 million of the site is acquired by PHB, what are the remaining resources that would be available?
 via land sales to PDC together with tax increment financing that we've proposed being needed for demolition and site preparation. And so the top figure is once we modeled the development, the land sales that are tied to that development
 development program, i.e., the scale of residential development that we modeled, the scale of commercial development that we modeled, and what we believe that the private sector would be willing to pay in terms of the value of the property together with our TIF. The second line item, we also modeled the system development charges, particularly for transportation and parks, tied to that development program, so tied to those units and tied to that commercial square footage.
 You then see a sources subtotal that becomes kind of the aggregate available resources that we've modeled from the city in order to reinvest back into the site. That then deducts. We did model the cost for the streets at Johnson and Park and for the two areas.
 Open space parks as well are the two park blocks as well as the green loop. And then clearly as part of phase two, there's a demolition cost involved in preparing the site for development that generates that land sales.
 There are additional public benefits. We had a pretty extensive conversation about this when we brought this before you as a work session. So what you don't see internalized to these numbers that clearly will take additional work as we move forward with a master plan is a cost estimate for the PNCA park.
 A cost estimate for rehabbing of Union Station, clearly kind of it's an important anchor to development of the broader Broadway corridor area. The framework plan does contemplate a plaza in front of Union Station on a parcel that PDC owns called Block Y, amongst other public goals that came out of our conversations with both the public and other city staff.
 So next steps, this is clearly kind of the first of many times that we will be before council. This schedule lines up what PDC will be doing in our negotiations with the post office. As Patrick referenced, we are having ongoing negotiations.
 the post office both around site due diligence and around negotiating an acquisition agreement that would then result in them actually continuing to design a replacement facility and moving into more formalized design and construction which would take the next two to two and a half years concurrently we will continue to work with our city bureau partners around the central city 2035
 um goals and objectives and language that comes back before you in the fall of next year particularly around the master plan requirement that's contemplated in the west quadrant component of the central city 2035 plan or as well as around any entitlement changes
 And then a development solicitation and agreement to kind of go out to the private sector, really get our private partner on board, come back to you with a master plan, particularly if there's public investment contemplated both via the affordable housing as well as via the infrastructure. With the goal of having kind of the first sale complete and construction underway in 2019, that aligns back with our phasing strategy that we had in the framework plan.
 So with that, I'm going to stop and welcome any questions. We have a few slides where Ken's going to walk through kind of how does the framework plan then feed into the financing structure. Great. Thank you, Lisa. Any questions about the plan itself before we get to the rest of the financing piece with Ken? Okay. Okay.
 proceed and I'm sure we'll have more questions as we go along. Thank you, Commissioners, and thank you, Lisa. So when we talked last time about this project, the big challenge has been is that being able to acquire the post office with inside the River District means that there aren't sufficient resources to make that acquisition and do all the other things that are planned to be done in the River District. And normally that creates a real challenge for us. The unique opportunity here is that
 is that by buying the property, it also brings to the city an asset. And that asset can be monetized, and we can use the value of that asset
 in the future to repay other obligations. And so the challenge that we've been working on, and we think we have a plan for, is to utilize both the tax increment capacity of the district and the resources of the city's general fund, along with the assets that will be created as a result of the acquisition of property, to make this plan work and actually to be able to do more as a consequence of that.
 And I want to thank PDC finance staff that have been really working hard with the debt management staff of the city, along with the city attorney's office in crafting the agreements that we have in front of you today. So what we have is three ordinances that would put into a place the financing underpinnings for the
 the remainder of the River District projects and the post office itself. And so the first ordinance, Ordinance 1159, is simply the intergovernmental agreement that would set forth the terms and conditions under which PDC would be obligated to repay the city for interim financing associated with a general fund-backed borrowing that would enable certain public projects to be funded that would otherwise be displaced by the post office project.
 So we've laid out those terms and conditions. We have claims on PDC's resources and a plan for how they would be repaid and what PDC is going to be obligated to do in terms of moving forward with the post office site and what it can and can't do without our approval. So we feel very comfortable that the IGA protects the city's financial interests and is an important underpinning for the next ordinance, which is ordinance number 1160, which authorizes up to $45 million of general fund-backed line of credit
 that would be used to fund public improvement projects in the River District that otherwise would have been paid for with tax increment proceeds. And this is a consequence of being able to fit into the Irr Renewal District the acquisition of the post office property.
 So things like Centennial Mills demolition, improvements at 10th and Yamhill Garage, Union Station projects, and others would be paid for with this general fund-backed line of credit in an amount not to exceed $45 million. The third ordinance, Ordinance No. 1161, has the authorization to move forward with a line of credit that we would develop for the tax increment-related projects inside of the River District up
 up to an amount not to exceed $90 million, which may be secured by the general fund or simply by tax increment revenues in the future. Those particular, that particular line of credit will be taken out completely from
 from the future issuance of tax increment bonds. So from the standpoint of how we normally do business with PDC, it's not unusual for us to have a line of credit that we draw on as we wait for increment to build. We take it out with long-term tax increment bonds and pay off the line of credit. And in effect, that's what the $90 million represents. If the post office project didn't proceed, we would be asking for the same authorization to complete projects in the River District. Okay.
 So those three actions together provide PEC with the comfort to know that they have the resources available to move forward with all the projects to complete negotiations with U.S. Postal Service, acquire the property. And then when they realize the sale proceeds from the sale of that property, the city's obligations would be unwound. And we think that the IGA lays out –
 an appropriate framework for protecting the city's financial interests. And as a consequence of that, I think that the financial plan that we've constructed allows all the projects to proceed on a timely basis and to complete the goals and objectives of the River District. Thank you. Other questions for any of our team?
 All right. We'll stand by then, and we'll call up the first of those panels. And you have the names? Yes, I do. So, yeah, the first three are Joe Zender from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Javier Mena from Housing Bureau, and Patty Tillett from Zipper Council Fresca, backed up by Nolan Leinhart, as needed. Welcome. Go ahead. Yes, please. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. I'm Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you.
 I'm going to be brief because I believe Patty's also going to address the urban design sort of elements that are built into the plan, and you've heard a bunch of them already. Part of the point I want to make is that we were part of the city team that consulted with the PDC and their consultant team,
 on development of the framework plan, in that the issues that you see and the ingredients you see included in that framework plan were versions of the issues that were raised in the West Quadrant Policy Plan that you all approved. The urban design elements, such as streets and transitions to the neighborhoods, that's something that was considered. Open space in parks, and actually here it's kind of civic space in parks,
 which includes this extension of the park districts and the inclusion of some version of the green loop.
 Meeting our housing goals. You've heard about that in terms of inclusion of affordability housing. And meeting our development goals. And this kind of had two prongs. One is what's the appropriate mix of uses to plan for this site? It's got to be market driven. We don't, you know, 100 percent know, but what we're trying to establish is that the amount of development that could be accommodated on a site in a way that design supports
 also provides jobs and that aspiration for the sites and supplements it with mixed use of housing because we've seen that actually makes a more vibrant and effective employment district. So the result is the framework plan that you see and that the site has a high level of potential
 It's a legacy site, so the design, the development thinking, the discourse is all going to take more time and detail. That's where that legacy sort of level of attention will come from. And the central city plan that you'll see later.
 in the early part of next year, includes a master plan provision that we are designing to be able to at least set up the urban design look that we think the site warrants and bring the design commission into that, open up the opportunity for phasing diagram, open up some flexibility for the site. This framework plan is a good first step. Thank you. Good afternoon, Patty. Good afternoon.
 I'd like to address the urban design aspects. The site of the central post office has long been conspicuous as a void in Portland's urban fabric. And the opportunity presented by redevelopment of these 14 acres is to make it an active connector between the Pearl District and Old Town Chinatown, a critical link in the Green Loop, the northern terminals for the North Park blocks and a nexus for public transit.
 Proposed urban design responses by the combined ZGF and SOM team include connecting the Pearl District and Old Town Chinatown with a street network through the site, together with living, business, and employment opportunities that will benefit both neighborhoods.
 Connecting the green loop from the east side on Broadway Bridge to its west side continuation on the North Park blocks with accessible connections across the 30-foot elevation difference from the bridge to the ground will be addressed. Extending the North Park blocks open space into an inverted U of substantial buildings and marking the northern termas with a landmark tower, which is also centered on the Broadway Bridge. Thank you.
 Extending northwest Johnson Street through the USPS site to connect with the transit hub at Union Station physically and visibly from the Pearl District, the landmark go-by-train Italian tower at Union Station will be clearly visible from the west along a wide pedestrian and bicycle-friendly extension to Johnson Street.
 And as the transit capacity of the Union Station hub expands with new services to the southeast and southwest suburbs, the occupants of the redeveloped USPS site and adjacent buildings will have unmatched transit access. A new plaza at Union Station will be energized with both social and commercial activities from these folks.
 So the scale of development envisaged at the post office site will create a new and substantial focus for employment and housing, including affordable housing. This will be de facto transit-oriented development, advancing the city's goals of reduced dependence on automobile travel, reducing atmospheric carbon, and increasing walkability throughout the central city. It will also advance our reputation as a city where quality urban design exists
 continues to grow and to thrive. Thank you. Thank you. Javier, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Javier Mena at the Housing Bureau. We don't get a lot of do-overs at the city, and this is a unique opportunity for the Housing Bureau, learning from the Pearl, the North Mac, the ZRZ developments. This provides, and also the...
 potential density bonus maximize and affordable units it's it's a very exciting opportunity we are very thankful and appreciative of being part of this discussion um the broadway corridor framework is consistent with the central city plan the 2035 plan in terms of the 30 percent of all units we made available for families at zero to eighty percent median family income um
 Through the tips we said that was approved last week, an additional $20 million was allocated to the Bureau for this investment or investments of affordable housing in the area, and the Bureau has gone through an analysis to the best way that it will invest those resources in order to maximize units and diversity within this framework. So we're very appreciative of that. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? A couple questions. Javier, the $20 million that we agreed to –
 for the River District is not actually contingent on us adopting this framework. It's in the alternative. Correct. But in any event, what's the earliest time that we would have resources available to invest? Okay.
 And that's a question for PDC. I honestly don't recall the timeframe in terms of those resources. I know that there were $17 million that would have been made available if there is an agreement with the Postal Service to be able to buy the site that the city would, that the PHB would be invested in. And then the subsequent $7 million would be something that we'd be looking at how do we invest those resources within that site.
 In terms of the need in the district, what has the Housing Bureau identified as the particular need in terms of median family income housing?
 we know that the greatest need is in the most the lowest income zero to thirty that's where the greatest number of units are needed what we have looked at in terms of any of our developments is a mixed use uh that addresses those or i'm sorry mixed income that addresses those the need is definitely but with the limited resources we also are looking at
 maximizing units that are affordable. So it's a balance that we're looking to create. And are you considering working with Home Forward to do some project-based Section 8? That's always on the table, and we always have continuous conversations with Home Forward with that regard. Other questions?
 Thank you all very much. Thank you. We have two more panels to call, one of stakeholders and another of real estate experts who've put their eyes on this proposal and prospect. The stakeholders group includes Ruth Adkins from Oregon Opportunity Network, Peter Andrews from Melbourne Mark Development, and Jillian Florin from the Pacific Northwest College of Art. So welcome all three, and thank you for being here today.
 Jillian wasn't able to be here. Jillian's not able to be here. Okay. Well, very happy to have you two here. Thank you. Thanks so much. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Ruth Adkins. I'm with Oregon Opportunity Network. We're a statewide association of affordable housing nonprofits, about 20 members here in the Portland area.
 and i had the pleasure of serving on the stakeholder advisory committee really appreciated um having a place at that table and the robust conversations we had staff did a great job running a quick time frame but very rich discussion and lots of great folks on the committee so obviously from the housing affordable housing community perspective we're very excited to see this commitment up front and this intentional planning as part of this really exciting massive opportunity
 I'd really also like the collaboration that we're seeing between the Housing Bureau and PDC directors and staff. That's something we'd love to see going forward, as well as transparency around not just the dollar amounts but the units, the number of units, who they'll serve, as Commissioner Fish was highlighting a moment ago, and what the plan is. We know, certainly – and I appreciate Javier mentioning this just now – that this is
 This is in some ways a do-over to what we saw, as you recall, when the late, great Gretchen Kifuri, may she rest in peace, came here. It was really to talk about...
 what the missed opportunity in North McAdam around affordable housing. So I'm excited to see this upfront commitment and that we're going to certainly be involved in watching this as it goes to make sure that those commitments, those early commitments hold fast and that we really before the land values get out of control that we can lock those in and look at not just at the post office site but there are the surrounding sites, those currently owned by PDC and those in private hands. Thank you.
 So, again, really appreciate this commitment. We want to – one of the issues I raised, though, in the committee was just in terms of the number – huge numbers of folks currently experiencing homelessness in this entire study area, development area. So obviously we're going to want to look at avoiding displacement, figuring out how the opportunity for housing and services will be a part of this going forward for those folks.
 And in the largest sense, just the concern to make sure that this is truly a welcoming and inclusive area for all Portlanders, that this not become an enclave for the wealthy that's been fueled by massive public investment. I know that's built into the guiding values of this framework plan, but that's something that's just absolutely essential that we see that this is a place for all Portlanders to live and work and play. Thanks so much. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Peter Andrews with Melbourne Market Brokerage. And I had the pleasure of sitting on the Stakeholder Advisory Committee with Ruth and many others. Brief overview of that group. We had four working sessions within that group, and there was a broad range of interests and expertise a part of it. Portland Public Schools, adjacent property owners, Multnomah County, PNCA,
 numerous experienced developers, affordable housing interests, as well as adjacent neighborhood associations. It was well-informed, as Ruth said. It was a really great process to be a part of with SOM and ZGF leading that, bringing out some really interesting ideas and bringing forward what we think is a really, really exciting plan for the neighborhood.
 It's definitely a once-in-a-generation opportunity for the city from my perspective. And I can speak on behalf, and I know others are going to say the same, but there's no other site that's quite as exciting for downtown. And...
 opportunities for the mixed use is really incredible. I can say that we know there are more institutional developers that are now looking at Portland than any time in recent history and that kind of interest also creates the opportunity that have the
 the capacity and the wherewithal to to look at a major project like this so i'm again really excited really impressed by the process that was put forward i'm happy to answer any questions well i guess uh since you mentioned institutional investors peter i guess i just wanted to ask you i feel that a lot of the institutional investors from out of state have no interest in doing affordable housing that's been my experience and
 to date with the vast majority of ones I've had outreach with. So what do we do to change that? There actually are a number of them that have really incredible expertise in working in places like New York, where that's a part of the policy. So if you deliver a tremendous amount of housing, that's included. They have inclusionary zoning in New York City. And they have that expertise of dealing with that. Yeah.
 So, like, give me a name. I can't do that. Oh, you can't. But where there's a will, there's a way. But where it's our property, surely we can require that. You know, you don't get to develop here unless, and I would suggest maybe you don't even get to develop here unless you're going to do some affordable housing somewhere else as well, or at least do a mixed use or a mixed income level. Yeah, no, I think, you know, I think the policies we passed last week, you know, certainly create that floor. But, you know, it's always a floor, and then we...
 I'd like to see somebody come in and do better too. Absolutely. Well, Peter, can I just make an observation? Because there's, I think, an irony in what you just said. 22,000 apartments have been built in the last three years by the private sector developers. Less than 2% are affordable. And when a number of the developers were interviewed recently in a newspaper article, they cited generally red tape and bureaucracy as the impediments to using that program.
 The irony is you just mentioned a program in New York City where they are mandated to provide affordable housing. It's not an incentive plan. So what would it take to get the development community, in your judgment, to join the city in seeking a lifting of the preemption on inclusionary zoning so we can mandate out-of-state developers to do the right thing? First off, I'd say that my expertise as a commercial real estate broker is in office. So asking me about residential unit
 in particular affordable housing, which is very complex and typically takes subsidizing, is probably not my Arab expertise. I would punt to some of the market people that I believe following me in this presentation. You're very respected in your niche, and I'm being somewhat playful, but it's just worth noting that in the places where,
 Developers are required to set aside a certain number of affordable units. The sky hasn't fallen. They're making record profits. But in a place where they're not required to, they blame the government for an insufficiently generous incentive
 and refuse to join with us in going to the legislature to lift the preemption on the one tool that seems to be working in every other city. There's an irony there. The only thing I can say in particular about the mixed use is that this only works if it's financially feasible. So from any of their stakes, they're happy to do it.
 There has to be the rents that justify, we need the density to justify the building. We're seeing that happening in Portland. We've never seen rents increase as well in the office market, but that justify and create the opportunity where you can actually build the density and users that are interested in it. But it needs to be financially feasible for them to look at. There are those opportunities, but again, I think the...
 Right group of people to answer that would probably be some of the residential developers that have that area of expertise and can really speak to their experience with the city. I personally don't. And our company doesn't.
 Thank you both very much. We appreciate your willingness to work on this for the good of the community. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We have one more panel, which are real estate experts, Mark Edelman of Girding Edelman and member of the Portland Development Commission Board, Tim Mitchell from Norris & Stevens, and Eric Spohr from PAC Trust. Appreciate you all being here. Look forward to hearing the benefit of your wisdom on this idea. Who would like to go first? Go ahead. All right, Mark, you get special status.
 I was asked to talk about the financial wisdom and the investment we're making, but I'd like to make a few comments before that. As others said, this is truly a generational opportunity for our city. I've always viewed this as a linchpin between the Pearl and the Old Town District, and you look down towards the train depot and all the infrastructure we put in there, and the depot is a beautiful piece of architecture in our city, and I think this is really a great opportunity to make some good things happen.
 I would advocate that we, in addition to other priorities, that we emphasize local design, local engineering, local construction, and I would love to see it empower some young local developers to help move their career along. It's our tax dollars. It ought to be our jobs.
 as for the affordable housing i would be a big advocate of putting that on the private sector and i would look for outcomes from that and i'd love to see it mixed in with the balance of the project as opposed to taking a block for affordable housing and five blocks for private sector work as for the value uh based on what i've been uh the information has been shared with me based upon what i understand that the zoning is uh contemplated to be put on this i think after pdc and the city does their work with entitlements in place
 assuming it's the FAR that comes off the streets and parks, goes onto the developable land, assuming that we take this to market in a very competitive, brokered fashion to get the highest value possible, and net of the public improvements, including affordable housing, so straight market rate stuff, my estimate after the work is done that this on the low end is going to be worth $135 million worth of dirt, and on the high end $177 million worth of dirt.
 So the finance numbers we heard of earlier, I think as a city, our investment is very, very secure. These numbers, in my opinion, are today. And I think we've talked about phasing. I think if it was the city's priority, and I understand we have issues with dealing with the USPS and requirements upon us, I think you could go to market today and get somebody to pick up this dirt after it's entitled with improvements in place. I don't think it's necessarily a 10-year program. I think you can do it very quickly. And, again, that's based upon today's marketplace.
 Biggest impediment that I see to this is the vagrancy along the North Park blocks. I know it's been a topic that's been discussed many times. We've taken efforts out as a city to address it. But I think it is probably the biggest impediment to achieving the highest value for this property. And that's it. Did you say vacancies or? Vagrancy. Vagrancy. Vagrancy. So people living outside because they have nowhere else to go? I'm not so much worried about that as I am the young toughs.
 road warriors um you know the the homeless certainly that's an issue drugs and alcohol are an issue chronic homeless people are an issue but the big issue is the vagrancy and the young toughs so um
 When you just attached a value, I think you said $130 to $135 million. You said net of affordable housing. So just elaborate on that. $130 to $177. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. $130. And, Dan, what I'm saying with that is if you were to go out and just sell this as a retail entitled piece of land today, that's the value I think you'd achieve. So if we're going to require the private party to do whatever it is, you start pulling back off of that value.
 to dampen the value to accommodate for what we're requiring the private party to do. And I would be an advocate of selling this to one party to keep control of it. Say that again. You'd be an advocate for? Selling it to one party to have a master developer control the entire project. I would not be an advocate of selling one piece to one party, another piece to another party. So, Mark, with the action we took recently kicking –
 urban renewal, the percentage of urban renewal money for affordable housing of 45%. Some have argued that's hastening the demise of PDC as an economic development agency because we're choking off some resources that they need to do their job. Well, we all agree that if PDCs can be successful in the long term, we have to find a new model for them to generate revenue.
 And there are models out there of other cities that have economic development agencies that are not dependent on urban renewal funding but become entrepreneurial, have dirt, develop dirt. And they, in fact, act somewhat like the port, which owns dirt and generates revenue and profit. In light of that –
 Do you think it would make sense for PDC to retain ownership in this site and develop it so it has a long-term income stream and has some say over the development? Great question. I think there's a number of opportunities out there. We could look at a land lease model. That's not done in Portland except for really the Port of Portland and a few other limited instances. But I think this property is significant enough that we could do that.
 PDC could leave in to the pot, so to speak, let's say the net number of whatever it is, say it's $100 for the sake of argument. PDC could pull out $50 to repay whatever financial commitments it has and leave $50 in and go along for the ride as a joint venture partner. I think there's a number of ways to make it happen. So, yes, I think that's a viable option. Mr. I just, Mayor, since this is all dovetailing at the same time, if we want PDC to be successful in the long term, we're going to have to help them reinvent themselves.
 post-using urban renewal funds. And it seems to me that if you look at the Rose Quarter, if you look at the post office site, and even if you look at some of the dirt that OMF currently manages, if we viewed PDC as an entrepreneurial agency that developed public land and maintained ownership stakes so it had a long-term revenue source, that may be a model worth considering.
 here and in some other things we're doing, because we know we're about to run over a cliff in
 The alternative is we'll just be shrinking your budget year after year. Yeah. I completely agree. I think hybrid models of public-private partnerships are the future, whether you're a PNCA in terms of trying to figure out how to make your budgets work or an ecotrust or a PDC or a city of Portland. You know, how can we get more bang for the buck, so to speak? And I do believe there's a point where –
 It's the private sector's role, and there's a point where it's the public sector's role, but there's a gray area in between, and I think that's a place PDC can capture value. You look at what the cost to do this transaction is versus the value being created, it's tremendous. And one of the things I'm a very big advocate for is I want to make sure we get every value of dollar out of this that we can for the city. Thank you so much, Mark. Tim or Eric, who would like to go next? Thank you.
 I'll go. Eric Spori with PacTrust. We've been in Portland since 1972. Have been a Greenfield suburban developer for 40 of those years. We just...
 In the last few years, I have seen what's going very clearly on in Portland and in other markets across the country where people are going back into urban locations. We teamed with Venable Properties on the Washington High School redevelopment. I would say going forward that our focus is on urban investment and –
 traditional industrial as well. But I think that it's a cliche, but I think that the public sector should do what the private sector cannot. And I think that the Portland market
 right now at 20 million square feet in the central city is still a very small market with the jobs that are coming here and very clearly the demand that's coming here. I think it's a great investment. The site is as has been said, it's a gateway site. I think it's the best site in Portland and I think it
 I just believe it's a very good investment for the city. I think also to provide certainty to what's going on, that certainty in real estate translates into higher pricing. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm Tim Mitchell with Norris & Stevens. We're a locally owned commercial real estate firm. Next year will be our 50th anniversary. We lease and sell all types of commercial properties and multifamily properties both in the central city and all over the Portland metro area.
 I think that I'm also a member of the Central City Standing Committee for Portland Business Alliance, and we were given a presentation on this program, and I would like to say that we are fully behind it. I think that the scope of it is appropriate for the site. I think the mix of uses are also appropriate for the site, the density, and also the connectivity that it is going to provide in that part of town.
 You know, the Portland marketplace, we find ourselves as one of the tightest both office and multifamily markets in all the country. And so this is something that is definitely needed going forward. And I think we would not have very much trouble leasing any of those opportunities up going forward.
 This is one of those anecdotal things I haven't absolutely confirmed, but I've heard it said a couple times about this site that this is the largest redevelopment site in a downtown in the United States, which is both wonderful and scary at the same time. Is that your sense, too, from what you see around the country, that this is a big one?
 It's a pretty good-sized piece of land that you don't find very often in the central core. I think what Mark's company has done previously with brewery blocks was fantastic. I think this is another opportunity to do something like that and make a big statement for Portland. Questions for this panel? Thank you.
 thank you all very much thank you appreciate your help with this so those are our invited panels we'll see if we have some other folks signed up to speak on this package of resolutions and ordinances at the appropriate time a couple amendments oh yeah okay this would probably be a good time to put those on the table please okay um i think you might all have copies but just in case you don't so i'm offering two amendments one is to the resolution and one is to the iga between pdc
 between PDC and the Housing Bureau. And they're nothing new. They simply reflect everything that's been said here today as the intent and everything that's been agreed to
 By PDC and the Housing Bureau. And I'm offering, I want to put them in one place just because I often find in our office when we're trying to do legislative history research, we're often looking for exhibits and we're looking for language and we can't seem to find it. And I think that's not a problem unique to my office. I think it's just some of the way we do business around here. So the First Amendment to the resolution simply reflects the Central City Concept Plan goal that we agreed on last week and has been said here is already,
 Part of the purpose there of that is to have 30% of the housing be affordable to 0% to 80% median family income, and that's the amendment to the resolution. And then the amendment to the IGA really just adds language that reflects the memo that was developed between the Housing Bureau and PDC, which I have here as well,
 and would include that memo as an attachment to make for a compact legislative history, and just simply says that PDC and the Housing Bureau will fulfill all their obligations with respect to affordable housing, as agreed to by council in the last couple weeks. So, Mayor, I'll second the purpose of the discussion, and then I have a question to the sponsor. So I support the amendment, but I want to ask a question about the first of the amendments. Okay.
 The language says that 30 percent of all new units targeting affordability at zero to 80 percent. And so it raises an important question, which I think we have to grapple with, and that is, is the additional money that we added by bumping up to 45 percent, is it covered by our 30 percent set-aside or is it covered by a different standard? Because if it is covered by 30 percent set-aside, then the focus would be on zero to 60.
 And when I look at the outstanding report that the Housing Bureau brought to council last month, that's exactly where we're not meeting our goals in the River District and in the Central City. It is also the policy goal of the 30 percent set-aside, which we bumped to 45 percent, is zero to 60. So the shortfall is in that area. The policy was intended to...
 So to Dan, my question is why have you proposed bumping it to 80%? I haven't, and the intent remains that the money we adjusted last week is to still go for 0 to 60%. This is simply the language that the Planning and Sustainability Commission has included in the Central City Concept Plan, that there will be a target throughout the central city of 30% of all new residential units being affordable to incomes between 0 and 80. But the money –
 The tax increment dollars would be still confined to the 0 to 60 percent, as you observed. So I guess – I know it's a little confusing. While I support – I know what you're trying to do, and I support you. It just seems to me that it might be confusing because, on the one hand, the dollars that we're going to invest at the front end are for 0 to 60 percent.
 But this says 30% of all units would be at 0 to 80, and I'm not quite sure how we reconcile that. And I thought that 0 to 80 was – or the 60 to 80 was for homeownership and not for rental. Actually, homeownership is up to 100%.
 so i think the best way to characterize it maybe to respond is you know we do have a sense of directions from the central city concept plan that speaks to zero eighty percent we do have the urban renewal guidelines which are zero to sixty percent but i think as we heard i think we all agree we want to see sort of some mixed income development here so i think this really speaks aspirationally to you know we also want to include if we can through private resources or through our multi-program uh units that serve that 60 to 80 percent as well
 I support the central city goal, and I share the point that you made and Mark Elin made about mixed income development, because sometimes that's the strongest development, where we blend the deeply affordable housing with middle-income housing, and everyone wins. The only thing I – and I guess I'm a little gun-shy because of North McAdam. I don't want this to be interpreted as saying that –
 that somehow we don't invest the first dollar into where the greatest need is. And the first dollars and the money that we're generating in this area, if we adopt the resolution before us,
 will be set aside money for deeply affordable housing. So I might want to ask Patrick and Javier and Joe, if they're still here, to come up and respond to this about how this would be administered if we adopt these amendments. It's just me. Okay. You can impersonate Javier and Joe if you want to.
 I just want to restate, we're not treading any new ground here. We're simply restating what we've already done. But all that, Patrick. I mean, yeah, I don't have anything to add because I do think this is, I've talked to some of you individually, I think this is an outstanding question. So I think the Planning and Sustainability Commission put forth a
 This goal is part of the comprehensive plan, and it's zero to 80, and it's unfunded, right? So I don't – but the funding we have is zero to 60, and there's no intent to change it. I mean, we're not – there's nothing that suggests that there's any intent to change that, nor is it suggested that the money that would be invested as a part of the purchase price would do anything other than reserve funds.
 space for set-aside eligible units, which is 060. So we do have a conflict here, but the conflict is, I think, just because we haven't
 Fully talked about what this 30% zero to 80 citywide means, right? Let me make a suggestion. I'm going to try to harmonize it because I don't like the word conflict. I didn't mean personal conflict. I know. Conflict in thought and ideas. No, but the word conflict, so let me see if I can harmonize it. Commissioner Saltzman and you have both said, reaffirmed, that the set-aside money goes to people at zero to 60%.
 Commissioner Salzman has referred to the Central City 2035 plan, which has an overall goal, and to get housing above 60 percent, he has noted that we have other tools, independent of TIF, like the multi-program. And with the multi-program, we can get units that go up the income ladder. So to harmonize this, perhaps the answer is, yes, our $20 million will go for zero to 60, with an emphasis on deeply affordable units –
 But Commissioner Saltzman is reminding us that in a mixed-use development context, we will use other tools to add apartments up to 80 percent through incentives. But our subsidized housing, which is what our urban renewal dollars fund, will be focused on zero to 60. Is that correct? That is correct. Our set-aside resources have been limited and will continue to be limited to zero to 60 percent investments. And the other point I would make is,
 We have a strong – this council has been very clear, front load the set-aside dollars and invest in families in need. So in harmonizing this, I hope the goal is not to hold back on the TIF in hopes of some other project down the road, that we get as much built now for people that are in need. From my understanding, I mean, it will be – the investment will be to help acquire the site. So then eventually through proceeds is when we'll get the resources to be able to develop.
 Yeah, that's great harmony. So what's the effect then of adding this language? It sounds like we're restating something. Yeah, we're really restating what is already in the Central City Concept Plan. And my whole goal is just to have everything that we've done, our actions, and the actions of the Planning and Sustainability Commission be reflected in these ordinances and resolutions that we're adopting. So future years, future city hall staffers are trying to figure out the legislative history or agency staffers'
 All the documents and all the language will be in one place as opposed to in several different documents and ordinances. So in that case, I think there needs to be a clarifying ending phrase about the TIF set-aside dollars going to 0 to 60. Okay. Is that a friendly amendment? Future counsel might read this as superseding our policy. That's what I'm concerned about. So maybe given that the taxing home is financing set-aside money is for 0 to 60%. Sure.
 That was a friendly amendment. Thank you. Got that. And what about the second amendment? The second amendment, again, is really speaking to the IGA between the city and the Portland Development Commission that the Housing Bureau is to retain $20 million property interest in the post office property if purchased. Okay.
 Yeah, up to $20 million. But as Avi said, they're going to take a 90-day period to study what that investment will look like, both size and kind of how it will be structured. So it's an up to $20 million, and then the rest would come to the Housing Bureau as kind of straight-up debt proceeds that can be used for other projects. Okay.
 And that's what you and Director Krieger... Which is memorializing a memo that we shared with council. That's the memo, yeah. Okay, so we're just trying to put what's understood and what's been memorialized in the memo as part of this legislative history here. So you're not troubled by these amendments? You consider them enshrining work we've already done elsewhere or clarifying? Absolutely, we're fine with it. I still think that there is that...
 As I mentioned, I know I won't use the word conflict, but I still think there is – in the first piece, there is the number of units that basically get land banked, potential units, through the purchase of FAR –
 it will involve a future funding source. It won't be TIF because it's a big enough number and it happens over a long enough period of time that it's beyond the TIF that's available in the River District. And so it could very well be that those units get built without TIF. I don't know whether you want to contemplate that in this today, but I think that's part of the rationale for the way it's presented in the First Amendment as being this longer-term, post-set-aside approach
 you know, policy that actually drives how things, right? So that's, I think, that's the complexity of this is that 600, 800 units, whatever gets bought through that FAR is well beyond any forecast for TIF in River Districts.
 So it would involve another funding source. So you're signaling we're going to have to have another funding source, but if you acquire the dirt with set-aside money, it must be developed consistent with the set-aside money. So that would be clarification beyond, right, so I think that would be clarification that's needed and kind of,
 to future councils or to yourself in the future. Mr. O' I think that was sort of the friendly amendment. Mr. O' Right, okay. I hope there's no doubt about that. And this is, and by the way, this is even beyond set aside money. The proposal is for us to use the general fund as a backstop on this transaction. So if we are not utterly clear that we're meeting our most important policy goal in terms of who we're going to serve,
 then we should clarify that before we have our final vote. I think we've done that now, given the further amendment that Commissioner Fritz articulated. Patrick, I have one last question since you're here. The area, the study area that you described earlier includes Block U, the backside of Buck Clark Commons. And there was a story in the paper, I think this week, that the county's potentially gotten a little more height, and they've come up with a design for that building.
 Are we satisfied that it does not intrude on the light and air of Bud Clark Commons as was a condition of our doing that deal? I can't speak to that. Bud views a PHB on site, and we are working with the county on those developments. At this moment in time, I can't tell you whether there is an impact or not. I don't know. But that's something that we continue to. So as the author of the agreement, I would say that each time I see a picture that shows the building moving closer to the moon,
 It makes me a little nervous because it's encroaching on the air and light of a building that was designed to have an outdoor space. So I would appreciate a briefing on that at some point. Will do. Other questions for our staff? Okay. Thank you both very much. So let's take a vote to accept the amendments, and then we can take testimony. No, thank you.
 I'm voting on the amendment to the amendments. Just on voting on the amendments. Are we voting on them as a package? Yes, the two as a package, unless you have a problem. No, no, no. I wanted to be clear because I did have a comment on the amendment to 1159, which is simply that
 telling PDC, which among other things, tells PDC not to create covenants, restrictions, or encumbrances on the use of post office property that would further reduce PDC's ability to gain the highest market value. And I will ruefully state that I suspect that we're more likely to impose such encumbrances than PDC. But having said that, I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Thank you.
 Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, those are accepted. And so let's see who signed up to speak. Take public testimony on the whole package. We have two people signed up. Jim Wittenberg and Lightning Watchdog PDX. Okay, come on up, please. I appreciate what you're saying. There's this, there's this. Go ahead. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I do agree this is a legacy project. Some of the concerns I have is that when we buy the property at $80 million and we add a lot more costs, we'll be in it for $121 million. As Mr. Edlund said, the value of the dirt will be worth maybe $177 million. That'll give about a $56 million profit if we decide to not go farther at that time.
 Why are we not talking about the city stepping out earlier? If we bring in an investor that does want to step in right now, that investor would probably be willing to pay a certain amount, and we step out and avoid all the risk. That's one option. Option number two, if we do decide to go forward, I understand we have 3,800,000 gross square feet on this project,
 Currently, we're talking residential of about 67% of the project, and that'll be around 2 million square feet. Now, I want to make sure that we stay within that parameter of that residential if we decide to go forward. Another issue I have is that we have done a lot of urban renewal shuffling in the last couple weeks. One of the big concerns I have is I don't want to see put on the shelf is Jordan Schnitzer's project, Centennial Mills.
 I know he asked for 38 million urban renewal funds. PDC, I hope you will follow through on this, because what we're doing right now is we're shuffling a lot of the money around, and I think we're going to push some projects off to the side. And I would hate to see Centennial Mills be pushed off to the side.
 Jordan Schnitzer is a very well-respected developer, knows what he's doing. When he steps up to the table, he's ready to perform. And when he states a certain number, it's because he's done a tremendous amount of data to get to that point. He's not an amateur at the game, and he knows what he's doing, and he knows what he's looking at.
 And I'd hate to see him put on the shelf to get this U.S. post office. Another issue I have is when you're talking relocation of the post office, I understand Troutdale has some properties out there in their industrial center. Where are we stopping on the overall cost to transfer them over to this property? Okay.
 That hasn't really been made very clear to me. Now, as far as on Union Station, absolutely, I want to see that basically restored, a plaza put there. One of the concerns I do have is the actual clock at Union Station has restrictions on
 on how high you can go and to make sure that they have clear visibility from all areas on that clock, and I want to see how you're going to try to get around that. Again, I don't want any height limitations on this U.S. post office land, period. Thank you. Thank you. Jim, welcome. Hi. I'm Jim Wittenberg. I almost didn't make it today because I almost got ran down on Broadway Avenue on Monday.
 because the car was going about 60 miles an hour down with her cell phone, and she wanted to make the light, and that was more important to my life.
 I'm convinced of that. So I think we ought to not forget to do the roads in this town because these people aren't going to have anything to drive on out here if you guys don't fix them pretty soon. So I heard once that the first duty of a mayor in the city council is to keep the good roads in the city and to take care of the water and the sewers. And if they didn't do that, probably they wouldn't last too long here. Right.
 And I personally like you, and you've done things for me in the past that were helpful. But that's one of the problems we have. Secondly, I put in this piece of paper here which shows that we're going to be out of money pretty soon here and be in the red. This shows a lot of red areas down here. For about 10 years, I'm not going to be probably alive 10 years. I'll probably be in a pot on a mantel somewhere.
 But most of you people will still be here, and you're going to have to pay for this. You're going to have to come out of your salary, and I don't know how much you're going to have to pay. I know my brothers and my three nieces and their eight grandnieces and nephews and my sister –
 are going to be paying for this. Maybe if my brother lives longer, I think he'll pay for it too. But I think I just want to hear that so I understand what you're doing there. The last thing that I have is the post office itself. For 50 years, I've been using that post office, about 55. I used to own a pharmacy here in town, and I took my bills down there every month and posted them.
 And then I got other amenities from the post office that we'll have. It's going to be hard for me to ever use the post office if you move it out of there. So I want some assurances they're not going to take that post office, the retail part of it, which is the front, and put that out in Cedar Hills or somewhere out there where I used to live. And other than that, I just hope that you guys can pay for all these things because there's going to be some real juggling to get all these things –
 done and paid for it. Jim, let me ask you a question because you're a frequent visitor and you have lots of interesting things to tell us. We have two options for us. One is to do nothing, in which case the post office continues to occupy that site, pays no taxes, and it creates a lot of conflicts with the community that's built around them. Conflicts are trucks they can't really get in and out, and a use that's not really compatible for that site.
 The alternative is for us to acquire the site, develop it, put properties on the tax rolls, create some wealth, and then generate a return for the city. And the risk is in the short term we have to provide some backstop financing, but the CFO of the city, who is an independent actor, reports to us independently, has come and said he's comfortable with the arrangement. And one of the leading developers in the city has come and said that if we don't screw it up, we actually could make a premium on the property.
 That's what's before us right now. And so as between the two options, which do you recommend we do? I'm not against that. I'm not against you developing a post office property and moving that. What we want is a retail post office down there, the retail part of it. The other stuff can go. You said in China if you want to put it out there.
 But you need... Keep some kind of retail office there. Yeah, that's what I hear again and again and again. Every time I bring something up, that's the first thing that I hear almost.
 People don't want to have to go to these little post offices and buildings downtown that they can't find to post something. That's a good idea. So those are the main things. I don't care, but it's hope that you can spend all this money that you're spending, you can pay for it down the road. Because now we're talking hundreds of millions of dollars.
 It's going to take creative financing to pay that off in the future. I'm sure these guys are up to it. I just want to make sure you guys make sure they do it right.
 And we'll watch you from out here. I don't expect to be here too much in the future. Jim, you will not be in some urn in ten years. I won't? You'll be right in this chair, wagging your finger at a future mayor and giving the same speech. That's right. You're creating this debt for this new mayor that's going to come in. We're counting on it. He's going to have to pay it off. He'll be here for several more mayors, I'm sure. You're going to be here for a thousand.
 South Sea Islands are worse. Oh, yeah, right. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then let's move, please, to the vote on the first of these, which is the Resolution 1158. Novick?
 So I think that one thing that people, that the public might be concerned about is we're voting to adopt a framework plan which has a preferred concept in it which says what a bunch of people who look at this would like this area to look like. And I suspect some people might say, well, okay, you want it to look like that and that will wind up being incredibly expensive and that will mean that the city general fund loan will ever be repaid.
 And I want to make it quite clear that we are not saying that we are going to have precisely this concept, no matter how much it costs. It is of primary importance that any general fund resources be repaid. And if that means that the concept for this area might be somewhat different from the preferred concept outlined, that is what will happen. I'm –
 very reassured by what our Chief Financial Officer is telling us and by what Mark Gatlin is telling us about the inherent value of this site and our confidence that the city will be repaid for any general fund line of credit. Aye. Well, congratulations, Mayor Hales, for bringing this home with Portland Development Commission Patrick Quinton. This site has been talked about for as long as I've been on the council, and so it's quite amazing to be here today without 60,000 people turning out for it today.
 to pass this resolution. Aye. Ms. Yes. Mr. Mayor, when this first proposal percolated forward, I was actually a little skeptical because number one, I wasn't sure about the financing, and number two, I wasn't clear about the sequencing because we have a lot of big asks that are in the pipeline. The Portland building, Memorial Coliseum, this site, as well as ongoing infrastructure needs.
 Three things changed my mind. One was the professionals who told us that there's a historic opportunity for us to control the destiny of a very important piece of dirt, develop it consistent with Portland values, and do so in a way that may provide a significant return to the public. That's pretty good if we can pull that off.
 Number two is we have a CFO in this city, a $3-point-something billion municipal corporation, whose job it is to come tell us if we're getting too close to the line on debt or risk. And the CFO has done a comprehensive analysis of this and said that he's satisfied that this financing mechanism is prudent. And the third is that –
 we have a chance in this development to make another significant contribution towards affordable housing and do it the right way, which is at the front end with binding commitments, learning from our experience in North McAdam. So for those reasons, and then just an extra credit one for me, is that if we are serious about PDC moving beyond TIF as a funding source, and if we want PDC to play a long-term role in economic development,
 we are going to have to develop a new model for them to be successful. And in lots of cities, there is an economic development agency that controls dirt and develops dirt. And when there's a profit, it accrues to the public benefit.
 and sustains the Economic Development Agency. And I actually think that this project could be the test case to see whether PDC can become more entrepreneurial and be given more flexibility as a property owner and operate more like the port than the old PDC. So for all those reasons,
 i think this is the right approach and i would second what commissioner fritz said which is thank you mayor for bringing this forward and thank you to pdc and the team for all the work you've put into this hi well i wanted to let commissioner fritz know that this has been a a quest as
 Even longer than since you've been on the council. You know, it goes back to when I know Mayor Katz was here, and I think you were on the council at the time. This has been one of those elusive dreams of the city council, Portland Development Commission. Thank you.
 to finally get a hold of the post office site. I think what's different right now is two things. A, Mayor Hale's leadership and determination, but two, as the panelists reflected, the market's really right now for this to happen. I think in the past,
 We always thought, well, maybe we can find the post office a home and take this 14 acres. But I don't think we really had sort of the economic engine to really see something happen or the vacancy rates, both residential and commercial, being at historic lows that just tell us that development is primed. And particularly on the affordable housing, when we can prime the pumps with further commitment of public resources to do that.
 So I really do think it's a question of having the right leadership and being in the right time and the right place. But I don't want to make it sound like it's that easy, so I want to thank, again, the Mayor's Office, the Portland Development Commission, and also the Office of Management and Finance, our CFO, for coming up with a rather ingenious but, I believe, a secure plan of attack here to really take these 14 acres and turn them into a real asset for our city. Thank you.
 Well, thank you all for your support for this bold venture, bold but prudent venture. And in addition to the folks that have been thanked, excellent work by the Portland Development Commission and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Office of Management and Finance and the Housing Bureau. I also want to thank Jillian Detweiler on my team in my office, whose advice about development and growth in the city is essential to my good work. So thank you, Jillian.
 I just want to return to a metaphor I mentioned in our work session on this. Not just in this issue, but in so many we can look around and realize that we're in a very fast-moving river of change right now in Portland. And what you can do in that situation is you can drift and hope.
 or you can paddle to where you want to go, and that's what we're trying to do here. This is growth that's coming, and we can deal with it or not. But if we do this, this is 2,300 households that we don't have to shoehorn into other neighborhoods. This is 4,000 jobs that can make use of existing infrastructure, including being really close to some of the biggest transit assets and bicycle networks in our city.
 And that's why the Central City 2030 plan, 2035 plan calls for relocating the post office. And it's also important to reflect that in these kinds of situations, again, going to the drift or paddle metaphor, it is actually easier to do nothing. And if we had done that in a couple of other cases, we would now really regret it. What we call the Pearl District was envisioned at one time as something of Cruiseway North, a low-rise office district with lots of parking.
 And we could have drifted to that outcome and not have the great neighborhood that we have now. In the south waterfront, we could have allowed a gated community that was proposed for the prime 10 acres at the southern edge of the district to go ahead and happen. We could have let OHSU go to the suburbs, which is what they were planning on at the time. But we paddled to a different objective and are getting an amazing place for our venture.
 And so very much the same here. We could let this opportunity slip by and keep putting up with semi-trucks on the Broadway Bridge at rush hour for the rest of time because that industrial use doesn't make any sense where it is today.
 So this is a great opportunity to go to where we want to go as a city, and I'm very proud of the fact that we now have the chance with this good advice and these good partners and Patty and Nolan, the best architects around, to think about another great part of Portland. Thank you all for queuing up this great opportunity for our city. Aye. Okay, let's take the next item, which is an emergency ordinance. 1159, Novick.
 So I can now correct my mistake of not previously thanking the mayor and Jillian and Patrick and Patty and Ken Rust and everybody else who worked so hard to bring this about. Another point I wanted to make about this whole deal is that I think a lot of people might ask, if this is such valuable property, why isn't some private property?
 party buying it from the post office? Why is the city buying it? And if a private party isn't buying it, doesn't that mean the city is being sold a bill of goods? And what we've been told is that the post office operates under legal restrictions as to how they can dispose of their property, and they can't under federal law, and I can't cite the federal law for you, they can't simply sell it to a private developer. They can more easily transfer it to the city. So that's why we're stepping in to play this role. Okay.
 This is the ordinance on the draft intergovernmental agreement. It says that Portland Development Commission will provide quarterly reports and I'm assuming that those will be coming to the entire council as well as the Office of Management and Finance and the Mayor. I would like to also request that they go to the City Budget Office and add my thanks to that independent group as well as to our Chief Financial Officer, Ken Rust, for vetting the financing process.
 mechanism, which does have some risk, but I'm comfortable that it's risk that's manageable and worth taking. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And, um...
 The others move to second reading. 1160 and 1161 move to second reading next week. We have to go out to the 18th because of our first policy. To the 18th then. Okay. That's right. That's right, because Veterans Day falls on 6th. So those 1160 and 1161 go to November 18th. Okay, now we are ready to move to 1162. Okay.
 Replace Code Chapter 16.40 pertaining to private for hire transportation in the city of Portland. Commissioner Novick. Mayor, sometimes Portland leads the nation. Other times, we, like any other jurisdiction, get rag-kicking and screaming into the future. This would fall into the latter category.
 And as of about a year ago, we were being constantly pounded by the media and by TNC companies for not allowing in these TNCs or providing service to millions of people around the country and the world. And we made it clear, I think, that we were open to the idea of taking another look at the private for hire regulations, but we didn't want to rush it.
 There was a point where Uber did decide to rush it and come in and start breaking the law. And we told them that that was unacceptable and they backed off. Since then, we've been engaged in a lengthy and thorough process of trying to determine what the new rules for this industry for both taxis and TNCs should be.
 And we have been very honored to have the advice of our citizen task force, which spent countless hours listening to testimony, doing research, deliberating, having back and forth with us to come up with their final recommendations. We are allowing for competition in the private for hire industry. We want to be sure that it is fair competition.
 So we are requiring both TNC companies and taxis to provide 24-7 citywide service. We are requiring TNC companies and taxis to provide service to people who need wheelchair-accessible vehicles. We are requiring criminal background checks for all drivers. We are requiring inspections for all vehicles.
 There are going to continue to be some differences between how we treat TNCs and how we treat taxis. We are going to allow taxis but not TNCs to take street hails. It won't be legal for somebody to just flag down an Uber or Lyft vehicle, only a taxi.
 There also will, under these proposed rules, continue to be some difference when it comes to insurance. Specifically, there's been a debate about what level of insurance should be required when a TNC driver's app is on, but before they've been asked to collect it to go give somebody a ride or be in the process of giving somebody a ride. Okay.
 People in the taxi industry have said that once the app is on, it's a commercial vehicle, and therefore they should have the same level of insurance as always required for taxis. I don't think that's an unreasonable argument.
 So the counterargument, which has been accepted by numerous other jurisdictions, is that the period when the app is on but a ride has not been requested is sort of a period in between being a private automobile and being a commercial automobile. So a different level of insurance, higher than what's required of a normal driver but lower than what's required of a taxi cab, should be adopted. Okay.
 We spent a lot of time thinking about this issue, noting that a large number of other jurisdictions have taken this approach. We've talked to some people in the insurance industry who have said that they think that this approach is reasonable, but it's something that we should watch.
 that we should wait and see what data there is on the actual insurance claims data during that, quote, period one, and it might be something that gets reevaluated down the line. The Colorado Public Utilities Commission came to the same conclusion. This struck them as a reasonable way of doing insurance now for period one, but they want to look at data and maybe come to a different conclusion somewhere down the line.
 So this is an issue, insurance in period one, where we are continuing the rules in the pilot for now. But I want to bring a report to the council a year from now where we look at data from around this city and the country and see if it might be appropriate to revisit that.
 We've also made a commitment that we are going to analyze and bring a report at the end of next year on what the impact of lifting the cap on the total number of vehicles has been on both drivers and consumers, because that's a new thing. And some folks have asked, will you take a look at what the effect of that has been? And I think that that's appropriate.
 One thing that I want to mention is that
 We have been monitoring the provision of service to everybody, and also we've been doing some monitoring particularly of what level of service has been to people who need wheelchair-accessible vehicles. What we've seen over the last few months is that nobody seems to truly provide 24-7 citywide wheelchair-accessible vehicle service, but both taxis and TNCs have been making significant progress towards that in the past couple of months.
 There was a period in the beginning of the pilot when the TNCs acknowledged that they were actually not providing 24-7 citywide wheelchair accessible service. And I have asked PBOT staff and the city attorney to determine what penalties should be assessed against them for knowingly not complying with that requirement, which was there from the beginning. Okay.
 So that's something you should see in the next couple of weeks, I think, that we will say, you were subject to this requirement all along. We meant it. You acknowledged you were violating it. Therefore, you're going to have to pay penalties. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to either you, Mayor, or to... I should know if you're going to take the question or...
 violation. That's in addition to you have a penalty schedule in your proposed legislation for these violations going forward? Yes. And one of the issues, Steve, that you and I care deeply about is the terms of service agreements and
 And could you tell us where you landed on that? Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate your bringing that up because that is something where this is an issue that Commissioner Fish brought up, and I thought he was right. Looking at the TNCs, and I think it was particularly Uber's terms of service, it has language in there, you know, which you have to click on before you get a ride. It has language to the effect of no matter how negligent we are, we're not liable, and if we are liable, we're only liable for $500, right?
 That kind of blanket disclaimer for any misconduct is not valid in the state of Oregon. An Oregon Supreme Court decision came down last year that said that you can't have a disclaimer like that. However, somebody reading these terms of service might not know about that Oregon Supreme Court decision, so they might have a problem with Uber and take a look at this language and say, oh, well, I guess I can't do anything because I gave up all my legal rights.
 So we said that we're going to insist, and we are insisting, that any such disclaimer of liability be followed by a statement that such disclaimers are not legal in Portland and normal tort laws apply so that people who are injured will know that. And I thank Commissioner Fish very much for highlighting that issue. Thank you.
 Thank you. And also, my understanding is that Lyft has, in fact, agreed to comply with that requirement. And they have said they will comply with it, and Uber has also acknowledged that it's the rule and they're going to have to comply with it.
 Thank you. MR. And while I'm thanking my fellow Commissioners, I should mention that one other concept we're adopting that was forwarded by another Commissioner is that we're replacing a system of permit fees being assessed to – annual permit fees being assessed to drivers and companies with having the cost of administering the TNC program, which includes monitoring performance and making sure that people are behaving legally and bringing enforcement actions.
 The cost of all of that activity will be paid for by, as per Commissioner Saltzman's suggestion, a per-trip charge, which we estimate will be between 40 and 50 cents per trip, which means that the customers will be paying for the oversight of this program.
 which I think is preferable to saying that the city taxpayers as a whole will be paying for the cost of the program or, for that matter, having individual drivers have to pay for the cost by annual permit fees. So this is an innovation for which I thank Commissioner Saltzman very much.
 So let me call up Transportation Director Leah Treat, and then let me let everybody know how we're going to proceed this afternoon. You can come on up, Leah. I'm just going to walk through the procedure here. First of all, I just want to suspend the rules for a moment and welcome a delegation from Hirosaki, Japan, who are here studying our city. Welcome to Brooklyn. Thank you.
 And then, again, let everybody know how we're proceeding. This is a hearing. This is the first reading of the proposed regulations that Commissioner Novick has just summarized. We're not going to vote today. We'll vote in a subsequent council meeting, but this is the public hearing. Actually, it looks like November 18th is the day in which we'll have that vote. We, of course, have had several hearings on this subject.
 since we first took it up in the spring. And it's very important that we hear from both sides of the issue today. So we have a couple of hours for testimony this afternoon. This hearing is going to end at 6 p.m. And we're going to make sure that we hear from people, again, who are on opposite perspectives.
 perhaps sides of the question of whether these regulations have it right or not. So we're going to allow an hour of testimony for each point of view. I'm going to limit testimony to two minutes per person just because we have a very large number of people signed up to speak. And, again, we'll be alternating between support and opposition.
 If for some reason we have it wrong about where you are on the issue, just check back in with our council clerk and we'll make sure she gets you in the queue. As always, we maintain the rules of decorum here. We'll occasionally suspend the rules and clap for somebody, particularly visitors or students, but we ask that...
 in this kind of a hearing environment that you're certainly welcome to indicate your support or opposition for other points of view by giving them a thumbs up or a thumbs down or some other polite hand gesture, but we do not allow people to make demonstrations and clap for points of view here because we don't want people to feel intimidated. We want people to be able to come up and have their say, and whether they're popular or unpopular in the room, be able to do so, and I think each of us can understand why that's important.
 So with that, we have a presentation and some questions. And then any questions about the procedure? Yeah, that was a question about the procedure. When are we taking amendments? Good question. I would say we should probably take them early.
 So there's a staff presentation, maybe then amendments and further council questions? Is that okay with you, Commissioner Novick? Would you rather hear amendments at the beginning or the end of the hearing? I think the beginning is preferable. Okay.
 I'm excused at 5 p.m. That's a hard 5 p.m., so I'll be gone by then. All right. Well, we'll be in the hearing phase at that point. Okay, so Director Treatma and others, why don't you make your presentation, then we'll take up amendments and then start hearing from people. Great. Thank you very much, Commissioner, Mayor. I'm joined by Dave Benson and Mark Williams, fellow staff from PBOT.
 So across the country, we are seeing very rapid and far-reaching changes in how people are getting around. And Portland is no stranger to this trend. We have seen a very fast evolution of our private-for-hire transportation market. The number of private-for-hire options available to Portlanders has expanded, and we've seen an impressive growth in demand for private-for-hire service.
 The regulations that we are presenting today have been developed to shape this evolution and with two overarching goals in mind. The first is when Portlanders use private-for-hire transportation, we want them to be safe and we want the service to be reliable. Second, when private-for-hire companies and drivers operate in Portland, we want them to encounter a market that is fair and a market that is competitive.
 To achieve these goals, we have undertaken an extensive revision of Chapter 16. It's 153 pages, and there's more than 53,000 words of code there. So before I turn the presentation over to Mark and Dave, I want to highlight what has informed the new rules that are before you today.
 In January, we formed the Private for Hire Innovation Task Force. Task Force members contributed almost 700 hours of volunteer service and received input from a broad cross-section of stakeholders with interest in this program. They delivered their final recommendations in August, and I want to take this opportunity to thank the Task Force members for their service, the industry experts, and the Portlanders who participated in that process.
 All of those insights were very valuable to us and directly influenced the changes that are before you today. As an example, I'd like to highlight the new accessibility requirements. Working in collaboration with the Task Force and the Portland Commission on Disability, PBOT has developed new accessibility requirements to improve service and expand transportation options to people with disabilities and specifically those needing wheelchair accessible vehicles, otherwise known as WAVES.
 Those new requirements are rooted in service performance standards. And later in the presentation, Dave Benson, Joe Vanderveer, and Nicole Charon will explain them in more detail to you. It is also important to note the role that reliable data has played in helping shape the recommendations. In April, at the Council's direction, PBOT initiated a pilot program to expand taxi service and allow T&Cs, transportation network companies, to operate.
 As part of this pilot program, we collected data on more than a million rides that Portlanders took during the first four months of the program. The information we received on trip durations, ride destinations, passenger wait times, wave rides, all of this has been invaluable.
 According to the data, we saw an incredible growth in ridership in just the first few months of the pilot. From May to August, taxi ridership did decline slightly at about 16%, but we saw overall ridership increased by 40%. The report also showed that taxi and TNC service improved throughout the city, and specifically in East Portland neighborhoods, where ridership increased by about 50%.
 Thanks to this data, we do understand the private-for-hire market in a much more comprehensive way, and this understanding has helped us focus on the regulatory changes. It is important to know that we are going to continue to collect data, and we will use it to inform any future regulatory decisions. And these regulations have also been informed by input that we have received from you, our City Council.
 Private for hire service is a key part of our transportation ecosystem. It is also one of the most innovative and dynamic parts of it. We believe that the proposed regulations will allow Portland to take full advantage of the innovation and ensure that public safety and fair competition are protected. Thank you very much for the opportunity to provide opening remarks. I'm now going to turn it over to Mark and Dave. Hi, good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mark Williams. I'm the Private for Hire Program Manager.
 and good afternoon mayor and commissioners my name is dave benson i'm the uh parking group manager at pbot so i appreciate uh director treats and uh commissioner novick's introductory comments um it it it's it's been said but it's worth been repeating that uh the changes here before you today have been guided by a lot of work from a lot of people the innovation task force a million rides the data that we were able to derive out of those rides your input
 uh an evolving market and providing a safe service for the consumer and doing so and adopting regulations and our recommendations that are fair and equitable we believe to the providers commissioner novick mentioned it but it is a cornerstone of the private for hire service of city-wide service and it requires service 24 hours a day seven days a week throughout the city
 And it also requires that both taxi and TNC operators must accommodate all requests for service for wheelchair accessible vehicles. Permit caps. Prior to the pilot in April of this year, the Private for Hire Board had the ability to cap the number of Private for Hire vehicles in the city of Portland, and they rarely granted exceptions to that.
 we're proposing that there's no caps on the number of vehicles a company can permit similar to what's been going on during the pilot this way companies can have as many vehicles as they want and the market will determine the appropriate number of private for hire vehicles fares prior to the pilot the city had a long list of mandated fair requirements
 Our proposed change, similar to what's been happening in the pilot, is there's no mandated fares, but we're requiring the companies to establish base fares, report them to us, and they have to be approved by the director prior to implementation. All the fares have to be made in a way that's readily available and clear and transparent to the consumer.
 And while dynamic pricing is allowed during emergencies declared by the mayor, they can be suspended and they're never allowed for wave services. Before you leave that, Dave, just maybe a quick sketch. That is, the base fare rates are submitted to the director for approval. What criteria are there for why you might,
 turn down a fair rate? In other words, if we're partially or significantly deregulating fairs, when would you say, no, that fair schedule is unacceptable and here's why? Well,
 It's so that the Bureau can be fully informed of what's going on in the market. We wouldn't turn down a fare rate. They are deregulated. But we're also suggesting there will be an advisory board, and they would also be informed of what a company or companies are proposing. So it's part of that connection of a fair and transparent rate structure. These fares include, you say base fares but also peak fares? Dynamic pricing. Yeah.
 Dynamic pricing, as you know, is when it's a Friday or Saturday night, late in the night, especially the TNCs raise their fares to adjust for the demand in the marketplace. And would those also be submitted? No. Okay, only the base fares? Just the base fares. If those all fare rates are made available to the consumer in a clear and transparent way, what does that mean?
 So when you bring up on your app for – No, no, I'm talking about a taxi. How do I know what the taxi is? The taxis have the rates or have had the rates, and we expect they will in the future post it in the cabs of what the rates are.
 So literally I have to go down the line to ask them what their rate is before I get into the taxi? Yeah, that's one of the issues. I would imagine when you call for a ride, you could ask and ask them what their rates are. To be competitive, I would expect, I don't know, but I would expect many of the taxi companies would adopt a similar rate structure. But, yes, I mean, there will be some variation. Okay.
 And I won't know if I'm not calling. I have to call around. Well, if you're calling to ask for a cab, you can. And hopefully they're posted in the cab. When the cab arrives, you could certainly ask the driver what the rates are. You know, this may be far-fetched, but I'm the guy that always goes to the bar thinking I'm going to take advantage of happy hour, but I'm two minutes past the expiration of happy hour, so I get the regular menu prices. So.
 Is it when you book the trip or when you get in the car that determines whether you're covered by the established pricing or the dynamic pricing?
 Well, for the app, I think the dynamic pricing is indicated when you book the trip. At least I can say that's with the Uber app. I've seen that. You know that when you're in dynamic pricing, it will actually tell you your price is going to be between a dollar amount. In a cab, though, we expect you to have it posted so the consumer can see that when they get in the car. I want to be clear on this point. If you're using an app and you reserve a Lyft,
 but it takes 20 minutes to get there. Can they charge you a higher rate because you're now into a period of time in which dynamic pricing kicks in, or are they bound by whatever the price was at the time that you engaged them? That's a good question. I'm not sure if I know the answer to that one. We should ask the industry when they come up, but my understanding is when you book the ride at that time, you are locking in the rate when you request the ride. Okay.
 Actually, Commissioner, we need to make sure that that is the rule. I mean, if we need any sort of clarification on that in our rules, then we will make it and specify exactly what you just said.
 Just going back to my line of questioning, for those of us who are going to want to continue to use taxis, there's not going to be any limit on the number of taxicab companies, right? Anybody can come in and get taxis. So is there going to be any centralized place that will post what the base rates of each taxicab company
 taxi company is, or do I have to call through all of them? Yeah, you probably call the one you normally call, and you know what their rates are, I would suspect, but there will be no requirement from us to have a centralized bulletin board or anything else that lists the prices. Why not? If we're trying to make it so that people like me can still not pay
 happens to pick a cab at the most expensive taxi company, why would the city not have some responsibility to help consumers find out what the prices are? Commissioner, the city doesn't – I mean, governments don't generally do that for prices of most things. Governments generally in the past in Portland have regulated the price of taxis.
 So now we're not. Yeah, the way I look at it, Commissioner, is the same we have dynamic pricing in hotels, we have dynamic pricing for airlines, we have dynamic pricing for a lot of things in the marketplace, and you do have to be a consumer and shop. And I think that would apply to taxis as well. Okay, thank you. Let's go forward. Accessible service, prior to the pilot,
 20% of the vehicle fleet must be wheelchair accessible. What we're proposing is that we move from a percentage of the fleet to a performance metric so all companies are required to reasonably accommodate persons with disabilities, including individuals with mobility devices and those accompanied by service animals. They have to provide 24-hour service. And the service is, again, based upon wait times and time.
 The line we've established is a 30-minute time, wait time is a rebuttable proposition of unacceptable service. So one of the issues that came up last time when we had this conversation was that a service standard doesn't provide universal access if the app doesn't require that everybody who seeks a vehicle get service. And it was the example of people in East County trying to reserve a car and being told there were no cars available. Right.
 So what is the mechanism you're building in to make sure that everybody is reasonably accommodated and no one is essentially redlined from accessing the service? And I think Commissioner Novick, in his introductory comments, talked about that. The industry has been doing a good job moving that way, but they're not there yet.
 And we're going to have to work with the industry to ensure they are in compliance. And if they're not in compliance, you know, take the appropriate enforcement actions to help them bring in compliance. One of the, certainly one of the issues for the industry is finding or having enough way vehicles to accommodate vehicles
 Most all requests now is there going to be a time during the day or during special events when you know Taxis and TNCs private for hire vehicles are just not available at all I think that we would say that would probably be true But our metric is for most all occasions that a wave vehicle would always be accessible David
 The way to do that is simply, which I thought we were doing actually, although I can't cite chapter and verse, is that the assumption will be that if you get a message saying nothing is available, that will be treated as you're being beyond the 30 minutes. Yes. I mean, we have some of that. I mean, if we get a message on the app, if that's what you're talking about, that a wave vehicle is not accessible or not available, that yes, it is.
 They're not in compliance. Right. That is treated as a violation. It's treated as if they showed up 30 minutes later, more than 30 minutes later. I lost one. We've heard from providers that the higher cost of providing accessible transportation is a barrier to providing wave service. This new revision allows the director...
 to establish a fund for the purposes of providing an incentive for Private for Hire wave service. The stated goal of the fund would help the,
 the providers mitigate the higher costs of providing wave service. I think Council recalls hearing testimony about the cost of providing wave service, and we heard that, and that's what this fund would be designed to do. We think, and later in the presentation you'll hear about establishing a private for hire advisory committee. We think this will be one of their first jobs to conduct research and to recommend a fee rate to the director so we could establish this fund.
 Just a philosophical question. This fund is intended to compensate people for the or create incentives to offset the higher cost of complying with the way of service. But Commissioner Novick, you had raised we had raised together at one point the question about what about taxi companies have already made that investment in in in fleets that are now arguably at a competitive disadvantage. Are we are we contemplating compensating them?
 We actually had asked the taxi companies to collectively to give us data on how many had recently made purchase of Waves, like recently before the rules changed, and we've gotten somewhat spotty response to that request. I would still be open to the idea of pursuing something like that if we had the right. I mean, I think that's something that we can take up later on. We have been struggling to get the appropriate data. Okay.
 And what's the uses of the fund? Who does it go to? What we anticipate is, as we envision it, that we'd have a fund of proceeds from rides. We'd probably charge an additional few cents a ride, and that we would divide that amongst the providers that have given retail funds
 wave rides. There is lots of discussion about the actual cost of providing a wave ride. What is a wave ride compared to a non-emergency medical transportation that's reimbursed to the providers at a different rate? So this is all work the advisory committee would do
 what that fee should be and then how it would be divided in the criteria for dividing it amongst the providers. And when you say providers, do you mean the actual drivers?
 No, I'm talking about, well, that's a good question. I think we're talking about the companies that provide the service. I think that's a problem because then the drivers are still disadvantaged. If they're providing the extra time to help folks needing a little more time to get into the vehicle, it was my understanding that then they would get compensated for that.
 And nothing in this code prevents that. I think that would, again, that's good feedback to the advisory committee to help develop a structure for moving forward. So do I need to make an amendment to this code in order to allow that to happen? I don't think so. There's nothing that prevents it from happening. And I'm not clear as to why we would be giving additional compensation to the company. They either have the vehicles or they don't. But the...
 And they're required to have the vehicles. Buying the vehicles costs money, so in effect you are compensating them for the fact that they've made this additional purchase in order to be able to provide this service. The taxi companies have already done that. Are you saying we're going to subsidize the TNCs to pay for them?
 get more vehicles that the taxi companies already have? Well, actually, we'll be subsidizing the taxi companies for their past purchases, which we don't do now. Right now, they don't get any additional money for wave rides. They're simply required to buy the wave vehicles. From now on, whenever they give a wave ride, they will be paid more money. And what the TNCs are doing is they're contracting with people with wave vehicles in order to get the rides, so they're paying for that too.
 So basically we go from a situation where we required the taxis to have a certain number of wave vehicles and didn't compensate them for that in any way to a system where we are compensating for the additional cost of wave rides on a per-ride basis. So that would, in fact, address Commissioner Fish's concern about companies that have already made the investment. They then get a higher per-ride fee tax.
 when they use those vehicles? They will. One reason, though, that I'm still receptive to Commissioner Fish's suggestion is that you don't know that the companies that recently bought a bunch of wave vehicles will get that many requests for wave service. So say Green Cab has a bunch of wave vehicles, but they never get calls for wave service, then they would never get reimbursed. So that's why I think that it might be reasonable to shoehorn Commissioner Fish's concept into this structure. Okay.
 And why would a transportation network company get more money for having independent drivers who have accessible vehicles when they're required to provide their service anyway? Right.
 Well, we're trying to – I mean, the same argument could be applied to the taxis. I mean, what we're doing is acknowledging that we are imposing a requirement on this industry of providing wave rides, which does cost extra money. And it seems reasonable to us to set up a system where that's acknowledged and where anybody who is having to pay the additional cost of providing wave rides gets some compensation. Okay.
 Well, so I would encourage the committee to look at, yes, certainly if the TNC is contracting with a company, then that is an appropriate use of the compensation. If they have private drivers who have accessible vehicles, it doesn't seem reasonable that the TNC should get that money. It seems like the owner of the vehicle should get the money. Okay. Can I just follow up on one other item? The Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Board that you're referring to,
 When do you intend to constitute that body? That's a good question that I can't answer. Can you help me out? It would be soon after the rules are established. We would have to identify the folks as contemplated in the code and bring them together, I would think, sometime after the first of the year. So we are disbanding the existing oversight body? Correct. And we are disbanding the task force? Yes, the task force has already been disbanded. Okay. And so –
 Is it currently anticipated that you would bring nominees to the council for approval? I don't think the language currently reads that way. I think the nominees are brought to the director for approval. Commissioner Novick, in light of some of the controversy we've had about composition of the task force and the sunsetting of the existing body, I would request that whatever the criteria is and the nominees come to council for approval. I have no problem with that.
 That might need to be an amendment, but we'll get back to that. Okay. You guys got some more slides in your presentation? So why don't you continue with those, Dave?
 So driver background checks. Prior to the pilot, the city conducted background checks and the city conducted driver checks. The criminal background checks were through the law enforcement data system, and we used that portal to access the National Crime Information Center.
 And then the driving records were conducted through Oregon DMV and for out-of-state driving records, we have to use it through LEDs. On October 15th of this year, we received a letter from the Department of State Police who are charged with interpreting the state statutes relating to the use of the data system and through that, the NCIC or National Crime Information Center reported.
 In short, our request to continue using those systems are denied. Last time I was in council, I heard Commissioner Fritz, and I appreciate her desire to have government conduct these background checks through governmental systems. In part, that's why I spoke on multiple occasions to the Department of State Police as recently as yesterday.
 I spoke to the head of the division that manages this, Tom Worthy, and he acts and his division acts as the gatekeeper for the law enforcement data system. He asked me to pass along to you and to counsel that the state of Oregon has adopted the federal guidelines for security practices written by the FBI and
 And as you know, that data security is a top priority for government and private business as well. So it's no surprise that security of these systems, not only here in Oregon, but around the country, is a big issue. However, we think we have an acceptable alternative to that that is very good. The background checks shall be performed by a third party accredited by the National Association of Professional Background Screeners,
 I will tell you that I know many law enforcement agencies use this tool on an ongoing basis to supplement their criminal investigations and it's been very helpful. The companies can opt to have the city run the background checks on their drivers for a fee or they can conduct their own and if they conduct their own, we'll require them to maintain records and the city will audit these records.
 How often and how many of the records will be audited? We'll do some random audits. We, in terms of how many compliance audits, and Mark's going to talk about that, but in the hundreds of audits per year for these companies running these background checks,
 We will quickly transition to what we call a targeted auditing because random audits get random results, and if you know there's a problem or problems out there, we'll do targeted auditing of companies to make sure that they're complying with the rules. So, like I said, very quickly we'll know if there's problems or there's some lack of understanding of what needs to happen. Thank you.
 And what's the standard for when we would, and what are the penalties for, you know, how many do, if they come back that they didn't do it properly, what's then the penalty for that? Sure. So we have some penalties outlined. We did revise some of the penalties, but we will, the penalties,
 The companies are required to submit a list of all the vehicles and all their drivers that they onboard to the service or the vehicle or the drivers that they're actually permitting. We handle this the same way with the TNCs right now, and we audit their drivers list and their vehicle information as well.
 And when we do find a violation, we can issue a warning. We can also issue civil penalties as well. But we do and plan to use the same process to monitor any of the taxi companies that choose to go ahead and provide their own background services through one of the approved providers.
 That really didn't answer my question. Sorry. How many times do we need to find a company has not done a proper background check, or that there was issues that come up that the background check missed? At what point do we say, OK, we're
 that they can't continue to operate or that they have to have the city do their background checks sure i think if we issue a warning the first time and a civil penalty the second time if they can't seem to figure it out maybe we take that privilege away from them and we do it and do i need to make that as an amendment
 I don't think so, Commissioner. The civil penalties are described in code, and we have no problem issuing civil penalties, nor in consultation with the director revoking a permit to operate. If we have a company that's not conducting appropriate background checks, we certainly have not only the ability to do that, we would do that.
 Could you direct me to the section of the code? That's what we're looking at right now. Thank you. Keep going with the presentation, though, while you do that, please. Sure. I thought you might want to know some of the disqualifying factors for –
 background checks. It's a variety of criminal history and traffic infractions and traffic crimes. Any felony conviction, clearly in the preceding 10 years, although it's not listed here, any felony conviction involving the use or threat of physical harm, no matter when it occurred, would be a disqualifying factor. Greater than five traffic infractions if the
 the driver's permit was revoked by the director, if the driver is a match on the national sex offender public registry, are all reasons that applicant would not qualify for a permit, and clearly if the driver is under 21 years. Where would a DUI fall within those categories?
 It would be driving privileges that were revoked, and we use that broadly, suspended or revoked. Within the last three years, a DUI would clearly fit into that category. Does the individual driver have a permit that we issue? Yeah, the driver has to go through and obtain a city business license, and they have to go through this process again.
 So we're going to be issuing a private-for-hire permit? Not specifically. We're going to issue, they have to get a city business license that we can clearly identify they've been through this process. So then what does this third from the bottom bullet mean, that in the preceding years the driver's permit was revoked by the director?
 Existing permittees. Right. So if a driver, for whatever reason, had a number of violations where we actually revoked their permit within the last three years, they would not be able to reapply. They're not getting a permit under the new system. Right. We wouldn't certify them. No, I see.
 I'm not following how a driver in a TNC gets to be told that they can't drive anymore. If they don't meet the requirements within the code, the parameters of the code,
 they're not legal to drive. But, I mean, to Commissioner Fritz's question, I mean, I think that the rule should be the same going forward for people who are operating because they're authorized to be in a platform and have a business license as previously for people who had permits. So we should be sure that it's made clear that if you were –
 told that you had to get off the platform or otherwise have your privilege suspended, then you're not allowed back in for three years. And, Commissioner, forgive us. It's a choice of language. What the new code says is certification, and that's what this slide should have said. But the effect is the same. We are going to certify every driver. Yes. Thank you.
 Would you like to, sorry for interrupting, if you'd like to return back to your previous question about the fees and fines. It starts in Chapter 16, 40.930 civil penalties in the penalty table. And if you were looking at the same document, it starts on page 142. Thanks. And perhaps assuming a question that you're going to ask or had alluded to previously, the proposed regulations are
 have a series of fees and fines. There's a first offense, a second offense, and then subsequent offenses. And revocation of permits or certification can be revoked by the director under stipulated reasons. So if you do want, that would require a change to the code if you want that to be after a certain offense. If you want it to be revoked, that would have to be changed. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Should we go ahead with – should we – Driver training. Within 30 days of certification, new drivers have to complete a driver-approved training course that's going to contain relevant city code provision and administrative rules. We have a great opportunity to educate these drivers on Vision Zero principles of traffic safety. They'll have to know about Portland area attractions and have customer service training. How long do you envision this training being –
 Well, in the past, the driver's trading, they've been allowed one hour, if you're talking about the amount of time they've been given to take the test. That's the test. That's not the training. Right. We're going to go through all this in an hour? Yes. So I would suggest that we've got a real opportunity here for 2,000-plus additional drivers to get more education on how to –
 be a good driver. When I lived in New York, I took a defensive driving course which was, I think, eight hours long because it got me a 10% discount on my insurance and it was excellent and I think it's changed, I know it's changed the way I've driven ever since. So,
 So if we really are committed to Vision Zero and we have this group of folks who want to be employed as drivers, it seems like we could require them to take an outside defensive driving course as part of one of the requirements for being on the platform. Just to be clear, it's not the test was supposed to be completed in an hour. That doesn't mean that the training is only supposed to be an hour, right? Yes. Thank you for clarifying.
 So the presumption is that the employer will be made aware of all of the requirements for their drivers, and then they will be given a test. They will be tested on those requirements in which they have an hour to complete that test. So the companies will be providing this education? Correct. And we don't know what that looks like? There will be. Once they.
 They determine what they're going to have. They basically have to send their test to us for approval. We get to see everything that they're administering on their test. Thank you. To make sure that all these items are covered. And they then certify that people have passed the test. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Vehicle inspections, talk a little bit about that. Prior to the pilot, every private for hire vehicle had to have an annual ASE, which is Automotive Service Excellence Inspection by Approved Master Mechanic.
 In the proposed changes, it will require an annual ASC inspection by approved mechanic or approved blue seal shop, and all the vehicles will be required to have a fire extinguisher, first aid kit, and hands-free device. Vehicle identification. Every taxi cab must prominently display on both sides of the vehicle the following. They have unique colors of their company, the name of the taxi cab company, the company-assigned taxi number, the telephone number,
 where they can request a service, and the word taxi cab or taxi cab. In contrast, the TNCs must have trade dress signage clearly visible from the front and rear of the vehicles from a distance of 20 feet and has to be placed on the interior or exterior of the vehicles. That's different from the present practice of TNCs, right? There's nothing in the rear. Correct. Many TNCs, there is nothing in the rear. I have seen some out there with the rear, but we're asking them to have it both front and rear. Okay.
 And then for the taxis, the color, I mean, is it really, why do we care what color? Typically, all the taxi cab companies are required to have a unique design so all of their cabs look identical. And when we have a new taxi company enter the city, once approved, we do, as part of that approval process, we look at their color scheme to make sure that it's unique and doesn't match any of the existing companies permitted. Okay.
 But if you have like an overlying, you can have a logo. I can understand having a unique logo, but can't that be overlaid or underlaid by different colors of the vehicles? I would imagine that prior to this existing or to the new code that I think maybe the Private for Hire Board probably approved that. It's a long time to go. I'm not really privy to the history as to why we have that requirement.
 We didn't contemplate changing it or opening to it. If that was something you'd like to see changed, we don't have objection to that. It just carried over from the previous code. Yeah, well, I was talking with a representative from EcoCab this morning, or this afternoon, and I think it's their desire to use Teslas, and I think Teslas are hard to come by, but if you can broaden the color spectrum, I think it makes it easier for them to secure more vehicles, but they would keep their same...
 eco-cab logo, but it just could be different colored vehicles. I would just flag that as sort of a flexibility we should allow. I think, you know, and this standard is years old. I think the standard was so you could tell one cab company from another, and I think that you see the same thing across the country. Commissioner, the Oregon Ducks football team would not be allowed to establish a taxi company because they change their colors every week. Yeah, really every game. Hale's
 Taxis have the exclusive right to queue in designated taxi stands, of which there are 46 around the city, and may accept street hails to include from hotel zones,
 And clearly, in contrast, TNCs cannot accept street hails and may only accept rides through an affiliate TNC app. And the reasons for that is that color scheme, the ability to have a taxi light, and that cabs are required to have that internal camera system. So when they have somebody hail them and get into the cab who is a stranger to them, there's some sense of security for that driver.
 Clearly, one of the most challenging issues has been the development of regulations governing the insurance requirements for this industry. We're recommending the following. General commercial liability insurance with limits of at least $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in aggregate. Auto insurance with limits of at least $500,000 per occurrence.
 The TNCs, we're recommending $1 million in general commercial liability and $2 million in aggregate. And in period one, and just to revisit period one, that's when a driver has the app on, but they have not accepted a ride or have a passenger in the car. We're recommending $50,000 in death, injury per person, $100,000 per incident, and $25,000 in property damage.
 In periods two and three, in periods two, two is when the driver is accepted a ride from a passenger and is en route to pick the passenger up. In period three is when they have the passenger or passengers in the vehicle. $1 million in death, personal injury, and property damage per incident. $1 million under an uninsured motorist coverage for death, personal injury, and property damage per incident.
 I have an amendment on this. Would now be a good time to introduce that? Well, let's get through the presentation, and then we'll get to amendments. I've got some questions. Advisory Committee, pre-pilot. I think I've already talked a little bit about this. The Board had rules for the for-hire transportation industry in Portland. Okay.
 We're recommending the Private for Hire Advisory Committee. It's a community advisory body representing those with interest in the private for hire transportation in the city of Portland. They'd be charged with monitoring the industry and making recommendations, providing feedback to the public, director, and city council.
 On the private fire market, they could make recommendations for changes in code, administrative rules, and monitoring us, PBOT, as we enforce the code and regulations for effectiveness. Data reporting. Prior to the pilot, taxi drivers were required to keep a log during the pilot, and our recommended changes is that we want to keep data, including date and time of trips, the time and date of unfulfilled requests.
 The trip origin, trip destination, trip wait time, trip duration. This is critical information. It informs us about the private for hire business generally. If it's growing, if it's shrinking, over time we'll get a sense of the seasonal impacts, gaps in service, especially for wave service trends. It will help and advise the organization.
 advisory committee and council and us about what's going on in this industry and what rules or policies need to be changed to address them. While we haven't had a lot of data yet, we're six months into our second in total into the pilots. Over time, we'll have nearly contemporaneous information and much historical data to really understand
 advise and give us information so we can make those changes going forward, and we think it's a critical component to the work we do. Fees and the program cost recovery, we talked a little bit about this. For the renewals, a taxi company had to pay between $500 and $3,000, a driver, every time they renewed every year, $100, and to renew a cab, it was $600.
 What we're proposing going forward is a 50-cent ride fee. Commissioner Saltzman was already thanked, but I'll thank him again for coming up with that suggestion because we explored a whole number of models for cost recovery. And as it turned out, this was, in our view, the best, the 50-cent ride fee.
 is simply to recover the cost of personnel and materials and services to regulate the taxis and TNCs we feel is the fairest and most equitable way to handle our expenses and allows the providers to pass their costs directly through to the consumer on a receipt labeled City of Portland Surcharge.
 This relieves these providers and their drivers of shouldering the annual renewal fees, which we've heard about as being burdensome, and we hope improves their profit margin. As we continue collecting ride data, we'll measure our expenses against the number of trips originating in Portland and make adjustments annually. If we collect too much money, we'll establish a set-aside and use those excess monies to help pay our expenses and adjust this surcharge downward. Thank you.
 So then the waive fee is on top of that? Yes, that would be something that would come with the advisory committee and they would recommend a fee. But, yes, that would be on. Set the level? They would recommend a level for that fee? Correct. So we'll continue to conduct random compliance checks. Okay.
 in which we will review the driver's background, criminal history, as well as their DMV records. If the companies choose to use a third-party private background or a third-party checker, they must be accredited by the National Association of Professional Background Screeners, and we'll be checking for that as well. We'll also make sure that each driver has a valid business license. Thank you.
 and the PBOT may choose to run additional background checks on these drivers through another third-party provider accredited by the association, just to make sure that the information that we're getting is the same as the taxi cab companies or TNCs. Does a TNC have to have a valid Oregon driver's license? A valid driver's license, not necessarily Oregon's.
 Okay. And so for the TNCs that are operating in Portland under, let's say, a Washington driver's license, Washington plates, does that complicate our enforcement in any way? Not necessarily, no, it does not. Okay.
 If I'm understanding your question, we will still enforce – we will still – or excuse me. We will still check for compliance audits on all the drivers that are onboarded onto the system. But it is possible that the law and the liability and other things will change once you cross a state border, right? Sure. I probably would need to check with the TNC companies to make sure that when they have a –
 driver that is in Washington authorized to drive in Oregon through their platform, we need to make sure that they are on that approved list so that we can certify those drivers.
 So we may need to have that conversation to make sure we're handling that right logistically. Well, I've seen a lot of TNCs downtown with Washington plates. So I'm assuming that they have complied with all of our regulations? Yes, they do, Commissioner. And I think we'd have to check in with Ken McGare to make sure. But I don't perceive anything. I mean, they come through the normal onboarding process just like an Oregon driver would. Their cars have to meet Oregon emission standards.
 So I feel confident that they are, but I think it's a good question and we can certainly check on it. And if somebody comes up from California, like we had somebody who testified that she used to live in San Francisco and just decided to come up here, are they automatically on the platform up here or do they have to then –
 go through our process as well? They will have to go through. Anybody who's driving on the platform in the city of Portland is going to have to go through the Portland certification process. And we do random audits of all the driver certifications that are provided to us by the TNCs, and then we enforce randomly in the field. And how do they know whether somebody's driven up from San Francisco for the weekend and wants to do some moonlighting? It's a question I would ask regularly.
 the TNCs of how they capture that data on their app. Well, it would come into our compliance, right? Because if we don't know that those drivers are here, then there's no way we can audit them. But we would enforce in the field and catch them that way. You're welcome. I don't know if this is the right place to ask this question, but we've been hearing a lot about vehicle recalls lately by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and others.
 and lawsuits against GM. So what if a vehicle is recalled and it's a prominent vehicle in the fleet of a taxi cab or...
 T&Cs, do we have any ability to say this vehicle has been subject to a NHTSA enforcement order and therefore it can't be on the streets or anything like that? I can tell you that all the vehicle types, records, models are all tracked, and I think that if we run into a scenario like that, we can reach out to the T&Cs as well as the taxi companies and say, hey, listen, are you guys removing all these vehicles off the road or at least taking them in and have the recall item repaired or fixed? No, no.
 That would be within our scope of authority. I believe so. We'll make sure though, Commissioner, because that's a good idea. So while we're also doing the compliance checks on drivers, we also do the compliance checks on vehicles, making sure that they have the proper insurance and they all have their mechanical inspection, their certification by the mechanic. We will continue to conduct field audits, which gives us an opportunity to observe wait times, including for wave service, the driver's performance.
 We get a chance to look at all the vehicle equipment, signs into cows, cameras, taxi meters, make sure their permits are posted if required. The fire extinguisher and the first aid kit, we'll be looking for that.
 Also gives our compliance officers an opportunity to look at the condition of the vehicle, make sure it's clean and presentable to consumers that are using the services here in Portland. And we obviously want to keep an eye on the tires. Those are sometimes things that get overlooked, so we check and make sure that they're safe to be operating on the road.
 We'll also conduct some strategic compliance that will be more complaint driven. So if we receive a number of complaints about a particular company or a lack of a particular service, we will focus our compliance efforts in that direction. That's including wave service as well. And we'll work closely with the Port of Portland. When they have issues, they'll notify us and we will often follow up and make sure that whatever issue that is, that that particular company is in compliance with the city.
 Commissioner Novick, can I ask a broader enforcement question which goes to the status of the drivers? Currently, we require that TNCs conform to all applicable law. How does the advisory opinion issued by the Labor Commissioner impact whatever we're doing today in terms of the regulatory framework for TNCs? Sure.
 Well, we don't, I mean, our rules don't regulate or haven't regulated the question of whether somebody is an employee. And I have been assuming that it will be left to the state to bully to act on the commissioner's opinion.
 So I had not assumed that we would take on the role of regulating the treatment of drivers' employees or not employees. I thought that that would, in the normal course, be taken care of at the state level, despite the fact that I was the one that asked the bully commissioner to review the issue.
 Okay. And we will conduct the majority of our audits. If they're not strategic, they will be proportional to the amount of rides a particular company is providing. So companies that provide the most rides in the city will likely be audited more often. We want to approach this a little bit differently. We don't want to go out there and just start issuing fines. We want to be able to do it in a way that's more efficient.
 We want to educate these drivers and help them understand what they're required to do. We want drivers to understand that their vehicles need to be safe and what to look for before they start operating those vehicles for private for hire service. So we want to do a little bit more outreach to the drivers as well. Anything else? No.
 Future developments, certainly some of the things we want to do early on next year is establish an advisory committee. We want to closely monitor the ride data and the cost recovery models that we're recommending to you today. Obviously, we're going to come back to council every year with a report to council along with our partners on the advisory committee.
 One of the most interesting questions out there is to assess the environmental and traffic congestion impacts that the surge of new private-for-hire vehicles are making on our city and around the nation. I know that other cities and other countries are actually studying this issue, and it's going to be interesting to find out. And the data we're collecting will help us determine what's happening here and work with our partners accordingly.
 And our counterparts across the country. Dave, just on that point, there's wildly different views of the environmental impact of the advent of more private car hire vehicles. There's some people who say, well, obviously this means that people are driving a lot more and that's bad for the environment.
 There's others who are of the view that this means that people who have, knowing they have access to this service, won't drive their own cars as much, might not have cars at all. And given that they'll know that every ride they take has a cost, which is something that doesn't always occur to you when you're driving your own car, then overall automobile use will go down. I was talking recently to my friend Chris Hagerbaumer, who's the transportation expert at the Oregon Environmental Council, and she said that she now...
 is cautiously of the opinion that overall the advent of TNCs would be a good thing. But as Dave just said, this is an issue that's being studied around the country, and it's an important issue which I don't think has been resolved. David S. Yeah, and I haven't, and I've looked. I haven't read any definitive report on this issue because it's such a new market. And certainly we're interested in improved wave service.
 And that's something that we've been working on since the beginning of the pilot, and we're going to continue to focus on and work on. We also want to do a labor market study on the impacts to the drivers. And while it's not listed here, Mayor, you raised an issue about the impacts to DUI statistics. As you know, we weren't able to, again, give you any declarative information, but I think over time we may be able to do that. So we're going to keep looking at that. Thank you.
 So before we get to amendments, anything else that you want to cover? No, that's the end. So before we get to amendments, we'll go ahead. Mayor, we also had a presentation from Joe Vanderveer and Nicole Cherones to elaborate on the wave issues. Yes, I want to do that in a minute, but I want to, while we've got the staff here, before we get to amendments and maybe invited testimony, sorry, you've given us a very detailed presentation.
 presentation on the proposed new regulations, which is obviously informative to us and hopefully to everybody. I want to get you to go back up.
 a few thousand feet and just help me understand the context for this a little better. We've gone from the old private-for-hire world in which cities heavily regulated taxi companies, and that's how people access private-for-hire transportation, maybe limousines too, right? Right. And New York City, they sold medallions for a million dollars apiece, and it was a very old regulatory system.
 Then T&Cs came along, and they're everywhere, right, or most everywhere. And back to your initial comments, Commissioner Novick, about how we're not the first to this event. We're certainly not the only either. What I'm trying to get at is so we went from that old world to the new world. Now here we are in the city of Portland where we've had a taxi regulatory system.
 where we, I believe, are surrounded by 27 other cities. I think I got the number right. And I believe none of them regulate TNCs in any way whatsoever. That's correct. So we're in a region of two and a half million people. We're a city of 600,000. We're one of 28 cities. And the other 27 don't do anything at all about TNCs. Have I got that right? I believe so, yes. And then also the
 These issues are being addressed in other major cities, which have had legacy regulatory systems like we've had. So the question I'm working my way up to is you've given us this list or this set of issues and how you're regulating them.
 Give me a quick box score of which of these regulatory proposals, like the 50 cent per ride fee structure or the insurance levels, which of these are unique to Portland?
 versus common in the new world order of how other major cities are attempting to regulate this new environment. In other words, where are we being innovative here, and where are we in the mainstream environment
 what other cities are doing I think a couple things I'll backtrack a little bit the 120 day pilot study was very unique and very innovative and I'm unaware of anybody that's undertaken that work anywhere I mean that was a very thoughtful piece of research on and I'll address the ride fees
 It is the fees assessed are all over the board, all over the country. I know Chicago has a ride fee of 30 cents. They're talking about upping it to 50 cents. Seattle assesses a 10-cent wave fee. And Orlando last year imposed taxi-like fees to their regulation. So it is truly a rapidly changing, evolving market.
 But I do think in many ways we're the leader because I think the work we've done has been the most informed by research.
 If I could add to that, I think in talking to other city transportation officials, the agreement that we have for wave accessible vehicle service is very unique to Portland and the highest standard that I have found in talking to other cities. So having a performance metric of an outcome-based service model and then requiring 24-7 service within 30 minutes is very unique to Portland.
 And then back to my other descriptor, we're not the only major city surrounded by lots of smaller ones. Is this the norm in the country? Is this true in Seattle or Minneapolis where the major city that used to have the traditional taxi system regulations is doing this work and the suburbs are the Wild West like they are here?
 I actually don't know. I've only talked to other people in major cities and how they're handling the advent of the teens. It would be interesting to find out. Again, we sometimes think of ourselves as being in a little Portland bubble here, but we are a city that represents about a quarter of the metropolitan area's population and one of 27 or 28 cities, depending on how you count the ones on the Washington side. So I just want to try to keep that context in mind while we're working on this issue and maybe some others too. Mayor?
 Mayor, would this be an appropriate time to put forth the amendments? Yes, it would, unless you want to hear the WAVE presentation first. Okay, let's hear the WAVE presentation first and then take up the amendments, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thanks, Carl. Good afternoon, Joe. You want first? Yep. Turn me on here. All right. Yeah, you can hear me.
 All right. I'm Joe Vanderbilt, and I'm here on behalf of the Commission on Disability. And I've been on the task force since the second phase began. I've been in the Accessibility Subcommittee and working on that committee to get the accessibility part of this recommendation together. And before I started our previous
 uh commissioner that served on the task force at that time and phase one worked with lewis and clark students to come up with the portland equal access plan which is where this access time part comes from and we are very pleased that that is in there wave service has traditionally been an issue in portland and so we're glad that it's being addressed now through this and we think this is a very effective
 way of doing that, ensuring that that service is at least reasonably equitable to regular service. And so, you know, the devil's in the details. The enforcement needs to be there. But we support it fully. We also look forward to working with the new committee that they're putting together and going forward. And that's pretty much it, I think. I also wanted to say it's been a pleasure working with you all.
 I'm going to be timing off the commission after six years. Wow. And so I will not be around for a year, but I'll be back after that. Good. We're glad you're going to be back. Thank you, Joe. Thank you very much. So can you hear me? I sure can. Just speak up and we can hear you. So you asked about a box score. Put your name on the record. Sorry. I'm Nicole Schroed, and I'm with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Thank you, Carla. So you asked about a box score, and I would say that –
 What we're doing isn't innovative just around the wave vehicles. We have in the code regulations that stipulate that all people with disabilities, visual impairments, people who have service animals have to be accommodated by TNCs.
 My understanding is we are the only city who has integrated that into our actual regulations. And I think...
 That's pretty awesome, I love. I would like to say, though, that there is a big difference between what we have in code and how it plays out once we move on from here. That will be something that is handled through administrative rules and policies and procedures. Some of the things that we want to be on the lookout for is, one, this accessibility fund. Commissioner Pritchard had questions about it.
 For me, the reason why it's such an imperative is it creates an incentive to bring parity to the service for people with disabilities, which has never been there. And so how we do that, I'm not sure yet. And I know that it's going to take a lot of thinking and implementing to make that happen.
 In the meantime, I think we'll have to think of other innovative ways to make sure that the wave service is continuing. The other thing I think that's really important that we keep our eyes to is with compliance. And the way we do compliance, not just on focusing on how many rides are given, but also the rides that are requested and aren't.
 able to be fulfilled. And that's something that gets penalized. And these are things that I know everyone's eager to keep on top of how we do that yet. I think we're still needing to figure that out, but I think we have a really great start and confidence.
 under your guidance, it will actually improve the transportation options for people with disabilities in Portland beyond anything that has ever existed and probably exists in any other city. Good to hear. Thank you. Questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you very much. Okay. I think it is a good point in which to take up amendments, and then we can take up testimony. Let me kick things off, colleagues. I have an amendment.
 It just codifies what the commissioner in charge has already agreed to, which would simply amend 16.40.960 per in capital B by clarifying that members of the private for higher transportation advisory committee shall be nominated by the commissioner in charge of the bureau and approved by the city council. Second for that amendment? Second. Second.
 Any discussion about accepting that amendment and moving on to others and then testimony? Roll call on accepting the amendment, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Thank you, Steve. Aye. Feltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Others? Others?
 Yes, Mayor, thank you. I have an amendment on insurance, and unfortunately we can't go back to that slide. But essentially the insurance should be the same for all commercial drivers. And so I'm proposing to amend two sections of the code, or actually three.
 One is for auto insurance for the taxi companies. The code currently says $500,000. We heard during testimony that all the taxi companies currently have a million dollars per occurrence, and that's the same as what we're asking for the TNCs. So in 1640-130-G1, we would make the combined single limit for taxis of not less than $1 million per occurrence rather than $500,000.
 And then the paired amendments are for the TNCs that the insurance company needs to be a million dollars throughout. So we would delete 1640-230G, number one, which says that you can have a pitiful amount of $50,000 for death in the primary coverage when the driver is looking at their phone every two minutes in order to find out whether they are going to accept a ride. Okay.
 and just make it so that throughout, if you've got your app switched on, it would be a million dollars. And just so you know, Commissioner Fish's staff did some research, and Birmingham, Alabama, and Columbus, Ohio already have this million-dollar coverage for all three periods, so it's not something that's completely out of the ordinary. Second? Further discussion about accepting that amendment?
 i could also like to add mayor that little rock arkansas and milwaukee wisconsin require equal levels of insurance again across all three periods although the levels are lower than those being proposed in portland what we're trying to do here is to provide a safe system where everybody's covered and that the taxi companies and the tncs have the same responsibilities these amendments would do that okay for the discussion
 Roll call on that amendment, please. No, thank you. I don't think this amendment is at all unreasonable. As I said, I've been rather torn over this issue. For the moment, I've decided to stick with the rules in Maryland and Minnesota and Washington and Wisconsin and the vast majority of jurisdictions, but I think it's an issue that we should revisit as more data becomes available on what actually happens in period one. So I respectfully vote no.
 I believe we should be advocating at the state level to greatly increase the minimum coverage anyway for all private drivers as well as commercial. I found out today that we don't even have standards for how much commercial drivers have to have in coverage, and that many companies are covered much by their corporate insurances, much by their commercial.
 vehicle insurance. In the meantime, before we can change that throughout the system, at least we should make sure that commercial drivers, if they are in a crash, that they're going to be able to ride something appropriate to their victims. I am going to support this because I think we have an obligation to protect the safety and health of the people of Portland.
 This is not a novel idea. Other cities have reached the same conclusion, and I have yet to be persuaded that there is any meaningful distinction between periods 1, 2, and 3 from the point of view of the person who is seeking compensation for damages. And until that distinction has been made clear to me, I think we should treat all periods equally, and therefore I will support the amendment. Aye. Aye. Saltzman? No. Aye.
 I'm going to vote against this amendment for now, but I want to hear testimony on the subject. This is the first I've heard, actually, that other cities have actually accomplished this goal of having a higher level of insurance protection. Birmingham, Columbus, Milwaukee, and I think you mentioned one other city.
 So if there are major cities that have done this, it does undercut the argument that I've heard relayed anyway from TNCs that this would drive them from our marketplace. So I'd like to hear testimony on that question of how it's working in those cities where these higher insurance limits are in effect.
 reconsider reconsidering my vote later in the hearing or later in next week when we, when we act on the ordinance. But for now I'm going to stick with the commissioner in charge's recommendation and the Bureau's recommendation. But again, I'd like to hear a testimony on that. No amendment fails. So any others?
 Okay, let's move to –
 So that's a further impact to the taxi companies. And then I just had one more question, and that's right on the first page of the code, where 16401020A, it says it is not a defense to any regulatory action, including penalties and fines, to assert that the city cannot act because a PFHT service operator does not possess a valid city-issued permit, certification, decal, or taxi plate.
 I don't know what that means. That's language that's existed in the code prior to the pilot periods, and it actually is inartfully worded, I would admit, but basically says that we have jurisdiction over anybody who's operating within the city of Portland, regardless of whether they...
 claim to have a permit or not. It makes clear that our jurisdiction applies to people who are rogue operators. They can't, it's not a defense to say, you have no jurisdiction over me. So in a roundabout sort of way, when Uber began operating on December 5th of 2014, that was one of the provisions that was invoked to fine them initially.
 Again, I agree it's inartfully worded and it's in the double negative. It's a triple negative. It's a triple negative. So you would potentially support some kind of rewording of that particular section? Sure. I mean, to get at, of course, to get at the intent, which is that we have jurisdiction over whoever is operating within the city. I'd be happy to work with you on that before the vote next week. Thank you. Okay, I guess...
 Commissioner Salson was left altogether, so I guess we're going to testimony now. I move the reconsideration of your amendment. I second. We do have some invited testimony from the Transportation Fairness Alliance and from the TNCs. Thank you.
 And first, we're going to hear from the Transportation Fairness Alliance, Steve Entler, Stephen Kufuri, and Ray Miles. Commissioner, if I might, can we ask Tim Ramos to come up to be in the shot? Sure.
 Thank you, members of the Council. For your record, Tim Ramos on behalf of the Transportation Fairness Alliance, and my task is to introduce the testimony that you'll be hearing on this subject this afternoon. You will hear two subjects addressed. First, the question of whether or not the ordinance actually achieves a fair and equal playing field for TNCs and taxis.
 And the second question is, to the extent parity is achieved, are the policies adopted the correct policies for the City of Portland? This ordinance sets up two separate sets of regulation and makes an effort to have them be close to the same. In some cases, it achieves that result. In some cases, it fails. And so you'll have testimony on those subjects. One example, the...
 The subject of 24-7 service, if you look at the language of the two sections involved, you'll find that for TNCs, there's a requirement that there be an app available 24-7 capable of providing service. But with respect to taxis, there's a requirement of a dispatch service available and cars actually available.
 Unless we intend a different result, it seems to me to make sense that we use the same language to achieve the same result. Unless there's some different policy result we want there in terms of 24-7 service, we really ought to use the same language. And so that would require an amendment. On the policy side, the question I think that arises is, why are we reducing the qualifications for the techs who actually do the safety inspections? Currently, under your law,
 A master technician certification is required for eight areas of specialty. Under the new regulations, that's reduced to one area of specialty, meaning that a person who's qualified as an air conditioner repair person could be doing the inspections, could qualify to do the inspections for brakes, steering, suspension. And the question is whether that's really the policy direction the city wants to go. It's clearly a reduction in terms of the qualifications.
 Next, on the question of air quality, why not specifically require each vehicle to have the DEQ compliance certificate? Instead, we make a reference in this code to meeting the DEQ standards for the area, but those standards specifically exempt cars which are not registered in this area. Again, is that just a drafting issue or do we really intend to allow cars from outside the area to not comply with the DEQ requirements?
 Finally, you will hear testimony that we clearly need more revenue for purposes of enforcement, but how should that revenue be collected? Historically, the companies have been willing to shoulder that burden. We think that should continue. There's really not a good reason, we can see, for exempting Uber from those fees and transferring the cost directly to the consumer. Thank you. Tim, can I ask you just a – maybe it's a dumb question, but –
 Will DEQ give a certificate of compliance to an operator who has out-of-state license plates? Yes, for $12. And going down to the station and making it through, you'll get the certificate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Who's next? Stephen? Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Stephen Confori. I represent Broadway Cab and the Transportation Fairness Alliance.
 The purpose of requiring liability insurance for providers of transportation services is obvious, protection of the public. The proposal for Uber fails to meet that test on two main areas. First is the failure to clearly place a responsibility for obtaining the insurance on the transportation company. And second, for the failure to establish a sufficient level of coverage during all periods. Taxi companies, as you know, are required to provide 24-hour, seven-day-a-week coverage.
 coverage on their vehicles regardless of whether they're being used for commercial purposes or private purposes should they be should that car be involved in an accident there's no question about where the liability lies the port of portland right now requires tncs to provide coverage at all times that the tnc vehicle is on port property regardless of how that vehicle is being used there's no reason for the city of portland to have a lower level what level does the port require
 I'm talking to two issues, Madam Chair. It's a million dollars, all three periods. The Port of Portland requires that? Port of Portland, today. Yes, and I can show you the certificates if you'd like to see the certificates. In fact, they are probably in your office because we provide that information to the commissioners. And if I can do a quick interjection here, Mr. Mayor, the reason that the Port of Portland can do this as opposed to other cities is because they're not elected. If you look at what happens in other cities...
 There's a $50 billion company called Uber that comes into cities like Portland and says, you'll take our way or we'll leave. If you look at what's happened across the country time and time again, they come to cities and say, you take what I want or we will pull out of your city. And then they have a marvelous technique of getting everybody who's on their app online
 to push a button, and that button automatically sends an email to the city commissioners saying, my God, let me keep my Uber ride. Don't vote for this. And so what happens around the country is that city commissioners get 50,000 emails, and they say, I better not vote against Uber. Port of Portland doesn't have that problem because they don't get elected. I would hope that you would be able to stand up to Uber and say, this is what's right to do, and that's to protect our citizens and not to protect Uber.
 Mr. Kapoor, I will note that if a car is at the porch, then unless somebody happens to live at the porch, their car is clearly operating commercially, and it's not like they're sitting at home drinking coffee with the app on. So I think there is a distinction. Let me say something about that, Mr. Commissioner. The major advantage that Uber has in the consumer's mind is that they can provide a car to your door within two or three minutes.
 How can they make that claim and how can they back that claim up? Very simply, they have hundreds if not thousands of cars driving around or sitting around with their apps turned on. That's an essential part of Uber's business model. And if that didn't happen, if you didn't have those people sitting waiting for that call, Uber could not operate profitably. So therefore, those people are part of Uber's business while they're waiting for the call.
 And then the other reason we ought to have the limit of a million dollars for everybody is exactly Commissioner Fish's comment, and that is if you are on the receiving end of an accident, you don't care a lot whether it's period one or period two or period three. You want to and should be required to, and every right to be under the Constitution compensated for your injuries.
 And to say that somebody has a lesser need of compensation because it happened to be period one rather than period two is irrational. The only reason that happens is because there is a compromise that was reached a few months ago between the insurance companies and Uber. Uber didn't want to have any insurance on anybody. The insurance companies wanted to sell insurance policies. And that's the reason that you have this national model.
 of one rate for people who have period one, another rate for period two, another rate for period three. It's all a matter of a national compromise between these two industries who are not looking out for the public, but they're looking out for better ways. The lobbyists for the industry
 told me specifically for the insurance industry during the legislature, and I had a bill in to require Uber alone to have the primary insurance and not to spread it out as your plan does and say, or the driver. They said the reason we want to have this language is because we want to sell a lot more policies, and we can sell a lot more policies if we have a requirement that either Uber or the drivers buy insurance. Right.
 That's bad policy. We're requiring Uber to have primary insurance in all three periods. No, you don't. Read it again. It is everyone that says either Uber or the driver or a combination of the both. And if you have either or to have primary, you have nobody that has primary insurance.
 Just a process note, by the way, as you speak tonight, people may be cheering. Don't take it personally. They're actually having a protest outside on a completely different issue. I think I'm going to pick up a T-shirt on the way home. I can use it from now on.
 Anyway, the Port of Portland requires it. I think more cities would if they didn't have the obligation to run for re-election, to have 10,000 emails come in saying don't do this to Uber. Uber does a great job of bluffing. They'll tell you they're going to leave, and then they may even leave for a little while, and then they'll come right back again. And I can show you that pattern happen over and over again. Don't be fooled by it. You have two things that you need to change in here in terms of insurance. Number one, you need to have all three periods be the same amount.
 Commissioner Fritz's suggestion. Secondly, you have to have the liability placed squarely on the company and not pretend that they're going to pass it off onto somebody else. Thank you. Thank you. By the way, Steve, on that point, one of the arguments we heard at a prior hearing was that no one is underwriting insurance and, therefore, we're mandating a requirement that can't be met. And that's certainly not the case in Birmingham or Columbus. So, again...
 Is this primarily a question of cost, not availability? Let me say first that I think Uber does something that is really, really cynical. Uber requires every one of their drivers, and this is reflected in your proposal, it requires every one of their drivers to have personal auto insurance. They never tell their drivers that that personal auto insurance is no good if they're driving for Uber. Right now, and then you had, if you may recall, one of the...
 meetings of the task force, your staff, your city staff said there is no insurance in the state of Oregon for somebody who's driving for Uber during the time they're driving for Uber. It's not available. And to pretend that it is by having something in your code that says either the driver or Uber can get insurance is just nonsense. Well, and the concern I would have about that is that the
 The victim would then have to hire a lawyer and litigate the question of who is going to provide the coverage. And I have often had, because of my wife's employment, until recently I had double health care coverage. But it was clear that someone was primary and someone was secondary. So I was in good shape. You could exhaust the limits of one and then have a backup. The problem with that issue not being clear is,
 is that both of the insurance providers can essentially take the position it's not their problem and you have to have a court or some process determine that.
 That sounds a little bit like what we took up yesterday about some of the insurance companies deflecting responsibility for oil spills. That's one of the whereas's in a resolution we passed was that we were lamenting the fact that people were not getting prompt coverage because of lengthy litigation and questions of coverage. From my point of view, whatever we set, I want to make sure that there's absolute clarity about who's liable primarily.
 and the limits of that liability. And I don't want this to be a lawyer protection racket, which would be great for local lawyers figuring out who's on first, but that's not particularly fair to victims. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, you're going to hear some testimony. Your concern is not hypothetical. We've had this exact thing happen right here in the city of Portland this summer.
 And you're going to hear testimony on that issue. You'll also hear testimony a few minutes from a lawyer from the insurance defense bar giving some examples of exactly why that is a problem. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor, council members. So Radio Cab is experienced. Put your name in the record again. Sorry. I'm sorry. Put your name in the record again. Steve Endler. I'm the manager of Radio Cab. Thanks, Steve.
 We have had that experience with the TNC companies, actually Uber mostly. And I've sent a series of letters to you, and I'm not sure that you guys have actually seen those, and they've arrived at different periods with our experiences of how that's all played out. And, you know, we've heard over and over again that Uber's insurance is primary insurance,
 in periods one, two, and three, but that's not the way it plays out. What really happens is when you get involved in an accident, that's not the proof of insurance that shows up. The personal auto insurance is what shows up. And we kind of know what's going on, but most other motorists out there do not. And all they know is insurance.
 their Honda got hit by somebody else's Toyota. So when that little trade dress thing happens to fall off the dashboard, nobody's the wiser. So it ends up with Allstate being informed that their insured was hit by somebody that's insured by Geico or something of that nature. And when nobody's the wiser, those insurance companies swap information, determine who's at fault, they make payment, and they're...
 Who's harmed? Well, the only person that's really harmed is the policyholders of all those other personal auto insurance companies. Now, I suppose when there's a very big accident, that primary commercial auto insurance will show up. But by and large, the bulk of all the accidents never even find their way to Uber's insurance company.
 If they do, after a repeated hearing from their driver, the way it really works is they have to – if you try to file a claim with Uber's insurance company, which is James River, they won't even take your call, first of all. And they say – they will tell you, sorry, we have to hear the claim from our driver first. If he's not inclined to do that –
 Tough luck. Then you're in the process of trying to find a legal means. You know, I don't think it's intended for that kind of stuff to happen, but that's the way it's played out. We've been involved in four of them. Right now, the oldest ones are nearly five months. We haven't received payment, even though, finally, Uber, three weeks ago, took full responsibility and told us that,
 Checks in the mail. Even if it wasn't five what? I'm sorry, accidents? Four. TNC vehicles have hit ours. Okay. Yeah.
 Check is in the mail three weeks ago. I think they really should have sent it by Uber car or something because there's really something seriously wrong with the U.S. mail coming out of San Francisco. Mr. Antler? Yeah. If James River is behaving unethically or unlawfully, that sounds like a job for the insurance commissioner. Have you complained to the insurance commissioner? Actually, I've instructed our third-party administrator to do exactly that, yes.
 But you would think that after they finally got around to taking responsibility, it would be a quick resolution. None of these have been super serious accidents. And I think that's what happens with the bulk of them. Keep in mind during period one, that's when about 65 percent of the accidents happened. Most of our accidents, which is similar stuff, happened with no passenger in the car. That's just a fact of life.
 So by avoiding a large majority of those claim costs, they've got a significant advantage over the rest of the commercial transportation providers. I thought it was interesting that the last thing that I heard at the last city council meeting, we're putting you guys on notice. You've got to have the same amount of coverage during period one as you do during periods two and three. I don't know what happened there. Something changed between them.
 Then and now. I'm so glad you said that because I was like, didn't we decide this already? I believe it was Mr. Novick that made that statement too then. I said I was open to reconsidering the issue, and I've said tonight that after we gather more data at a future time, I might again. For the moment, I am inclined to go along with what the majority of jurisdictions are currently doing. And how many people are we going to have injured before we find that's enough data?
 that we've actually got a study showing that we need to have a higher limit. I think that's really an unfair thing. I don't think you have studies of how many people get injured before and how much they get compensated before you make a policy decision on what's right to do. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's hear from the next panel, please. I'm going to call from the other side. Is that right? I invited guests still. Oh, I'm sorry. You're still invited. Okay. Okay.
 And next, I believe that we had Bryce Bennett of Uber and Annabelle Chang of Lyft here to testify. Good evening. We've transcended to past five now. Mayor Hills, commissioners, thank you for your time tonight. My name is Bryce Bennett, and I am the new general manager for Uber here in Portland. As a native of the Northwest, I understand how important the Portland community is to us and our local team.
 and have appreciated working closely with your staff and PBOT over the last several months. I'm happy to be here today to discuss the ordinance, which will bring stability to the Portlanders who rely on ride-sharing for their income, as well as a reliable ride. Some of them are here behind me today. We appreciate that the task force, city council, and staff have poured hundreds of hours into studying this issue to develop the ordinance. The language before you truly does create parity amongst the industry while acknowledging the fundamental differences between business models.
 We do have a couple concerns, namely around per-trip fees and new trade dress requirements. While we do agree in principle to the per-trip fee structure as a fair way to provide a cost recovery system for the city throughout the industry, we do believe that 50 cents will be an unreasonable burden for Portland riders, as well as some of the highest trip fees in the country and will result in over-collection.
 Just most recently, city trip data from the data report conducted by the city suggested that there will be up to 5 million rides over the course of the next 12 months, and that's not taking into account the 40% trip growth that has occurred in the industry. Additionally, trade dress requirements in the rear vehicles is problematic for drivers, as they will no longer be able to easily take these out of their window, and it could cause additional rider confusion.
 Through the pilot program, we've seen ride-sharing positively impact the lives of hundreds of thousands of Portlanders. Just this week, we have completed our millionth trip in the Portland area and have nearly 5,000 active drivers utilizing the platform to generate income on a flexible schedule. As a result, we recently launched a full-time in-person partner support center in the Lloyd District to provide additional resources for these partners. Thanks to the program data, we know that ride-sharing covers every Portland zip code.
 And 75% of all ride-sharing rides now have a wait time of six minutes or less. The data also shows that ridership for all four higher transportation options, like I said, have increased by 40% in just four months. It truly shows that the pie is increasing as a whole for the city of Portland. Additionally, we've gone to great lengths and improved service in traditionally underserved areas, like southeast Portland and Westfield.
 continue to work on wave options here in Portland. Just in the last three months, we have multiplied the amount of available hours through a first-of-its-kind peer-to-peer wave option five times over what was available in August. Additionally, we provide 24-7 coverage and have since the summer by working with local partners like First Transit.
 We're excited about the progress the city has made towards creating permanency and certainty for Portlanders, both riders and drivers alike. Ride sharing is a good thing for the city, and I think the data report has shown that. We're hopeful we can work together to solve the issues of fees and trade dress, and sincerely, again, appreciate everyone's time, staff, the commissioners, the mayor, as well as the task force in creating these. Thank you. Welcome to Portland. I have two questions. Thank you. Sure.
 Uber operates in Little Rock, Arkansas. And last time I had an exchange with an Uber representative, I was told that if we increase the insurance requirements in period one, either it would not be economical, chasing Uber out, or there would be no one who would be willing to underwrite that insurance so it was not feasible. And yet that is the requirement in Uber.
 excuse me uh i meant birmingham alabama excuse me not to read my notes carefully you operate in cities with a million dollar coverage how come you can do it in other cities but but you can't do it in portland uh commissioner fish i'd be happy to address the larger question that was discussed earlier
 Two of the cities referenced, Columbia City as well as Birmingham, I think were the two cities referenced as having a million dollars. Columbus, Ohio and Birmingham, Alabama. So in Columbus, Missouri and in Birmingham, they passed a million dollars of coverage during all three periods.
 However, we do not operate in Columbus. And the other two places mentioned, Wisconsin was one of them. It was actually preempted by the language at a state level that you see in front of you today, and that has been adopted by 28 states around the country. Do you operate in Birmingham, Alabama? Currently, we do not operate in Birmingham, Alabama. And do you operate in Columbus, Ohio? We operate in Columbus, Ohio, but not Columbus, Missouri. Okay.
 Well, it's Columbus, Ohio that's adopted the million-dollar limit. I'm unfamiliar with Columbus, Ohio. I know in Columbus, Missouri that they have, and I know that we do not operate there. And on the terms of service – I'm sorry. I liked your question, but I'm not sure if I followed the answer. Are you –
 Are you operating in any cities that require a million-dollar coverage? May I respond on behalf of Lyft? I just want to make it short. I was actually – I wanted to actually first hear from Uber. We'll ask you the same question, too. Let me ask you that. We'll get to you. I'd like to hear from Uber. Are you now operating in cities that require a million-dollar coverage? I'm not aware of any city that we operate in that requires a million dollars during all three periods. Okay. And you've heard the concern that this council has about terms of service being modified, tailored,
 so they're not misleading to consumers here in Portland. And we've heard from Lyft that they will unambiguously comply with that requirement. Can you state here publicly that Uber will unambiguously comply with that requirement? As Commissioner Novick noted earlier, we have voiced our concern about the language, but have agreed to comply with the language in this ordinance. Could you respond to that question I had earlier about –
 people who are drivers who are on your platform but come in from Utah, California to spend the weekend here and start driving, how do you know that they're here and do you let them drive here? Absolutely. Commissioner Fritz, we actually, it's obviously a geo-based system, right? We use an application using GPS.
 And because of that, if you are not a part of the platform within a given area, say Portland, say you're from Seattle, say you're from San Francisco, you cannot open up the driver app and go online and be engaged in trips. Okay.
 So you're 100% confident that everybody who's allowed to drive within Portland has gone through the process in Portland? Commissioner Fritz, absolutely, yes, we are. This isn't the legislation. You don't have to keep saying our names. Thank you. It's very polite. I just Googled, because I can't read my notes, I Googled Columbus, Ohio.
 And Uber is a proud provider of services in Columbus, Ohio, which has implemented $1 million coverage. So could you, between today and the next hearing, respond to us in writing as to whether you are operating in Columbus, Ohio, and whether you are conforming to the $1 million coverage limits for all periods? Absolutely. I will make sure to follow up on that issue for you. Commissioner? Sorry. I'm sorry. I just wanted to just continue. Since you're –
 agreeing that you have the primary coverage in all three periods, you would have no problem with us deleting the piece in the code that says that the coverage could be provided by the TNC driver or a combination of the two.
 So, in regards to that language specifically, it does provide flexibility for the private market to offer additional policies going forward. And we actually have seen 14 insurance companies, private insurance companies, offer policies specifically for period one. And that is, I believe, the intention of the original framework that included that language. However, currently, and as long as we have been in Portland, we have provided primary coverage during period one for all trips.
 So can you answer the Commissioner's question directly? If we remove the language that says the driver or a combination of the two and just said coverage is maintained by the TNC, would that be okay with you?
 We do believe that it's a good opportunity for the private market to be a part of this and also to give drivers choice if they do decide to pursue additional insurance coverage during that period one time. We would disagree in removing that language. Can I just ask you, why do you instinctively go to the question of providing driver choice? Our concern is with consumer safety, not with driver choice.
 Why do you reframe it as providing driver choice? Our concern is that someone who is either in the car or on the street is covered and protected. And so how does...
 How does – where providing driver choice works against the point that we're making about being clear about primary responsibility, why should we care about driver choice? Absolutely. We do not intend for any ambiguity either. I believe that is the first requirement that we're looking to cover in the sense of having that coverage during period one. The option just merely gives whether the TNC or a private driver carries that. It is no change in whether you get to or not or if you have to or not.
 Okay. Other questions? Let's let Ms. Chang testify. Okay. Good evening. Thank you again for having me in council. My name is Annabelle Chang, Director of Public Policy for Lyft. I'd like to just take a moment to thank our amazing community of drivers and passengers that have waited patiently into the evening to show up here. They have been with us every step of the way, expressing their support for ride sharing. Several of them actually stopped into your offices and dropped off a letter expressing their support
 for ride sharing. So we just wanted to thank them for their time here. Since we launched in Portland back in April, it's clear that the pilot has been a huge success. And the residents and visitors to Portland have embraced ride sharing. With these increased transportation options and with the data report, I want to flag three important points. Number one, there is better service coverage.
 from for hire transportation providers, period. So for example, in East Portland, 50% increase in ridership. That is incredible in such a short period of time of just this pilot period.
 Second, there's reduced wait times for everyone. So, for example, if you were to get a – select a ride from a ride share, it would be about four minutes to get a ride, which is reduced time for the City of Portland. And number three, there are more options for individuals needing wheelchair-accessible vehicles. That is pretty incredible. And ride sharing companies like Lyft are able to provide wave services with the lowest wait times.
 So, while we believe the final ordinance here that's being discussed isn't perfect, we definitely urge city council to support the ordinance because in its state it's very clear that people want these options.
 Now, after these regulations are adopted, we would look forward to working with the city and the private advisory committee to refine service and operations in a few areas that I want to flag. Number one is wave vehicles. And as you know, the city of Portland is the only city in the entire country that has operated a wave pilot for TNCs. That's an incredible step for the community. We've learned a lot about how wave accessible vehicles can even be better.
 And I think that was, as discussed earlier, there's some good options now that are discussed. So either a TNC could actually directly contract with a WAVE provider, or they could contribute into the PBOT-managed transportation accessibility fund.
 Number two I also want to discuss was driver education. I think currently the language removes some level of flexibility. We would like to be able to work with PBOT to be able to have the most innovative driver training programs and driver education programs. So I just want to flag those two things.
 But most of all, Lyft is incredibly pleased with the results of the data report and the pilot. And you'll hear from many community leaders and organizations about their support for ride-sharing in Portland. Westside Transportation Alliance, Oregon Environmental Council couldn't be here today, but they've also circulated information to city council about their support.
 So I want to thank you, but I would also like to address some of the insurance questions that Commissioner Fish asked and Mayor Hills asked as well. Please. So to be perfectly clear, the state of Arkansas, the state of Wisconsin, and the state of Ohio have adopted the current insurance requirements in place in the city of Portland, and we do not operate in Birmingham. Okay, so therefore to the question that I posed earlier to Mr. Bennett.
 Because of the state preemption in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Arkansas, you are not subject to a million-dollar insurance requirement in those cities located in those states. That is correct, yes. And you're not operating in Alabama or at least in Birmingham. That is correct, yes. That's also the case for your company? That is correct.
 So there are, it sounds like from this testimony, that there are requirements in city code in other cities for what you've proposed, Commissioner Fritz, but that they're not functioning because of state preemption. That is correct, yes. Did you establish that to be the case in Ohio? That is correct, yes. Preemption in Ohio? There is preemption. There is a state law specifically regarding insurance.
 passed prior to or subsequent to the adoption of the Columbus statute? So I will explain the order. So Columbus did pass their city regulations. We consequently withdrew from the city of Columbus, and we still do not operate in the city of Columbus. Afterwards, the state of Ohio did pass insurance legislation reflecting the current standards and limits in the city of Portland.
 Why is this issue – like most consumers, I half understand insurance, so I'll admit to that. Why is this issue so –
 difficult for your companies. I realize there's a small difference in market capitalization between the two of you, but having worked for a company whose total capitalization was a billion dollars, not $40 billion, I'm a little mystified as to why it's so difficult to reach a million dollar liability limit for the folks that are driving the vehicles. I mean, it
 seems to me a relatively modest burden financially, given the scale of these enterprises. But help me out with that. Why are we having this big battle here and elsewhere over this level of insurance issue, given, again, the scale of the enterprise?
 Absolutely, if I may. So as was noted before, the Citizen Task Force spent 700 hours discussing the private for hire regulations for TNCs. This issue made up several hundred of those hours. So obviously, people care very deeply about the issues, wanted to make sure it was carefully vetted. This issue, as noted by you, has been discussed.
 Endlessly, millions of hours probably. And these limits are the ones that we're agreed upon as reasonable and appropriate for the model. Are you operating in the Port of Portland? Yes.
 Yes, we are. And actually, let me clarify about the Port of Portland. So in the Port of Portland, because when you are on that property as a TNC or rideshare driver, you are functionally available for a match request. And so as part of our permit and as part of our competitor's permit, it is required that you have to be in periods two and three. You don't have a ride, though.
 So because there's a specific area for the drivers to be waiting, that is where they are even in that lot where they're waiting in period two. So there's no functional period one. If they don't have a ride, they're not in period two. That's actually incorrect. So period one and period two are slightly different in that there is no match
 request connected. But in period one and two, there is no passenger in the vehicle. If they're sitting waiting in the... I don't even understand what I'm being... Yeah, I would be happy to share that information with you at a later point. Just like me, when I pick up a relative at the airport, we go to the cell phone waiting lot, and we're waiting, and then you get the text that your relative is there, and I take off there. They're sitting in that lot. They don't have a ride. They don't have a connection. They're not in period two.
 They're in period one. According to our airport permits and because people are there for commercial purposes, they are in period two. These are covered by the higher amount. Right. So do you keep data – do your companies keep data nationally on the frequency of accidents in period one, two, and three? Yes.
 If I were to ask you to tell me the pie chart in the accidents, and you were required under this agreement to provide us data on crashes, so I'm assuming you track this. So let's start with Uber. As between periods one, two, and three, what percentage of the accidents that involve your drivers occur in period one? I personally do not have access to that information. However, we do regularly report that with the city of Portland, like you said, on an ongoing basis. I'd be happy to provide the information.
 So, Annabelle, you probably have a better sense of the national data. What's in...
 Period one, period two, period three. What's the percentage of accidents that occur in period one? So I don't know percentages. But what I can say, and as you've noted just now, is that according to the pilot and according to the final draft regulations here that we're looking at, the city would be collecting all sorts of accident data. And that would allow it to be specific to the city of Portland rather than broader. I get this. But look, it shouldn't be this difficult. National data for Lyft.
 Do the accidents that are reported by Lyft to whatever body reflect that most accidents occur in period one, period two, or period three? So I don't know that information off the top of my head. Well, let me ask you a hypothetical. Let's assume most of the accidents occur in period one. Mm-hmm.
 Why would it be reasonable and appropriate to provide lower insurance coverage in period one than for period two and three if the majority of accidents occur in period one? So I would go back to what we were discussing earlier about the greater insurance questions being addressed nationally and have been addressed. The very function and design of period one is different.
 And that is why those limits were chosen. And I understand that we may have a philosophical disagreement on that point, but that has been the standard adopted by the majority of states. The mayor's point goes beyond a philosophical disagreement. The mayor's essentially asked you, beyond your determination of reasonable and appropriate, and beyond a philosophical disagreement, what is the barrier between the two?
 the actual barrier to you providing it. It's not that the insurance market doesn't provide it. You have a philosophical disagreement. You're willing to pull out of jurisdictions that mandate it. So what is the primary problem with it? Is it cost?
 I think it's a multitude of factors combined together. I'll take one. Right. I think it is partially cost, absolutely. I think it's partially that it is an unreasonable amount to be put on a period one. I mean, there has been so much discussion on this. And so I just want to be very clear that... I know, but isn't the first question, what's the amount of injury that occurs in period one? Shouldn't that be the starting point of our discussion? In other words...
 Is there a greater risk to the public in period one? That's a question I'd like answered independent of where we land. I can't believe the insurance industry can't help us out with this. I was once a contractor. I had to provide a million dollar umbrella coverage in case, you know, when I painted somebody's house, the paint peeled off. The premium was quite low because the actual risk to my customers was nominal.
 you know, I might have screwed up at a scale of $1,000 or $10,000. You can also raise the deductible to further reduce your claim. Yeah, so the odds that they ever would have to pay a million-dollar claim were so low that the cost of coverage was quite low, and that was based on actuarial data of how many claims got filed. So I can't believe that there's no one walking around, whether it's you as executives of these companies –
 or insurance people who could come in here after months of having this long debate and tell us, as Mr. Entler just alleged, he pulled a number out, and I think he probably stands by it, that 65% of accidents occur in period one. That's his position. Well, if I may. Can we get some?
 You mean we can't get any data until we start collecting it ourselves? Well, if I may, Mayor, I think that you hit the point on the head, which is actuarial data. And in this case, the state of Portland actually is uniquely situated to have huge amounts of data from the pilot period. And I think the question to the council, as well as the Portland Bureau of Transportation, is has the current insurance limits been working?
 And I think that the data report clearly indicates that they have. Well, let me ask you this. If six months from now we find out that 65% of the accidents that occur in our community happen in period one,
 and we determine that the current limits are inadequate, are you prepared to agree to lift the limits? I think that would be a great discussion if there is, in fact, the data to address that. But it's probably a great discussion. But from your history, what you're probably likely to do is to pull out and then have some either recourse to the legislature or have some kind of social media campaign to sort of soften our resolve. But-
 What I don't hear is an unequivocal commitment to doing the right thing if the data supports it. We absolutely have an unequivocal commitment to do the right thing if the data supports it. Absolutely. I just want to be very clear on that because I think at this point you have the data. So I think what you're also hearing both to our friends at Uber and Lyft,
 that we'd like to see in writing the national data. So you have experience working in lots of jurisdictions. What percentage of accidents that you handle occur in period one, period two, and period three in the aggregate? Just national data. I'm guessing someone can pull that up on a laptop.
 Just in relative terms, period one, period two, period three, what percentage of the accidents that you cover in insurance occur in each of those periods? And I think that would be helpful to us in determining whether we think it is reasonable and appropriate to provide a lower level of coverage in period one. And I'd also like to see from whoever would like to provide them, whether it's the Bureau or the TNCs or anyone else, some case studies about catastrophic claims. Okay.
 because that's what we fear. Mr. Kifori articulated that fear. Because I'm the police commissioner, I get these notices of tragedy and mayhem in the middle of the night. And a while ago in our city, a drunk ran over two lovely young women on the sidewalk and killed them. Now, we put that guy in jail because that's a crime.
 and that's some recompense for the loss, but not much. And so what we are fearing and what is driving us on the insurance issue is subjecting people to the risk of a catastrophic accident without mandated coverage. So you've both been operating in enough cities long enough that I fear it's true that something like that has happened. I'd like to know what happened afterwards. Sure.
 So if someone could provide that case study data, don't tell me there hasn't been a single loss of life incident yet involving a TNC somewhere in the world. Let's see some case study data about what happened to the victims of those accidents. And that will help inform either our willingness to be the first city to do this, apparently, or maybe we won't because maybe you'll leave the market, or...
 to feel more comfortable about being in the mainstream. But I'm really getting tired of talking around this issue, given the scale of your enterprises, the number of cities that you're operating in, and the fact that, I mean, it was revelatory to me that Mr. Entler said there have already been four accidents involving TNCs in his cabs.
 So, I mean, that's a relatively small sample, but there's already four cases right there. So I guess we're going to hear from folks in the insurance bar here tonight or whenever we get around to it. But I need to get less theoretical. Okay.
 and more down to cases on what has happened to buttress my willingness to either go in the direction that Mr. Khori says, that you should be responsible by requiring more coverage, or know that it apparently isn't necessary. Mr. Bennett, Ms. Chang, I need to confess to an unfortunate oversight on my part. It actually had been my intention that it was the TNCs that are responsible for maintaining insurance in periods 1, 2, and 3.
 So I am going to propose an amendment to delete the TNC driver or a combination of the two language. Second. If I may just clarify that point. So –
 So in respect to periods 1, 2, and 3, there was something that was misinterpreted, which was the either-or component. So if you read through the final draft language, it very clearly says that the city has to have proof that those insurance levels are being met at those times. Yes, but it says coverage is to be maintained by the TNC, TNC driver, or a combination of the two. And I'm sorry.
 I'm saying that it's going to be coverage that's maintained by the TNC, period. And so you are eliminating the option for the TNC driver to provide that coverage? No, not at all. We are eliminating the option of the TNCs avoiding paying for that coverage by putting it on the driver. The TNC is free to contract with the driver to provide contingent coverage, but that's your business, not ours. We would be ensuring that the claimant has coverage.
 a clean shot at getting primary coverage from the TNC, which is more likely to be the solvent and responsible party. Do you want to act on that amendment now? Yes. Okay. We'll take a roll call on that amendment. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Other questions or other points that you two would like to raise before we move on? Thank you. Please get back to us with that case study information. Thank you. All right. What's next, Commissioner?
 I think that now we move to public testimony, unless staff thinks there's some issues that we need to clarify. I think there are probably some citizens who would still like to speak, given how long they've had to wait. So let's let them do that, at least some of them. Please. We're going to do three and three. The first three from the support side are Sarah Conte, Chad Lehman, and Laura Brown. Are they still here? No.
 let's call the next three on that side if they come down from upstairs how about Nate Pucker Clyde, Showalter JR, Storm, Water Stormant Muhammad Ali Denise Roche some people might be coming down
 Okay, let's take these two gentlemen, and then we've got the third person. Come on up. Okay, there you are. Good. All right, we've convened a panel. Thank you for waiting. Please. My name is Muhammad Ali. Actually, I've been Uber driver since October last year, and it's almost one year. So here's my testimony. I've been working for Uber for four years, and I never had a chance to pick up my kids from the school or drop them to the school.
 But since Uber came in, I had a chance to drop my kid at the school and pick them from school. And I had a chance to meet different corner of the borderland, different people, and the beauty of our borderland. So on my experience, since I've been working Uber, I have that all explained for it. That's my testimony. Thank you very much.
 Welcome. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Nat Parker. I'm the CEO of GlobeSherpa. We're the local company that built the mobile payment app for TriMet and for Portland Street Car.
 I'm here to support the ordinance and encourage you to do the same. Broadly speaking, we're seeing a huge change in how people get around. Shared use mobility is really being impacted by a flight to the cities, by how big the city here is growing, how quickly in the shared economy. And, you know, we were lucky and fortunate to benefit from mobile technology to increase how TriMet is able to basically sell its fares.
 The reason I wanted to get up here today is to really encourage you to support the growth of TNCs in the city, not because I see them as competitive to our classic transportation uses today, but complementary. And specifically, the first and the last mile that we talk about in transit anyway, we see as a real challenge that these companies can help fill. So people who take the MAX to Gresham Transit Center, who go out to Hillsborough,
 What are they going to do to get that last three quarters of a mile to their house or even to Intel, to Jones Farm? And these companies offer a really interesting and very flexible option to not just be one source of a ride, but to be a complementary fit to the core of transit.
 They're also doing a heck of a job of getting people out of single occupancy vehicles, which should be all of our goal. And it should be your goal at the city level. So I think that we should really look at this as an opportunity. Clearly, there are measures of equity. Clearly, there are measures of safety that I have every confidence you will figure out and make sure are there.
 But let's also not forget that classic transportation and taxi providers have their own mobile applications that can provide similar solutions. Look at Flywheel. Look at Curb. I can hail a taxi myself using a mobile application.
 So I think that we want to look at the technology as a leveling influence here and really look at the value that these companies bring. I'll just finish up by saying we are actually working with Lyft and working with TriMet to pioneer a new feature within the TriMet mobile ticketing application, which exists today. You'll be able to, in fact, click on other rides here.
 and you'll be able to hail a Lyft or a Car2Go from directly within the city's mobile ticketing app for transit. So connecting those modes is one way I think we can really offer increased mobility and shared-use mobility. I just have a question about you raised that they're not single-occupancy vehicles. Well, the only reason they're not a single-occupancy vehicle is because somebody else is doing the driving. They're still making a single-occupancy trip. Do we have any data about how many people rideshare vehicles?
 have two or more people in Ubers and Lyfts? Yeah, I mean, if you look at Lyft Line, for example, this notion of carpooling beyond just a single individual in a Lyft vehicle is not only growing rapidly, it's extremely cost competitive. So I think that, to your point, certainly it is a single occupancy vehicle, but we're seeing now a propensity of consumers to actually want to share the ride and have that social experience on top of it. It's cheaper, it's more interesting, and it works for the city. Thank you. Yeah.
 Welcome. Hi. My name's Denise Roach, and I'm an Uber driver. And I've been doing it since June 12th. I've had nothing but positive feedback from other drivers, the riders. And I like to drive late at night. I've picked up so many people who accidentally missed their last bus. I've had a lot of people who have missed their last bus.
 or they missed their last max ride, or their car broke down, or they were stranded somewhere. And I'm there within two minutes. And a young woman on the side of the road who maybe got left outside a club, you know, calling a taxi can sometimes take a very long time. And I think that there's a need for the immediacy and drivers out at all hours. And, again, I've had nothing but positive feedback. Thank you.
 And as far as the insurance, I'm not really – I don't really understand this period one with the commercial liability on the part of Uber. Because when I turn it on, I might be driving to the Moda Center to see if I can – you know, if people need rides after, say, a Blazers game. But even though it's on to see if I get another ride, I haven't been requested by anyone, and there's no one else in the car. So –
 That would be between myself and another driver if there was an accident. I'm not sure I understand why I would need the additional insurance during period one. How much private insurance do you have? I have above the max because I'm an Uber driver, so...
 I mean, I don't remember all the amounts, but, you know, it's more than the state of Oregon requires. And do you think that your private insurance would cover you if you were on the way to the motor center with your app on? Yeah, there's no one in the car. I haven't accepted a ride yet, so it's just me as an independent driver at that point. I mean, that's how I feel. You might want to check on that because I think that's maybe not the case. Okay.
 Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three are Ray Miles, Noah Ernst, and William Daniels. Okay. Come on up. Come on up. Who else? You had three, Ray and? No, William. How about Jim Kennedy? Okay, Ray, you're on first. All right. All right.
 Good evening. My name is Ray Miles, and I'm the president of BroadwayCab. And I come this afternoon with concerns with two specific areas of the proposed code. I will say I think these are, to some extent, can be more of a gender issue. So I urge you to listen to me, and I urge you to listen to Commissioner Fritz, and at least make some assumption that we do represent half the population. Maybe not all of them, but a lot of them. Okay.
 And some of the other half. Anyways, I digress. My concerns are background checks. The best background check available is a biometric fingerprint background check. The International Association of Taxicab Regulators, of which I am not a member, but the City of Portland is a member, has said that is the gold standard for background checks. I think there's been a lot of
 marketing that would lead you to believe that TNC drivers are soccer moms. It isn't true. I think if you just observe the people here, the news coverage, everything TNC drivers are come from across all socioeconomic strata, and they need to be vetted. They need to be back in track. The other issue I have problems with,
 is vehicle signage um i'm alarmed at this trend that we just pull you know that anybody can pull up in a personal car and say i'm um your uber driver and you jump in and go i think vehicle signage would go a long way to helping with this um i think the current code creates allows too many um opportunities for predatory behavior um it's i'm sorry um that was me sorry
 We saw an example of that here last week. I'd like to see signage on the side of the vehicles because that's where people climb in and out. I'd like to see large magnetic signs that would be more of an investment for somebody to try and masquerade as one of these TNC operators. You know, when this first hit last year, almost a year ago, I also sit on the board of the Taxi Cavalry and Paratransit Association. It's an international association. And I happened to be at a board meeting. And...
 They said, oh, no, Uber just announced they're coming to Portland, whether Portland allows it or not. And I said, well, you know, I have no doubt Uber eventually will come to Portland. I have no doubt of that. But I do believe we'll handle it better. I do believe it'll be different than it was in other cities. Yeah.
 Ms. Miles? Yes. Just to clarify, we're requiring signage on the front and back. You're just saying it should be on the sides as well? And bigger. And they shouldn't be able to pop it in and out. I mean, they said that's the advantage. I think for insurance, for public safety, that's the disadvantage. You shouldn't be able to pop it in and out. People should know this is a commercial vehicle. So could you go back to the background check issue for me, and that is what do you think we should do differently than is in the proposed ordinance now? I would –
 I believe every city should and eventually will require a biometric fingerprint background check that is completed by either a third party hired by the city, you know, that's administered by the city or by city staff.
 I think that's where this industry will head. And in fact, these fingerprint stores are popping up everywhere because they're, you know, it helps you get pre-checked. There's one out by our office now where you go in, you take a number, and you get fingerprinted. So I would just say...
 Like I said, I thought, no, Portland will be a different deal. I absolutely believe Portland will be a different deal, and I'm still very hopeful that that will be the case. In New York City, Columbus, Ohio, and Houston, they do do fingerprint background checks.
 In Germany, they're required to have large-scale signage on the side of their cars. And at the Port of Portland, at the airport, they carry a million dollars of liability insurance regardless of the phase. And, yes, they are just sitting in a holding lot waiting for a fare. They are in period one. You know, I love Portland. It's the best city I know. And all I'm asking you guys to do is rather than –
 pick and choose which of these, you know, we should require. Let's make them do the very best they can, the very best they do in other cities. Let's make them do all of it here. The citizens of Portland deserve that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Go ahead, please. Hello. My name is Ed Herings. I'm a resident of Portland, and I'm the owner of HMH Agency. And I'm here today to comment specifically on the fee structure that's proposed in the latest code revision.
 First, I think there's an important clarification of terms that needs to be stated here. Let's call it what it is. It's a tax. It's not a surcharge. An easy comparison would be to liken this to a room tax. Just like a room tax, it's paid by the user.
 Second, it's a regressive tax. It's charged equally to all consumers regardless of their income. A large portion of taxi users are low-income and they cannot afford private transportation. So this tax hits them even harder. Third, this represents a huge cost shift from the transportation companies to the consumers. I would ask you please to listen carefully to this.
 Whereas historically the cost of operating the Portland Bureau of Transportation has been funded by the companies, now the expense lands squarely on the consumers. Sir, I have to interrupt. Don't the companies recover all the costs they have from consumers? Well, there's a wrinkle in this approach. And if I could just extend my remarks momentarily, I'll come back to that question if I may. It's a yes or no question.
 All companies will collect the fee and we'll pay it back to the city, correct? But currently, don't the companies ultimately have to recover all the cost of fees and sense against them from customers because all of their money comes from customers? That's correct, yes. But I'd like to add this. By adding this tax to each ride, and this is what is critically important, I've not heard it discussed anywhere up to this point,
 It will net a massive windfall for the TNC industry. Their model is to take a 20% commission, in some markets it's been argued that it's up to 30%, on gross receipts. By shifting to a per-ride tax, Uber now will take a 20% cut of the new higher total.
 Think about this. Using PBOT's data from the month of August alone, TNCs were averaging 8,000 daily rides. With a tax of 50 cents a ride, that generates $4,000 a day, or 4,000 in revenue. 4,000 times 365 days is 1,460,000. By taking that total times Uber's 20% cut, the company will net an extra $292,000 in profit.
 At the same time, Uber completely dodges the expense that would be assessed if using a per-vehicle fee. It's brilliantly underhanded. Uber totally avoids the direct expense, shifts 100% of the cost of the consumer, and gets nearly $300,000 in additional profit in the meantime. And when you add in a surcharge for Wave, they're going to take 20% of that cut too. If I were one of the TNCs, I'd line up all day long saying, go ahead, add those taxes or surcharges because I'm going to get 20% of the gross.
 I don't know if anybody's really dug into this and taken a look at it. Isn't it equally true that the taxis, the companies, which are no longer able to pay the permanent fees directly, will be avoiding that cost, assuming your logic? The taxis will incur some of the same costs. That is correct. And they're not necessarily avoiding it. But what's happening is – And what percentage of total taxi profits do taxicab companies take as opposed to drivers? I don't have the answer to that.
 But I would just encourage the city, if you would, to reconsider the idea of returning to a vehicle permit fee. The city will have all the money it needs to administer the program, paid for by the transportation providers, while not creating a new consumer tax that creates a windfall for the TNCs. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Schor, is the testifier correct that the 50 cents and then the wave fee that –
 Uber and Lyft would take their 20% of that? Well, that depends on the contracts between Uber and their drivers. So, I mean, it depends.
 Just like the way the taxicabs distribute costs and benefits between them and their drivers is up to them. We'll get an answer to that. That's a good question. Let's go ahead and hear from you, sir. Good evening, Council. My name is Jim Kennedy. I'm a lifetime Portland resident. I'm a family business owner of Consola Dated Business Machines here in Portland. I've been in my chair since 1979, which predates ADA and many other accessible issues and policies. So I'm here to comment today on the
 on the wave code revisions proposed by Commissioner Novak. I'll begin by saying I think it's a very positive step forward. There's much to like about the proposal before you today. I especially applaud the service performance standard expectations for all private for hire transportation providers.
 with a must-response time of 30 minutes or less, 24-7 citywide. Speaking from my personal experience, this would be a huge improvement on current services. If I have a worry, it's this. Will these new performance standards really be enforced? If they are, the providers will step up
 and those of us who depend heavily on WAVE service will be much better served. However, if they're not, I'm worried there'll be very little change. Please don't stop short of getting this right. The community of people with disability who face daily mobility challenges are depending on you. I'm asking you to make code enforcement a priority.
 Please be certain that there is adequate funding to ensure robust enforcement and compliance. Put some teeth into it with some consequences for all providers who don't meet the standards, including fine suspensions of their operating permits or revocation of their permits. Hire a bulldog or a pack of bulldogs to monitor and enforce these policies.
 My concern is well placed. Recent PVOT data from the trial period shows that wave service from the new transportation companies actually decreased 70% during the course of the pilot program, from 188 rides in May to 53 rides in August. To me, this is a huge red flag.
 to me it signals that wave customers simply quit requesting rise from uber and lyft because they consistently didn't have the service available this is not acceptable if we are allowed to if this is allowed to go on contest and wave customers will once again be left on the curb if you haven't already i'd encourage you to look at the alternate code revisions provide provided by the transportation fairness alliance
 it will it is well constructed and clearly as clearly enforceable performance standards and it is a better solution portland wave customers have had to endure challenges for many years in getting responsive reliable for higher transportation services this is our chance to really get it right the code revision proposed proposed by the transportation fairness alliance is a good start but if all of it
 isn't that just words on paper it amounts to nothing so enforcement and compliance to guarantee transportation providers are delivering on the service standard is the key please ensure that funds staffing and training are in place to really follow through
 Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to say that I share your concern that it is possible that people who need wave vehicles have found they couldn't get access when the pilot started and therefore stopped requesting it. And that's why I think we need to make –
 concerted effort to educate the public that they are required to provide wave service. And as I said before, it's my intention to impose penalties on Uber and Lyft for the beginning of the pilot during which they clearly did not provide wave service. And I actually kind of hope that we'll get some publicity and make it clear to people who need wave service that, yes, those entities are required to provide such service. If I may just add, a wave vehicle can be used for any kind of transportation. Yes.
 It's not unique to accessible trips. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. The next three are Sarah Conte and is Chad Lehman here? No, thank you. We'll go, is Laura Brown? Laura Brown. Then we'll go with, I think I may have called Clyde. Phil Walter. Are you here? And what about J.R. Stormont?
 Okay, there you go. You've got three now. Thank you. Good evening.
 Hi, I'm Sarah Conti. I am co-founder of an early stage tech company here, and I'm also a board member of the Tech Association of Oregon. Excuse the catch in my voice. I'm here to, first of all, support the work that you have done and that the task force has done for the city of Portland to not only support...
 innovation but also regulation in our city. So thank you all very much for that. The data that I have found the most compelling in the report has been that the market overall has grown by 40 percent. That
 That to me is as that things are working, demand is up, supply is up, and anecdotally and also entirely the data shows that people want this service and that they are willing to get out of their car and share a ride.
 So the combination of Uber, the combination of Lyft, taxi cab drivers has meant that overall in Portland, the wait times have reduced for rides. It also means that the availability has gone up further.
 or shared transportation. And that has encouraged people, again, to get out of their cars, solve for a lot of people that last mile problem, and really rely on new transportation methods.
 So in summary, I do – was that my time? That's okay. Go ahead. Finish. Okay. In summary, I just would like to support the regulations that are in front of the Commission right now as a balance between that innovation and regulation. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Good evening. Welcome. Good evening. My name is J.R. Stormant. I'm co-founder of a software company in Portland called Cloudability. We employ about just under 50 people. I travel a lot, and I've been using TNCs all over the country for a couple years. In fact, I've taken about 200 rides in TNCs over the last couple years. At home in Portland, I use TNCs now at least 15 times a month.
 Thanks to the arrival of TNCs this year, my wife and I actually decided not to get a second car because it made that form of transportation that much more reliable and cost effective. I used to try and take taxis this way. To be frank, the experience between the TNCs and the taxis is light years apart. With taxis, which I formerly took five to ten times a month, I've been left stranded when a promise dried and never showed up.
 There was little accountability. And I live way out in East Portland, way out at 101st. It's hard to get a taxi out there. In one case, I was trying to get a ride home from downtown one night, and a taxi driver refused to take me home because he didn't want to go that far into East Portland. So TNCs have actually enabled me to spend more time with my family because they arrive quickly. This morning, I took one to work. I knew when they were going to arrive, I was able to play with my kids until it actually arrived and knew it would be there on time.
 They've also let me work on the way to meetings and not to worry about the point of getting out of the taxi when I have to pay with a credit card machine that sometimes doesn't work, all taken care of with the TNC.
 They've also made the experience just dramatically easier. As a company, we actually pay for late-night rides home for our employees using T&Cs if they've worked late or they've had drinks. This makes it really easy. They can request the car. It's billed directly to us. And they don't have to wait on the curb wondering if a taxi is going to show up. They know exactly where it is. And we work right downtown near Pioneer Square. So this is important. They can stay in the office.
 On the note of safety and the point earlier with signage, the TNCs show the drivers the license plate, they show a photo and they track the driver. That is not something that happens with the taxis. The data is all collected so I don't think the signage really needs to be out there because I can always check the license plate. So across the 200 TNC rides I've taken, I've only had two experiences that rated less than four stars. And when I gave that feedback into the system, it went into a system that actually automatically removes drivers if they drop below feedback levels, which means my feedback actually has impact.
 Every time I've driven a taxi or every time I've asked a TNC driver how they like driving the TNCs, the response has been overwhelmingly positive. Sometimes it's a student. Sometimes it's a retired person trying to get extra income. It's been a liberating job for those folks. So, you know, I definitely support the TNCs.
 changes here that are proposed, specifically because I think the country has gotten used to having these options. When people come to visit Portland, they use it, and the locals alike really have been able to expand their options. So I wholeheartedly encourage and support these changes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. Dear Mayor and Commissioners, my name is Tez Siddique. I am actually an Uber partner for the last 17 months. I started in Eugene back in July of 2014.
 I have completed nearly 4,000 trips for Uber without any incidents at all. Safety is always the number one priority. We have talked about Uber Wave a lot. I'm actually a wave driver. So I just happened to be today before on my way here. My last ride was a wave ride. A gentleman from Cincinnati, and he was at the Hotel Ramada Inn. I picked him up.
 dropped him off at the downtown, and he was just so thrilled and shocked and pleased that we had Wave available here. He didn't know that we had Wave here. And I showed up within two minutes, and he said, wow, nobody ever picked me up that quick. And it was pretty reasonably cheap. And another story about Wave that about two weeks ago, I picked up a really wonderful elderly woman at a Walmart with six sacks of grocery on Powell Boulevard. And
 and she requested wave and i picked her up and i showed up within like four minutes and i dropped her off at her house and i actually carried all the grocery sacks to her house she said that she didn't expect that kind of service from uber wave people and you know it's just i come from a family that i have my mom passed away after she's on wheelchair for seven years so it's not about just drop them off and just go goodbye you have to stay with them and show them that you care compassionate about the whole service
 And then also, I'm also on top of Wave. I'm also an Uber Assist driver. So I also pick up blind people with a service dog with them. I happen to drop somebody regularly. Her daughter, her name is Jennifer, 37th and Sandy. Her daughter goes to school. I drop her off and I pick her up also and drop them off at their house.
 So at the concluding statement, I just want to say that Uber is the best thing that happened to me. It's not all about money and everything. And if it was the money, I wouldn't just go for a $5, $7 ride for the Uber assistant, Uber wave. I could have stayed at the airport and pick up the long rides. It's the compassionate and care that you care about because you need to let them know that you care about people, not about the financial part of it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. The next three questions.
 Noah Ernst, William Daniels, and John Bachofner.
 Okay, got all three. Good evening. Go ahead. Hello. My name is Noah Ernst, and before I get to my prepared testimony, I would like to answer a question that you posed to Uber and Lyft, which they declined to answer. We know what happens in period one when a catastrophic accident occurs with an Uber driver. We know that because in San Francisco, a six-year-old girl was run over and killed by an Uber driver in period one. And how did Uber respond?
 They denied all liability and fought them in court for over a year before they settled the case in an amount that, of course, cannot be disclosed and does not admit any liability on the part of Uber. That's what they do in period one when there is not enough coverage.
 The second thing I would like to discuss, I think, are two statements that were made that have summed up this entire process for those of us who are not part of the TNC community. The first is, once again, Mr. Novak starts a presentation about transportation in Portland by saying, Uber has intentionally violated our laws, but this time they promise not to do it, and they really won't.
 They broke our laws the first time intentionally. They broke our laws with ways intentionally. You can see why there might be some cynicism from those of us not in a TNC about whether there is actually any teeth to anything the city council says. The final thing before I begin my prepared statement is Uber.
 And this sums up the whole process. I think a lot of people here will agree. Uber got to thank city staff for working closely with them to prepare these proposed regulations.
 You've read news articles about how impossible it was for everybody else to get contact with city staff. I believe that you will find that every taxi company, town car company, and other non-TNC company will agree that they cannot thank city staff for working closely with them, and these regulations reflect that. What we have here, and this is my prepared statement,
 Uber, the company that came into Portland breaking the law, was given exactly the regulations that it wanted and nothing that it doesn't. These Uber-friendly regulations were then implied to the other four higher companies, even when doing so creates a nonsensical result. For instance, taxi drivers in these regulations are required to have personal auto insurance. Why?
 With the regulations require, and we all know that taxis have 24 hours a day, seven days a week commercial insurance. Additionally, taxi drivers cannot get insurance on taxi vehicles they do not own. Additionally, even if they could get insurance on taxi vehicles they don't own, they can't get personal insurance on them. Why? It's a commercial vehicle.
 What this regulation does in the city that has passed numerous rules encouraging people to get out of their personal cars and into public transportation and onto their bicycles is it puts every single taxi driver who doesn't own a personal vehicle and therefore does not have personal auto insurance out of work for no reason at all and it shows you how
 how little consideration was given in these drafting of these regulations to how they would impact the other companies other than Uber. I wish I had time to describe all these types of problems that are in these regulations, all of which could have been avoided if the input of anybody other than Uber had been considered. But I haven't got time, so I'm going to follow up on what Ms. Rappaport,
 Ray Miles said, and talk about background checks. Okay, talk quickly because you have used your time. Okay, I'm sorry. All I want to say is for decades, at least since the 50s, Portland has had a system by which drivers are permitted, the background checks are performed by the city of Portland, and their identities are verified by the city of Portland. Now the rules have been changed so that the background check that Uber and Lyft currently does is acceptable. That is completely worthless. Yes.
 To quote the district attorney for San Francisco, background checks that don't include fingerprints, that can't be tied to the right person, and therefore can't be secure. At the end of the day, you cannot have a comprehensive background check if the information you have obtained has nothing to do with the person that you are signing on to be a driver. It is completely worthless. Completely worthless should not be the standard for Portland, Oregon. It just shouldn't.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. My name is John Bockhoffner. I'm an attorney whose practice focused primarily on representing insurance companies and their insureds on coverage and personal injury claims. Hello, Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 I have initially reviewed this proposal and identified several different problems that I thought related to the insurance coverage aspect. After providing my observations voluntarily earlier today, I was asked to testify at this hearing on behalf of the Transportation Fairness Alliance. From my perspective, the most important aspect of this legislation is to provide protection to the general public.
 My focus is on the inconsistencies in the insurance provisions appearing at pages 11 to 12 and 32 to 34 in Exhibit A. Beyond the inconsistencies between the insurance requirements for taxis and TNCs, which are
 the gentleman next to me addressed, there appear to be practical inconsistencies in the application. I applaud the change that was made at Commissioner Novick's suggestion to bring some parity in that. Thank you. One problem is that most personal insurance auto policies will exclude coverage for a vehicle used to carry persons for a fee.
 There will not be coverage under the personal policies in most situations. I spoke with some insurer clients, and I am told of situations where TNC drivers withhold information about their status unless asked directly.
 This raises a significant question about some objectively verifiable identifier or database where drivers could be identified more easily, so that insurance companies would not have to do a lot of investigation. Another issue is the illusory concept of two primary insurance coverages or the tiered approach of periods, the first of which contains a significantly reduced amount of coverage.
 The use of periods with reduced coverage, if I may just finish this thought, during period one would provide less coverage when there is the highest risk of a problem. We've heard the testimony from many people that within four minutes, they're able to pick drivers up. Within two minutes, just a few moments ago, there's only one way that that occurs. They have an app open.
 and they are typically either driving a vehicle or they are stopped somewhere, but I suspect they're driving a vehicle because they are close to the location. That requires them to glance at a mobile device while they're driving, which is a significant risk to the public. Why in the world would we want to have a lower insurance limit
 where there's the riskiest part of driving. That makes no sense to me. And, sir, do you agree with us that the way to determine whether it, in fact, is the riskiest period is just to look at the data and see whether that's the period of time in which the largest number of accidents occur and claims are asserted? I think that's a very good way to find out, but I don't know if that's the best way. Because anecdotally, at least, I'm told that there are problems with
 people not being identified. I'm told anecdotally that
 The Uber drivers are instructed not to identify themselves as Uber drivers initially following an accident. I don't know if that's true. That's what I was told by at least one insurance company representative. We've had testimony here in prior hearings that there might be some difficulty in the marketplace obtaining insurance for period one at the limits that we've been requesting. Based on your professional experience –
 Would it be more likely that the insurance companies would not offer it if it turns out it was the highest risk period and therefore less economical, or that it was a period of time in which very little happened and therefore what? I never understood the argument as to why –
 If it was a lower risk period, there wouldn't be a plentiful availability of insurance at higher limits. And I'm in complete agreement with you. Insurance is essentially the business of trying to predict risk and then assessing a premium associated with that risk.
 First of all, I don't agree that insurance would be unavailable. If you're willing to pay the fee, there is going to be insurance available. It's a question of cost, and I think we saw earlier the response to very direct questions
 that were responded to by the Lyft and Uber representatives by dancing around the question. Absolutely cost is the reason why they don't want this. But in my experience, a $1 million umbrella policy is not that much more than a $250,000, $500,000 policy. Unless it turns out that the period of time that you wanna cover
 has the greatest risk. Absolutely. And if it does have the greatest risk, that's why we need to have the higher protection for our citizens. Let's put it slightly differently. If we determine, based on objective data, that it does present the highest risk, and we allow a company to offer lower insurance, then we can hardly say that we have protected public health and safety.
 Couldn't have said it better myself. If I could just interject one thing. Well, I don't. There's nothing that prevents Uber from self-insuring during that period if they cannot provide coverage. And additionally, your comment earlier is correct. The victim doesn't care.
 I understand. We're going to give you the chance to testify, and then, unfortunately, for some of you who have been waiting, we are going to have to discontinue our hearing for this evening and continue it to another time, and that's because the Fire Bureau has reserved this room tonight at 630, and I don't like to argue with people that carry sharp axes. So, unfortunately, we will have to continue the hearing, I think, to the 18th, but we'll get back to that in a moment. First, we want to hear from you. Okay.
 My name is William Daniels. I drive with Radio Cab. So, Mayor, Commissioners, thanks for being here. If your intent with this proposal was to eliminate approximately 1,000 full-time jobs and chop them up into part-time work, you did it brilliantly. This will do it. If your intent was to appease multinational destructive and deceptive companies, this proposal does it.
 If your intent was to take business away from local companies and give it to multinational companies, this proposal does it. If your intent was to take away business from small companies and give it to giant companies, this proposal does it. If your intent was to be a problem for people in this community and businesses in this community, this proposal does it. Mayor Hales. Mayor Hales.
 A couple of months ago, you were in Rome working with the Pope Francis on issues of climate change and human trafficking. Pope Francis has spoken out quite often and quite clearly on the issue of economic justice. So, for example, on May 16th of 2013, he said, while the income of a minority is increasing exponentially, that of the majority is crumbling.
 This imbalance results from ideologies which uphold the absolute autonomy of markets and financial speculation and thus deny the right of control to states which are themselves charged with providing for the common good, the good of all of us. On May 21st, he said, Rampant capitalism has taught the logic of profit at all costs, of giving to get,
 of exploitation without looking at the person. And we see the results in the crisis we are experiencing. This home is a place that teaches charity, a school of charity, which instructs me to go encounter every person, not for profit, but for love. And on June 5th, he said, man is not in charge today, money is in charge. Money rules. God our Father did not give the task of caring for the earth to money, but to us.
 To men and women, we have this task. Instead, men and women are sacrificed to the idol of profit. I want to thank you and stop you there because, for one thing, we are out of time, and for another, I can't imagine a better last word for a hearing than the Pope, so thank you. But we are going to continue the hearing. Is that to the 18th? Is that right? That's what we've currently got on the schedule. Well, Mayor, one thing I'm going to ask is let's set a tentative date, but –
 We had an unfortunate experience this week of five or six extremely substantive, complex matters all cascading together on our schedule. I'm concerned about that, too. And I think we're at risk of shortchanging the public by doing that. So if we could set a tentative date and then –
 call a meeting of execs to scrub the calendar for the rest of december so we avoid that scenario again i'd be prepared to come for a night a night hearing if necessary but it's not sustainable the schedule we currently have i i totally agree uh what where we stand now on the 18th if you're looking for a time certain um
 I don't have any extra time in either the Wednesday or Thursday afternoon sessions. Well, the problem with adding it to the 18th is we have a time certain on your resolution. And I'm going to object to putting two matters of that significance in the same afternoon schedule. Yeah. It's pretty booked for time certain. The next one I have is the afternoon of the 25th at 2 p.m. is the next available.
 That's the day before Thanksgiving. That's not a good choice.
 All right, so I'm going to continue the hearing, and folks, you'll just have to check back with us and find out when we're going to schedule it, because I think your suggestion is a good one. I don't want to nail that right here and crowd it in. So we're going to find a date when we can make sure the calendar is clear enough that the council can hear the remaining folks that want to testify. So, again, our apologies that you're not going to get to testify today, but we'll set another date for that soon and put it in the calendar by early next week.
 And just to clarify, those who signed up, we would call you in order. Yes. And we'll work with representatives from all sides because in this particular instance, doing an evening hearing might be more problematic because that's when a lot of these folks earn their living. So we'll have to figure out. And maybe it will go from afternoon to evening. So thank you all. We're adjourned for this week. Thanks. Okay.