Galvanized 11%. All right, let's spread the fun. Okay, yes. I lost my gavel. Who stole my gavel? Oh, sorry. All right, good morning. Lots changed around here. Yeah. It's been gone. You leave for a couple of weeks and look what happens. Good morning, Carly. Good morning, everybody. This is the November 6, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carly, please call the roll. Yes. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fitt? Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here. Wheeler. Here. And now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. First up, Carla, is communications. Item 1009, request of David Keith Davis to address counsel regarding war crimes of city-contracted G4S security private military contractors, mercenaries. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. And please open up your G4S security. He's going to rush me before I can get my camera and all that stuff. So... I wanted to start off, actually, by talking about G4S in a big article that just came out in the USA Today about them hiring unhinged people, violent cops that smash people's faces into walls and then attempt to rape women and say, I'm the security. We're in control here. Ha, ha, ha. And I see that same pervasive attitude here with the security here. And they violate people's ADA rights. They violated Joe Walsh's rights, my rights, all kinds of people's rights. And also... Going on to something else, which is kind of more important, and it kind of involves you, Chloe Daly. Please don't leave. It's about your PBOT agency targeting a homeless family that was awarded domestic violence funds recently by the state because you guys, the city of Portland, are the perpetrators against a homeless family. Jay Vincent and his family, they're living in a school bus. in St. John's and you guys repeatedly targeted them for years and years and years until the state recently awarded them domestic violence funds to lead the state? That's you. And that's you, Chloe Daly. Remember when there's that photo of you sitting next to that banner that says, No war but the class war? No war but class war when you used to act like you were a little radical? Well, now you are the class war against the homeless. You've joined the oligarchy. And what did you do for Jay and his family? Nothing. You. perpetrated war crimes just like G4S. I'm glad you didn't vote for them but you did praise them around here when they deserve no praise. All you other people are disgusting. Hey Ted Wheeler, Sunderland money? Returning that? What about Terry B money? What about Scott Balo? What about Morrell Inc.? Owned by a child pornographer that you hang out with, that every one of you, I'm pretty sure, gets your campaign stuff printed by. You're free to interrupt if you don't get your campaign stuff printed at Morrell Inc., owned by Scott Ballo, busted for child porn. I know there's pictures of you hanging out with Scott Ballo. I've posted them on my Twitter, Multnomah County Cop Watch. And you're all smiling with the guy who was busted for child porn, and you're the police commissioner too? Yeah. That's real accountability. You guys going to return Bean's money? Nick Fish? Joanne Hardesty? Thank you. Your three minutes are up. Thank you. Are you going to return the Bean money? You're going to sit down, or I'm going to rule you out of order. You're going to sit down, or I'm going to rule you out of order. Thank you. Next individual. I'm sorry you're out of order. You're going to have to leave. You're winning friends left and right, my friend. Have a good day. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 1010, request of lightning super connectome to address council regarding human connectome. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent lightning super connectome. To the neuroscientist, is my connectome my consciousness? The human connectome is a comprehensive map of the neural connections in the brain and may be thought of as its wiring diagram. We live in a universe of space, time, mass, energy and consciousness arising out of complex systems. To understand the origins of consciousness, we must create a comprehensive map of neural connections in the brain. We must create the human connectome. In the words of Elon Musk, we must fight for the light of consciousness. Video please. It's been a century long endeavor to make better maps of the human cerebral cortex. Cajal said nerve cells are connected in a wiring diagram. And now it's up to our generation and the generations following to get those wiring diagrams, to really know what they are. Think of the folds of the human cerebral cortex as analogous to the crumbling of the earth's surface into mountains and valleys and other geographic features. Start off all of us a single-celled organism and then we all go through this miracle of development where we create the most complex three pounds in the universe. Environmental factors that are going to shape how the brain wires up, how those combinations are created over time. We want to understand about behavior, similar. It's a very exciting time in developmental neuroscience. Okay. All right. That was interesting. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 1011, request of Cedric J. Wilkins to address counsel regarding I Hate Oregon. Cedric, tell us it's not true. Okay. I'm surprising. Number one is I hate Oregon because we don't have a baseball team. I support the Diamond Stadium Project. I remember in the early 70s, what was that guy who was on Bonanza? The Portland Beavers, or I don't know what they call it. And he didn't make it. And, of course, the Blazers blew everybody away in 77. So he just abandoned. I like baseball. I hate football. I think football is rough. I don't know. High school is really, it's a bad sport because it's played in the rain, in bad weather. High school injuries, I like baseball better. Baseball, you can play baseball with a plastic baseball, have a lot of fun in the spring and summertime. I got the World Series right, I was for the Nationals. You said Astros. So I think it's a positive thing to build a baseball stadium and have a baseball team. I hate Oregon because we should have had a mayor like Mailer Wheeler in the 1990s. You're a great mayor. I support your reelection. At Oaks Park, I talk to your opponents. I do not expect a runoff. So I will help you early on. And when you get an office, I enjoyed helping you four years ago and seeing how your process were going along. And I support your reelection. and get it back. I hate Oregon for not having a baseball team. We need baseball, and I am anti-football. Thank you. Appreciate your comments. Next individual, please. Item 1012, request of Anna Weischel, Tudor's Council, regarding proposed changes to Code Section 3.96, relating to questions of participation structure, equality of representation. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Anna Weichsel. Dear City Council, I'm living in Portland for two years now. The past six months I engaged in the Code Change 3.96 discourse through Southeast Uplift. And the disconcerting character of this discourse has startled me. Today I'm speaking from my personal point of view as a recent immigrant with East German roots and as a resident without the right to vote in this country. Based on my own micro-history of being punished for defending democratic principles in East Germany and adjusting twice to completely different cultural and social settings, for me, civic engagement is a backbone of a just, equitable and democratic community. The proposed code change, however, casts doubt on its effectiveness for any bottom-up structure, namely that of a defined right of say. It rather seems to dismantle accountable structures in the name of plurality and does not implement updated ones. Those two main points. First, the lack of acknowledgement of standards to which any participating individual group and city bureau is accountable to. The proposed paragraphs imply merely a self-referential engagement of the city of Portland with its community and civic affairs. Code, however, needs to define democratic standards for participatory interactions, first and foremost based on ethical principles and independent of an economic approval system, such as the proposed budgeting process. To overcome historically inherited problems of inequality and self-reflecting understanding of social interactions is needed. one that avoids othering and tokenism and rather centers on human dignity, a concept that allows for mutual rights and mutual obligations and furthers adjustment of our socially constructed categories and associations. Second, the omitted proposition of a reliable and transparent organizational structure of representation that serves people who live, play, worship, and work in Portland Codes need to define social and cultural responsibilities of a community by outlining a tangible organizational structure which will ensure a democratic decision-making process and counteract unreasonable interference of any interest group in city developments. The obscure code proposal does not guarantee a problem-solving for underrepresented groups as the organizational structure of civic engagement becomes even more confusing. The logic behind underrepresentation rests upon insufficient means of participation. If skills and time to intervene in an existing power system are crucial, a reliable system of participatory organization is imperative. The proposed code, without any structural stronghold to standard rules and accountability, invites an uncontrolled influx of interest groups and will disproportionately assist persons who have experience with and speak the language of social and political structures. Thank you for your testimony. Commissioner Udaili. I'd just like to comment briefly. We're not going to have an exchange here. You're a little out of date on your information. Number one, the proposed code change maintained all of the rights and standards of neighborhood associations, and that's been the case for several months. Two, we're not actually – Two, we're not actually passing code change. And there will be an event, a special council session on November 14th at 530 at SEI where you can hear about what we are doing. I'm aware of that, yeah. Great. We're not going to have an exchange. Is the document out yet that was supposed to be submitted yesterday? This isn't an exchange. You can talk to my office. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 1013, request of Thomas Karwacki to address council regarding Vision Zero, reading of the names and a moment of silence for those killed by vehicles on the streets of Portland in 2019. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Tom Karwacki, and I'm a member of the Portland Bureau of Transportation Budget and Bureau Advisory Committee. Good morning. Vision Zero is a very important subject, and we start each meeting with concentrating on those people who have died on the streets of Portland. You've received the names of everyone as well as where the accidents or the crashes were, and you've also received a map which has locations separated by whether they're a pedestrian, a bicyclist, or a motorcyclist. Lowell Gibson, pedestrian. Rochelle D. Cox, pedestrian. Not available, motor vehicle. James A. McCree, pedestrian. Laurie Pierce, pedestrian. Not available, bicycle. Heaven Matthews, motor vehicle. Ortrud V. Vathour, pedestrian. Sean Scott, pedestrian. Name not available, pedestrian. Name not available, pedestrian. Name not available, motor vehicle. Name not available, motor vehicle. Sandra Bosch, pedestrian. Name not available, motor vehicle. Deonte Martin Eugene Farlow, motor vehicle. Laurie Woodard, pedestrian. Ray W. W. Yarr, motor vehicle. Larry Dill, pedestrian. Elijah Coe, motorcycle. Name not available, motorcycle. Anna Moreno Hernandez, motor vehicle. Kaylee Miranda Hernandez, motor vehicle. Mark Her, motor vehicle. Tonya Smith, motor vehicle. Luana Badams, pedestrian. Maggio Chacon Sanchez, motor vehicle. Lance T. Hart, bicycle. Alfonso Martinez Angarthi, Motor Vehicle. Charlene Hough, Motor Vehicle. Robin McCready, Motor Vehicle. Jamie St. Louis, Motor Vehicle. Donald Cole, Motorcycle. Elena Davkina, Motor Vehicle. Moeller, Motorcycle. Tony Mack, Motor Vehicle. John Shenfield, Motorcycle. Christian Lennon, pedestrian. Nazarly Senshuk, motor vehicle. Edward Woods, motorcycle. Eric Tomlinson, pedestrian. Name not available, motorcycle. Senator. Thank you. Name for the record. Yes. Lou Frederick, State Senator, District 22, North and Northeast Portland. I wanted to have a chance to at least acknowledge one of my friends who was killed recently, Susan Bartlett, on her motorcycle, on her Vespa. She was one of the people, one of those folks who was, tried to be as safe as possible. She was always in her helmet and in gear to try to deal with things, but ended up being hit by an SUV in the Hollywood district. And I wanted to acknowledge her as well as the 12 people that were listed who were in my district. the 12 incidents that took place in my district. Safety is an issue that all of us need to understand and work with, and I appreciate you listening to us and taking the actions you can on this. Mayor. Commissioner Fish. Gentlemen, thank you for joining us this morning. Tom Karlocki, thank you for leading the reading of the names. There are three members of this council that have lost loved ones to car accidents. And having lost my mother to a car accident, I can say that even though that event happened a very long time ago, there isn't a day that goes by when I'm not affected by the fallout of losing a loved one. We all agree on this side of the dais that one death under Vision Zero is too many. I want to acknowledge that PBOT, through their Vision Zero program, is doing yeoman's work to address safety. I'm very pleased that at some of these high-crash corridors, they're putting barriers that make it harder for people to make the kind of reckless left turns that have caused such carnage with our pedestrians. I'm pleased that... We've lowered speed limits. I'm pleased. By the way, sometimes I feel like I'm the only one who follows those speed limits, but it is important that we all slow down, observe those 25-mile-an-hour speed limits. They're making other improvements. I want to acknowledge that work. I believe personally we need to do some more enforcement of the laws because I think sometimes enforcement is what gets the message across, and we need to do it in a way, obviously, that's non-discriminatory. But thank you for taking the time to recognize those who we've lost in the We have a lot of work to do, but I think we do have a plan. We have a model and I think PBOT is showing us ways in which we can get ahead of this terrible crisis. And I'll continue, we will all continue to work with Chloe and her bureau to make progress. And for the record, my name is Rob Martineau and thank you for the time to to express the importance of the Vision Zero initiative and that program. Thank you for being here and keeping this issue front and center. Senator Reddick, thank you for being here today. Mayor, can I be recognized for a moment before the time is certain? Commissioner Fish. So I'm sorry that Commissioner Fritz isn't here, but since there was an election yesterday, I do think it's important that we acknowledge a couple things. We had a colleague, Commissioner Fritz, who took two ballot measures forward, one which – proposed to put protections of the bull run into our charter. And the second one would allow for mutual aid agreements in our charter. So it would allow our men and women first responders for our utilities to train with other jurisdictions, respond to their crises, and also in turn have other folks help us during a crisis. They both passed with record votes. So congratulations to Commissioner Fritz and I think on behalf of the council we owe her a debt of gratitude for the work she did. Thank you. I don't, I've been on the council a while and I don't remember two measures that passed. with 89% of the vote, so it's really extraordinary. And she has the secret formula. She goes out to neighborhood associations and summer free fall events and does her advocacy work. So Commissioner Fritz, congratulations. I also want to just acknowledge that the city voters chose to continue a levy for our teachers. As the proud father of a sophomore in Portland Public Schools, that makes a huge difference and means that we won't be laying off a lot more teachers. So thank you to Portland voters for digging deep on that. Congratulations to Metro on... a very strong showing on the metro bond measure. And for those of you who are interested, there's both a carve out for Portland in the bond. And there's also an opportunity to apply for discretionary dollars. And so there's a lot of good news in that bond. Thank you Portland voters for stepping up on that as well. And finally, I just want to acknowledge that last night, Bank of America, which has a program called Neighborhood Builder, and every year selects two organizations in our community that they give money to to help them do community work, selected the mobile play and meal program administered by Portland Parks and Rec for a $200,000 grant. What that will allow us to do is greatly expand a program which takes play and food to hungry kids and families in places in Portland that don't have built infrastructure. So think about apartment buildings that are not within a half mile of a playground or a park or places in East Portland, North Portland and elsewhere. We're extremely excited to get that grant. It will allow us to serve a lot more hungry families and kids. And we're grateful to be the recipient of that generous grant. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your kind words. Thank you for your park staff. allowing me to be at the summer free-for-all meetings, events. We were very careful to use the Secretary of State-approved informational materials information sheet on that so that city staff were not involved in advocacy on these ballot measures. Similarly, going to neighbourhood associations was all done on volunteer time. And I'm very, very grateful to the voters of Portland who once again have satisfied my trust that when given full and accurate information, the voters make really good choices. So thank you voters for voting yes on everything last night. Very good thank you and just a note related to the last public testimony we took on traffic deaths. I want to remind the council that next week we'll also be taking up a proclamation recognizing the victims of traffic deaths in Portland. Carla have any items been pulled off of the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item number 1014. Amend deconstruction of buildings law code to include houses and duplexes built in 1940 or earlier. Go. Here in the city of Portland, we value sustainability and protecting the environment. Expanding our current deconstruction of buildings law is keeping with Portland's goals and values that will help to bolster that effort. I'd like to read some excerpts from a city report that should sound somewhat familiar if you've been following the demolition debate over the last five years or so. The task force has been directed to study new approaches to the issues of housing density and demolition in response to recent events involving the controversial demolition, sorry, of housing to make way for new residential development. The Oregon economy has recovered from the recession. New apartment and single family home construction has begun to approach record breaking levels. The task force has considered options for saving viable housing in historic buildings, ensuring public safety, recycling useful architectural fixtures, protecting the environment and preserving neighborhood character. These excerpts came from the housing task force report on demolition and density written more than 30 years ago. I bring this up because the concept and context of what we're discussing today isn't new. We recognize that some houses will be removed as we accommodate more development and density in the city. We also recognize that this cycle has real impacts, impacts to our neighborhoods, our landfills, our environment, and to our health. What's relatively new is the significant steps we're taking to address these issues. Projects such as the residential infill project and better housing by design. And three years ago, Portland began disrupting the business as usual approach to mechanically demolishing houses by requiring deconstruction. This means that houses are now hand disassembled, materials are salvaged for use, and in turn these materials can be used in everything from sleeping pods for the houseless to handcrafted furniture and finishes that are showcased in our restaurants and coffee houses and elsewhere. Again, it's all about sustainability. Deconstruction also nourishes our continuing initiative to build a circular economy where we move away from a linear model of using something once and then throwing it out and having it go to the landfill, instead finding ways to creatively reuse materials. The process also reduces the carbon footprint created by conventional demolition and helps abate potential harmful public health impacts such as asbestos and lead dust. This is not just made in Portland, it's made from Portland. Thank you for being here today, and we look forward to our presentation. Good morning, thank you Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Alisa Kane, I'm the Climate Action Manager with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. In 2016, Portland became the first city in North America to require deconstruction for its oldest and most historic houses when proposed for removal. Portland's ordinance ensures value materials are salvaged for reuse instead of being burned or landfilled. And during those hearings, we were commended for leading the way, and council was thanks for its leadership on this issue. As you're aware, Portland continues to be looked at as an innovator and incubator for sustainability policies and programs. This deconstruction ordinance is no exception. Other cities were paying close attention when we were doing this work, and now cities such as Vancouver, B.C., Palo Alto, Minneapolis, Denver, and San Antonio have either modeled their ordinances on our approach or have installed grant programs and other incentives similar to what we've used in the past. How we manage materials that come from older homes matters. Green building starts with how we remove a house and what becomes of those materials. We also understand that the life cycle impacts are becoming increasingly important as we look for additional ways to reduce carbon emissions and build a resilient city. We used a very long runway to phase in this program. We started out with incentives in 2015. These were grants that were provided to people who wanted to demolish their homes and instead used to use deconstruction as an alternative. And then after seeing what the industry could handle, we enacted the ordinance in 2016. And at that time, some people wanted us to go further. And we promised at that time that we'd be back before the end of 2019 to reconsider advancing the amendment to cover more homes and expand this ordinance. So that's why we're here today. And Sean will share more details of the amendment we're proposing. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. Thank you for having us. I'm Sean Wood. I'm the Construction Waste Specialist for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And first, I'd like to go over the purpose statement from the Deconstruction Code Language in Title 17. The deconstruction ordinance seeks to maximize the salvage of valuable building materials for reuse, reduce carbon emissions associated with demolition, reduce the amount of demolition waste disposed of in landfills, and minimize the adverse impacts associated with building removal. That's important because it's the why of this ordinance and it's also the what in terms of measuring success. The current ordinance requires deconstruction for any house or duplex that was built in 1916 or earlier, or if it's a designated historic resource regardless of age. Houses built in 1916 or earlier represent approximately one-third of annual house demolitions. And in our 26th ordinance, as Elisa mentioned, we established a goal to raise that year built to houses built before 1941 by this year, by 2019. The proposed amendment would expand the ordinance to include houses and duplexes built 1940 or earlier. These houses are still rich in old growth lumber found in the framing. The proposed effective date would be January 20th, 2020. We had originally proposed December 31st of 2019 as an effective date. However, BDS asked us if we could avoid that date because there might be a rush on permits around the holiday season when their staffing levels are low. Raising the year built threshold to 1940 means we would capture approximately two-thirds of annual demolition permits. So while this doubles our capture rate, demolition permits have been declining since 2016. These are the number of annual demolition permit applications since 2016. The orange represents the current ordinance and the green represents houses built in between 1940 and 1917. As you can see, capturing houses built in or before 1940 puts us back to the level of work when the current ordinance began three years ago. Now I'd like to talk about the benefits and outcomes of the ordinance to date. Since the ordinance went into effect in 2016, we've had over 200 house deconstructions, again one-third of house demolitions. And from those projects, over 2.4 million pounds of material was salvaged for reuse, material that would have otherwise been burned or landfilled. All that salvaged material, the avoided impacts of disposal and production translate to carbon benefits, which we'll hear more about during the panel testimony. While not the primary driver of this policy, the hazardous material benefits of deconstruction are an important one. Deconstruction has always been looked at as a best practice for reducing impacts of hazardous material when compared to mechanical demolition. New BDS requirements that went into effect last year have helped level the playing field by requiring mechanical demolition projects to first hand remove all exterior painted material and then apply water to the structure before and during demolition and loading. However, deconstruction goes further still. All of the certified deconstruction contractors have been trained and certified in lead-based paint and asbestos hazards. This is a condition to main their deconstruction certification. This is not the case with mechanical demolition contractors. Familiarity with the potentially asbestos-containing material and the surgical nature of deconstruction mean it is not uncommon that contractors come across unabated asbestos during deconstruction. Work stops, the material is safely removed by an abatement contractor, and then work resumes on the house. This material is likely to go unnoticed and unabated during mechanical demolition. The deconstruction ordinance helps create economic opportunity, not only in deconstruction, but also in the sale, fabrication, and installation of the salvage material. From the beginning, this program has focused on providing opportunities for women, people of color, and other disadvantaged groups in the field of deconstruction. It continues today with current training in newly certified contractors. Preserving and maintaining our existing structures should always be the first approach, but if a house must come down, deconstruction allows us to preserve the irreplaceable materials and craftsmanship and to preserve the built history and the human experience that is tied to it. Portland is a timber town, and our built history reflects that. Our ancient old-growth forests are now standing in our oldest houses. We've seen a lot of changes over the past three years. We currently have 12 companies certified to do deconstruction work and three additional ones in training. We've had two new salvage retail operations open and existing and new retailers are adding value to the salvage material, turning it into furniture, siding, and wall cladding. And Oregon State just recently completed successful testing of cross laminated timber and mass timber panels constructed from deconstructed houses, from the lumber from deconstructed houses in Portland. This industry has the added support of state and regional government looking to further the benefit of material reuse. This ranges from equipment purchase assistance to sponsoring trainings with a focus on women and people of color. Because of the increased competition and innovation, the cost to deconstruct has come down over the past three years. And during that same time period, the cost to mechanically demolish has gone up, primarily because of shrinking markets for wood as industrial fuel and new site and dust control requirements implemented by the Bureau of Development Services, commonly known as SB 871 requirements. Three years ago, when the current ordinance passed, deconstruction cost approximately $8,000 more than mechanical demolition. Today, the cost difference is anywhere from $0 to $3,000 more for deconstruction. We know that for every single house deconstruction, an average of 12 new units, single dwelling or multi-dwelling, are constructed as part of the replacement development. That means assuming a $3,000 premium for deconstruction, the added cost is $250 per unit. And I'd like to note that the Home Builders Association has suggested adding an exemption from the deconstruction requirements for houses that are removed for the purpose of constructing affordable housing. Reducing the cost of affordable housing are important, and so too are the benefits of deconstruction. And with that lens, BPS and the Housing Bureau explored the concept and implications of such an exemption. After careful research, discussion, and consideration, BPS and the Housing Bureau did not support an exemption, given the limited financial benefit for these projects. the range of existing exemptions and those on the horizon, the limited number of projects that could take advantage of a deconstruction exemption, and the challenges related to implementation and enforcement. So what about the carrying costs associated with deconstruction? Deconstruction takes longer than mechanical demolition. Five to ten days for deconstruction, a couple of days for mechanical demolition. When we look at permit data timelines for both types of projects, we find that deconstruction projects get their demo permits quicker and break ground on the new replacement projects sooner than mechanical demolition projects. In both cases, the gap between when the demolition permit is issued and when the new project begins is 3.4 months. This suggests that not only does the longer deconstruction duration not impact carrying costs, there is also plenty of time to get the job done. So why raise the year built threshold now? The deconstruction contractors and salvage retailers are ready for more projects and material. The industry has matured and expanded and these companies are actively investing in the future with new equipment, new space, and new staff and crew. They're ready for this expansion and are anticipating it. As I mentioned earlier, we've seen a decline in demolition permits since 2016. Expanding now means there is little risk to overwhelming the industry or the market, which is always an important consideration. The industry has a firm footing and has adapted in ways we couldn't have imagined. I have no reason to believe that that won't be the case going forward as the landscape changes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Does that complete your testimony? It does. All right, good. We have an invited panel. Thank you for the testimony. Shane Endicott from the Northwest Deconstruction Specialist. Jackie Kerouac-Fram from the Rebuilding Center. Emily Christensen from Goodwood Deconstruction and Salvage. And Jordan Palmieri from the Oregon DEQ. Come on up and welcome and thank you for being here to help support this ordinance. If you want to just drag one more chair up, go ahead. Thanks. Thank you very much. And the microphone slide around. Welcome, and if you could just state your name for the record, we'd appreciate it. I don't know who would like to go first. I'll start. All right. Thank you. Great. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Jordan Palmieri, and I work in the Materials Management Program at the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. I'm here today to talk about some of the environmental benefits of this city's deconstruction policy, with a particular focus on the carbon impacts. For the last 20 years, DEQ has supported deconstruction and building material reuse projects around the state. Over that time, we provided grants to deconstruction businesses to support truck purchases. We've supported material racking and display systems for retail outlets, and even supported a grant to help train the initial workforce for the policy being discussed here today. When we look at reducing the carbon impacts of building materials, it's really important to first understand where those impacts occur. For most building materials, the largest impacts happen during the production of those materials, not during the use or disposal. The carbon impacts of material production are often referred to as embodied carbon. While there are many ways to address the production-related impacts, material salvage and reuse offers a really powerful pathway to reduce impacts. Material reuse interrupts the produce, consume, dispose cycle of our economy and reduces our demand for new materials. To better understand the potential benefits of reduced material demand, We conducted a detailed analysis of the carbon and energy impacts of the first 36 homes that went through your program after PAST in 2016. The goals of the research were to understand the net impacts of your policy and provide that information to the city and other jurisdictions in Oregon considering a similar policy. we found that compared to mechanical demolition, the average home being deconstructed in Portland has a carbon benefit twice as large as a home being mechanically demolished. So it turns out that your policy does in fact have significant carbon benefits. As the program grows, it will be important to provide continued support for salvaged material market development, since the carbon benefits of projects are only realized when the material displaces the purchase and production of a new material. Finally, I do think it's important to provide a sense of scale for the carbon benefits gained through policies that address our consumption of materials. We're currently in an era of climate change where the scale and timing of our policy responses is really critically important. City Council recently passed a single-use plastics reduction policy, which aims to reduce the demand for new plastic items. Similarly, the deconstruction policy aims to reduce the demand for new building materials. To compare these policies, one Portland resident would have to decline single-use plastic utensils about 162,000 times to equal the carbon benefit of one deconstructed home. So just... That's it. That's a lot. So just as we can reduce the demand for single-use plastic utensils, the city is leading the way to reduce the demand for single-use building materials. Thank you so much for your time and attention. Thank you. And thanks for also reminding us that this isn't just about diverting landfill. This is also about reducing the production cycle. So thanks for underscoring that point. Good morning. Good morning, good morning, Mayor Wheeler and distinguished commissioners. Good morning. It's good to see you again. Welcome back. Thanks. My name's Shane Indicott. I'm with Northwest Deconstruction Specialist, came straight here from a job site. We also, not only do we deconstruct houses and any size building really from a garage to multi-story apartment buildings, but we also have a retail outlet that's not advertised or marketed because it's a temporary space. We're there month to month, so it's all word of mouth and people just curious, wandering in. But we're still able to fill a 50,000 square foot space packed and keep the materials moving out. We have been in business since the ordinance took effect and we have been doing primarily whole houses. And we've noticed a change over the last three years that is really important to note that The buildings that we started out were just exclusively on the ordinance, but as we've worked with clients who've come back and word of mouth, they've had us deconstructing more and more homes and buildings that are not required to be deconstructed. We've been also as we've been deconstructing, I think every house we've deconstructed, which we've done over 20 each year, we have found asbestos in the process, sometimes multiple times with the exception of four, four structures that we did not find asbestos in. So there's a lot that you uncover when we're peeling the house back. In response to Sean's BDS's presentation, we have been very successful in achieving some of the goals of the deconstruction ordinance. 90% of our employees are people of color and women, and 100% are in leadership and management roles in our company, our organization. Sir donate lots of materials to different projects throughout the city and beyond We also donate to the Rebuilding Center, Rehabitat, ReStore And people actually in the neighborhood people will see us working and come by some of them are living outside of the home and have asked us for materials and we frequently donate things right on the spot and And we have a lot of ownership throughout our organization with the employees. They want to move this beyond just taking houses down, but facilitate conversations in the community about how we can advance reducing our carbon footprint through doing performance art through our projects and other things to engage community. So we need a space first to be able to do all that. I also want to just make sure that I mention, I think I covered everything. We're an Oregon benefit company and we're in strong support of increasing the year to 1940 and earlier. We see opportunities that we could be growing, tripling what we're currently doing. And also, we're serving by helping other deconstruction companies realize the value of their materials, making it more economically viable for them as well. And we just see there's a lot of opportunity here. So the ordinance has ripple effects beyond just the environmental and the job component. It's also doing all these other positive benefits. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a comment? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Shane. I am very impressed with the fact that you can be here at the City Council and say that 90% of your workforce are people of color and the leadership is 100% people of color. I sit here often and hear people just can't find people of color no matter how hard they try for work. And so that doesn't happen by accident that your workforce is that reflective of the community. How did you do that? Well, organically, but through relationships. Say that again. Through relationships. So you knew people? Well, no, actually people were attracted to what we were offering. We really promoted that we wanted people to be able to come in and not just be labor and take buildings down, but if they were interested in advancing, and by no surprise. nearly everyone wanted to advance. So what we did is we laid out a program where we pay for training and we pay for them to have that opportunity and then they take over those roles within the company. And it just, we're much more successful because of it. And we also have people who then they want other people to work there that they have relationships with. And that's how it grows. They start telling everyone you should come and work here. We have the problem of a lot of people want to work there, but we don't have enough openings. So that's a good problem because we could fix that problem. We could certainly fix that problem. Would you be kind enough to leave your contact info at my office? Because I want to talk to you because it's fascinating to me that it's so hard for some individuals to actually be intentional about ensuring that we have a diverse workforce and that we're reflective of the community. And quite frankly, I love Old Wood. So anybody that's like taking old housing apart is somebody that I really like. Right. So but I want to I want to I want to learn more. I want to learn more about your your training, the fact your investment in people and then how that leads into leadership. Because. You can help a lot of folks actually get over that hurdle of not knowing anybody. We're an open source. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. Sean, would you mind sharing what you shared with my staff about the role of the city's prime contractor development program in your training? With the, I'm sorry? The prime contractor development program. The prime contractor development program as far as our work? Yeah, about how you did. I understand that they paid for some of the training with the cost of the contractors. Not with us. Okay. Yeah, I'm sorry. We, we, um. But you could. We could. We most definitely could. I apologize. We have, um, we did hire, uh, employees from the deconstruction, first deconstruction training. And as far as I know, we've still, we're the only, company is still retaining someone from that program, but many of them have gone on the move through our organization, went on to do other construction work, so still in the field and but that's Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Thank you for having me. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, my name is Emily Christensen. I'm the co-owner of Goodwood Deconstruction, Salvage and Design. Just wanted to back up and talk about how we formed. David, my partner, and I heard about the ordinance on the radio. We were in the process of deconstructing a big farmhouse out in Hillsboro just on our own with a group of friends because I had designed an ADU for our backyard, and we were trying to gather a large lot of matching wood with which to build it. Going to Home Depot was out of the question for me, but we had a hard time finding enough, but basically we had a hard time spending so much time searching around the various salvage yards in Craigslist trying to find a matching lot of wood that would apply to our design. When we heard about the ordinance, we just turned around and asked everyone we were working with, hey, do you want to? start a crew and Goodwood was born. We never did build that ADU, but we have had a lot of fun building up Goodwood for the last three years. As you know, the ordinance has been such a success. There are so many wonderful things about it, any of which would justify expanding it to 1940. But the thing I keep thinking about is the quantity of reclaimed wood that now is in the marketplace due to the ordinance. Before the ordinance, you needed to hunt and peck all over town to find enough wood for your project. And the ordinance really changed that. It took what was a rare and hard-to-find material and made it available, consistent, and dependable. That's a huge change. But in order to fundamentally affect wood purchasing habits in the trades and to expand the use of reclaimed wood in place of new wood, We believe we have to speak the language of builders and designers. We have to make reclaimed wood easy to purchase, easy to use, and scalable. And to do that, we need more wood. We heartily support the expansion of the ordinance because we want to change the purchasing habits of folks within the building industry. Expansion reduces the amount of material going into the landfill, but perhaps more importantly, it provides the quantity of material needed to make reclaimed wood a viable alternative to new wood, a crucial step toward reducing deforestation. Our motto is deconstruct, don't cut. But we have to offer a viable alternative to new wood, and with the expansion, I believe we can. Goodwood is anticipating the expansion by opening up a wood store this month in the heart of the design district at the Burnside Bridgehead. We've had a salvage warehouse retail space in Northeast for two years, but this will be a different type of enterprise. This store will be modeled after a regular store, so we'll have a predictable inventory from which to shop. We'll have seven consistent found profiles and 14 consistent re-milled profiles. With the expansion, we'll be able to size up to fill larger orders, and when customers run out and need more of the same wood, they can get it. We want to meet builders and designers where they are. We want to bring reclaim to them by presenting it in the same way they're used to seeing new lumber presented. We want to make using reclaimed easy. And in order to reach critical mass, we need to have enough reclaimed wood to offer consistency and scalability. And to do that, we encourage council to expand the ordinance. I brought a couple of examples of our remilled profiles. This is what they call like a square joint TNG. So it would be for walls or floors or ceiling. Another example back there. is of a V groove. So this would be a typical profile you would buy in a new wood store, but made with 100% recycled wood. So in some of those new condominium builds that you're seeing on Martin Luther King these days, the entryway could be reclaimed wood instead of tiger wood from the Amazon. So we're really looking to position ourselves on as a resource to start shifting the narrative toward a more, you know, sustainable model of building. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thanks for sharing your story. I'm sorry you didn't actually end up building your ADU, it sounds. Me too. But thanks for sharing the process. That's really informative. It helps us. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Jackie Kerouac-Fram, and I'm the Executive Director of the Rebuilding Center. And I'm here to talk a little bit more about the social impact of the ordinance. So as you may know, the Rebuilding Center is a nonprofit with a mission to build community resilience through reuse and repair of reclaimed building materials. And of the 1,800 tons of materials we diverted from landfills last year, a substantial percentage was reclaimed lumber. In the years past, Our own deconstruction service had provided much of that lumber, but with the passage of the Portland Deconstruction Ordinance in 2016, a new and wonderful community of for-profit deconstruction firms is very competently serving the deconstruction needs of the Portland region. And as a result, this past July, we decided to halt our own deconstruction operations. But due in part to the partnership of some of these for-profit partners, we continue to sell tons of reclaimed lumber. And it continues to be one of our best-selling, most-loved item categories. There are a whole lot of people who need lumber for various projects. And for those who do not need high-end old-growth lumber, and even for those who do, we have that also. But we exist to provide this affordable alternative for people who want to prioritize reuse or who cannot afford to purchase new material or to purchase reclaimed material at one of the more retail boutique-type retail outlets. Thank you. The people that we serve, more than 25,000 people per year, they want this material. And in addition to the lumber at the Rebuilding Center, we also offer all manner of things that come out of a deconstructed house, right? So appliances, lighting, fixtures, all manner of things that people can use to repair and renovate their homes to be able to stay in their homes for longer, especially if they're at risk of displacement. Okay. And these people, all of our customers, but in particular these more vulnerable populations, would greatly benefit from the increased amount of lumber and materials that we could stand to provide if this ordinance is passed. Moving the year to 1940 will provide a fantastic supply of these materials that our customers will put back into the circulation through countless projects to enhance their quality of life affordably and sustainably. We at the Rebuilding Center believe that the sustainability is best practiced at the neighborhood level, and one of the best ways to do that is to maintain resources within a community, and this ordinance will help continue to make that happen. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Colleagues, any questions of this panel? No. Very good. Thank you all for being in here. Thank you for your support of this important ordinance. Next up, Carla, we have public testimony. How many people do we have signed up? We have six people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Shedrick J. Wilkins, John Sandy, and Barbara Kerr. Good morning. Morning. Good morning. Yeah, I favor, I'm Shedrick Wilkins, I favor deconstruction. I think the best building material of modern time are bricks. You make a brick building and I like to go in the East Bank saloon or something where they have exposed plumbing. or exposed wires because actually a lot of times in modern construction we want to like put paneling and bury wires and plumbing or pour if you have pipes with lead pipes you pour concrete over the top. Well concrete cracks okay and you've got this stuff stuck in there and then electrical things in the future there are ideas that maybe we'll just have solar panels on the roof and use six volts for LED lights. But the whole idea was you've got this 120 volts of electricity and you've got to shield it from the kids. So you bury it in the wall, okay, and you use that Vestas paneling. And what it means is you have to tear the whole thing down. And there are skyscrapers and community colleges made with concrete that are eventually just going to crack up and where brick buildings will still be around. And they knew this too when they had the bicentennial in colonial America. They found a lot of the brick buildings are still good and they don't have floors. The bricks go down and so you build wood for a floor. The plumbing is not encased in concrete. The roof can come off. You could put solar panels on the roof and readjust the roof. And bricks are very good and they last. And concrete doesn't, it cracks and you're burying stuff in the walls. My dad was an amateur electrician one time. Electrician spends half of his time getting into the wall. Whereas some of these taverns or buildings like East Bank, you can see the plumbing go over here on the bottom and you can see the wires on the top. You don't have to fight the building. And bricks are very good. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Okay. John's first. Go ahead, thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is John Sandy. I'm a resident of Northeast Portland and a member of UNR. Thank you. Let me put a little historical context on this present proposal. Back in May of 2014, while doing research on residential demolitions, United Neighborhoods for Reform discovered two landmark scientific studies in Baltimore and documenting the propagation of lead-based dust, paint dust during urban demolitions. Subsequently, additional academic studies at Wayne State and UIC verified and added much to these earlier studies. Through at times frustrating but persistent efforts of enlightening municipal and state employees to these studies findings, UNR and other civic-minded citizens successfully achieved the passage of Oregon state laws to put proper legal weight on responsible residential demolitions requirements and best practices. The Portland ordinance that was mentioned in accordance with the state best practices, it went into effect July 1st of 2018. And the city council will hear of its effectiveness and challenges and needs for improvement later this year during the DRAC subcommittee presentation. Along this journey, It became apparent that the public health benefits of deconstruction augmented the environmental and salvage benefits, further promoting the need for broadening deconstruction requirements and use. As was mentioned earlier in the panel, the construction market has seen the need and benefits of expanding deconstruction usage and filled this void effectively, overcoming initial concerns of not having the capacity to handle the additional load and acting as an impediment to new development. And again, as was earlier mentioned, the key thing is, let me reiterate, let's not understate the importance of the adding of critical construction trades training along the way. Therefore, if the council does not support this proposal, you are in essence discounting the countless hours dedicated to meetings of advisory groups and numerous workshop events that called upon the collective wisdom of a wide range of industry and public experts regarding all phases of demolitions and the benefits of deconstruction. I urge you to accurately support this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor and commissioners, my name is Barbara Kerr. I've been here before. I live in East Columbia neighborhood, and I firmly believe in deconstruction. I started a company, Rejuvenation, based on salvaging and reusing house parts, and I am the United Neighborhoods for Reform representative on the DAG, the Deconstruction Advisory Group. Today I'm speaking as a concerned citizen. Mayor, I want to say I really appreciate the quote that you gave from 30 years ago. It illustrates how long we've been working on this. And by updating this ordinance, we move ahead on reducing what goes into the landfill, on reusing materials rather than using up natural resources to produce new, on decreasing lead being spread into our neighborhoods, on creating green jobs, and on the multitude of other benefits of deconstruction. To not extend the years covered would not make sense. But, Before congratulating ourselves on moving forward, we must be honest that until deconstruction is the way we remove all buildings, not just those built before advancing cutoff dates, there will still be more lead pulverized by mechanical demolitions. We will still be filling our landfills with materials that could have been reused to minimize depleting natural resources. And we will not have the used materials that can spawn creative reuse jobs that we haven't even imagined yet. And before we reach to pat ourselves on the back for moving forward from recycling to reuse, especially in light of how we've been having problems with recycling, we must face the fact that we need to be working on reduce. Deconstruction is reusing building materials, but we need to move up to reducing the use of materials by reusing the existing buildings. As the gentleman from DEQ said, we need to look at embodied energy and it's more embodied in the building as it stands. Deconstruction is honorable only when a building must come down. We cannot afford to greenwash demolitions by saying at least we are deconstructing. That existing houses are the only true greenhouses and that existing houses are the only true affordable homes are not just sound bites to be ignored. We cannot honestly say that we are a city that values sustainability if we are demolishing in the name of being green, when we know that reusing an existing building has less of a carbon footprint than new construction, no matter how much green or reused materials are involved. We cannot honestly say we are concerned about the houseless, the displaced, or even high rents if we demolish homes in the name of density rather than supporting reuse of homes to provide increased housing that people can afford." We are eliminating opportunities for the disenfranchised communities, young families, and our elders to become or remain independent rather than be forced into higher cost apartments instead of fixer uppers. If we hide behind our deconstruction ordinance to cover up what we are doing to our housing and our communities, we have nothing to brag about. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. I hope you will save that speech and come and give it again when we do the residential infill project, because I think it's a very important point. I want to thank John and Barbara and all of the folks who have been participating in United Neighborhoods for Reform for now five years. and this was an alliance of neighborhood associations from across coalitions who came to council with the not unreasonable request that homes should not be demolished with sprinkling lead and asbestos all over the neighborhood there were those who said these are just nimbys although actually it's okay to not want asbestos and lead in your backyard there were those who said it was that folks were against affordable housing that all kinds of um unkind at best comments were made and you persisted. And this is the reason I think we're celebrating today because people said that deconstruction was going to be much too expensive. They said that it wasn't going to have the outcomes that you claimed and you persisted. And so I just want to thank you and other neighborhood associations who are here today because you have the privilege of being able to be here on a Wednesday morning and also representing people who also would rather not have lead and asbestos in their backyards but can't be here. So thank you very much for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks both of you. Next three please Carla. Are Kathy Weber, David Bemick and Maggie. Welcome. Come on up. Name for the record three minutes each please. You look ready to go. Would you like to start please? Thank you. My name's Caitlin Weber, I'm here on behalf of Restore Oregon and as of Monday I'm a new member of the direct demolition subcommittee. Thank you. Mayor and city commissioners, I'm here to express Restore Oregon's enthusiastic support for expanding the deconstruction program to include houses and duplex built in or before 1940. The pilot program has led the country in ensuring valuable and irreplaceable building materials are not wasted. It has proven successful at working out a process for the salvage and reuse of deconstructed materials, as well as suppression of hazardous materials born of demolition, and it now has the capacity to expand. Growing the program to include more homes will uphold and strengthen Portland's goals and values, including support of a trained, diverse workforce, reduction of exposure to hazardous materials, sustainability of our city by reducing our carbon footprint and keeping usable material out of landfills, reuse of rare old growth lumber and other materials, and perhaps most importantly for our mission, making people think twice before demolishing a historic building. Portland is now at the leading edge of an expanding deconstruction industry, which translates to more jobs, the availability of more affordable building material, better health, and a more intact historic fabric. We commend Portland City Council's initiation of a robust reuse ethic, and Restore Oregon strongly supports this expansion by approving the amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Do you want to go ahead, sir? Hello, my name is Dave Benek. I come with the Building Deconstruction Institute and I wanted to let you guys know that I've been with you for four years now supporting you and your efforts. And when you guys passed the ordinance, you showed support for our industry. And so then I wanted to return that by supporting your efforts. And so some of the things that I've been doing training your contractors, training your workers, working with the prime development contractor program, which you mentioned. So I trained all those folks. And what it's been about is building up the infrastructure so that when you make the leap, you know, that we have the support to catch you, you know. Here you are at the verge of potentially making another leap. I wanted to let you know that I'm going to remain here to support you, to continue to train people, to continue to build up infrastructure. One of the things that I did as soon as you passed the ordinance, the very first thing I did was focus my efforts on buildings that were not 100 years old or older. You see the point being that you had already accomplished that and I no longer needed to try. I needed to try for the new buildings. So almost all the buildings that we've deconstructed in our trainings have been newer buildings so that we have proof of concept so you can feel like you have something. This isn't unproven ground, okay? Today I'm here really representing 12 other cities that I'm helping across the country. So some of those cities were mentioned actually. I held an event in Pennsylvania last week where we got everyone together and one of the topics was Portland. You know, that was probably one of the main things that they were looking to you for guidance. you know, somebody has to go first. You did. So they're ready to go second, but I want to let you know that there are 50 cities probably that will follow them, right? It's like exponential. So whatever you do here today is going to be, could be exponentially replicated in the future in a positive way. So all of the work that we've done, all of the goals that you have about employing people of color, women. Our goal is to have companies that are run by people of color and women and that's who we've actually been training. I would say maybe 80% of the contractors that I've been training fall in that category. So there it's not a... I'm sorry my time's up. Okay, I think it In the end, sometimes our efforts, it seems like we're trying to help a certain group. We're trying to give them advantages to close the gap and that sort of thing. But in our eyes, we're trying to allow people to help others. By helping them, they're going to help others. And that's really been our main focus of this program. It goes way beyond just a single company. Thank you. We appreciate that very much. Good morning. Hi. Maggie Portland, Homeless Town Hall. A couple of years ago, I went online and I saw the number of abandoned residential buildings in arrears on their taxes were in the hundreds. And I want to know... Why can't these owners get a write-off if they donate their materials for tiny homes? Tiny homes, could you make out of this reclaimed lumber from one house? That's what I want to know. Also, I want to know about how they're disposing of the lead and the abestus materials because I think that's a huge concern about hazardous materials. Are they going to dispose of it? in a landfill where it's going to be open and it's going to be rained on and it's going to leach into water. So I think we need to pay attention to that because that's a health issue for people. And then the other thing I would like to say is I would encourage homeowners that want to deconstruct, please consider donating or having homeless people come in and take apart your wood and let them make a tiny home with it. And also these... properties that you guys are going to reclaim are you know, I've talked to the Joint Office of Homeless Services and what they want to do is this multi-generational duplexes. But that leaves out single disabled people who are aging no matter what their color or their gender. And I think there's a lot of discrimination against single people. And you can take an eighth of a quarter of a quarter an acre or quarter of an acre and and put on you know four to two eight tiny homes and have people living in what's called a residentially owned Commons and just have you know have the land be owned by the government and then have the people be a community who are organizing themselves and I think you could do a lot of low income little housing this way and it's legal Oregon has a program for this, it's legal to do it you know, to take single people who are low income and could never afford a home. And just, you know, if you're demolitioning a property and you've taken over that property and just, you guys can own the land and they will own their little home. And they will be a residentially owned commons and they will, you know, do all their own maintenance and landscaping and pay the insurance liability and, you know, but they can't afford a house by themselves. Thank you, Maggie. Thanks, all three of you. We appreciate it. Commissioner Udeli. Thank you, Mayor. So this is an ordinance, which means it comes back next week for a vote. But since we have advocates in the room, I just wanted to make some brief remarks. This was one of the first city issues that I got engaged in before I joined council. And I'm excited to have it come back. Many advocates at the time wanted the exemption to be decreased, including myself, but there was a real lack of capacity in the deconstruction industry, so I'm thrilled to hear that that is no longer the case. While I'd prefer to see fewer historic homes taken down, as some of you have indicated as well, Deconstruction is at least a more fitting final tribute to the superior materials and craftsmanship that went into these beautiful homes. I want to thank the state legislature for SB 871, which allowed us to establish standards around lead abatement. That issue was raised as well. And my chief of staff, Marshall Runkle, for leading the charge on developing that program. Portland was the first city in Oregon to establish a lead abatement program. standards in deconstruction and demolition. So thank you to the Mayor's Office, BPS staff, and the industry, and I'm really looking forward to voting yes next week. Very good. Commissioner Fretz. Thank you. I also would like to give my comments both today and next week, because I think they bear repeating. This is really fantastic. I was in charge of the Bureau of Development Services from 2013 to the middle of 2017, and it was the community who came to us wanting fewer demolitions and also very concerned about when things are demolished, the safety of that. So I want to thank Nancy Thorrington and the previous director, Paul Scarlett. Bureau of Development Services for their work, first of all, at least saying, let's notify people. But then the United Neighborhoods for Reform, you did not stop at that. You insisted that the bureaus act. And so the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability moved forward with investigating this work. Thank you, Sean Wood and Alyssa Kane, and also former director Susan Anderson, as well as the current director, Andrea Durbin. This has been a great example of inter-bureau and inter-commissioner work. collaboration and I very much appreciate it. Claire Adamsick on my staff was my liaison to development services and then to neighborhood involvement, and now to the Office of Equity and Human Rights. So again, it's a matter of all of these different bureaus with different directors and commissioners working together to do really good things for our community which are now the standard for the nation as we heard and glad to hear that Milwaukee and Vancouver BC and Palo Alto and others And indeed, as Commissioner Udeli alluded to, now instead of two companies, 12 companies. That is real. These are good jobs doing good work. And I appreciate very much those who are doing the training in partnership with the Prime Contracted Development Program. Really good work. Thank you very much. I also look forward to voting aye next week. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Could I have the staff come back up? I just have one question. Sure. Thank you so much for your hard work on this and I am in absolutely total support. My only question is on page five when we talk about enforcement and penalties. It appears extremely low for if we have a requirement. $500 is not even petty cash for a major developer. And so how did we come to those fines and the violations and the penalties? Where did they come from? So the enforcement fees are tiered. So our first offense, I believe, is up to $500, and then it graduates up from there. Only to $1,500. I mean, we're talking about... big high dollar contract. And so there's another component to that that if... Improper use of heavy machinery is used. I saw the $10,000. $10,000. And then we also, if it's in fraction from a certified deconstruction contractor, we have the ability to fine them but also remove them from the list of certified contractors. So those combined basically have an even larger economic impact. Mayor, I don't know what the will of the group is, but I'm troubled by the fact that we say this is our vision and then we give people lots of chances to screw it up. And then when we catch them, which we rarely do, we give them a mealy fine. I cannot support this at such a low fine level. I support everything else, but I just think if you're going to hold people accountable, they've got to feel it. Right? This is not something they're going to feel. So that's where I am. Mayor. Commissioner Daly. I agree that the fines are too low. I mean, I will support it either way, but I would like a better analysis of... how we came up with those numbers and why they're not higher. I would like to see people who are violating our rules, who I'm assuming are well aware of them, pay something more commensurate with the actual impact to the environment and the value of the materials that they're wasting. Do we know how many violations there have been? There have been approximately four, and some of those were related to the property owner not doing what they were supposed to be doing. So that was basically improper use of heavy machinery. We've had a couple of contractors that were certified early on in the ordinance, and I They violated some of the requirements and so they were fined. They pretty quickly left the industry. They were... another type of contractor, construction contractor, something like that. And the whole reason why we have certified deconstruction contractors is to have a level of professionalism, a level of understanding of what we're talking about. And you know if there's one thing that we've done as part of this ordinance that really works, it's making sure that we have certified contractors. So they've been trained, they're familiar with asbestos, with lead-based paint hazards, um, they're accountable both financially and on, uh, wanting to stay on that list. So if for some reason they do something wrong and they're not on that list, they're not getting a call the next day to offer a bid on a new project. So it's been, uh, a very small amount of infractions. Um, and I, I think especially at this point, those were early on at this point, people know what's expected. Um, we have high level of training for these folks. Um, and enforcement has not been an issue. So while I, I totally respect what you're saying and, and, uh, We set that $10,000 limit for heavy machinery because we were afraid that some folks would look at that as the cost of doing business. We'll just knock the house down. We'll pay the $10,000 and move on. But we haven't seen that at all. And... Every house that gets taken down, whether it's demolished or deconstructed, has to have a demolition permit. Is that correct? That's correct. And presumably the development services staff tell them when they get their permit that you have to deconstruct this house? It's essentially all automated. So when they come in for their demolition permit, the permit system pings the assessor database automatically. populates the year built of the structure. And if it's literally a calculation less than or equal to 1916 currently, it drops in a process line that BPS has to review. And then we make sure that there's a certified contractor associated with that project they let us know that through an online portal that only they have access to with a password. So we know someone's not telling us, oh, this contractor is going to do it. It will be deconstructed, only to find out later they weren't involved at all. And then once the project's complete, the certified deconstruction contractor follows up with a post-deconstruction form and receipts for the materials. So I have... Really zero concern that we're not getting these houses deconstructed. There's multiple points in the permit review and inspection process that we would catch that. Commissioner Fish. Two things. One is I might suggest, because I think it's a good question to ask and we need some more data, I would just suggest that we kick this issue to the DRAC. And with an instruction to have staff update the draft on what is the level of compliance, is there a problem with compliance? And if so, would an adjustment in the penalty schedule? We can take that up at any time. That's correct. I would feel more comfortable doing that on the basis of actual data that is presented to us. If I could also just add my strong support to this ordinance. Okay. And just add one other piece of history. Commissioner Fritz and I were on the council when Commissioner, then Mayor Adams decided to take the Planning Bureau and bring sustainability into their core mission. And thus was rebranded Planning and Sustainability. And since then, we have been focused on sustainability in a way that the city really wasn't as much before. The deconstruction ordinance occurred under Mayor Hales. And I'm just thinking back the four years whenever when we did this. I remember there was some pushback and some big questions out there. It is extraordinary now to see the success which you've achieved, the number of certified contractors, the number of people who are benefiting from jobs, good jobs, and the opportunity to grow in those jobs, the environmental impacts, of course. But I want to acknowledge that while – While this is a proud day, as is some other things we're doing around fossil fuel infrastructure and other things, it started with a vision around sustainability. And I think you can point to each mayor that Amanda and I have served with has helped move that conversation forward a little bit around sustainability. And I'm personally delighted to hear that Portland is a leader nationally in this conversation. We're going to be coming to council soon with an idea that's long overdue around the environment where I think we're 171st in the country to act. So it's nice to hear about our leadership and the impact of our action and encouraging other cities to follow suit. I just also want to thank our professional team for their great work. Thank you, Christian. This is really good work. There were a lot of details to be worked out. There are a lot of reasons why this could have gone sideways. And it's a credit to your doggedness and professionalism that we're able to have a hearing today where we have the chorus coming out and saying expand the program. That's really a credit to your good work and we thank you for that. Thank you. I just wanted to unwrap an acronym that my colleague used, Development Review Advisory Committee. When you said DRAC, I didn't know what the heck you were talking about. It's Halloween. It's Halloween. Yeah. Good old Jack. We're a balanced committee that often makes recommendations. I just think it does seem like that's the logical place to go and look at the fee schedule and have them make a recommendation to us. Well, thank you, Commissioner. I think that's a very fine idea. And, again, I don't want to slow down this process at all because I absolutely, totally support the work that's been done and the expansion. I just think that if we're going to hold people accountable, we've got to really hold them accountable. And $500 just won't do it. Thank you. Thank you. Great. And so there's going to be absolutely no suspense leading up to next week's vote. Since I brought this, obviously I support it, but I just want to add something here. There is a sense of urgency to the work we're doing around the climate, and this is a part of it. And as I threatened a couple of weeks ago, you're going to hear the term circular economy a lot more in this chamber. And this is a key part of it. We started with 100% renewable energy ordinance. We worked on the plastics ordinance. We're bringing back the fossil fuel ordinance so it will actually stick because it will be modernized and it will comport with the guidance that the judge gave us when they rejected the 2016 platform that we'd put forward. And so this deconstruction ordinance expansion then comports with that. And there's a lot more that we're going to be doing. And I want to appreciate the work that the BPS team has done. I want to appreciate the work that all the leaders and the advocates in the community have continued to do on this hard work. Obviously, my team will continue to provide what leadership we need to provide to keep this process moving forward. And I'll do what I need to do as mayor to work with my colleagues. And collectively, we will continue to lead. So I just want to appreciate the great work that you've done. I agree with Commissioner Fish that the question of the schedule, particularly given that we're talking about a relatively small number of violations, it is a legitimate issue that Commissioner Hardesty has raised. It is one that the DRAC should, in fact, take up. But I don't think it needs to slow down this ordinance in any way. So without further ado, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you, and thanks for everyone who testified and everybody who helped work on this. Next up is item number 1015. Proclaim November 11, 2019 to be Veterans Day. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. As you know, November 9th marks the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Veterans Day is coming. And as the only veteran on the Portland City Council, I just wanted to take a moment to appreciate all veterans, veterans of today, veterans of yesteryear. And I want to remind people that we can disagree with war, but we cannot disagree. not support people who step up when asked by their country to step up. We can disagree with leadership, but we cannot disagree with people who put their life on the line to protect us. In times of war all over the world, and I just twisted the mayor's arm to allow him to allow me to read the resolution. We should honor all veterans and unfortunately we have way too many veterans living on the street, suffering from mental health issues, alcohol and drug addiction, and totally disconnected from their community. For me, it kind of breaks my heart that we send children to war and then we expect them to shake it off when they get back to their families without support. And that's not right. We can do better. We must do better. Very good, Commissioner Hardesty, and I'll let you read the proclamation when we finish up the presentation, and I appreciate that introduction. Colleagues, as you know, we bring forth a proclamation marking November 11th as Veterans Day every year. This is the least that we can do to honor the brave, uniform men and women, both past and present. Before we hear from our panel today, I'd also like to acknowledge Nicholas Carroll. Nicholas is the designer behind the replica Berlin Wall display, which many of us have seen in the north atrium of City Hall. We encourage people to take a look at it. The display was strikingly accurate and powerful in its message. So we want to thank Nicholas for that amazing work. And so now I'll pass it to Con Tran to start us off. Good morning, Con. Good morning, Mayor. Thank you. And thank you, Commissioners, for allowing us to present to you today. My name is Kantran. I'm a veteran of our United States Army. I served five years in the Army active duty with the tour in Afghanistan. And the skills and experiences I learned in my time of service, I still use today. On those days, you can find me on the third floor of City Hall, where I proudly serve as a member of Mayor Wheeler's staff. But today, I come to you as a member of the city's Veteran Empowerment Team, or VET. I am joined today by three amazing colleagues who will soon share their stories with you. But before I turn the mic over, I'd like to thank you, the council, for your support that you've shown to the community and to the veterans inside the city as well. In my advocacy, either on my own or through the vet team, I have personally seen engagement and support from each of your offices in all aspects, in all capacities. And on some occasions, I've worked with your staff directly. The vet team and the city have done some great things for the veteran community, some of which my colleagues will share later on. But there's always more work to be done and the vet team takes this challenge and we look forward to this challenge. Finally, I would like to acknowledge Commissioner Joanne Hardesty. Commissioner Hardesty holds many titles as we all know. One of them is veteran. For those of you who don't know, Commissioner Hardesty served in the Navy where she had the opportunity to travel all around the world and she chose Portland as her home so that means something. Commissioner Harsley actively participates in almost every veteran event in the city. I've seen her myself personally many times, and she has always been outspoken about her support for the veteran community in Portland. So, Commissioner Harsley, thank you for being a role model and a leader for veterans everywhere. Now, Council, I'll take up your time. I would like to pass it to my colleague, Sabine Penn. She has the words. Thank you. Thank you, Council. Hello Mayor, City Council. Morning. Morning. My name is Steven A. Penn and I'm one of the Vet Leadership Team. I'm here to tell you my story. Our veterans have served this country with honor and courage. Now it is our time to serve our veterans by not only providing an opportunity for employment, but also allowing them to excel in leadership roles with the city. It takes courage to serve in the military because it's a call for leadership. Before my employment with the city, I was on active duty deployed to Iraq, in the combat zones of Iraq. During that time, I've experienced many, pretty much, death, close-call death. It kind of chokes me up a little bit because it's just still in my mind of that experience. The military is not for everyone. For me, I felt a sense of honor and duty while I was serving in the United States Army. After my time serving in Iraq, my challenge was from combat zone to civilian life. That was my challenge. That was my personal challenge. And I'm very thankful that I've overcome that challenge, and I'm very thankful that, you know, that I'm alive today from that experience. It's time to take action by providing leadership opportunities for veterans within the organization. I would like to highlight currently with the vet team, we're collaborating with the Team Red, White and Blue app. This is an app that provides veterans, their family and friends, with access to thousands of physical activities, social and service oriented events led by volunteer members throughout the city, the state and national level. Lastly, thank you for letting me tell you my story, Mayor, City Council. Thank you. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning Mayor and City Council. Thank you for having us. My story is I'm a Navy vet. I work in civic life in the noise department. My dad was career Air Force and the highlight of my young growing up experience was he received orders to an army base, army post in Germany in the 1980s. So I lived 12 miles from the East German border as a teenager and they had tours there but my parents never let me go. And so I would hear from people what it was like. They actually had armed guards. There was a white line in the ground where you couldn't cross, otherwise you'll trigger the interests of the East German guards. So while we lived in Germany, my grandfather, who was a veteran of the Army, who served in World War II, we would go to some of the historical sites that he fought in the battles. So that was like a very educational experience for me. And part of the genesis of the project that I created this year with the veterans display in City Hall is the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, which for those of us who grew up in the Cold War period, we know what it was like, the euphoria, when this thing that we thought would last forever came tumbling down, people celebrating on top. on November 9th, 1989. I wish the younger generation knew what that optimism felt like. So the project that I wanted to have people understand what Berlin was all about and how the American military contributed to that as well as the British and the French militaries that occupied Berlin and West Germany. So as a young man I served in the navy in Italy and I got to meet people who used to be in the Hungarian army, and we got to exchange stories, and that was very meaningful. And what I learned is the importance of allies. We probably couldn't have done this without our European allies. We helped secure Europe for freedom, and it's a new world. I mean, there's changes— there are challenges now that our military had different challenges to face, but I think without allies, we couldn't do it. We couldn't make it in the world. So that's my story. Thank you so much for sharing it. I'm sorry you didn't put your name in the record. So if you could do that. Oh, Nicholas Carroll. Sorry about that. Nicholas, we appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tammy Mayer and I've worked with the Portland Police Bureau as a program manager for just over four years. Interesting story, when I was born it was at the tail end of Vietnam and in the hospital people would come up to my mother and go, oh you're so lucky you had a girl because they didn't have to worry about the draft and me entering the military. Very few people in my family are in the military. I have a couple of uncles that served in Korea for very short periods of time and lo and behold I grow up and in the college I decided I was going to join the Air Force. I graduated from Portland State University with an administration of justice degree and was commissioned in the Air Force through the ROTC program at University of Portland. I did just over 20 years as a security forces officer, which is equivalent to military police for the other branches. I had 10 assignments in my 20 years and three combat deployments. Of those assignments and one deployment, it was as the commander or chief of police, as you will, for the civilian side type equivalent positions where I was responsible for up to 434 airmen, 6.2 billion in military aircraft, nuclear weapons, and facilities. During my time, I had the honor of working with some of the most dedicated and selfless individuals I've ever met. My time in the military has taught me integrity, service before self, and to strive for excellence in all I do. Not long after I started at PPB, I discovered the Veterans Empowerment Team, and I started attending the meetings as my scheduled permit. The vet allows military members to reconnect with that sense of community that we kind of miss after leaving the military through shared experiences, volunteering opportunities, and assisting other veterans find employment after leaving the service. Veterans in the workplace today come with unique skills, experience, job training, and a perfect perseverance to overcome some of the most stressful and harshest conditions. They can be an asset to any organization. They have a sense of duty, work well in diverse teams, are able to problem solve and adapt to changing conditions. They are often well organized, disciplined, and self-confident. I think sometimes employers are a little weary of hiring veterans as they can be seen as more outspoken, come with baggage, or just don't understand how some of the skills like infantry or similar will translate over into the civilian or corporate world. Sometimes the veterans don't do themselves any favors when attempting to translate those skills into experiences and during the job hunting and interview process. But if given the chance and empowered in the work, they may surprise you by their creativity and ingenuity. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, all four of you. We'll take some council remarks and then we'll ask the commissioner to read the proclamation. Commissioner Udalli, did you have a comment? Sure, yeah. Well, thank you for being here today and I want to especially acknowledge Nicholas Carroll, although the mayor has already done that, who works in the noise office within Civic Life. want to encourage everyone to go view the... It's not up. Oh, it did. It had to be taken down. Oh, no. Oh, it's just the city of Russia had the display. They had the reservation for this week. Oh, that's too bad. Well, hopefully we can post some photos. I come in the back door, so I haven't been downstairs in a while. There's definitely a lot of photos if anyone wants to see it. Well, the sentiment is still there. Yes. It was great. And I just want to say... somewhat similar to what Commissioner Hardesty said. You don't have to agree with U.S. military policy to support veterans and I definitely support our veterans. I know that Working for the city is incredibly stressful for all of us, but maybe particularly stressful for, I'm not going to call it baggage, but many of us do have a history of trauma. It's real, and I want to encourage all the veterans that work. for the city to check out Veterans Empowerment Team or at least take advantage of existing resources because there are a lot out there and we all need to take better care of ourselves and manage our stress and that is it happy Veterans Day in advance. Commissioner Fritz. Diolch am eich gwasanaeth. Diolch am fod yma. Diolch am eich gwasanaeth i'r ddyniaeth. Nicholas, fe wnaethoch chi ddweud bod y Rhym Mhroedeg yn fwyaf yn digwydd heb ddynion Ewrop. Roedd fy mab yn gweithio yn y trefniadau yn gyfnod Ddynol I. Roedd yn gwirfoddoli pan oedd yn ddiweddarach oherwydd ei bod yn teimlo'n hyderus am y cwrs. Roedd yn dweud bod yn siarad am y DU i ddod i mewn i'r rhyfel, oherwydd yna byddwn yn gweithio. Ac rwy'n credu bod yn yr un fath gyda'r Ddau Byd Cwmpas Cymru hefyd. Rwy'n gwybod bod yn yr un fath. Roedden ni'n aros yn ym mis Ewrop i ddod i'r UD. Felly diolch am wneud hynny. Diolch. am y croesoion mawr. Rwyf hefyd eisiau sôn bod gennym ni, mae gennym ni ac yn parhau i gael, reolwyr ymgyrchol sy'n feteran. Felly o ran cael ychydig o ddiddordeb, cael bachad, efallai, neu efallai sicrhau bod y thrust i gael pethau'n cael eu gwneud, fe wnes i ymgyrchu Dante James i fod yn y Cyfarwyddwr cyntaf o'r Swyddfa Gwleidyddion a Hynny, ac fe wnaeth gadael pethau. Yn eithaf, mae Mike Abate yn Parcs ac nawr mae Mike Stewart yn Water yn arweinyddion y Llywodraethau Cymru. Ac mae'n ddigwyddiad a hyfforddiant arweinyddol sy'n dod â'ch gwasanaeth. Rwy'n ddiolch yn fawr iawn am y cyngor y gweithiwr y gweithiwr yng Nghymru. A hefyd, rwy'n credu bod eraill o fy nghydweithwyr yn y Parade Dydd Faterion, y Parade Dydd Faterion O'r Hollywood ar ddydd. Felly mae'r bobl yn bosib i ymuno â unrhyw un o'r tîmau. Rwy'n gwybod bod tîm y Vets yn cael eu cymryd. Rwy'n gwybod bod y Prif Weinidog yn cael eu cymryd. Felly, gobeithio i bawb ddod a'i ymuno oherwydd mae'n digwyddiad cymunedol iawn. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. Pryd. 9.30. Felly mae hynny yng Nghymru. Mae'n digwyddiad anhygoel. A roedd Tony Starlight yn ymwneud â'r MC. Dwi ddim yn gwybod a oes hi'n gwneud hynny. Mae'n ymwneud â'r MC. Felly rydym yn edrych ymlaen i weld cymaint o'r cymuned fel bosibl yn y digwyddiad. Diolch i chi i gyd am eich gwasanaeth a am rannu eich storïau. Roedd fy mab yn y Mawrth a'i mab-bap yn yr Armi. Felly, yn y groen, roedd yna ddim o ffyrdd o storïau am eu profiad. Yn ddiddorol, ar ôl i mi fadu'r dad ychydig ychydig ychydig ym mis 20 oed, ddodd ymlaen llas a chanfododd yr holl adroddiadau ei gartref. Ac mae fy nghymffredd yn archifist yn broffesiynol. Rwy'n archifist a chyflawniwr. Ar ryw bwynt, rydyn ni'n mynd i fynd drwy'r llas a'i sefydlu'i llythyr. Ond bob llythyr a wnaeth ei ysgrifennu to any member of his family and I guess to my future mother has all been preserved. So we look forward to mining that treasure chest of memories. Thank you Mayor and Commissioner Hardesty for the proclamation today. And I hope that as we strive to be a model employer, We continue to reduce barriers so that veterans feel welcome working for this city of Portland and continuing their careers. That's the least that we can do in recognition of their service. So thank you all very much. Thank you, and I want to thank our affinity group and our city employees who come and they share their experiences with us. Con, I personally want to thank you again for your commitment not only to this issue, but the hard work that you do in the mayor's office every day. We appreciate it very much. And so with that, I'll ask Commissioner Hurst to read the proclamation on behalf of the city council. Thank you, Mayor. Before I do, I just want to say it's kind of ironic that this will be the first time in my adult life that I will have a paid holiday on Veterans Day. And it just feels kind of ironic, right? Because now that I am a city employee, I have that honor. Thank you. And so I want to take a moment and just recognize those veterans who will be working because they don't have the opportunity to be off on Veterans Day. They will continue to do the things they do every single day. And we should not assume that everyone who is on holiday is a veteran or everyone who is working isn't a veteran on that day. I also want to really appreciate the Veterans Empowerment Team because I think an opportunity to really provide community for veterans because no matter how much you want to understand someone who is not a veteran will never understand what it's like to be a veteran right people can be empathetic they can be kind but they don't necessarily have that shared experience so being able to have that shared experience publicly in your workplace is a very cool opportunity. And Con, it's always a pleasure to work with you. You know, it's funny to me, you just smile through everything, no matter how tough it is, what we're doing, you just smile through it. And I think veterans do that. Veterans have learned that You know, it's about getting the work done. It's about not caring who gets credit because in the military you don't actually always get credit for the fine work you do. You do it because you need to. It's the right thing to do. So thank you. Thank you all for being here. And on behalf of this entire city council, I will now read the resolution, and I'm assuming we're going to have a photo op when that's over because that's how we roll around here. Whereas, November 9th, 2019 marks the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, which symbolized the end of the Cold War period, during which our military played a significant role in securing peace in Europe. And whereas the endurance of the brave men and women of our Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard have exemplified their selfishness and steadfast commitment while risking their lives to ensure our freedom. And whereas, by tirelessly defending our nation and our allies against mutual threats to democracy, veterans have earned and deserve the highest degree of respect and support. And whereas, wounded and suffering military members who return home honor us with their inspiring dignity, perseverance, and valor. And whereas we admire and stand beside the families and loved ones of those who have served and currently serve and the immense burden they bear. And whereas we are continually grateful for the freedoms we enjoy in Portland and throughout the United States due to the service and sacrifice of our military. Now, therefore, City Council... The City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses do hereby declare November the 11th, 2019 to be Veterans Day in Portland, Oregon, and encourage all residents to honor those who have served and those who currently serve to preserve our values of justice, freedom, and democracy. Thank you all. So with that, if we could just come down here in front, and we'll get a photo. I'm bringing this in. Oh, yeah.
 Yeah. And then you just... Okay. Yeah, that's all right. Sure. So they got my degree at the ASU. I'd love to be an officer here. I wouldn't perish without a plane. My goal was to be an astronaut. I'm going to be a test pilot. Okay. It has to not. That one didn't work out. That would be a good day. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. The lead asked for a two minute recess. We'll take a two minute recess. We're back in session. Alright, we're back in session. Carla, could you please read item 1019? Yes. Authorize three Oregon Impact Traffic Enforcement Grants for a total of $90,000 from the State of Oregon for officer overtime reimbursement and authorize the Mayor or Chief of Police to execute future Oregon Impact Grant Agreements. Very good. Colleagues, item 1019 authorizes three... three Oregon Impact Traffic Enforcement Grants for a total of $90,000 from the state of Oregon. The grants provide overtime reimbursement and authorize the mayor or chief of police to execute future Oregon Impact Grant agreements. The three grants are number one, the High Visibility Enforcement, otherwise known as HVE, formerly known as Dewey Enforcement, number two, the Distracted Driving Enforcement, and number three, Pedestrian Safety Enforcement. The HVE grant allows for direct admissions to impact impaired driving. With the legalization of marijuana, there has been an increase of drug-impaired drivers on our streets. This grant will help bring attention to the fact drug-impaired driving is just as dangerous as alcohol-impaired driving. The distracted driving enforcement grant is in its second year. Distracted driving has now become a leading cause in all crashes throughout the country. PPB will do traffic enforcement missions to curb this dangerous driving behavior. In addition to vehicle fatalities, our city has also experienced pedestrian-related fatalities. We heard about that this morning. This is more than a third of the total amount of fatalities in the city so far this year. The pedestrian safety grant will help PPB to raise awareness through enforcement to both motor vehicle drivers as well as pedestrians. This grant will help to reduce the high number of pedestrians killed in the city each year. The Portland Police Bureau will focus on the high crash corridors as we do with the speed grant and utilize crash data in order to best impact those locations that are the most problematic in our city. With us today to present this item is Sergeant Ty Engstrom and Captain Lorenco. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Thanks for your patience. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So we're grateful to have this time to come talk with you a little bit today. I think you're all very familiar with these grants. Uh, they are grants that we bring forth each year. Um, some of them have been going longer than others. They help to augment our staffing. As you know, we're pretty understaffed in the traffic division and these grants allow our officers when they have extra time in their personal lives to come in and put a higher presence of police on the streets. Um, So in a way, it helps to augment our staffing levels and help to make the city's streets a little safer out there. And as you already alluded, Mr. Mayor, our number of fatalities is pretty high this year, getting close to one of our highest years in recent history. So this will help us, along with the other grants that will come forth next week, to help put more police officers on the street to educate the public and enforce the laws. I would like to make clear, it doesn't change what we're doing now. It's not going to give us more hours on the street moving forward. It's going to allow us to maintain the status quo. It's going to allow us to continue the level of work that we've been doing. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, questions? Public testimony on this item. Carla? They both left. They both left. Okay, well Commissioner Hersey, did you have a question? Thank you. Now I just wanted to put on the public record how grateful I am that my questions were answered in detail. prior to us coming to the City Council. But I want to caution us. If the police always start off with staffing shortages, then some people tend to stop listening because you've had staffing shortages for a long time and there are decisions that are being made within the police bureau that determines how many people are deployed in different places. So I appreciate the great work that you're doing and I appreciate these grants and totally support them. But if every police officer that shows up here starts their conversation with, we have staffing shortages, it's an excuse for non-action in my view. And that's my personal perspective. But I want you to know I listen better when you answer my questions directly. And I listen better when you don't start off with, I have staffing shortages. So this is why we're having the conversation. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to reiterate a couple stats, even though there's very few people left in this room. There may be some people watching at home. And that is 56% of traffic deaths involve people who are driving under the influence. The majority of cyclists and pedestrians killed in crashes are obeying the law. And 42 people, 42 Portlanders have lost their lives this year so far in traffic fatalities. I wasn't here when Vision Zero was established, but it's my understanding that there was a decision to deprioritize enforcement. One of the three E's of Vision Zero is it's education, engineering, and enforcement. and that was out of concern for disparate impacts on communities of color. Unfortunately, the starkest disparate impact has been in East Portland, our most racially diverse district, where pedestrians are twice as likely to die as anywhere else in the city. So it's clear to me that enforcement is a critical piece of reducing traffic deaths and reaching our vision zero goals. PBOT and PPB must work together to improve enforcement. I've repeatedly called on the Bureau to allocate adequate resources to traffic enforcement, given the number of people who are dying on our streets. And I thank the mayor for planning a work session on this issue in the coming months. Finally, I'll just say that... radar cameras, whether they're speed or red light cameras, are effective, affordable, non-biased way to greatly reduce speeding and running red lights in our city. It's been a painfully slow process to just get a few of them up. We don't have adequate resources within traffic enforcement to issue the number of citations that are being earned on our roadways right now. But that... That is at the top of my list to make more progress on that. So thank you for what you do. I know it's a really difficult job and that you share our aspiration to reduce fatalities. Thank you. I want to thank you for the work that you do. And there is no subject that comes before the city council that we have more division of thought and idea and philosophy than policing issues. So let's just acknowledge that. We all are very passionate about this, but we have different perspectives and honorable people can disagree. The issue of staffing is going to continue to be a critical one for me because I do believe the police bureau is critically understaffed. I have an honest disagreement with some of my colleagues on that. But where we do agree is we all agree that traffic enforcement is critically understaffed. And so there's a debate as to whether or not we can simply remove officers from other functions and move them over to traffic enforcement, or whether, as I believe, doing that would actually just open up and expose us to other problems in other parts of the public safety spectrum. But I guess you're in a relatively good position because we all support the work you do. We all want to see more enforcement as Commissioner Udailey very, I think, succinctly laid out as part of the Vision Zero strategy. And in addition to the enforcement, the part that we never talk about that we need to talk about is the behavior of the people who are actually engaged in distracted driving, drunk driving, impaired driving, speeding, and disregarding other people who are on the streets. And that takes time and money as well. And it doesn't necessarily have to be traffic enforcement that does that work. It doesn't even have to be the police bureau. that does that work, but we need to do that work and we need to start talking about that as well. Because the problem isn't just a lack of enforcement, it's that people are being really stupid, reckless, irresponsible, and thoughtless when they drive through the city. And we need to do something collectively about that. But you guys have been great. You have... worked really hard to accommodate some of the big public events that we have planned in this city. I've got to say, the first iteration of the new Portland Marathon, you guys were A+. A+. Thank you. And I know you worked really hard both in the planning leading up to that and the execution on the day of. And it showed. It showed. And so I want to thank you for that while I've got you here. So we don't have public testimony. City Council filled the public testimony time anyway. But thank you for your good work. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, 1020. Thank you. Accept report recommending a contract award to ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corporation for the Justice Center Elevator Modernization Project not to exceed $1,535,827. Greetings. Good morning. Do you want to read the other one too? Correct, we have two. Okay. Read the other item, 1021. Oh, you want them together? Yes. Okay, in 1021, please. Sorry about that. Accept report recommending a contract award to ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corporation for the Smart Park Elevator Modernization Project, not to exceed $3,218,005. Good morning. Morning. Scott Schneider from Procurement Services. You have before you two procurement reports this morning, each recommending an award of a contract for Elevator Modernization Services. Both of these contracts resulted from the same competitive solicitation. The first is for four elevators in the Justice Center building for not to exceed amount of $1,535,827. The second is for eight elevators in three separate smart park garages for not to exceed amount of $3,218,005. Okay. On June 20th, 2019, the chief procurement officer advertised invitation to bid 1281. And on July 31st, two bids were received for the Justice Center modernization and one bid was received for the Smart Park modernization. Can I ask you, why would only one bid? I mean, that seems like a fairly lucrative business and it's a competitive business. So why only one? Yeah, it's I think that there are a limited number of firms that do the work for the. For the Justice Center modernization, we did get two bids. Okay. When we asked the second bidder why they didn't bid on the smart part modernization, they said it was too much work to take on at one time. Sorry? Too much work to take on at one time. Too big of a contract? Right, too big of a contract. Oh, interesting. Okay. All right, thanks. I was just curious. The... The City issued a notice of intent to award contracts for both modernization projects to ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corp. on August 6th. No protests were received. ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corp. has a current City of Portland business tax account and is in compliance with the City's contracting requirements. It is not a COVID-certified, minority-owned, women-owned, service-disabled, veteran-owned, or emerging small business. There are no subcontractors on these projects and based on the engineers estimates, the Bureau's confidence level for the procurement is high. If council has any questions about the solicitation process, I can answer those. Or representatives from facility services are here in chambers to answer questions about the projects. Colleagues? Commissioner Hardesty? I'm just curious, going back to the mayor's original question, what is the universe of people who are available to do elevator upgrade, and how diverse is that pool? Hello, my name is Jana Giroux and I'm the project manager in the Justice Center and both Jeremy Hunt and I were at the pre-bid meetings. I would just tell you that we had a list of about 12 different firms that we reached out to and contacted. Some of those were too busy to consider coming, so they just did not. But we did end up with four bidders at the pre-bid meeting. As far as diversity within them, I can't tell you a lot about their staffing because I'm not that familiar with their staffing. But there was a variety of firms from small local firms to large firms. I think the only large firm that we were not able to contact was Otis, which happened to have been busy in several of our existing city buildings. But we did have four come through the walkthrough. We actually had... On the Justice Center, three bids turned in. One of them was past the deadline because he had pulled it off. And that one was one of the smaller ones. The two that did turn it in on the Justice Center were pretty good-sized ones. And as he mentioned, even they were saying how busy they were and how backed up they were for several months. Thank you so much for that info, and I'm appreciative of your response. I guess my question is... As we continue to do elevator repairs, are we going to continue to contract with the same individual company because they tend to be the only one that... one of two that will bid on these contracts. My concern is that we get comfortable with people that we contract with and we're not more creative about looking for other opportunities to help people build wealth in our community, a diverse group of people to build wealth in our community. I appreciate that concern, and I think we really made an effort to reach out to several. As I indicated, one of those other firms was so busy on other projects that the city had. There is some benefit to having some consistency, especially when you get to the smart parks with some of the repeating ones, but we do not make that part of our selection reason other than trying to make sure we have a diverse group when we first go out to bid. Which is not quite the same as having a diverse group of people that we contract with. True, but we can't force them to bid. Very good. Any further questions? All right. This is shortened to the point with regard to the report. 1020, Commissioner Fish is moved. Can I get a second? Second. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. I know that this is work that we planned for well in advance because we know elevators need repair, and we know that these contracts are coming down the pike. I continue to be just a little frustrated with the reasoning that we have that we don't have a diverse pool of contractors that we are cultivating along the way. I just hope that we take the opportunity to be creative. I suspect there will be more of these same kind of contracts coming down the pipe, and it's just really disappointing that we seem to have the built-in excuses for the contractor rather than actually encouraging the contractor to be more creative and create more opportunity. Thank you. If we say as a city, we want to make sure that women and people of color have opportunities with city dollars, then we actually have to act differently than we've done in the past. I vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's adopted. 10-21, please. Move the report. Second. Motion from Commissioner Fish. A second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Aye. The report's accepted. Thanks a lot for your presentation. Shortened to the point. Item 1022, if you could read it, and I'm going to pull it. Amend Finance and Revenue Code to streamline the procurement and contracting process. All right. So I'm going to pull this back to my office, and it'll come back next week. Item 1023, I have a question of my colleagues. I don't know if Commissioner Udaly is coming back. Does anybody know? No, four votes is enough, Mayor. Okay, good. I have a doctor's appointment, so I'm just trying to decide how quickly to move things. 1023, please. 1023, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for the transfer of $4 million from the Multnomah County Supportive Housing Fund to the Portland Housing Bureau for development of 70 housing units at the Westwind Apartments Project. Three years ago, Portland voters made history by passing our first ever affordable housing bond. Last month we announced the new project selected under the bond opportunity solicitation and had another historic announcement. We've now met and in most cases exceeded our goals promised to Portland voters with 1,424 new housing units open or in the development pipeline. Multnomah County has been an essential partner in our community wide success. Their $4 million capital contribution for the West Wind Apartments and additional support services through the Joint Office of Homeless Services advances our goal of bringing new permanent supportive housing units into our community. And with that, I'll turn this over to Shannon. It looks like you're up first, Shannon, and then Mark will play second fiddle today. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioner. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm pleased to be here today to bring you this intergovernmental agreement to authorize a $4 million contribution from Multnomah County. To the redevelopment of the West Wind Apartments. The West Wind is one of 12 housing bond projects identified. It was announced along with nine other projects this September after a competitive process. All told, these developments will be home to over 2,900 Portlanders. The Westwind itself will be a newly constructed seven story building. It will provide 100 new homes, 70 of which will provide supportive housing. All of the 70 units with supportive housing will have rent support from home forward. The majority of the residents will be individuals transitioning from homelessness who experience a disabling condition. The support services will include mental health, healthcare services, as well as culturally specific support delivered through service partnerships with the Native American Rehabilitation Association, also known as NARA, and Central Cities Concerns culturally specific programs. The building will also include space for community services and resident art space for art classes and workshops. We expect construction to begin commencement next fall. So, Mayor and Commissioners, good morning. My name is Mark Joel and I'm the Director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services. I'm mostly here just to express my appreciation for the partnership that this represents between the City and the County when it comes to expanding the inventory of permanent supportive housing in our community. Together we launched less than two years ago an initiative to create 2,000 new units of permanently supportive housing for folks in our community, individuals and families who need deep subsidy and also need ongoing support services in order to ensure that they're able to stay in their housing. And the information that you have before you because of the work that we have done together shows that we are now at 792 units towards our goal of 2,000 units, either already in place or in the pipeline. And that is really exceptional. It's a testament to the resources that the community has provided and the coordination between the city and the county. The housing authority, our state partners, making all of this possible. So the West Wind is almost 10% of that, 792. It's one important project among many, and it is a good day to be here and to celebrate the progress that we're making. So thank you. Thanks, Mark. Questions? Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Where is the money coming from for the services for the permanent supportive housing? So in this particular project, we have a partnership with the Multnomah County Health Department that is likely to provide the majority of the support services funding. As we always do, we'll be looking to leverage the clinical services that people need that are typically Medicaid funded. So we'll use general fund to provide the housing placement and retention support services that we can't bill Medicaid for. And whose general fund is? So that is in the joint office's budget, but is in partnership with the health department. Okay, so it's already in the budget? Yeah, for this project. Okay, thank you. Commissioner Fish. So this is a good opportunity to do a little PSA for PSH. Because Commissioner Fritz got at something very important. In the presentations that we have received on permanent supportive housing, we've learned at least two things. One is that to serve the people that we want to serve, we have to have a significant subsidy to drive down the cost so that people at 0% to 30% of MFI are eligible. And second is we have to have funding for the services. And it turns out that over the last couple years, as the public has become more, focused on the housing crisis and focused on homelessness. But the public actually understands that for this to be successful, you've got to have those services. And furthermore, interesting, understands that having a case worker and those services might be the difference between a successful tenancy or not. Or someone turning their lives around and getting a second chance. So, because Commissioner Fritz raised it, I think it's important to put on the table that we've set an audacious goal of 2,000 units. I'm pleased to see that we're making progress. Was that a picture of the West Wind? Very attractive building. So, you know, we're making steady progress. But the flaw in the ointment, the hole in our system is having adequate resources to fund those services. And the reality is we are simply not going to be waiting to be bailed out by the federal government or by the state government. They just, right, we cannot expect in the short term that that's going to happen. The public understands that those services are crucial to the success of these programs. So in my view, and in the view of many others, We're going to have to have a new revenue source at some point. We're going to have to have a thoughtful conversation about how to generate substantial money to provide those services. So while I'm delighted we're making progress, the West Wind looks like a great deal, I'm a big believer in the joint office, the reality check is we are going to need new revenue to close the gap on services. And I look forward to the council having that conversation as we head into the new year. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much for your presentation. This has nothing to do with what's in front of me at the moment, but I continue to say to both of you that what we're calling affordable housing is really not affordable housing. So while today Commissioner Fish is talking about affordable housing, are 30% and below MFI. Do you have any data on the people who are being turned away because they can't afford the affordable housing units that are coming on the market? I mean, when we talk 80% of MFI, when we talk 60% of MFI, do we have any data at all? Are we collecting that data? And if so, where do I find it? Commissioner, I don't believe I have any data readily available for you, but I will go back and check with my team on that. The Housing Bureau supports housing with our direct financing at 60% area median income and below. And of course the greatest need is below 30% AMI. This building will support 70 households that essentially have no income. Yes. So the rent support is really kind of some of the magic to making sure that we're able to support people who are, especially those folks who are on Social Security disability or otherwise. But I'll be happy to follow up and see what I can get for you on that. I would be greatly appreciative because we're going to be asked to vote on better housing by design and we're going to be asked to vote on a whole host of other housing issues. strategies, right? But if we're not clear about what is really housing that people can afford to live in, then we will continue to incentivize the wrong end of the housing market. And so I think we really, I desperately need that information so that I'm able to make really good decisions. When we say affordable, what do we really, really mean? Yeah, and the National Low Income Housing Coalition does an annual report that came out relatively recently where they break out. They show the number of extremely low income households, so folks making 30% and below, and how many available units that rent at levels that are affordable to that community exist. So you're able to see the gap. That's often how we're able to identify what the deficit is of deeply affordable housing in our community for that population. So I can also forward you that information. It's some of the best data we have. And we do know that for the Portland area. But what I heard you say, Commissioner, was specifically are people applying that are then rejected for the housing? And I don't know that I have that. information. We definitely have the need in the community and it is definitely the deeply affordable housing for folks below 0 to 30. Commissioner Fish. Is this the single biggest investment in permanent supportive housing in any one project in recent history? I'm trying to remember the last time, and we are constantly asking to bring the MFI down to provide services for people that have either no income or very limited income. I don't remember the last time a project penciled out with this many units of permanent supportive housing? Is it? We have a number of units in the pipeline that are coming forward that we'll be dealing with zero to three, but this is pretty pretty substantial step. We have not done something of this building type with 70 units of supportive housing in quite some time. Probably since the Butler Commons. Yeah. Since both. I think so. I can't think of another building that had 70 PSH units in one building. That's quite an accomplishment. The Joyce will be, is also, the redevelopment of the Joyce will be coming to council at some point in the future. And that will have about 69 units of supportive housing with deeply affordable as well. So they're relatively comparable. But this building is brand new with 100 units. So it is. So Commissioner Udaly. Thank you Mayor. Just following up on the affordability question, it does get confusing because there's really a big A affordability and a little a affordability. When we are talking about affordable housing here with the Housing Bureau, we're talking about big A affordable as defined by HUD. When other people are talking about affordable housing, they may just be talking about housing that's affordable to anyone relative to their income, which is 30%. That's the rule of thumb, 30% of your income. We have to follow HUD guidelines, is my understanding. And... When we're talking about publicly owned housing, permanently affordable housing, we are devoting our dollars to 60% of MFI and below. In the private sector, we cannot compel them to build anything other than what's prescribed through inclusionary zoning, which is 60% or 80% of median family income, correct? Correct. I don't think that we're going to find meaningful data of people who are being denied housing because they don't meet the income guidelines, because they're probably not applying. But we do know roughly what the need is in each category, and it's staggering, all told. It's staggering. what, 24,000 affordable units was the number that we were hearing five years ago. Unfortunately, the inflow of people into that category of need hasn't really slowed down, and the housing that's being built by the private industry is largely unaffordable to most Portlanders. So I understand the confusion about that. Thank you. the language and I just wanted to clarify. Commissioner, can I make one other point? Sure. In keeping with what you just said, there was a time when the Portland Development Commission and the then version of the Housing Bureau, which had a different name, a big disagreement about what was affordable housing. Dollars were being spent differently depending on which of the two agencies were spending the dollars. When Mayor Adams came in as mayor, when I came in as housing commissioner, and we collapsed all the housing programs together and put them under one roof and then redirected the mission of the Portland Housing Bureau, we resolved that question first. Finally, unless the council wants to reopen it at some point. And we said our focus is low-income families and individuals. So it eliminated the conflict that was going on by reconciling funding, policy, and oversight under one bureau. At the time was... by a lot of people and was controversial because PDC was using some public resources to create incentives for fancy hotels and other kinds of things. But it was the right thing to do in my opinion. But it's also why the housing that we get presented on all the time fits within the guidelines that were established with that relaunch of the Portland Housing Bureau. it is just however rare that we meet our target on zero to 30. That's been the unmet need, and there's a huge need out there that Home Forward can't meet on its own. And so I'm delighted to see we're making some progress there. Because even public housing needs rent revenue. They can't all be free, which is a challenge. And I also want to point out a couple – other challenges that may kind of complicate this conversation. Number one, the federal... poverty income guidelines are woefully out of date. And so you have to be incredibly low income to qualify for supports that should be available to people that earn significantly more. And then the other issue I see is that we base our median family income on all residents, homeowners and renters. And we know that renters make significantly less money than homeowners. So renters are, I think... The unaffordability issue is somewhat, like the severity is somewhat hidden by the fact that we're assuming that people who are trying to rent make median family income. And we know that average rents are only affordable to people that earn 120% of median family income. And that makes matters even worse. Thank you for humoring me, but I think these are just important details to think about when we're talking about affordability. Very good. Carla, do we have any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up. Maggie? Come on up. I'm glad I'm hearing the word permanent supportive housing more. I think it's necessary. I think... I don't know what happened to the people and the 70 units in the West Wind. Like, where did they go? Were they displaced? Did they go out on the street? No, they will not be displaced onto the street. Okay, and the other thing I would like to say is, you know, it's good to rehab buildings. Is there any way to add more units to the West Wind? Possibly, yes. And you're... Going to be putting people back in there, but that didn't increase the number of units. So how are we going about increasing the number of units for permanent supportive housing? And when I mean permanent supportive housing, I mean with social services, not just sticking someone in an apartment. Maggie, can I answer that question? Because this is a good question you've raised, and it's one that's certainly been asked. The West Wind is at the risk of being demolished and rebuilt as a private sector condominium or apartment project. So we are at risk of losing the 70 beds that currently exist there that are very low income beds. But what we're proposing doing is replacing it with a building that will actually last. for 100 years, unlike the building that is there currently. And it will also provide support services to ensure that the chronically homeless can be successful in their housing. So this is a play for the long term. Okay, so then my question would be, is there a way to increase the number of units in that building? Potentially, yes. Okay, try and do that. Okay. Definitely. Okay. Thank you. All right. Appreciate it. Any further testimony on this item? This is an emergency ordinance. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udaily? I think I've made enough comments on this item. I'll just vote aye. Yr $4,000,000 sy'n dod o'r cyrfa i'r ddyniaeth am y prosiect hon yw o ddewis Wapato. Rwy'n hapus iawn i wybod bod y arian hynny'n cael ei ddefnyddio ar gyfer 100 unedau o ddifrifoedd cyffredinol, gan gynnwys 70 o ddifrifoedd cymorth cyffredinol. Mae hynny'n ddefnyddio'r arian hynny'n llawer gwell na rhoi pobl mewn llyfrgell nad ydynt yn mynd i ddarparu ddifrifoedd cyffredinol. Diolch. Wel, diolch i'r Cyfarwyddwr Callaghan ac i Mark Jolin am eu cyflwyniad gwych. Ac rwy'n hapus iawn i gefnogi'r adroddiad hwn. Hardesty? Rwy hefyd yn hynod o ddiolch i chi am y gwybodaeth. Ac rwy'n gobeithio ein bod yn parhau i ofyn y term Gwleidydd Gwerthfawr oherwydd, eto, rydyn ni'n gorfod sicrhau ein bod yn cyrraedd y marg. Rwy'n hynod o ddiolch i'r cynllun hwn. Rwy'n gwneud yn dda. Wheeler? Rwyf eisiau diolch i'r Bwrdd Gwledig a rwyf eisiau diolch i fy nîm am y gwaith anodd sydd wedi'i roi i mewn i hyn. Mae hyn yn dechrau newydd ar gyfer SROs yn y ddinas Portland. Rydym yn y broses o ddechrau ar a chymunedau SRO hynod o bwysig sy'n gallu cyflawni'r sefyllfa'n fach yn ymdrin â'r lleiaf sydd wedi'i weld yn ein cymuned. Dyma'r ddarlun cyntaf sydd wedi'i wneud gyda ni o ran y bond ymdrin â'r adnodd i fywyd gwerthus. Byddwn yn cael ei ddilyn, fel y dywedodd Cyngor Callaghan yn ystod y cyfnod, yn y yn ystod cyfnod, gan y Gweinidog ac fe welwch chi prosiectau eraill fel hyn hefyd wrth i ni fynd amdano i gyflawni ein cymhwyso i greu 2,000 o adeiladau cefnogol parhaus yn ein cymuned. Roeddem wedi gwneud y cymhwyso hir yn ôl. Roedd yn cymhwyso 10 mlynedd. Rydym eisoes am 650 o adeiladau a wnaethom y cymhwyso 2,000 o adeiladau. A gobeithio y bydd hynny'n dangos y canllawiau hwn, yn ogystal â fy nghymryd fy hun ar y pwnc hwn. Rwy'n nodi i, mae'r cyfnod wedi'i gymryd. Mae'r cydweithwyr yn rhedeg, rwy'n troi'r cyfnod i'r Prif Weinidog. Diolch, Fuan. Yr ail bryd nesaf, os gwelwch. Bryd 1024, cyfnod o ddewis y ddisgrifiad leol ar gyfer St. Washington y Ddaith. Diolch, Gyffredin. Diolch, Prif Weinidog. Mae'r arwain hwn yn ei angen i gynllunio cwmniant a chyflawniwch gan adroddiad llaw o arwain arwain arwain strwyth ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod yst yn hirach na'r hyn y mae'n ei wneud oherwydd gallwn ddefnyddio'r hwyneb nawr. Nawr, yma i ddarparu adnoddau a chyflawni unrhyw gwestiynau, arweinydd P-BOT Rhydefwy, Dee Walker. Diolch Dee. Helo, diolch. Cyngorau. Commissioner Udaily pretty much said everything. But basically this is just a correction. In 1988, we vacated Southeast Washington Street. And in 2008, we were to vacate the remaining portion of Southeast Washington Street. Unfortunately, there was an error and it included a 5-year foot gap. So we have five feet of public right-of-way within the midst of all this private property. The abutting property owner is in for redevelopment and it came to their attention that this was not their property and then we found out that there was an error in the legal description, hence my amending the ordinance. So this is more of a kind of a cleanup, PPOD initiated housekeeping issue to correct that 2008 ordinance. Thank you. Questions? Is anyone opposed to this action? No. No. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Did anybody sign up to testify, Carla? They left. Okay. This is an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Udaly? Thank you, Dean. Aye. Fish? Aye. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Fritz? Oddly, the order of voting changes in the middle of the meeting. Welton, Carla? Aye. Thank you. Next item, please. Last item. Item 1025, authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Southwest Capital Highway, Southwest Taylor's Ferry Road to Southwest Garden Home Road project. through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Udaele. Thank you, Madam President. This ordinance will authorize the Bureau of Transportation to offer just compensation for small segments of properties that will allow us to move forward on the sidewalk, bike lane, paving, stormwater and water system improvements on Southwest Capital Highway between Southwest Garden Home and Southwest Taylors Ferry Road. Here to provide details and answer any questions is PBOT right-of-way agent Marty Maloney. Welcome Marty. Good morning, commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with PBOT right-of-way. The agenda in front of you... Could you bring the mic just a little bit closer? Oh, sorry. The agenda in front of you authorizes the city to use eminent domain authority as well as the ability to offer just compensation for the needed property rights associated with the Capitol Highway project. All affected property owners have been informed of the city's need for those certain property rights and were invited to attend the reading of this council item as well. It's pretty much all. I'd be happy to answer any questions council might have. I have a question. I understand that 10 of these may involve some permanent easements. Could you tell us about those please? Correct. Yeah, so there'll be some permanent right-of-way that's necessary due to some some grading out there requires some retaining walls to be constructed. On four of the properties, we don't have enough right-of-way at the time to at this time to actually put in the retained walls within that existing right-of-way. So we need to acquire a couple feet off the frontage of a property Then also for the rest of the six are for permanent retaining wall maintenance easements. So we're actually going to be putting the retaining walls within the existing right-of-way, but down the road to inspect the retaining walls, we'll need to get on to certain properties to do so, and then if necessary, to maintain or repair. or do any fixes. And for the four that are actually having property taken, are they all hyper aware that this is going to happen? Correct. Correct. Have you spoken with each one of them? I haven't spoke to all of them, but I have sent out mailings to everybody. I've spoke to, I believe two out of the four of the properties, but we'll also be doing mailings. contract appraisal work on those, so the appraiser will be in contact with them pretty soon here, but I can definitely reach out to them again and make sure that they are aware of that. Yeah, I would actually like that to happen before we vote on the ordinance, because construction easements come and go, and also the maintenance easements, but for the ones where their property is actually going to be used permanently for right-of-way, it seems like the I would really like to know. Usually you come and you've already spoken to everybody and they're okay with it. Yeah, a lot of the time, sometimes it's tough to get a hold of people. It's just more of sending out the information about the project and saying, you know, this is something that's coming up and if you have questions, feel free to reach out to me. But yeah, definitely I can try to reach out to them again. Yeah, to me, the government taking somebody's property with them really having no ability to say that's not fair. Yeah. That's one of the most significant things we do. Commissioner, would you be okay bringing this back next week? Marty's, I mean this is an emergency ordinance, so can you tell me what the level of urgency is? So level of urgency is basically construction windows for this coming May is when they want to start construction on the project, but we have we don't have a ton of time to actually acquire the needed property rights. We have 80 property owners we're dealing with and that's why I wanted to run an emergency just because it would take an extra month if we didn't run an emergency. And so just to be clear, everyone has been notified. Correct. The question is whether there was clarity on... Permanent easements. Yeah, and I guess their opinion on the acquisition? Yes. Okay. Yeah, and I can definitely reach out and just ask them about it. You know, that's, yeah, no problem. So what would we do? Continue this to next week and keep it an emergency? Let's just keep going and I have another suggestion. Commissioner Hardesty? Thank you, Madam President. I share Commissioner Fritz's concern. So I'm trying to understand. So there are 200 specific pieces of property. There are 80 property owners. And how many properties will permanently be taken through eminent domain? So all properties are under the threat of eminent domain because the city has the ability to condemn on these property rights. We have a great track record of not actually condemning on properties. Since I've even been here, I've been here for about 12 years. We've never had to acquire property rights through a jury trial. You know, we do a good job of trying to negotiate with property owners and coming to a mutual beneficial outcome. So, and it's not actually 200 property, 200 easements. Those are legal descriptions and exhibits. So there's about 100 separate easement rights that we're going to be acquiring over 80 people's properties. And what's the... Thank you. My next question really has to do with when you say notification, what does that mean? So we send out general information for the actual projects itself saying that... No, I'm sorry. How is the information sent out? Is it a letter? Is it a certified? Is it an email? Just what's the process? Certified mailing. Certified mailing. Yeah, definitely. It's part of it. We actually have to send out certified. We have to know that the property owners are receiving this mailing. So it is sent out certified. I do talk to a lot of property owners. You know, once I send this out, I give them all my contact information. And so then I can kind of start the process of sending. this is what we have going on and this is the property that we need. It's just sometimes it's hard to get hold of everybody. It's just nature of the beast. My last question is during your negotiation with the property owner, have you had an experience where the ask was significantly more than you thought the value was? Where does that additional money come from? when you are making this trade? So basically, you know, we're not infallible when it comes to valuing properties, but we ask the property owners to provide information that would base this extra. You know, if we are offering $1,000, if they say $2,000, I always ask them, why is this? You know, sometimes they just say, because my... I've dealt with development services and they charged me a bunch of money so I want this. I can't, we can't do that but if there is certain like I think your property value that you put on this is low, we'll definitely look at this and if there is a compensation we go above and beyond, it has to be approved through the project manager and the budget of the overall project. Thank you. Commissioner Daley. Thank you Madam President. So I just want to make it clear that all affected property owners have been contacted and informed as to the city's need for these property rights by certified mail. We're not trying to pull anything over on anyone. None whatsoever. Is a project broadly supported in Southwest Portland? Yeah, the people I've talked to, you know, I know people understand there's going to be inconvenience involved when the construction of this project is going on. But the people that I've spoken to... agree with the project and I know it's been in the process for over a decade now that they've tried to do this and a lot of people have told me that oh we've been here since you first started talking about this but they have been agreeable to the project it's just the inconvenience during construction might be a little rough. And these are very narrow strips at the property edge? Absolutely. Will any buildings be impacted? No. Do you anticipate this will decrease the value of anyone's property? No. You can almost make an argument that it would increase values. Because they're getting sidewalls. But we don't really take that in consideration. Yeah. But the effect on people's property would be taken in consideration if there was any sort of damage in the appraisals that we complete, and we would compensate for that. So out of all the impacted properties, I think the – The term eminent domain is a little bit of a trigger for a lot of people, but no one's home is being taken away. No one's property value is being decreased. We're making vital improvements to the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure in an area that is inadequately served. So I'm not going to argue with my colleagues if they'd like to hold this over for a week while we do a little bit more homework, but I would prefer to move forward with it. I'm loathe to impose a new requirement. Excuse me. I'd like a turn to just, unless all my colleagues have a turn first, Commissioner. I had a follow-up question about the certified mailers that required a signature required in receipt. Correct, yeah. They have the green cards, and they sign off. They send them back, and we just add them into the files. And if you've talked to two of the four who have permanent... purchase of their, part of their property. Um, so presumably they are okay because otherwise they'd be here or sent into remonstrance. Yeah, definitely. Um, of the other two, could you give us, as Commissioner Udeli just alluded to, uh, are they narrow strips? Correct. Do they have any structures on those strips? I believe it's two feet is the largest of an actual property acquisition we're completing. And really, we're going to be putting just the retaining wall onto that property. There's some landscaping involved, but it's not any sort of dwelling. We're not hitting any buildings or anything to that effect. Yes, there will be some trees. I'd have to look back, and I can... clarify a little bit more on those four properties. I know there is some landscaping. I'm not sure how many trees are involved in that area, but a lot of the trees that were, um, will be removed are within the existing right of way in a lot of spaces just because we're have to recapture that area that's kind of been overgrown already. I know we did have testimony at one of the hearings from the property owner at the corner of Alice and Capitol Highway concerned about impact to their landscaping. I'm just wondering, I'll yield to you in a second, Commissioner Fish. Tomorrow afternoon, we have the Native American, declaring Native American Heritage Month. I believe that we're no longer going to have the report. So, yeah. Would it be possible for you to try to contact the other two property owners this afternoon or tonight? Correct. And then we could bring it back tomorrow afternoon after the Native American event. Would that be acceptable to my colleagues? Commissioner Fisher, you wanted to comment? Yeah, that would be acceptable to me. I just want to say that, as you and I know, Commissioner Fritz, over the last 10 years of service, These things are heavily prescribed by law and code. I am loathe to set new conditions on staff about leaving phone messages, calling, contacting people, and other things. If the council wants to take that up as part of creating a new level of engagement around someone who's getting notice, I think we should do it in the ordinary course. But I frankly don't find it very compelling to have someone leave another message saying, did you get the letter that you signed for and have you complained yet? outside of our current system because our system is heavily regulated and heavily prescribed. Right, and for the last 11 years, I've been asking these questions of every single project that comes, whether it's a sewer or a road or whatever it is, because I believe that government... forcing people to sell their property is a really significant thing. A lot of the time when I do speak to property owners about are they in favor of the project, a lot of the times I can't completely answer that because the question is how much money How much money are you going to give me for this property? I understand that. I just want to make sure that they know that there's an opportunity. They could come tomorrow afternoon or send in information if they are vehemently opposed and want us to look at reengineering. This has never happened in all the times I've been asking for this to happen. You've been really great about anticipating that I will be asking this. So if we wouldn't mind setting it over until after the item 1028 tomorrow, and then we can vote on it at that time if there's no further input. Does that sound acceptable? Sure. Thank you very much. So that's so ordered, and we are adjourned until 2 o'clock this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. All right, good afternoon, everybody. Afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, can you please call the roll? Everybody, this is the November 6, 2019. Here. Fish. Hardesty. Here. Wheeler. Here. Yes. Udailey. Here. Fritz. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets suspected and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, or subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first at the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order when testifying. Treatings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being, please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify. Please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have... The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes for something. Please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain. Please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not feel like you're filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct is not considered in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are allowed, if there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be rejected. A person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest or trespass. Thank you for the result and the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting after being safe. Very good. Thank you. We have exactly one item today. For helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected. Please read item 1026. But it's a big one and it's an important one. Carla, could you please? Comprehensive plan map, zoning map, title 33. amend the Comprehensive Plan Noise Control, Title 32 Signs and Related Regulations 3 Planning and Zoning, Title 18 Night Dwelling Residential Designations and Base Zones Relations, to revise the Multicurriculum on the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft. And to enter colleagues, we're back today to continue the public reorient everyone on the proposal. News discuss and vote on amendments to help to expand housing options, address affordability. The intent of the better housing by design amendments is multi-dwelling zones. And just by way of run and improve. in Portland. I'd then like to call on Planning and Sustainability Commission of show. We're going to hear briefly from the BPS staff. Quinonez?
 Quinonez.
 Quinonez.
 Quinonez. Mission member Daisy. I'm going to say Daisy. We'll find out. Who will bring... Quinonez. Am I getting closer? Quinonez. Commission's vote in support. We will then take public counsel on the planning and sustainability with regard to public testimony. There were a number of people testimony. I have a couple of housekeeping items and did not get the opportunity to testify. Who signed up last time to testify? Can you make sure... Carla, do you need them to come in? If you're here, could you just raise your hand so I can see you? Right behind me here. That would be great. Just to make sure that you're still on the list. Confirm with you. Yes, they could check in with Keelan. Whatever you want. The main motion. And I want to be clear. You can talk about today. People who are signing up today can talk about the amendments that are going to be presented to speak to the amendments, because the conversation about the main motion for the first time will only be able to spoke last week, or you didn't get to speak when it happened last week. So you either spoke today. Now, there are probably some of you here who last week, but you signed up and you're going to get to speak first, who would also like to speak today. If that is the case, did speak last time on this, but spoken on the larger issue today, you can only speak on the amendments. You can certainly do that, but since you've already spoken, and if it's not, ask me again later and we can go through that. Is that clear for everybody? Bill Cunningham. Good afternoon, Bill. How are you today? Good. Good afternoon again. So I'm going to start off with our staff report council. I did want to clarify something that you had mentioned. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, members of the City Commission, the speaker today. Okay. I'm sorry. That happened in October. We will not have a planning and sustainability commission. I'm officially going to recycle it. Thank you. That's fine. A second. Okay. I'm sorry. I have old information where we are to kick this off. We've organized... Now I'm going to move into first staff will briefly introduce the amendments. There's the agenda today into three parts. First up to this point, the amendments for the Better Housing by Design recommended draft that have been requested by City Commissioner. The draft amendments were shared with the public last week and we've and I should mention that November 5, 2019, One reason we'd like to have included them in a memorandum to City Council data clear that the public is aware of the amendments that I've been presenting. The summary of the amendments is just to be sure you provide testimony both on the broader recommended draft and requested up to this point. And that provides them enough that Council move and second these amendments prior to testimony and the amendments. We suggest the initial presentation be fairly brief, the full, the idea being that while after public testimony. The second part of the agenda will be discussion and questions and answers, what happened after and the draft amendments. After the close of testimony, this will be the public testimony on both the recommended draft discussion and votes on each of the major code and map amendments. Third part of the agenda will be moving on to the city council consider as a group. Followed by several minor or technical amendments we suggest. Can I get clarification on something? Commissioner Fish. And with that, I'm going to launch into. The council put the group of all the amendments on the. Had me until you said that you recommend. If there is no support on the council for table and second them. Right. I think that we second it. Our thinking was really just a particular amendment. Why are you recommending the public could provide testimony? And then once everything is on, to keep it fairly brief to begin with so that it votes as to whether the amendments will stand or not. The table be dependent basically on starting out with a brief summary and then following, really trying to get a public testimony. That was a general take. The idea still may be aware that I've been asked by at least one of our colleagues to sign a bill and Commissioner Fish may not be aware and generally extend that courtesy. Commissioner Hardesty. Second for the purposes of discussion and as a courtesy, I... We are going to take each of these separate amendments and vote on... Thank you. I just want to make sure that we want to give the impression that I'm supporting amendments just because those separately at some point because I don't... What we do is... Particularly if we're discussing tech. There's a second that's been had. Yeah, so what we typically do is we move those as a package, but any commission or clinical amendments or staff recommended a separate discussion and a separate vote. So they are often able to pull any item out of that package at any time versus a package. So I'm going to recommend we not take them up as a package. Presented as a package, but they do not have to be taken up one at a time if that's okay with my colleagues. package that after all the testimony that we take them. The technical amendments, right? Yeah, technical amendments are... Any objection? I mean, I'm getting a lot of amendments. I just got one just this afternoon. It's different than... Well, except in amendments that I have not agreed with. So my preference would be so I do not want to be rushed into. It's the right of any commissioner to pull any item off of the packet. That we do them one at a time after the testimony. Very good. We've done this differently depending on the hearing. Yes. And Mayor, I just want to add one other thing because if there is no council support, The one downside, the council often serves as a filter at the front end for purposes of putting it on the table, is that we're going to have a lot of test side of what I think is a very collegial gesture about second, that the council has already signaled they don't support. So testimony from people saying don't support something which are actually in place. So with that caveat, I think, and it's going to crowd out testimony on those items, are a group of amendments which they don't support, just if... I would urge people if they're put them out, but don't feel you have to address each amendment. I don't support blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You know, council is inclined to support because by putting them on the table, it doesn't signal that they can. Admonition, Commissioner Fish. Anything further? All right. So any particular amendment? Fair. Mr. Mayor. The draft amendments. You're going to go through the amendments. Thank you. Just a couple slides to remind people of what we're focusing on. And this has another presentation up. Yes. All right. Alright, well, this is focusing on Portland's multi-dwelling zones. They're shown in blue, bearing on some of the amendments. This project is, and what you see on the map is it's not a large area. On the screen, red are the mixed-use zones. They're typically along our corridors or in our mixed-use centers. The city, it's only 8% of the city's land area, but close to services and close to transit. So it's pretty key to expanding options for people to live. Key basic approaches to the project. The two... This too has a big emphasis on expanding housing options in the multi-housing zones. The sides of the coin, if you would, are the project by allowing more flexibility for the numbers and types of units. This is being done in a couple of ways. One, for what's built within that scale. They're also regulating more by building scale, more flexibility for affordable housing to really be more intentional with a big emphasis on bonuses, development incentives, and the mix. While we're also looking at trying to get more clearly affordable housing as an option, we're also thinking about how the new housing relates both to while we're looking at focusing on expanding housing. So we have a number of provisions that are expanding outdoor space with the needs of residents and the surrounding context. A lot more people to be living in multifamily, so we have concerns about that. Farmers to better serve the needs of residents. We're expecting violations. And just to highlight those development bonus and they're also community design related right to development bonuses Almost all of the development bonuses says when we talk about our amendments and relationships priority placed on more deeply affordable housing affordable are about affordable housing and with the greatest and that's a level that's about where a preschool teacher at a 60 percent of area median income level security guard we know that our private sector is an urns or a landscaper or is one reason for that priority That would be not producing a lot of new housing at that level. So that's that's Amendment number one is related to that deep transitioning straightaways into the amendment as written. It focuses on that 60% of area median income housing affordability amendment, which Housing has its half of the units have to be at that level. And it's a higher percentage of units and inclusion affordable at 80% of median income. 60% of the amendment would add a home ownership option for ownership housing. And the median income typically is not working very well for that later when you get to the discussion. But the intent really is to, and Matt Shelbold from housing will talk about rental housing, but also to expand opportunities for affordable ownership. Use this bonus not only to promote related to this, and I'll talk about this more when we get to the discussion of housing. And there are three amendments related to an existing affordable housing parking exemption. Point. Amendment 2 is units are currently exempt from minimum parking requirements, but in which projects providing inclusionary housing 500 feet of frequent transit lines, that's about a tenth of a mile. Or if they're only currently entirely exempt if you're within the proposal is to expand that exemption to 1500 feet from light rail stations. primarily in the multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones to help reduce any affordable housing projects getting more affordable housing built. And just a key to reduce the costs and increase the feasibility of multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones are within about a quarter mile of frequent transit. Note is that 95%, the vast majority of our multi-dwelling, relate to very far from transit. In these zones, pretty much all the transit. So anywhere across the city doesn't try that. Amendment 3 is related to development bonuses. Development is fairly close to transit. demolitions of historic buildings. This amendment would disallow the use of but it addresses concerns about sites where a historic building has been demolished. The intent is to prevent development bonuses or FVR transfers from unintentionally serving as an incentive for the demolition of these bonuses and transfers. Amendment 4 is also about development bonuses and this relates to historic buildings. would disallow the use of bonuses from sites that are more than to transit access concerns. This amendment that's a little bit over a quarter mile and would apply in both the 1500 foot walking distance from frequent transit is to ensure that the additional development scale allowed by the bonus of tidal running and mixed use zones. And the intent of this amendment, as I mentioned, the vast majority takes place in areas well served by transit, but there are some areas that are not so close. The extent of development in those zones is pretty close to this point. Amendment 5 is related to an existing... I'm not going to get into that map. Historic districts that would apply in the RM4 zone and being allowance for 100-foot building height in historic districts. To drop that allowance is to prevent new development from being out of the intent of this amendment, which would, again, just say no. The considerations are things of scale with historic districts. Action for each item. Amendment 6 is, I'll be bringing back later when we have a more in-depth discussion, and this amendment would require that large sites more than 20,000 square feet be provided for an indoor common area requirement. Indoor community rooms or recreation rooms, square feet, include indoor common areas such as a required outdoor common area for large sites. And the intent of, in addition to proposals for, we have some indoor community space that could be used in all weather. And so this amendment is to ensure that even when you have inclement weather during much of the year, port activity and social interaction, the proposals had... allowed indoor and this is a change from the proposal in that the patient space or common area requirements but did not require it. It was an option for common areas to meet recreation sites. So Bill, if you could just go back to that, there's actually a 6 option. This would shift it into being a requirement for levels up to 50% of the All of the common 06B, because the proposal allowed that's too much, that what we really need is required outdoors, common open space to be inside, and I think recreate. So I think there are actually two components. One is space for families and kids to limit the indoor space that's allowed to 25% instead of just to require a small amount of indoor space. I could clarify some of those things too when you get into the discussion phase. 50%. Yes, that's correct. And yeah, there's definitely a difference, the recommended draft. But thanks for the clarification. I see those two things as independent. They're not. They're not towards requirements, but it did not require it. And allowed up to half of it had allowed indoor community space to maximum 25%. So to make sure that more of it is outdoor, the common area to be indoor, this changes it to a series of three map amendments. The first is indoor space. Moving on, we have a 1021 Northeast 33rd Avenue. This would be re-zoned to the historic Anna Mann House. Zoning to RM1 multi-dwelling zoning. Zoning from R5 single-family zoning. facilitate its intended use as afford and this is intended to both facilitate its future preservation or continued preservation multi-dwelling housing as well as to facilitate mixed use corridor and is adjacent to existing multi-dwelling zoning. This is a site that's very close to the Sandy Boulevard. It's for a property at 5631 Southeast Belmont The next map amendment, M2, is shifting the rear portion of the property, which right now is split-zoned. It's essentially a zoning line shift. It would be currently the zoning line cuts through the structure into the RM1 multi-dwelling zone. The third amendment is, which really limits its ability to be used for a number of purposes, bringing down the scale further beyond what was perpleted to the Kings Hill Historic District. It would be with a four to one FAR. And the proposals would pose, this is an area that currently has our H zone assigned a three to one FAR and the proposal would bring it down further. Well, the recommended draft has scale of the two to three story historic buildings in that area to a two to one FAR to be more responsive to the more detail on all these. I know there's a lot of questions and we need a lot more. And again, I'll get into that. I really wanted to provide this as an overview. There's more clarity before you make decisions. But save to really describe when we get to the discussion. A list of six minor amendments, which I was going to call fairly minor, almost corrections. There are a couple that... Most of them, I'd like to save this too when you get to a discussion point so we can are a little bit more substantial. But if you don't mind, I'd like to have a testimony. Here. Commissioner Fish. So has this been a time for the community to provide testing? One here. The amendment CHEAP. cheat sheet and hand it out to everyone publicly with the people and we've had some copies out so anybody who's here today we have a table that we've shared the amendments and has the commentary If they wanted, has a sheet that lists all up front of this document? Yes. I also want to have a pile of some copies of it, a memo, I think it's 38 pages, that has both a list. To clarify something for commissioners, we had provided, because you'll be actually voting on whether to replace the costing of those amendments in short form, but then this document has the full code and commentary. And if any commission and you'll be voting on the specific code, this to you. This is the memo you're referring to? Yes, okay. So- Do not have their memo, we can provide it. I had specifically asked that in our cheat sheet, we have two other questions here. The second question, if notes, it has staff recommendation. We often have that when we have a column where it has beyond staff. We were not present for a lot of the testimony and hearings when we were dealing with lots of amendments. Has that been prepared? We had requests from commissioners previously at the administrative level so that staff could add comments. That was from those offices to provide the table and word versions. Okay. With staff recommendations on each one of the amendments? Provided to all the commissioner's offices. Staff recommendation, we did list some issues for consideration. We were not providing a formal. These are all amendments requested by commissioners. Is that this document? That was our approach, given the fact that, but we did not have a formal staff recommendation. Are you just referring to? Yeah, that's the table form. Your thoughts? Yes. I'll just... Staff notes. Yes. And put... We have in the past, Joe Zender is here, so... We've got to get to testimony here, but we have complex matters where we have lots of amendments. We have in the past, Joe, I'll speak to you on this. We have in other, it doesn't mean that we always follow the recommendation precedent for having staff recommendations. And I would like us from time to time to consider doing that because I, but it provides some context and kind of input. And the second question I have is. I think it's useful for us to have that before us, that were previously taken up and rejected by, can you identify the amendments in the packet? The Sustainability Commission? Correct. The Commission? The planning building height allowance, for example, was actually part of the initiative. There are a number, the 100 foot decided to remove that to the proposed draft, but PSC and the zoning code back and include it in the recommended draft. Actually bring the 100 foot allowance that's currently not really been a focus of discussion. They did not. The other items, affordability or the other discussed the idea of an affordable option for deeper had not considered. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you very much, sir. The ones where really would be new items that PSC and that you can manage. So thank you. If there is interest in staff, one thing I can mention to you. How much information that you have in your head? When we're doing the discussion, I could share some sharing a perspective or a kind of recommendation and the Bureau, if that would be useful. observations based on discussions we've had in the context of some policy or some prior decision. Again, it doesn't mean we have to. I have always found it useful, particularly where staff puts it in the context, but that's for my colleagues to decide once we hear the testimony. Follow the recommendation, but it gives us a mark. Okay, so here is our first waypoint. Thank you, Bill. Thank you very much. Thank you. We could go one of two ways, and I want to read for that. I appreciate it. We have our first waypoint. We could move the major code map amendments in the packet visit what Commissioner Hardesty just asked. We wouldn't be voting on them, but we could move them, put them on the table, minor amendments for the purposes of discussion. Alternatively, Commissioner Hardesty, if it is your desire for the purposes of discussion at this time, or I'll take your call. For the minor ones, I have no problem with it. We can go through them one by one to put them on the table. Is that a motion? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. All on the table for the purpose of discussion. Now on the table is a group with regard to the major code amendments. Do you want a minor amendments? What we're doing right now is to pull those out individually for discussion. Support for the question is Commissioner Fish. I think if I'm here. Simply putting them on the table. So we're not saying we support them or don't. Table as a package, we dispense with having to read each one and go through this. If I'm hearing my colleague correctly, if we put them on the table to have each one taken up and discussed and voted on separately. That's correct. But we have preserved our rights. Okay. So can I get a motion then to put the major code amendments? I believe is what you wanted to have on the record. Is that correct? I'll give the second to Commissioner Fritz, who is very close to the motion. On the table. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. I believe I also have to move the map amendments. And the motion. And we have a second. Second. Can we get a motion on the map amendment? Taking care of. Good. So all of the amendments that people see either. And then there were a number of. No, these are all diagrams or in the more comprehensive package. They're in one of two different diet discussion. We're now on the table, meaning they are open for, to public testimony on the Better Housing by Design recommended draft. We'll now open the door, open the door, we'll open the floor. Called in the order that they signed up, starting with the people who in the draft amendments. Testifiers will be, each person will have three minutes to testify. Carl had signed up last time, who did not get a chance to speak. Last I checked is about 30 something. Thank you. How many in total do we have signed up today? And 29 for today. So far, nine from the previous list. Three from the nine that had previously signed up. Okay. So let's start with the first three. We'll get you on this first list. So the first three I have, again, if you did not check in from the last time, Lettuce Powers and David Schollhammer. Our Brooke Best, Zoe. Thank you. Would you like to go ahead and start? Sure. Thanks for your patience as well. Thank you for being here. Would you like to? Architectural Heritage Center's Advocacy Committee. And my name is Brooke Best, and I'm a member of the... And would like to present comments on the Better Housing Proposal. I'm here today as a resident of Ladd's Addition. First, I want to express my support of the city's need to address as it relates to historic districts. First, my concern is around the un-nuanced treatment of increasing affordability and housing options. This policy has been turned into a polarizing issue of historic districts in the current draft. Through a similar scenario with the mandatory affordable housing, and as a former Seattleite, we went vice of split between the NIMBYs and the YIMBYs. Housing legislation, which created a difference. We can strike a better balance in how we grow. So what can we learn from our neighbors to the north? It's not a simple either-or solution, and it requires a lot of work within these multi-dwelling zones. And there are two main provisions that I want to look at. There's a more granular look at what we're trying to achieve. It is in support of the draft language regarding additional address related to last addition. The first, seismic upgrades to historic buildings. So these FAR transfer allowance for it helped the high costs of these critical seismic retrofits. Transfers of additional floor area, code amendment three sponsored by Commissioner Fritz. The second is in support of the major incentives for if a historic building is demolished. That provides the disallowance of development as an example with their demolition disincentive. We can look towards Seattle in their municipal code. A critical and often not going to read what it states, but that is actually codified, is the loss of existing, naturally occurring, affordable, often overlooked aspect of the housing equation. Development of historic housing. I'm going to provide some housing due to demolition and re-divert to our period between 2016 and 2018. Context from statistics from Seattle of a net loss of over 400 low-income units that showed demolitions alone led to smaller. The bottom line, there needs to be more tools. Furthermore, the new units were more expensive, specifically around the loss of existing naturally in the toolbox to address our affordable housing crisis. As importantly, if not more, the issue of displacement and acquiring affordable housing, and this is the incentive for seismic retrofits. Demolition disincentive is one tool. I don't like being boxed into a label of a NIMBY. I'm not. So, and I just want to say between those two, and I think by deflecting and pulling out of NIMBY, that's not where I stand. I'm somewhere in between from each other, and I think Portland can do better. Thank you. Thank you. Rising the debate, it prevents us from hearing. PHK development. I'm testifying in support of the recommended draft. Good afternoon. Zoe Lynn Powers on behalf. PHK is developing a mostly vacant lot located near 21st Section 33, 120-15. We'll change this property to the RM4 zone, which the code states is intended to Multnomah and Sullivan's Gulch. Better housing by design. In keeping with the character of an intensely urban area, this property is to be a high density and an intensely urban area. Streets, and there are 14 bus stops within a quarter mile. A res well served by transit. It's at the intersection of two transit minutes. The RM4 code recognizes that such sites could be downtown on a single bus in less than 15. Additional density and housing opportunities close into the city center. Well served by transit. Our opportunities for the city to build a station is narrowly defined as a location where light rail vehicles. The wrinkle with the prior code was that the term transit. The light rail station at Lloyd Center is less than a half mile away from the stop-to-load or unload passengers' property line. Unfortunately, the unique geography of the area, which is this property, and with the tracks running along the rear of the property, prevents a light rail station along that adjacent section of track. The gulch, from which Sullivan's Gulch takes its name, extended the existing allowance for a 100-foot building height in the RM4s. Accordingly, the Planning and Sustainability Commission also applied within 500 feet of frequent... frequent zone within 1,000 feet of a transit station to a work or conservation district. That 500-foot standard is more transit lines on sites not located in a historic requirement, and the change resolves what was an internal inconsistent one already contemplated by the new transportation demand manner and transit accessibility. So we ask that you adopt Section 3C in the code regarding the appropriate standard for measuring A. As presented in the recommended draft, this modest change recognizes 3, 120, 215, B, 1, as for the density that the RM4 zone would typically allow on a site so well served. This recognizes more multimodal transportation options and allows... Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. We appreciate it. ...by transit. I'm happy to answer any questions and... With the Selwood-Morland Improvement League bearing on his smile. David Schollhammer, everyone has the same opportunity to motivate amendments. Just please ensure that today's delayed testimony from... The Selwood-Moorland neighborhood needs housing for the recommended draft as testifiers had a month ago. Produce a tremendous amount of expensive market rate housing. Working class people. We have produced and continued from the permitting pipeline, have increased housing units by 28. Since 2015, developments completed and in for wealthy people because Selwood-Moorland is so popular. Percent. The market is producing new housing becoming wealthier and less diverse than the rest of the city. New market rate housing contributes to our neighbors 20% compared to only 3% for the rest of the city. Since 2000, neighborhood median income has increased as a percentage of city median income. New construction decreases neighborhood decreased from 95% to 110%. The average newly constructed unit costs the average white household 30% per city. For example, renting the average black household is an unattainable 74% of their income, while the cost to the average population in our neighborhood has decreased 68% of income. Since 2000, black population has been the city. Because new market rate units do not, we are the second least diverse neighborhood in the world. Ideally, any increase in zone density should be to provide housing and cellwood for the typical Portlander. A minimum increased density should not contribute to economics dedicated to affordable housing. And as you have to incentivize affordable housing or building size and number segregation. The two main level sizes building size and allows an unlimited number of units of units. Better housing by design only utility to show that the number of units is a greater incentive. Our written testimony uses data from the project. Affordable housing is to first double the current max. Our proposal to strengthen the incentive to build and second allow development that provides affordable housing unit density for market rate development. Limited units is now proposed by Better Housing by Design. To have the size bonus. and an incentive to build affordable housing and compatibility with density. Benefits of our proposal include increasing the Better Housing by Design report summary and proposed by the residential infill project. Built and all of the examples shown could be identically built. Volume 1 shows several examples of what could be inclusion of the delayed testimony today. We urge you to add this amendment under our proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thanks all three of you. To further incentivize affordable housing. Porter, Harold Carlston. Next three, please, Carla. Leon Porter. And Peggy Moretti. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Leon Porter. I generally support Better Housing by Design. And thanks for the opportunity to testify. Amendments, which will help to increase the supply of affordable housing. And I also strongly support Mayor Wheeler's proposed. Rather than repeat my written testimony, I'd like to recommend two other housing and reduce its costs. First, please introduce an amendment or possible amendments that would also advance those goals right in the RM1 zone. For decades, to allow single-room occupancy buildings by preventing homelessness by serving as inexpensive, unsubsidized houses, these SROs have played a major role. But as you know, most SROs have disappeared, as they say, for very low-income singles and couples. The Portland Housing Bureau has rightly started to recognize the zones where they're allowed have grown more expensive, meaning ones downtown. Since the city realizes the importance of SROs by buying and renovating a few, we allow more of them in more areas. The current draft is how crucial SROs are. We need to have conditional use in the RM1 zone. This Regulative Better Housing by Design makes SROs a segment of urgently needed housing for the homeless. The regulatory barrier pointlessly obstructs development, but they'd still allow a little more socioeconomic diversity. SROs in the RM1 zone would be relatively small. SROs are allowed by right in all other multifamily zones, so in a few more neighborhoods. By allowing them in the RM1 zone, too. Let's at least make this slight incremental improvement. In my second hearing, I really appreciated Commissioner Hardesty's Okay. At the October policy solidifying the history of racial and raising a concern about Portland's land use in historic districts. Better housing by design, socioeconomic exclusion, and wealthy single family concern, if anyone is bold enough to take it. I actually does offer an opportunity to address that kind of map amendments can rezone some areas. As you know, Better Housing by Design, please consider, Portland has at least two various from single family to multi-family. Both have racially exclusive histories and that are both right by very wealthy single family neighborhoods that Poland. In both neighborhoods, the original historic motive max stops. Laurelhurst and Eastmore minorities out. So why exactly are we preserving the for single family zoning was apparently to keep poor people hoods. I'm happy about Mayor Wheeler's amendment, exclusionary single family zoning in these wealthy neighborhoods. Amendment to up zone all portions of Laurelhurst and Eastmoreland to up zone the manhouse lot. And I would love to see a broader line. This would open both neighborhoods to greater diversity. Half a mile of the max stops to RM1. Thank you. Appreciate it. Appreciate you. Good afternoon. Okay. Thank you for coming twice. Thank you again for letting us come. Anyway, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I want to thank you for that. It's a must to you. I took time off work for this twice now. So, yeah, six-year resident of East Portland, specifically east of 120, a lifelong resident of Portland and 24, south of Gleason but north of Burnside. I wanted to offer you a second. In the northern portion of the light rail corridor, yes, Jack. While I understand the need to increase density, for a few perspectives and observations that I haven't heard expressed. During my 26 years of residence in this area, as an example, the rate of the increase is a bit troubling for a few reasons. The property has increased from R10, which I believe the zoning density of my specific residential property on 10,000 square feet to tend to allow one family residence. 10 units of residence on the one residence per B is housing without a connection to the area. In the same period of time property, that's simply to way of destinations for residents to walk. There's been zero infrastructure improvements in the just in the light rail corridor, but most anywhere east of 122nd or bike to and from. Not second and the outer boundary of 162nd. We seem to be making there are really no destinations between 120 amenities of neighborhoods like Montevilla, Hollywood, Alberta. Taking a priority of putting people in this area without the same of Portland because of this, it encourages the area to be car-centric, etc. Of all the areas to encourage or incentivize development of Comertric without a change in focus, car-centric, whether we like it or not. We're just going to have show or retail in this area. It will continue to be self-professed car nut that enjoys working on and caring for a larger parking problem. Just to be clear, I'm a CIR as an example for some of my enjoyment for classic cars as a hobby. And I use P automobiles are not self-sustaining in the long run. And so of all people, I understand the auto... If the push is for incoming residents to use taxis, but I only drive one car at a time. Keep in mind that it's still a trip in a car. Uber, Lyft, in addition to transit, encourage developers to build destinations in the area. The only thing that has changed is the ownership of that vehicle. Concurrently with these zoning changes, in theory, more walking and biking should occur. To higher density without focus on destinations in the area, access to education, Two lanes from four. And did I mention that there's no employment in that area? Location and employment has pinched down traffic on Gleason to design as potentially restricting off-street parking with new housing development. At the same time, better housing destination within the area. The argument has been made that if development again this only makes sense if there is a dead rail there should be zero parking allowed. I think this is short-sighted. Development within 500 or 1500 feet of lit. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Peggy Moretti with Restore. Thank you. Thank you. Supports the overarching goals of better housing by design and the broader Oregon Restore Oregon believes that historic districts and individual historic buildings have an important water quest for housing affordability. We build buildings into housing, sensitive new infill development, ADU, and a role to play in that effort through conversion of old units. The only thing we really get concerned about is in the internal conversion of large homes into multi-historic districts and policies that incentivize even more does the compatibility of new development inside of demolition wipes out forever the cultural heritage and character of a demolition of historic structures. And embodied energy releases toxins into the environment, waste vast quantities of materials and is more expensive. Therefore, Restore Oregon would like to call on us to climate change, and what replaces it is all better housing by design provisions. The special about our support in particular for the following additional FAR transfer allowance for seismic upgrades to definition of the RM4 zone in historic district of the Alphabet Historic District. of the proposed historic buildings and the revised zone to register our support for the MAP amendments, M1 and M2 amendments. They're being considered today. We'd also like to thank the Annah Mann House, which I would like to point out is an ex-M2 for the property on Southeast Belmont, purposed as affordable housing, and it has the full support of the law. This is an example of how a historic property can be repurposed. M5 and M3 that strive for compatible with the Wilhurst Historic District. Amendment 3, which is also a stated goal of the city planning. Scale of new construction within historic and conservation. Not be providing an incentive to demolish culturally significant. And we support Amendment 3 because the city should be not seismic and code upgrades. They already have enough weighing against them with historic buildings. With the high cost of echoing a previous speaker, I just want the city kind of putting a thumb on the scale. idea that seems to be circulating that we have to choose between object to a pernicious idea of developing affordable housing. I think that is based on an utterly false meaning, the historic fabric of our communities and of... Some of the most vulnerable historic homes and buildings are in under-assumption, and we can do both, and we must. Our 2020 list of Oregon's most endangered places, served communities. Restore Oregon just in the African-American heritage in Albina. The Mayo House and the two of the three additions to our list are centers of applications being sought for them, and resources are being rallied to help the Holy Web Elks Lodge. Historic designations of the future. If the city stacks the deck against them and carve out an economically viable and vibrant trust. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Other historic places like them, that future could be lost. I'm curious. The historic buildings. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you all for your test. Are they unenforced masonry buildings? Yes. I'm that you are concerned about being demolished but yes the fact that the seismic challenges sure some of them are not all of them I'm speaking broadly those in cases where they are with a car do create Some obstacles. They are non-profit. They're starting to become prohibitive, yeah. Especially, how do you propose we keep people safe in buildings that were housing, low-income housing buildings, actually creating opportunities to actually, maybe it needs to fall down if an earthquake happens without signals. Well, I think that it's true that not every old building will be torn down, and we need to be building something. I think we need to have the ability to make those kinds of sacred, for sure. But unreinforced masonry buildings that have been seismically upgraded have been converted into thoughtful decisions about where their opacity really matters within that community and in whatever affordable housing. And have or continue to serve in whatever. We, as a whole... ...cultural heritage that embodies, has the worst financial incentives of almost any state. ...or parallel topic to this is the fact that Oregon, and we definitely need to be seeking tools that will help in the union for historic rehabilitation. We are like dead last out of 50 states on that. So offset the cost of seismic and make sure that we don't lose things. But I think we just don't want to incentivize the loss of these. There's a whole lot of other things we could be doing along with this if they stay standing. Could I ask you a question? And I won't ask these buildings when they could serve very important functions. It's one that you've been actively engaged in, so I want to get your perspective. Everybody questions, but I know this is an important issue and I know... These amendments would be needed. So I'm trying to figure out why. First of all, there's been very few demolitions. Well, F notes here suggest it says for this year, I directed this year that we would do an update to the historic. Let me back up. First of all, we directed this year. And then the staff indicated here that demo resources inventory. So that's kind of step number one. Demolition of contributing structures in historic districts. And the geography. I'm looking at three, the staff notes. Districts and historic landmarks are subject to city council, such as the Alphabet and Kings Hill Historic District. Through the Type 4 demolition review, there have been very few of the review. And because of that, it goes on to state that for locally designated historic resource demolitions to date, And then it goes to conservation districts such as Mississippi Avenue, including contributing structures and condition delay procedure, which limits the ability to this conservation district. There is only a demo of how this amendment works. would really change the status, prevent demolitions. So I'm trying to figure out a procedure in place that's a very high bar, which is it has to come to us close significantly because there's already a presence. I think I get concerned that the financial picture would be us for contributing. I think the upside or the profit that can be made becomes so out of balance between the political hurdle that might have to be crossed to demolishing or replacing something versus the And there's a lot of buildings out there that haven't gone through to try to replace it. Nation that still have, I think, all kinds of great potential to designation, but the official historic designee. So I just think that at some point, the economic to serve in a very meaningful way still in the community and the politics can change. can shift, start to really skew things. And the upside here, B, though, because the way this amendment is written is very dramatically. Right. And then wouldn't the FONUSes or FAR transferred on sites? It says you disallow the development on sites where an historic building has been demolished any time. So it's not specific to a developer. So it could be that it's an historic structure time in the prior 10 years. And as mentioned, as opposed to one of the jewels that we're all thinking about that we definitely want, that is one of the kind that Commissioner Hardesty just... I would grant you some wiggle room on the whole 10-year thing. I think, yeah. I want to preserve and protect... I would for a little while and hope everybody forgets and then they, you know, want to go in. I think sometimes people pull buildings down, sit on it, point that there's nuance there. Yeah. And build something new. But, yeah, I mean, I take your point. The 10 years was suggested by staff, and so when we get to discussing it, we can. Good discussion. Yeah. I appreciate your being here. You can come up with that number. No, I know. Great. Thank you. But I appreciate the concept. Yeah. And ask them why. Yeah. I was just curious. We have an expert here. I didn't. I appreciate your testimony, all three of you. Thank you. Greg Thiessen and Jozelle Johnson. Three, please, Carla. Emma Calloway. You're flying solo at the moment. Great. Hello. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Sure. It's nice to see you all again. For the record, I am a registered lobbyist for Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Emma Calloway. I testify in support of the Better Housing by Design for Portland Community College. And I'm here today to tell you about the largest education district in Oregon, representing PCC, as you know, is the... Although our goal is to help families permanently move out of more than 68,000 students, housing affordability is the number one issue facing poverty through Pathways to Education. We know that innovative ideas like Better Housing for Oregon families, and especially in the Portland metro region, is the achievement gap that is growing. predominantly driven by design are key components to closing what we believe that included Oregon found that 13 to 18 percent of community housing and affordability. A national study on the precipice or housing insecure. Community college students are homeless and 44% further away from the investments we've made in education. As housing prices continue to rise, our students are moving from community college, meaning that community college is not in fact in their community and is commuting 60 to 90 minutes to get to their local community. It is meant to solve some of those issues. beyond maybe any longer and programs like better housing by design portland community college we might be partners with you in building affordable housing value that this will bring to our city we also hope it forward to the ability to think creatively the way that in the coming years and we look very much from being part of the solution. Thank you, and thanks for the proposal. Better housing by design may give us that ability. Mayor, excuse me, what data do you have that shows housing... Partnership, we appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Predominantly, the survey done out of Wisconsin... ...is the reason for the achievement gap. One of the number one barriers to completion. So although we're getting students in Hope Lab that really talks about housing being one to graduation rate, is really driven by housing and food insecurity. Into our classrooms, their ability to stay and get a slippery slope to assume that based on a Wisconsin. Security issues. I think that that's a. Here in Oregon, I just studied that that would be true. Achievement gap is caused by a whole lot of reasons. Absolutely. And that caught my attention because I know it's true. Thank you very much, Commissioner. You are attributing it to a lack of affordable housing. We will have campus-specific data from that same center, and that study did include Oregon data. And in January, I believe and understand what you're saying, that it's a complex issue and we shouldn't attribute it. I think I should share that with you, and I absolutely appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioner. To one factor. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Thank you. Hopefully you'll have my testimony in front of you as I speak. Members of the Association Planning Committee, I'm here on behalf of the Northwest District. My name is Greg Tyson. I'm co-chair of the Northwest District. The recommended drafts for recognition. that historic preservation should be an association. And the NWDA appreciates this in historic districts, particularly by rearranging the zoning map and being reflected in the scale of development allowance by reducing the base FAR in the largest scale RM4 in the Alphabet Historic District, as staff has done, and speak in support of Amendment 5, as offered by Commissioner Fritz, or ZONE. In particular, I'm here to support the ZONE in historic districts. for 100 foot tall buildings within 1000. And that is to request the removal of the allowance. Very small area within the Northwest Historic District, in particular feet of a transit station. This applies to religious institutions around Northwest Davis and Everett. And so it's those areas that surround the cultural and religion. And I would point out, as has already been pointed out, that original plan, 16th, 17th, and 18th, from the 100-foot allowance, to prevent heights that our non-EBRO staff proposal excluded historic districts. Largely what we are about here, allowing 100-foot talk compatible with historic context. And that is really calibrate development allowances to the scale of historic districts. Our buildings does not reflect the recommended drafts intention to buildings in the area affected are more than five stories tall. Since none of the landmark or contributing historic landmarks commission or yourselves using the compatibility, 10 story buildings would be unlikely to be approved by the adopted by city council. This is really a small request design lines. that have been adept and citywide zoning impact, but it would have a huge, a minor change in context of the entire recommended draft churches and apartment buildings. Now, this next fact on a few architecturally significant blocks of historic who's been doing this in the district for a long time, but I want to take a minute. The final one to make is a bit complicated, even for me. Your understanding, the more we looked at this, is that under the recommended, to draw your attention to it, so what we know affordable units, if less than 20 units draft, 100 foot tall buildings may have... Currently, that would mean that 15% of units are affordable units who are built off-site. Affordable is 60% median family income. Beginning in 2020, affordable is 80% median family income, 8% of units. Under the default RM4 zone, one that would change, as you see on the handout I gave you, in this area must have 50 units... On 75 foot tall buildings come. That's what the current zoning would allow. Site affordable at 60% of median family in time. Do you happen to know what the current? That's my testimony. Thank you for your time. Don't off the top of my head, Commissioner Udeli. Maybe. Height restriction is? That's my growing list of questions. So I didn't understand. Bill can clarify some of this. I will add that statement. Thanks, Amanda. Yeah. Commissioner Fritz. And that last point, could you restate it? In this area, they're changing the allowance in this area. So the recommended drafts say allowance as allowable buildings that are 100 feet tall. And within that, if there's less than 20 total units, no affordable units would be required. So... Under the default IZ or standard IZ policy. Correct, correct. Buildings must have 50% of units on-site affordable at 64 zone, 75 foot tall. So this is going to present immediate family and comment, and that is the zoning on these sites. Stop asking me. In their notes, they have further confused. It's going to be a question we're going to have to ask the staff because it currently applies in the RH zone in areas mapped. They used me by saying this is an existing height allowance that being assigned RM4 zoning is part of the recommended draft for 4-1 FAR. And these areas of amendment would be needed, but we don't need to sort that out. No, I just want to flag. So, again, I'm not clear on why I have to ask here. And that's great that we elevated that question. As Commissioner Udeli did. that there's a question we... In some instances, the height allowance, current height allowance, that was why I asked because I... And we haven't seen... I think 100 feet would... It's actually higher than what we're... Exactly. ...recommending development, even with those allowances, so... be closer to a nine-story building. Yeah. I haven't seen... ...city sites here, and I think it's important that we be conscious of that. Okay. Something to get clarified from... Yeah, and there are opportunities... Discussion. Good afternoon. Hi, my name's Jozelle Johnson, and I'm also from... ...a few parking lots. Thanks for your testimony. We're pretty good to... ...to speak in support of the Major Code Amendment No. 3, which is from the Northwest District Association. I would like bonuses and FAR transfers from being on talks to... disallowing development of historic or contributing buildings. I think used on sites that are actually demolishing, demolition of historic buildings based on bonus. A simple thing is we don't want to incentivize. As my colleague just mentioned, this is that they can receive. Now, I want to be real. Clothings that are not historical, we very much are supportive. parking lots, infill buildings, but at a handout they got that gives you an idea of review for development and I've provided an excellent infill project that is great for the neighborhood that does give an example of a 1970s building as opposed to the second one, but and actually demolishes as a night an existing triplex and This would, again, which is next to a parking lot, which would demolish or a contributing building, which is also currently affordable housing and incentivize the demolition of a historic building. I think what we're looking there is to ensure that we have housing by its historic right. So I develop that. Mayor Wheeler, you asked why we need clear direction on where we want to focus the. We've actually seen advertisements to us and what was different than the exact what we have that basically say you can buy your way out of the Oregon especially non Portland and it's not until the developers perhaps housing you can buy you can raise the realize that it's a can of worms compared to what they thought. So their lack of due diligence have bought the property. And what are the rules of the game? So it's not something that they are. Actually, this amendment gives up front being then bringing it into council and fighting it through the demolition, discovering midway into the project. And so that clarity up front really sets a level playing field. ...reviews because of the investments they've made. It's just the balance. On one hand, I don't want to tie our hands... ...what they can expect moving forward. Right. And for me, which is really a dump that probably should be replaced by... ...there is a, quote, historic structure... and give somebody, make it basically better housing that's more modern and up to standards. And while we also want to protect those important, the difficult or disincentivize that kind of development there, there is already a process in place to contributing historic resources. And I believe that this, you know, is it worth it for us to protect those? And so my question is appropriate for redevelopment. But at risk, the redevelopment opportunities where it's a controls that, in my opinion, in exchange for historic assets. And wouldn't they, if there was, as you mentioned, may be redundant when it's contributing his. Wouldn't they actually be coming to you as the city council to ask? And I know there are a few dumps out there. I've seen them report them through the process. So rather than having them ask that support, that we would then be able to do a militia review, why not have them come up front and ask for that? We don't have to actually fight a demonstration. And there may not be a clear answer. Right. And really it's just. It's not even some case. It's international. So how do we... So much of our development is not local. Being on a flyer that they're given that say, oh, you can do this. Yeah, okay. Make sure that that's consistent and not... Discussion later. Great. Thank you for your contributions. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good. I have a feeling this will be... Jordan Winter and Tamara DeRitter. Next three, please. Our Hope Baraka... So who's going to the first group?
 Yep.
 It's Jeff. Okay. Anywhere you want. You sat down first, you get to go first. Welcome, thanks for being here. Hi, thank you. She's got a PowerPoint, I'm sorry. To support better housing by design, particularly its objective of, I'm Jordan Winkler, I represent Winkler Development Corporation. In a council work session, one commissioner asked whether developers would use diverse housing options and affordability. We'd use the density bonuses and better housing by design. Build more inclusionary housing that will otherwise be the case, and I'm here to say, with one caveat, by design, for inclusionary housing to, you know, actually site in southwest Portland. We haven't, but yes, that's precisely our intention. At one, housing was introduced because it just economically didn't work with the cost to provide project that we put on hold when mandatory inclusionary is at the site. Okay. an RM2 site, including inclusionary housing. I think with the bonuses there, we'd be able to build a Gabriel Park in the Southwest Community Center. Inclusionary housing at 60% AMI, about 100 people would live there. A workforce housing project included the site is not within 50% or minus as transit, so if Amendment No. 4 is adopted, we couldn't proceed with the 100 feet of frequency of alternative to developing an apartment at the site with the birth development you know at all and I think the alternative bonus would be probably high-end townhomes or an of inclusionary housing but no any form of development thank you or you know some other lower form of lower density housing by design is unusual in that it doesn't provide for height bonus There are a lot of locations in Portland, particularly complicated ones, to go along with the density bonuses. Southwest Portland, including our site, you can't use the full density ones, irregular ones, sloped ones, such as is common. But the density bonus to offset the cost of inclusionary housing, you can if there's a bonus without additional height and without GATT. a height bonus for providing inclusionary how they do the development. So I would encourage you to light your sites where you would not otherwise be able to achieve the intended density. Maybe limited to slope size or complicated slant complications of the location without some additional bonus because of the enhancement. There's a discretionary review called, I think, adjustment roomography. Portland has something called a or you have to go get around a situation where you can otherwise use you That would allows you know one-off changes to hide for height and the challenge is that because it's discretionary the bonus bonus by providing a big cost and burden to develop a proposal to the level it can be considered frame It's not clear an objective criteria you take this if you know you'll succeed so I think a lot of developers including ourselves an adjustment and I You don't know in a situation where we'd be asking for an adjustment. It's got to be sort of clear in the code up front. It wouldn't develop COOC at that point. And I think there's a real need to take the risk of developing plans, et cetera. It can be, in some situations, to get approval to develop housing and have a connection between how difficult it is. I was at a conference I was at last night where housing affordability in Portland and I point to a big industry. Good afternoon. Hi. Hi. Thank you. My name is Hopper. Thank you. You made a lot of good points. Appreciate it. I'm in the Urban Corp in Portland. And overall, I want to express my stock up. I'm a real estate professional. I work primarily in such a strong coalition for better housing by design. My support, I'm excited to see a great opportunity to provide more housing options. I do believe it's an outage displacement. However, I think and discourage time to correct it. In September, Bureau of Planning, we've got an oversight here, and I think that they're still titled Historical Contexts of Racist Planning and Zoning. Published a paper that simply lays out the history. I believe the report explicitly used as a weapon. to disenfranchise and ways in which zoning and planning have been using these massive changes, which are so needed in this place. And while we have an opportunity, we have, you know, and so welcome from my perspective, wide contacts and community members, I'm sure, who would be begging the research and the educated professionals to provide these zoning changes. can encourage to have a seat at the table and talk about how the parts of our community to thrive under more ask if the city council would make a commitment planning and zoning. So I'd like to end using it frankly as a test to review to taking a look at that paper the amendments. What I want to speak to you specifically, the better housing by design, and specifically is the question really how are with regard to the amendments being reviewed today of racist zoning. For example, are we potentially codifying this history? Are we doing more? to items, amendments number one, numbers three, four, and for Portland people that are suffering under our current housing crisis to establish to the people prioritizing affluent and historically advanced and prioritizing buildings to take a moment and search advantaged communities. And I really beg you, in a paper about how we failed now. Again. Again. yourself so that 50 years from now we're not reading. If you're not done, please go ahead. No, please. I can always keep talking. Me too. Thank you for your testimony. It's really central, I think, for all of us. I want to assure you that those concerns are inherent goals of better housing by design and more and part of the This only applies to multi-dwelling zoning codes. Next, we get to, importantly, the upcoming RIP, because that is the real arena where we've created the single-family zoning. And that's a segregated city through public housing. To see you all take that on, but to the point the gentleman with policies and I cannot wait. You know, Eastmoreland and Laurelhurst, for example, and the purple shirt said earlier about neighborhood, you know, are in very close. And I was a nine year resident of Laurelhurst. I love that name. Opportunities there. and transit bus as well as proximity to max and there are there are opportunities there within the better housing but and and proximity to services in downtown so to not again use our history design that i do think that would be an oversight context the scaffolding within which to have that conversation how can we jury as a city as as a If I might, I just want to say, as a real estate professional, that I'm broadened opportunity. And if I do, and also SROs. So excited about amendments one and two. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you so much for your testimony. Thank you. I appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. to hear the report on, I believe that we have scheduled in Oregon. Mayor, can you confirm that? I remember asking that at another housing policy and it's discriminatory history. Yes, I can confirm that. I can't tell you the date, but I can confirm it's been scheduled. work session probably the first answer the answer is moving ahead on housing policy without no that's good um i still think it's unfortunate that we're mostly it is a dark history that we continue to repeat and that grounding for all of us right because it is under that context but i've read it I'm it's unfortunate that that this isn't well and I hope that that doesn't form our vote whenever we're of the history And I'm pretty sure my colleagues are as Mr.. Fritz Jordan. I have a question for you your property It's actually on the we get to vote on this. Thank you. Yeah, thank you from the Southwest Community Center So it's a block off Vermont. I think there's that convenient. It's um across us there, okay? The point is that I'm in the store and then it's our property. It's currently out driving because they can't get to transit. So I remember I was trying to get to, we don't want 100 people to address the issue. Do you know roughly how many? Maybe be able to amend my amendment to... From a frequent transit line? It's feet... You are away, that property is? There are two big roads that are considered frequent transit service, and neither of them are not close to 1,500. They're in southwest Portland, I think a mile or something. Half a mile? Yeah, I'm not looking at a map, I'm just guessing. I mean 1,500. For one or 40,000. So a mile or half a mile? No, at least half a mile. Thank you, appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Close to half a mile. As an individual, even though I'm the chair of Aurora City Park, I'm Tamara DeRitter. I'm here to testify for TDR and Associates Land Use. And I want to, Newport Association, I am also the principal for that. There needs to be enhanced air quality. Begin by stating that systems or other pollution mitigation needs that are new. Filtrations and zones. This is a key element for the multifamily units in the multi-dwelling creation of this document. And that was overlooked in the formative includes sections of the comprehensive plan that are section two failed to vigilance. Offsite impacts is four point that require. This type of impacts such as odor, noise, glare, light pollution, air pollution, 3-3, limit and mitigate public health, land uses, blah, blah, blah, have on the pollutants and vibration that public facilities, limiting and mitigating the impacts to underserved and under-rental site, pay particular attention to. That is also a key and represented communities. noise impact that all of the or the majority of one thing that you will find is in a few ways that the multifamily is along corridors and emissions. And so what we're doing is polluting present the biggest influx of diesel emissions. Our Oregon land use system is the highest density and the most vulnerable. It does not deal with air quality. It defers everything to the DEQ. Impaired because identified this as an issue to the planning and sustainability EQ. I do have the zoning backwards. We should have the low density residential commission in 2011 and said we're corridors but we don't and they said well we need to enter next to the highest uh travel so here is the opportunity to mitigate to mitigate it then we're not going to reverse our plan park neighborhood area you can see that of course I um Right now in the Rose City Truckway for Freight, Priority 84 is a major regional truck streets that are like Culley. Truck streets include Sandy, and then you have May that is being rezoned. There you have the residential shown in purple, the tan. All of those areas are going to be high-density residential. The darker yellow... But again, those areas, that's in part of this plan, travel movements. Then we have our conflicted with freight, three more. And if you get the extra time, could you... Can I keep going? Any more slides? Yeah, I have... Can you just say a couple of sentences about each so we can move on? Because we have a ton of people. Also email this to us because this would be helpful. Yes. Diesel emissions over a 24-hour period impacting... Okay, yes. This shows all of that for the metro area. The area, it comes from this map. Five elements... study that and this is the Pat's area which was actually the third worst in the world that shows all the diesel impact in the Portland Metro last year I just and when we had the fires down in the gorge care of those that are in these high density residential wanting us to make sure we take where they can breathe Thank you. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. ...properties because they need a place of sanctuary. Those of us who follow you on social media are... Since you're here, Ms. DeRitter, can I just say that... Good fight. Thank you. I've got a clean bill of health from lymphoma. ...by the progress you're making with your health challenges and keep up... Great news. Thank you. Great news. After eight months of treatment, I'm going to keep it up. Oh, that completes... If I have my notes correct, then... Thanks, all three. Next three, please, Carla. Correct. So we're on to today. And how many people have signed up for today? That completes the people who signed up last month. Is that correct? I'd say about 35. Okay. And just I want to confirm with legal today to the amendments. Is that correct or no? No. No. Okay. Council testimony needs to be narrowly tailored. Five seconds. Five seconds. We'll take the first three. We'll already testify. Forget anything I just said in the last 20. Christy White and Madeline Kovacs. First three are Anna Kemper, David Binning, and Vicky Estreja. Good afternoon. And they'll be followed by Sarah Ayanarone. Can you hear me okay? You bet. All right. Good afternoon, Commissioner. Welcome. Can we go ahead and start with you, please? Great. Hello. I'm here today on behalf of Sunrise PDX. We're a growing movement. Mayor Wheeler. My name is Anna Kemper and I'm creating a just and sustainable future. Thank you for your time this afternoon of young people who are worried about climate change and invested in it. At three years old, I was born and raised in Portland, and this is the first time that I've tested my work so far on this issue. So I'm 23 because I'll be 34 years old when my climate fate is sealed. I was motivated to testify today. He has stated that we must have radically transformed our societies and our... It's 11 years from today. The IPC sucks of the climate crisis. And I sit in front of you today, tariff economies within 11 years in order to prevent the worst and seriously the threat our planet and my future is facing. I'm proud of what my future holds because I don't see those in power taking will be displaced by climate change. Rising sea levels and raging wildfires, conservative estimates show that by 2050, a billion people seeing thousands of folks making their way from Central America to seek asylum, at there's threatened cities across the globe. We are already old due to climate change. The challenges that we face due to the current and future of the U.S.-Mexico border, due to their homes becoming inhabitable, to create dense, walkable, livable spaces for anyone to enjoy. The future impacts of climate change also bring new opportunities. Housing policy is climate policy. Even if everyone were to immediately say, I'm here today because it must be understood, significantly less emissions than detached homes do, and dense houses that transition to electric cars, attached homes would contribute to significantly less carbon in their daily commute. Living in walkable or transit accessible neighborhoods means people represents the opportunity for dozens of Portlanders to live every six-story building in an urban transit connected neighborhood. Please give me and my generation this opportunity. So I urge you to lower carbon life instead of being priced out of it. Please follow the proposal with the modifications that you've seen recommended by Portland. Today is to support the passage of the Better Housing by Design process, environmental justice and housing justice groups who have provided testimony. Neighbors welcome, Portlanders for parking reform and the numerous in housing policy. I don't know the ins and out of zoning codes or housing policy. I'm 23, I'm no ex-peer, and my generation are keenly familiar with our rising rents and our policy jargon. myself and my opportunity and frankly a responsibility to take a bold stance and approve sizing oceans at this moment in time you have the operable spaces for those wanting to live there refusing to take a strong state of owning codes which work for the city and create safe, livable lives for my and my peers' lives. We have an ever-shortening window of time in which we can be on climate action will have a devastating impact on the impending impacts of climate change. My fate is in your proactive about the future, and I demand that you take action to mend transportation reforms in accordance with the crisis we have at our hands to demonstrate actual leadership in these housing projects, a powerful and growing movement of young people who are taking action to face. These are the demands of Sunrise PD. Committed changes to the Better Housing by Design proposal will be watching to demand justice for our future. Please pass the record. I share your extreme concern about climate change. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much. I'm an expert, but I'd like your opinion as somebody who cares passionately about crisis. So I want to, and I know you're not a host development of 100 units, and I just looked it up at Climate Change. We just heard about a propequent transit service. Do you think we should have, and it's 1.4 miles from a free, so far from transit that they're not able to, and there's not a cycle of the code, say that it's okay to put people? Also speaking, and paying close attention to the key there, Kiva. That's a great question, right? You know, I'm all about what's happening the bond measure that we passed in 2020 and so what's going on with Metro and the proposal, talking about transportation policy as well. I don't know if I have a great answer for you. I think we can't talk about housing policy while we're not transit options while we're also creating dense housing and I think those go hand in hand. I think we need to be doing both. We need to be creating more accessible. Good afternoon. Good answer. Thank you. and the local developers that comprise that group. And I'm, good afternoon. I'm Christy White representing Oregon Smart. I've proposed amendment three is the one that would take away the FAR bonus. Here to testify against amendments three, four, and five of a historic building in the past 10 years. First, this is an FAR transfers for sites that have a that encourages affordable housing and seismic upgrades through funds of foul of the recently entitled bonus and transfer assistance is not just a give me, it was a fundamental, very well considered bonus system. The bonus actually develop the number of affordable housing units, then an offset allowing those properties to act. Amendment would then be an increased burden to realizing that density and that are envisioned by the city. Secondly, this is a necessary offset. But I think most importantly and respond to those objectives on certain sites. By removing the rigorous demolition review process for those landmarks to the earlier conversation, we have a real that that landmark deserves to come down for whatever reason. The city council has to decide on the mayor, punish the site and your own public policy objectives by not. And once you make that decision, why for this? both seismic upgrades to other resources and affordable units, allowing the bonus and transfer system that incentivizes concern about this creating an economic situation that would... In response to earlier testimony as well, the arguments are not part of demolition review. I couldn't get in front of you. Eventually incentivized demolition. economic that argument doesn't work in that review process. Propose you and say well it's just too expensive so can I pull it down. Walking distance no FAR bonuses or FAR transfers. The medical Amendment 4, which is the 1,500 foot list, again, runs afoul of the new bonuses. Again, I would say that you don't get the IH bonus that is otherwise the necessary off system. And what it says is if you're 20 or more units, 1,500 feet of a transit station. So this means we'll have no affordability set simply because you're not within 1,500 feet. And the more units you build further from those transitable housing, 2,000 feet from a transit station, consistent with your awesome response, the idea of the station, the transit patterns change. So we don't get it there first. And the affordable housing units are the most important. The other thing is transit will follow density. This is already, to be clear, an existing height element of that. On the 100-foot building height, these buildings get built at 100 feet, but it is an existing height allowance. Now, I will concede that not many ability concern. It seems the main concern in that amendment is that you... And I would say in response to the general compatibilist that maybe three, four, or five floors smaller, I don't accept that. You can't be compatible with an adjacent historic resource. Compatible design concepts, the world's oldest... Oldest cities are replete. I think density and historic preservation are not in. Got more faith in the design professionals in the city that can handle that challenge. With examples of well-designed density and I have an undermining of our carefully considered program. Mayor. Thank you. Commissioner. What we cannot handle is a loss of entitlements. Amy Ruiz. So that was the testimony. We got an email earlier this week from... Did you have a view of Amendment No. 6? Sent in a letter. Sent in a letter. Yes. Can you share that with us briefly? I will share it with you. Amendment No. 6 is that for large... Do I have a view? Is this the... Yes, I do. Could you... I can tell you that we're already having a really hard time trying sites, adding the indoor common area for the outdoor common area to then... create a greater to accommodate space on these size sites and probably have us adjusting bike parking and adding additional challenge of indoor common area which would replace some of these buildings or close to public parks where you could otherwise no units is unnecessary especially when some we are very much not supportive of this additional requirement that to convene and commune in an outdoor environment so not necessarily utilized to its highest and best purpose Thank you. six-way floor area for space that would be a required total. Sorry, I missed it. Community. Right. Commissioner Fritz. A clarification, the indoor space would be parts of the area, which could be dedicated to other indoor pursuits. Yes, it would be. In addition to the 50. Right, but it would be indoor building. So this is the complication. And I've been working on a couple of things like affordable housing units or other amenities for that to accommodate the outdoor area as well. Well, that's what I'm saying. You would have to have projects where we're even having a real challenge to the injury of the indoor space, which also doesn't just have less outdoor space. Right, exactly. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Just the challenge. It doesn't ameliorate it. I'm a resident of North Portland. I'm also here today as a member of Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Madeline Kovacs and I am a group that supports policies that can deliver an abundant supply of Portland neighbors welcome, a new grassroots housing, every income level and every household size, and that can have homes that are affordable to rent or buy at fear of eviction or displacement. On October, to ensure that all tenants can live without rising seas will erase more cities by 2050. On the 29th, the New York Times published this headline. To be tivid about advancing better planning for our cities. New research shows. Now is not the time about our shared history. But move forward while moving. We need to ground our thinking in education. I believe we can do both of those things at once. It will work rapidly enough to save the planet. That will make our city more affordable, more connected, more energy. It is mandatory that Portland adopt zoning reform. Housing by design has taken leadership on housing and zoning in ways to be efficient and more just. That's two. The project has successfully prioritized components that should serve as a model for other reforms, while also upgrading the base zones to provide more diverse housing types. The project has also provided a competitive advantage for regulated affordable homes. It makes climate change seriously by reducing or eliminating minimum parking requirements across the board. The project to increase bonuses for regulated affordable housing now expanded to 50% with a focus on affordable housing, has steadily added a transfer of development rights that will help preserve existing affordable housing above baseline allowances, and create... pertaining to the amendments housing without losing housing capacity overall how affordable homeownership projects to access the deeper affordability I support amendment 1a to allow to that would allow affordable housing projects where I've bonus I also support I think it's amendment well I think I encourage you to go further and allow full affordable they are in the city to access the deeper bonuses. We need to expand transit, frequent transit access citywide housing bonuses in all better housing zones. The provision of future transit for people who need it most, not cut back on affordments, are often achieved much more quickly with sufficient density. Both routes and frequency, bike routes, pedestrian, to the non-profit affordable housing providers that have testified. Lastly, please listen. Amendment would have the unintended consequence of decreasing the number of homes in most cases. No on Amendment 6. as written in the amendment. Lastly, I support the motion to add an amendment. And you just heard some of the design problems. By right in the RM1 zone. Thank you very much. Legalizing single room occupancy buildings. Next three, please. There are Sarah Iannarone, David. Thank you. They will be followed by Liren Murphy, Sean Green, and Tony Joy. Benig and Vicky Straha. Hi, good afternoon. Good afternoon. I was over on a best practices trip in the UK and Denmark where I would have been here last time, but family housing doesn't even really exist, so this feels... Who are you? Oh, hi. There are multifamily neighborhoods all over the place in single-family. I'm a resident of Mount Scott Arleta neighborhood. I'm the land use and transportation chair, but I'm here. I'm Sarah. I am around. I'm here. I'm a... Over two years ago, we sat down at the Rosewood on behalf of the Sarah for Portland Mayor campaign. Amazing job convening a robust public process initiative with Bill Cunningham and some of the folks in this room who've done beforehand, even when we were working on the mixed use zones project around this initiative. We thought about this. The neighbors in Portland who were committed to Affordable Housing Act. And what we understood was that things that initially came out of this, which were, I think, much grander than we were very interested in seeing the types of, even as we have a world-class planning bureau, innovations like scale basis we have today. One of the issues that we're facing in placement and foregrounding anti-displacement in our policies is this equivocation, zoning, rethinking in terms of anti-displacement. Because there is no other way to talk about the fact. that there are some people patient when it comes to what I will very frankly call NIMBYism and shaping how our city will turn out in the future and people who have not had those who have access to the levers of power I think is exactly what And so what we need to think about, see this not as the least we can do, but the most we can do. And I actually appreciate your amendment. The realtor earlier said, which is, we need to know that this has been a great opportunity for us as a consumer. I think they're quite good. And so I just want to echo, including, pro-affordable housing organization need to coalesce and build new organizations. And working with neighborhoods who have come to the table for years since working with anti-displacement organizations, working with tenant, these are certain things that are proposed but who've been thinking carefully over the years and years. Not once this has come up in the BHG proposal and I want us to create more housing options for how about our more sustainable future. And so I support the amendment to waive parking requirements. Thank you for all your hard work on households of all ages, sizes, and income levels, which would make housing less abundant and less affordable. I oppose that, Tony Jordan. And I also oppose Amendment No. 3. I oppose Amendment No. 4. I strongly support Amendment No. 2. I oppose Amendment No. 5. I oppose Amendment No. 6. And I strongly support Amendment No. 3. and I have to go now because I'm late. Support the addition of M2, but I oppose strong... Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello, I'm David Binnig, and... But thank you very much for listening to my testimony. Thank you, appreciate it. For the general direction of Better Housing by Design, and I'm also here to voice my my support removing minimum parking requirements for projects that uh but in particular to strongly endorse amendment two sorry my mic seems unreliable i should say actually include affordable housing i should say fur six inches away is about wonderful they're touchy Yeah, they're weird. You actually have to slide them a little bit. On its response to climate change, it's beyond perverse that we continue to make. I should say first for a city that prides itself on that this would be a change worth making if only to avoid that embarrassing hip-hop. Car storage in new homes, that is the impact on affordability. Parking space is inoculacy. But what's much more important is the cost of dollars for a structured stall, but also in the physical sense, it's inherently expensive, both in the direct cost of tens of thousands. As we heard earlier, that's a problem because it shapes the kind of space that's being redirected to cars instead of homes to come with the expensive add-on of a parking space of homes that are being built. Requiring apartment might have been feasible. We instead get a smaller number of more luxuries. It means that where a larger number of more affordable homes come with the luxury of a parking space, in effect means banning the most units. Mandating that home prohibit parking in new projects, it would just stop forcing that luxury affordable kinds of homes. And again, this amendment wouldn't procure rules based parking exemptions on people who aren't demanding it. our long-term building investments to the sometimes fluctuating bus service of on-transit access, tying those lines that undermines the density that would make our transit work better. The city of Portland, which creates a patchwork map, we should remove those residential parking requirements throughout the city. So I would advocate instead that we have good intentions. People still drive, still need a place to put their car. The usual response I know to all of this is that whatever the prophecy, when we build our city to make it easy to use a car when cars. And that is, I think, a self of choices. And when we push affordable homes to outlying areas, we're walking. We insulate drivers like myself from the cost of our to keep driving. So we should, I would say, be building is dangerous. It shouldn't be a surprise that people are perpetuating that vicious cycle of car dependency. the city we want Portland to be rather than defense time I would echo the proposal others have made for a new amendment to a for related reasons since I've got time one zone housing affordability is our city's most urgent challenge allow single room occupancy buildings by right in the rm kinds of homes Yeah, I will say just in the least we can do is to stop blocking the most affordable. Historic character about connection to a neighborhood, all those things make a bigger picture when we talk about compatible use. I would keep in mind that whenever we formulate these rules that do be legitimate concerns, but how many people to shut out of our neighborhoods and how many people to shut out or limit the number of homes. We are literally talking about the ability that I hope the council keeps in mind in making this decision for a city. That's a really heavy moral response. It's about as good as it gets. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Perfect and perfect timing. Building SROs and charging $1,500. How do we prevent people... I think that's a great question that I am not qualified to answer. $1,000, $2,500 for a room. That is, what are the alternatives that we're getting? You know, if they're, although I think one of the bigger answers to that is smaller units. What would we be building if we're building... The more limited history certainly is that single room occupancy has been, and if we were not doing that, I think they're inherently less desirable to people. That's a tradeoff. You know, if you have a small affordable choice, partly because in some ways it's an inherent demand. 300 square foot studios today that are on the market. A space that has fewer amenities. There's arguably less. You don't want to live in a 300 square foot, right? Market for $2,500. I personally would be much smaller than 300 square feet. Okay. But I don't suspect that an SRO. That's the thing that comes to my mind. I mean, we can't stop people from renting a house. I appreciate the fact that you don't know the answer, but that's money, right? Right. And if it's not bedrooms out for an exorbitant amount of money, then that means it's market rate housing. And the market will be in build as affordable housing. Possibly do. With respect, I would just say I think the market's going to try to squeeze as many pennies out of it as can possibly be. The homes that we have right now, I mean, that's... We've got to fix that. ...squeeze even more pennies out of the sprawling single-family... You're the fourth or fifth person to date us at SRO, so I'm just very sprawling single-family homes, but... Affordable, just market rate. Market rate scares me on SROs. I'm curious as to, and people have said not a... Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Vicky Scria and... I'll just say, thank you. Thank you. And I serve on the board of NWDA and I'm presenting testimony. And I live in Northwest Portland in the Alphabet District. Earlier you heard testimony from other NWDA members in support on the Neighborhood Association's behalf, along with the neighborhood and proposed amendments 3, 5, and M3. And the board of proposed zone changes in multifamily zones in our neighborhood. at Alphabet District and don't apply to other historic districts. So I'd like to say that some of those amendments are really specific to the need to provide some background on the Alphabet District because it can be mischaracterized. Please keep that in mind. I want more incomes, and that's just not true. And if you have been around for many years, there were many as affluent and not sensitive to people with low income than the other people you've heard today that were fighting for preserving of us With ardent voices just like some area around for the very purpose of saving buildings and maintaining housing in the alphabet district and turning that established there continues today. Many affordable housing there and a lot of the affordable housing that was a start and that also kind of helped form the foundation of the owners and residents banded together. District serves to preserve a slice of Portland's history and accommodates house neighborhood associations. Today, we have income levels. And I have to say, I've worked 40 years in the affordable housing tools with a mix of income levels, many at lower income. And I think it's important to really look at what we're doing when we're zoning field and have worked on homelessness and other things in affordable housing. So the alphabet district is very dense with a population that's someplace to protect people that are currently in a foreign. It's a really dense area. The historic district is not a fluid city, about five times higher than the city as a whole. And it comes as 23.5% lower than the city as a whole. Enclave, it's a median household. They have a median income 31% higher, even though they've, and if you just compare that to the Pearl District to our east where there are This is partly due to the amount of home forward housing, integrated affordable housing. There's some low income housing that show where section eight certificates are concentrated. We have a large concentration of non-profit housing units in the alphabet district and if you look at buildings. Also, the narration of Section 8, a lot of those are in the older history, has had more development in it than any other neighborhood in Portland. Northwest District, of which the alphabet district is part, came out in 2018, August 2018, that showed them. So there was an Oregonian article that eight years from 2010 to 2018, and that was like we had 3,000 units. constructed in community for development. The alphabet district is mostly built out, and we want considerably more than any other neighborhood. So there's a lot of opportunity portion of affordable units, and I just want to say that I serve on the planning committee to preserve the housing mix that we have there with the good proposals come in, such as one that came in recently where there was an older home with the land use committee for our neighborhood association. We see 500 a month that was going to be demolished and redeveloped that had 14 units. that rented for $1,500 a month and be a basement unit that's very small. And in my mind, the most affordable unit would be renting at $30,000 and discouraging homelessness. That's homelessness in the making. When you just mind as a person who's advocated for affordable housing, it's much more expensive. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thanks, both of you. Something like that to create something that's going to be much more affordable. Sean Green and Tony Jordan. And the next three please Carla. Are Liren Murphy, Kajoku and Daniel Solomon. They'll be followed by Linda Neddikhoven, Lawrence. Would you like to start please? Sure, thank you. Good afternoon. I'm on the steering committee of Portland Neighbors Welcome as well. Thank you for me. My name is Tony Jordan. I am the founder of Portlanders for Parking Reform. We'll encourage more development that include that includes more regulating BHG better. Some of the amendments offer form founder obviously I'm most excited about amendment two which will ensure that they did affordable housing as Portlanders for parking were for more homes in the service of storing more cars. There, the building never has to forego space two of a trio of apartments in Selwood a couple years ago. And a number of projects in the last few years, a few dozen feet from the transit proximity threshold, proposed building at the Sunshine Dairy, which have been just costly exemptions, other workarounds, or build expensive parking. And as a result, those developments have had to either pursue with all the problems that those cars bring. With Amendment 2 as part of this meeting that invites more cars into our city to defend their choice to build parking instead of affordable housing package, the onus will now be on the developer for a new project. So thank you. That would be great. Thank you, Mayor, for proposing to transportation and housing advocates. I have testimony from Metro, the Oregon Environmental Council, having that amendment, and I'm in agreement with the submitted. There's welcome 1,000 Friends of Oregon and dozens of individuals and their support for humanity, Catholic Charities, Portland Neighborhood. I agree with many, but not all of those groups and individuals mentioned in support for Amendments 1 and 2. Some others have spoken very eloquently about Amendments 3 through 5 and opposing Amendments 3 through 6. Defer to their comments on that. But I did want to historic districts and the impact of that and so I will a lot this weekend to figure out what was going on. That the record say in regards to Amendment 6 which I read the common area can be in a draft you know requires up to 50 percent of the space. And I don't know if it's two amendments or one. Satisfied by, it must be satisfied by outdoor space, I think, could make it more difficult for development on properties. But the requirement to bump that up to 75% on out mentioned by developers previously. So I think topology or strange shapes, which was some of the space to be indoors. But I think that increasing the outdoor space, I'm ambivalent personally about requiring it. In all, I think this is a great step forward for a city, and I think with amendments requirement just reduces flexibility for housing. So thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. It's one in two better housing by design can get even better. As someone who served on the parking centers and corridors task force. Thank you. I personally second everything Tony said. Speak. My name is Sean Green. I'm vice chair of the Northeast Coalition of Neighbors. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to be on the station committee. We appreciate the efforts by the Bureau of Planning Sustainability, where I also serve as co-chair of the Land Use and Transport Council to increase housing options in our centers and corridors in supporting the Planning and Sustainability Commission and City Council. As a part of the 2035 comprehensive plan, we request to remove parking minimums for all sites. We believe this change is our top land use priority. We repeat our accountability in our neighborhoods. In previous statements, any essential to providing short-term and long-term affordability increases the cost of construction, which reduces affordability. Especially, PCN has taken the position that requiring amenity spaces is not to require these kinds of spaces. The impacts on smaller sites. While we understand the rationale, thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Affordability should be carefully considered. Lerian Murphy, and I'm here today to ask that you approve. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is H. Cookhouse, located on Southeast Belmont in Mount Tabor. The MAP Amendment M2 for the Jacob, you have the handout, but on the second page, you can see where that is. I'm not sure if the house is in the R5. The whole front of the property is in zone line. The back six feet of it in the R2 zone, that will give us some flexibility in R2. By making the whole house simple uses and stewardship of the relief to look into economically viably seeking historic designation both on a national and a state level as historic property. We are currently... Great. Thank you. And that paperwork has been submitted to SHPO. So if you receive historic designation Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. property as a rental property and what will that limit your ability to use this? Well, my hope is that it prevents limits come with that historic designation point down the road. It protects the property. someone from trying to deconstruct it at some legislation or there is, it's my understanding that there is, that will allow retail sales and services to coming through to all of you next year, blanketly allow it but allow for the review of each individual, these historic structures not just reuses, I know that that is still being worked on, I don't think property for the opportunity for these expanded by having that historic designation, we would be able to allow allow anything is ready to be presented but all uses right now our goal allowed to apply for additional event community space and shared with was to have the space be a small great thank you very much the community our Linda Neddikoven Lawrence Kodjaki thanks all three of you for your testimony Next three. It will be followed by Sherry Solomon, Steve Solomon, and Daniel Solomon. And the 18th, Robin. What's that? And I can't read the name on Northwest. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner. That's okay. Yeah, it was. I am strongly in support of the overall goals and members. My name is Linda Neddikobin. with the kind of public involvement that went into shaping it thus far. Tensions of better housing by design and very pleased to have worked really hard, and the product is good. I think Bill's worked really hard, and a lot of community members have too. I guess ask for help in terms of the amendments. I wanted, especially for the conservation district in three, I do think that something is need commentary. Other people have spoken about properties that staff mentioned in there by owners of historic properties and maintaining the property. challenges that are faced and seismically strong. Obviously very supportive of their use perhaps and keeping them upgraded. There still needs to be some way to make sure that we're not TDRs for seismic upgrades, but fill out the areas that have no kind of protection or right for writing bonuses against buildings in asking that you come up with some sort of interim, if it's not this amendment, some sort of into a conversation. And so I'm at you get your historic resources code to interim agreement until the time and which is way overdue for any kind of update in terms of out the door which Brandon's been working on very hard for some in the city right now so that they especially those conference hub best meshes with all the other goals we're trying to accomplish will have an adequate opportunity to kind of to the conservation districts like a minor Mississippi protection or preservation and as as well as bonus incentive to talk through kind of what makes sense in terms of trying to discourage demolitions. That makes sense. Not at all trying to discourage. Not at all to discourage district districts. Amendment 4, to discourage the building of additional housing in historic areas, meant to say we have submitted a letter already in terms of Amendment 3. part of the Hossford-Abernathy neighborhood and we have our bonuses and access to transit. I'm just saying please look at your map. Amendment 4, the development where there's supposedly transit access and there's a railroad track. Carefully hand has run into it again and again. So please whatever stand you take in this regard make sure that there's a dead-end road. There are other kinds of barriers on the ground so that we don't end up complicating things. Mapping is accurate and reflects what's really going on. In favor of a real conversation about that need for indoor. And six, I am very much into, again, that same climate emergency conversation on the common space. I know this is hard, but I'm listening harder. Where do people have a chance to come together and understand radio this morning? And I'm thinking, what do we do in the summer of isolation if there's no indoor space at all that's available to them and each other and build connectivity and avoid for your time? Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for your time. So somehow we need to work this out. Thank you. When I first asked staff to map the 1500 feet, they did as the testimony. And the 1,500 feet walking distance, I think we would then capture the concerned crow flies. And then when we've remapped it with it said, except where there is a continuous sidewalk to frequent. What if there was an amendment that we would not allow density bonuses in transit service? I'm sorry, except where it's not within 1,500 walking feet and FAR transfers, except a newest sidewalk. of transit except where there is a continue. Okay. I might have to think about it a little more carefully. That seems to head in the right direction. Thanks Linda. Good afternoon. My name is Larry Kujawa. I'll ask staff about it more carefully too. Thank you very much. That's just what I was thinking. I wanted to clarify a couple of questions that from the Architectural Heritage Center about Amendment 5. This council asked earlier was meant to indicate that visual aid would apply to 100 foot tall buildings. The current regulation on ordinary housing, citywide regulation, that would be the inclusion of an RM4 zone for historic districts to get to 70. Under the, you would be required to have five times the five feet, which would be the maximum. It's just a fact, so the inclusionary housing level. That's 10-story buildings. We're not necessarily resulting in affordable. A 100-foot tall building to that height, that is the point of that. Well, housing proportionate to about Amendment 3, and whether the demolition... Another clarification is necessary because of the demolition review by the council. This incentive is redundant or historic districts have been excluded from previously until this time and bonuses and transfers. So most incentives. And there will be, if you believe they are now applied to historic by design incentives will be effective, there will be greater incentive at the better housing. There will be because they apply citywide for demolition. I mean, that's just why we believe the disincentive is important. And then... So that is why we can make a decision case by case. Well, does the city council really? You would say, well, the city council applying incentives to the demolition of landmarks want to do that? Or can we say are not allowed to be designated if they are? And contributing historic buildings, which, by the way, the ones that have been judged to be are deteriorated. They are. That would be, why would the council, you know, historic and intact. By the way, economic arguments are in the code as we want to go through one by one and by position. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. That's a basis for the council's approval of demolition. My name is Daniel Salomon, and I am a disabled. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I support Commissioner Fritz's amendment that will section 8 renter in Goose Hollow, Goose Hill Historic District, will protect some of the most affordable housing in key buildings have apartments that are one half, many of Kings Hill's three to six story historic buildings outside of Kings Hill. Thank you, Commissioner, the price per square foot, then in the new low income residents with amendments that help save the frets. For joining Deuce Hollow and protect hearing on this topic, I testified that people have the wrong eye on affordable housing. At the last, because it is not a high income area. The median idea about the Kings Hill Historic District, but 9% lower than the rest of Portland. The alphabetical household income from Kings Hill is more than household income than the rest of the city. So its historic district also has a lower median house about high income people. I want to remind you to assume that these historic districts are percent renters and half of those are low income. The Goose Hollow residents are 80 on food stamps, 15% of Goose Hollow, 21% of our neighbors housing. All of our low-income board members' rentals are subsidized housing. The occurring affordable housing of mid-rise live in Kings Hill and the naturally been converted into apartments. new apartment buildings, and big old houses that are a heritage center, restore Oregon, and the North Goose Hollow Foothill League joins the architecture to support Commissioner Fritz's amendments to Wright-Saw West District Association in asking you for Kings Hill to reduce incentives as the zoning to RM-free historic buildings. to forbid developers to transfer to demolish affordable housing in his national register and to lower heights within a thousand far from when they demolished a building on the Nassau and would cause demolitions. Increased speed of MAX stations, which touch part of King's stations, would de-incentivize people wanting to live near building heights for dwellings around MAX availability. When Goose Hollow asked for these things, public transportation because of loss of living in our neighborhood. We are asking you to protect the most affordable housing. Thanks all three of you. Thanks Linda. Thank you. Welcome. Solomon, Steve Solomon, and Robin. Next three, please, Carla. Are Sherry and Jim Gorter. Mr. and Mrs. And they'll be followed by Dennis Harper, Doug Clott. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Solomon, that's a tough act to follow. Thank you. In the Salomon family. And good afternoon. We're the other two members of the Goose Hollow Foothills League, our neighborhood association. I'm Sherry Salomon. I'm a board member. I'm located. Goose Hollow is one of the districts where Kings Hill Historic District is located. We support Commissioner Fritz's amendments, which will help census neighborhoods in all of Oregon. We have Kings Hill's mid-rise historic apartments, which are some of Goose Hollow's most affordable housing. And Goose Hollow is one of the densest neighborhoods in all of Oregon. Goose might add we live in one of them. Goose Hollow and half of those are low income. 21% of our Goose Hollow residents are 80% renters. 80% of Goose Hollow rentals are subsidized housing. Neighbors are on food stamps. 15 Kings Hill is predominantly wealthy. In fact, the median, though it seems like lots of people think all of, is more than 9% lower than the rest of Portland. Okay. ...household income for Kings Hill Historic District to RM3 on a small section of Kings Hill. When we ask to right-size the zoning within 1,000 feet of a MAX station, we are asked to restrict up-zoning on historic district and office spaces. Kings Hill Historic District is looking to protect some of our most affordable apartments and maintain our most affordable housing in Goose Hollow. We've studied predominantly mid-rise apartments that can be parts of Goose Hollow. We found that Kings Hill's oldest rental rates to see how rents compare in different apartment buildings have rents that are one-half the cost of the oldest mid-rise three to eight stories neighborhood, especially when compared to newer apartments per square foot than other parts of the nation. All of Goose Hollow Foothills Leagues, all of Goose Hollow. We know of many families who are raising children. Low-income board members live on Kings Hill because of the cheaper rents and good access to public education. In one-bedroom apartments in this area, which is an outstanding high school, Goose Hollow Transportation is. also Lincoln High's homes, into as many apartments as possible and putting below support subdividing Kings Hill, Big Heart. Some of those big houses also can be historically appropriate ADUs in the backyard. People are widows living in these big houses. It would be used for SROs. Some of those 30 seconds. So Goose Hollow supports subdividing Kings Hills. Daniel, Steve? You have 30 seconds. I have. It's possible in putting historically appropriate ADUs in the backyards, big historic homes into as many apartments as. I'm Steve Salomon. All right, Steve, here you go. We just don't want the big old houses and apartment buildings. So we support and already have incredibly high-dent, to right size, a very small section of King's Hill that's demolished. Commissioner Fritz's amendment 5 feet in height from RM4 close to RM3 is only a difference of 20 feet by disincentivizing their demolition. But this will protect our most affordable housing, 100-foot allowance within 1,000 feet of the MAX station. Commissioner Fritz's proposed amendments to prevent the potential demolition And as the same law already in place, protects several Kings Hills buildings for demolition would cause the delisting of the end towers for the high trends of Buttsburg. These buildings, and we support Commissioner Fritz's amendment to prevent FHR district from the national register. Historic districts contributing building is demolished. This is the AR transfers and bonuses when there must be checks and balances to prevent such of the only logical way since then. When Kings Hill's historic district was created, his efforts to circumvent laws in this way were changed to match the district. So Commissioner Fritz, in 1991, the zoning was never... We want to know... We want to set the no-blocks amendment simply right-sizes zoning. Developers are angry and confused when RM4 zone indicates that they have expectations for developers. Developers can only achieve that by demolishing a building and destroying it. They can build to 100 feet, but they're not strict. Commissioner Fritz's amendments set clear expectations, showing the listing of an entire historic district up front. What is achievable? This will save the foundation so that everyone understands that these amendments also protect Poland's booming tourism developers' time and money. Commissioner Fritz is on the way to the Rose Garden. The pink trolley passes through the economy. Most tourists pass through King's and it's often spot tourists with maps as they are walking to the residence at times per day. We goose holler and talk to residents about the historic buildings. This card, they always linger in King's and those charming old buildings also hold, this is part of the charm that draws millions for many reasons. Goose Hollow is booming with development. Most affordable housing, so they're worth saving. They're soon to build apartments. This new development, we have 1,600 units that recently built from Commissioner Fritz's amendments. We hope you will join more than offsets, a very small reduction in zoning, three amendments to protect the most affordable housing. Commissioner Fritz is voting for these. Thank you. And that was perfect timing today. Look at that. Right on the bottom. Thank you. My name is Robin Lockhart. Thank you both. Well, good afternoon. Person lived in apartments and houses all over Northwest Portland. So I am a native Oregonian and as a young at Porter Brigham home, a primary contributing building. So in addition, I have owned a condominium in the four unit four. It is a San Francisco style grand Victorian Italian that's 1988. Built in 1884 and Everett and Davis streets. The state of Oregon is located between Northwest 18th and 19th Avenue when our building came to be 135 years ago. Oregon celebrated its 25th anniversary. We believe that the proposed RM4 zone south of Northwest 18th Avenue I support compatible zoning, however, I do not. I think the smaller scale RM3 zone should apply to West Gleason Hoyt is compatible with the area. A historic district is ruined forever simply by overcrowding the entire alphabet historic district buildings. Our beautiful neighborhood is currently under assault by flooding and by adding taller and larger scale better atrocities. That's baffling all by itself. By expensive, unimaginable, cookie-cutting, unrecognizable, the historic nature destroyed. Allow bigger and taller. The neighborhood should be allowed within 1,000 feet of max stations in historic districts. The proposal states that 100-foot tall building of streets with frequent bus service. That's obviously perplexing, but they should not be allowed within 1,000 feet. They're incompatible with the historic area, including zero vaccine. But more than that, completely and outrageously, our 135-year-old Porter-Bringham home is one dramatic continuity with established patterns. occur if such an assault on the neighborhood were to happen. An example of the many historic casualties that would have older buildings in historic districts, which would serve. This proposal basically encourages the demolition should the 100-foot tall building clause be sanctioned. Certainly be the case metaphorically to our building. Consider building in the alphabet historic district in the context of I believe it is a grave mistake to consider neighborhoods should be preserved, honored, and if anything, should always have other neighborhoods in downtown Portland. This should not be overdeveloped. To suggest losing views of this could be given special care zoning rules to be destroying the ambiance of our neighborhood because it is fair and equitable by dwarfing historic buildings and utterly, logically short-sighted and cowardly. Now more than ever, it would be relative to other areas, would be tragic to say no to overcrowding, to say no to the influence, take strength and courage to say no to overdevelopment. I hope that you are able to think about provisions in this purpose and decision makers who just don't care. Wondering what to build and how high, think about how best to preserve proposal in the opposite direction. Instead of is the right thing to do now. For the soul and for the future of the Alphabet Historic District, Because it is the city began as well as for the character and thoughtful legature of this uniquely Portland neighborhood Where major code amendments 3 4 5 & 6 is the of the city as a whole Thank you. I support Commissioner Fritz. I second that she's an angel. Thank you sponsored by our angel It's a good day for you I have just one other thing to say, and that is... Thank you very much. Appreciate it very much. Why you would even listen seriously... I don't understand when it comes to developing housing. We, we. To a realtor. Thank you. Next three, please. Dennis Harper. Doug. You hear all voices. Yeah, I know. I know you do. And they'll be followed by Henry Kramer, Aaron Brown, and Jim Gorder. Gordon Winkler. Good afternoon. My name is Jim Gorder, and I'm a resident of the southwest Portland. Thank you. Would you like to start, sir? I will. Thank you. If you are really serious about displacement, and I've come with a big ask today, with Better Housing by Design or the Residential Infill Project, do not move ahead and implement it. While BPS describes it as until the anti-displacement action plan is completed, it appears to have been pulled together late in the game. So the North Star of the Housing Opportunity Initiative and RIP have moved out of council. Rather than the North Star, with a timeline for completion after BHD starts, and we all know that horses can't push carts. North Star displacement will be the horse behind the cart in southeast Portland. The units are small. The building is small. I'm the owner of a small fourplex and the occupants are elderly. Some have very serious health issues and all is old and the rents are low. Some of the large, it is ideal for redevelopment. The rest all have low incomes. But the lot is displacement and I don't know where they would go. Residents are the perfect potential victims of the BHD staff person. The reply was, maybe they can. When I asked a BH, better a, I doubt it. Certainly not one with the amenities of a. You could find another apartment in the neighborhood and low rents. I'm very yard, free laundry, off street park analysis. While the BHD goal is to increase the number of skeptics of the BHD displacement and through redevelopment. It will not provide housing choice for the number of available housing units. It is most pure will continue Portland's dismal history of displacement of those who need it the most. Please do not approve better housing by these minorities and those with lower incomes. Council assigned to a bureau fully funded until the anti-displacement action plan is approved. Without that there will be no housing opportunities for an embedded in the culture of the city and the council. Hi, my name is Doug Klotz. I'm a member of our most vulnerable residents. Thank you. I support better housing by design, which will allow more housing to be Portland neighbors welcome and also inner southeast action. Design for the growing number of Portland to live in these homes as well. I built in the multifamily zones and improve building. I support amendments numbers 1, A, B, and C. I was realigning the zoning in northwest Portland. ...requirements to reduce the cost of housing, incentivize affordable... ...strongly support Amendment No. 2, which would remove most parking on sites throughout the city. I oppose No. 3... ...units and prioritize building housing instead of parking. That decision was made by council for a good reason. With that decision made, if a historic landmark has been demolished in the site because of what happened in the past... ...there's no reason to limit or penalize the floor... we should be allowing bonuses for how affordable housing ever is and what council approved I oppose number of freak charities letter development of affordable housing anywhere to quote a capital tool to prevent displacement I thought that was an interesting head of an area having frequent transit can be a value anyway I oppose number five way to look at it. Because, you know, in historic districts, compatibility will be ensured by the 100-foot height near-right rail is allowed to right-size this. I would support a reduction to 75 feet landmarks review. If we're really trying to, it could not be further reduced by Landmarks Commission. But only if Code Language Specified days that could happen. So if she put that in there, then we could, which is always, you know, something that at these, we should leave it at 100 feet. I oppose Amendment Number 6. We could compromise on that, but otherwise. Humanity has said regarding the outdoor and indoor areas, I note that what Habitat for number six will result in a decrease in the number of units and a decrease in that for affordable housing, Amendment Habitat does. So, keep the proposed regulations oversized in order to fit these things in the buildings, the shared space requirements. On the mapping amendments, I allow more flexibility in meeting outdoor and actually would support RM2 rather than our support number M1 for reuse of the manhouse and that site. I support M2 for the split one so they have a little more capacity to do more housing on that. And I oppose number M3. This area already has 10 zoned lot that the woman there talked about. And it's been already reduced from 4 to 1 to 3 to 1 FAR. Story buildings right across the street from these houses are not appropriate in this well-served area. downtown lower. Further reduction is not well. If those SROs were limited to 60% MFI location. Also, as far as the SROs, being with the concept of SROs. So, with that income, that would be more in the key. We had Christy White. Can I just comment something? 20 people. This is a fascinating discussion. I hope we all go fast forward. We have another 15 minutes. But I just want to compliment you on the way you marshal. Take as much time as we need to listen and get decision makers up here. Amendment, I'm opposed to three minutes. It is just for the – even I can follow that. So I just want to thank you for the way you do it or I support it. Here's a quick rationale. Thank you very much. Okay. My name is... Formatted your information. You're welcome. He's got four seconds left, too. ...in the Porter Brigham House, a primary contributing building. My name is Dennis Harper, and as a homeowner just within the 1,000-foot distance from Providence Park MAX Station, in the historic Alphabet District, I am aware that I live... ...height allowance for residential buildings under the Better Housing by Design draft, and a zone that has been proposed to have a 100-th higher density zoning near transit stations generally. I am... While I am in favor of such a district, the thoughtful creation of historic districts has only opposed to such gigantic buildings in any historic that any new development in a historic district will be sensitively designed. It has always been implicitly involved in assurance. In the historic alphabet district, the context is primarily aligned and compatibly scaled to the context. In masonry-clad apartment buildings of three to four stories... Wood-framed houses of two to three stories. A design draft that I do support. There are the zoning revisions in the historic. There are components of the better housing in historic districts. And the FAR transfer allowance for seismic upgrade in the Alphabet District. The modifications to the RM4 zoning. To modify the better housing by design a proposal to eliminate the one-way to historic buildings. I urge city council districts within 1,000 feet of transit stations. In the case of Providence, a 100-foot height allowance for residential buildings in the historic building that would allow greater height and increased FAR, Providence Park Station, I recommend an alternative inside street outside of the historic alphabet district and closer for new residential buildings in the vicinity of Westburn. I'm not in full consideration of my suggestions. Thank you very much. Next three, please. The Providence Park Max Station. Thank you for your thought. Henry Kramer, Aaron Brown, and Jordan... Sorry. The next three are Lee, Dean Gisbold and Winkler. And they'll be followed by John. Would you like to start, please? Just state your name for the record and you have three minutes. Brad Hochhalter. Welcome. Hello, members of the commission. My name is Henry Kramer. I live in northeast Portland. Absolutely. Remembering by design is a good step in the right direction insofar as it, I'm also a member of Portland Neighbors Welcome. Better housing, that's why we're doing this. That's why the affordable housing bonuses are there. That's why the reductions creates more and more affordable housing. FAR, each is going to bring Portland more desperately needed homes and parking requirements are there. That's why we're shifting from unit count. A current housing crisis where landlords are taking advantage of the lower cost in the midst of our And families spend months looking for a home. Our number one of our home shortage to bully tenants and jack rents. And with that North Star in mind, I want to urge you to highest priority needs to be building more and more to and reject amendments three through six. support proposed amendments 1A, 1B, and will housing providers deliver more homes? This is plainly good. 1A and B will help provide affordable, will help, that is, afford to recognizes that it's deeply problematic to require should do it. End of story. Amendment 2A. that drives up costs. It robs us of a home for a car where you could put a home for a family. That's a smart lesson to affordable housing citywide. Potential housing. Amendment 2 ensures that we apply. We should stop requiring new parking for any housing. It makes sense to provide more and more affordable housing on a different day. By contrast, Amendments 3 through 6 would send us a technical affordability. That's likely a different question. A gauntlet of barriers to housing. because demolishing just straight in the wrong direction erecting a movement uh through the amendment through with would uh punish future historic building requires a full council vote i'm unfair and unnecessary and makes for less and less affordable housing prospective tenants for the actions of council that's on our city while rewarding the most affluent affluent. Number four would amendments four and five punish the poorest people in transit starved areas simply by virtue of their living in transit starved drive, housing, and prospective tenants in transit deserts. Number four, perpetuate exclusion areas would perpetuate a cycle of everybody that lives in historic district is affluent, but they are more affluent than most. By ensuring that affluent historic districts, and not housing, by capping that height limit, it means we can't build as much housing there. That they can still avoid building their fair share of housing and make each home more affordable and further push. And number six would just flatly remove space for humanity's opposition to Amendment 6. It's unfair and unnecessary and means less. Homes, families out of reach just look to have it outside of their homes or we can't find a home in the first place. There is nothing more urgent than less affordable housing. There are families being bullied in price preference that even approaches the importance of getting more and more affordable housing. And no personal aesthetic. Please adopt better housing by design with amendments 1A, 1B, and 2 for our families is worthy of consideration. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. And without amendments three through six. Thank you very much. I'm here to ask you to legalize housing. I'm here to testify in support of the policy. My name is Aaron Brown. I'm a renter in St. John's. I'm a neighbor's welcome, Portlanders for parking reform and Sunrise PDX. I'll see recommendations put forth by many of my peers and friends with the Portland we slated for rezoning under the better housing by design plans. And I'll admit it's somewhat all full disclosure. I actually live in a beautiful old single family house that is. There's a lot of other things I'm more sad about. I'm really sad to imagine the 100 year old house I have being replaced with something newer. That is the through line that many of my peer housing crisis that leads to so many people to sleep on the streets and is going to live dealing with landlords, dealing with the tenant crisis that we're just trying to figure out in their lives how they can afford the first place that they're so eloquently testifying about earlier. Frankly, the things I like most about my neighborhood with the rising oceans, the folks from Sunrise testimony were saying makes it evident that many people want to live in a walkable. Well, the neighborhood itself. The rent I'm currently paying my overdue fines on my lunch break. Being able to go to this neighborhood. What a delight it is to be able to visit the library, to be able to walk to the grocery store when I'm out of milk. To know that if I ever had kids and lived in a credit union or the post office in between others, I would deeply, deeply want. And our current zoning code means that in that neighborhood, I'd be able to walk my kids to school. These are all things that people can afford, the rent that we're currently paying, or we'll be able to pay a much large house that I live in, beautiful as it is, means that only folks all of the benefits and privileges I have of intergenerational wealth that I'm hoping for down payment that I'm ever going to be able to afford, even with hopefully they're not watching this testimony. These are the amenities people want. I've got to call my parents to figure out. This is what I cherish to stay afloat. It makes it easier for Trinet to justify running more busses. Legalizing more housing in these areas will make it easier for the local business that our neighborhoods will gradually change to provide more housing so that the economic, cultural, and real estate can be more frequently so people can live without cars. it means and more folks can wait for me for waiting for the 44 on a cold november moisture diversity of my neighborhood as it currently is can be supported and cherished 30 40 minutes for that headway if that passage shows up more frequently i'm running hopefully if the 44 is running more frequently i don't have to wait backyard of the middle school in north portland um so in short i'm just also a lot less likely to be driving on an expanded freeway and that i design legalized housing thank you very much for your time thank you Thank you. I'm urging you to continue moving forward with better housing. Thank you. Sorry, I'm multitasking. Next three. Thank you. Was there a Jordan Winkler? Okay, sorry, thank you. The next three are John Lee, it's LIU, sorry. I think he testified earlier. He did. Okay. And Brad Hotchhalter. Dean Giswa. Nathan. And then Allison Reynolds next. And colleagues while they're getting. And then I have Julie Garver. In front of you, we'll be receiving a lot of information situated. I want to put, and I need to go through each of the amendments to vote on the amendments and their motion today. We will obviously, plus it is likely that we will be receiving additional, probably be discussion on several of the amendments to consider whether it makes sense to actually go through the amendments. So I would like you people testify. I can't stay that long. Okay, that's what I was hoping some of that work today after we've heard about ten more. Carla to do is find some time on an upcoming that he would say. And so when I direct and so that makes this clean because then we're hearing agenda when we could actually continue the conversation, have some questions and do a little digging in the testimony. It gives us a chance to go back and ask staff being better informed if that's okay with people. So... And we'll come back into that final session with... Before we end the session, and I also have questions for staff. I mean, I would like to put a few comments on the record. In my mind, I'm fine with moving. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. That I would rather ask when they're fresh. So just to be clear, we would maybe have some brief discussion. Absolutely. Does that work? Commissioner Fish, does that work? On any of the amendments until we reconvene and have above the staff, but we would, under your proposal, not be both. Discussion with staff to ask questions. And discussion about yeah, so I'd like to leave space for the descendant on the table And I may do that today before we leave But then when I believe I will be putting at least one more of our questions answered and be able to have a more we would come back fresh and having a long council day so I This event is scheduled for robust discussion as opposed to at the end of a very... Event that actually starts now, but I was willing to stay till 5. Okay. So this hearing is scheduled for three hours. I have it in bed that our staff questions and to have discussion the next time we convene. If we could have... A second opportunity to do that? Sorry, I was asking about something else. What was the question? Yes. I'm not willing to say. Is there any reason why we couldn't today? And if we continue the hearing, we can ask staff questions when we reconvene. There's no reason. I mean, we could ask staff questions. I guess my question for you was, is the plan that you would close the record for being on this item as well? Yes, you may. And then be a discussion with staff and then potentially new amendments if new testimony today. Okay. Okay. And then it would just and you would open the record to take more testimony on those amendments. Potentially. They are so different from the things that you've heard testimony on. I heard a couple of people who testified today that said they were going to. Commissioner Hardesty. And how soon are we going to get those amendments? Because I just want to make sure. Offer some amendments as well. I know that I'm going to offer one other amendment. I'm going to wait until the end of the hearing. Make sure that we are. Okay. So I've gotten word that I had an amendment, but I'm not going to make that. That's fine. You do it. Yeah. Mayor, you may have to. I feel like we're having a completely private discussion in your presence. Okay, great. Okay. Sorry. Thank you for your patience. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaily. Sorry, but we had to work out the logistics. Please go ahead. Thank you. I live in Portland. I live in the Lowerhurst neighborhood. I'm testifying behalf. It's Hardesty and Fish. My name is John Liu. Very briefly, I support Amendment 3, Amendment 5, the Portland Coalition for Historic Resources, apparently, and Amendment 6. I'm going to focus primarily on Amendment 4. I'm going out of order one which regards the Lowerhurst manhouse. The reason I support Amendment 3, and I'm going to touch on Amendment MA1, buildings are uncommon. And why I support Amendment 3 is because designated historic, in many cases the state, has designated particular properties or particular Portland, and they are irreplaceable. So the city and the civic purpose of protecting the historic resources in there. districts for the private specificity would then turn around and give developers a financial incentive to demand. And so it seems strange to me that the city need for protection. These buildings, these older buildings, demolish the very buildings that we've gone to the trouble for affordable housing. We're going to talk about the man house in a second. For communities that are very flexible, they're very adaptable. They can be easily reused in Portland, the large historic houses that you see today, community uses and for SROs. In fact, in many areas, it could well become again. But that can only were SROs back in a more difficult economic. What about the manhouse? The Laurelhurst manhouse is an example of what I'm talking about. What would happen if they don't get demolished first? So I want to talk about these that got housing bond funding. It stands out because it stands out among all the property wide hallways, tremendous detailing, beautiful gardens, it's a remarkable historic building, it has beautiful architecture, a big place. For 88 now and in a couple years, probably have it wooded property and it will be a fantastic to grow up in affordable, secure housing. It'll be fantastic by over 100 low income families. My neighborhood association board, the Lowerhurst Neighborhood Association place. It's a project that has a lot of support. Committee begging them to support to unanimously wrote a letter to the bond selection object. uh it also stands out because of its low unit to authorize funding for the project and we strongly support that from the lowest cost per affordable unit to the taxpayers of portland cost of the city among all the projects that got approved it has a historic buildings but we can only do that and that's an example of what we can do by repurposing our other man houses out there all over portland if they don't get demolished there is today or an sro or something like that if They can become what the manhouse for amendment three because I don't think the city should give developers more incentive if they're still standing. And so that's why organizations like Innovative Housing can repurpose them for affordable to demolish those houses before. Why it's needed, very briefly, housing. And finally, the mayor asked, there is no demolition protection. In Portland's historic conservation district, all it gets is a 120-day delay. After that, it can be demolished. Contributing out in a historic conservation district, conservation districts in North Portland, lots of demolition there right now, and they're being demolished right and left. There's six conservation districts going over time. No worries. Thank you. I'm Dean Gisvold, and that's why we need this. Thank you. Thank you very much. Sorry for going over. The Irvington Neighborhood Association, more importantly, the Irvington Historic District. speaking on behalf of the Interior Administrator for the last nine years. Thank you. And district of which I am the unpaid for 30 years on the board with SROs. And also have some experience with Central City today to support amendments three, four, with real affordable housing. Although the Irvington group didn't vote on M1, M5, and 6. and each one of those amendments as well. Number 2 and 3, Personally, I support all are aimed at the same thing, and that is avoiding the and number five and M3. In my experience, wanting conflict between developers, more square footage, and because that means more profit, to use every available thing to get it. And then they run into the fact that there are compatibil- and The 98% of the folks who have a who have standards in the historic district that have served the right thing and make their alterations and make their follow the rules and do them. And that, avoiding that is a problem because there are expansions and whatever. the city council, and we don't need that. And you don't need that. It ends up in landmarks, and eventually it ends up not opposed. I would say tread carefully on the SROs. I would oppose, well, these in 80s with central city concern, mainly in the 80s. When my experience back in the 70s of housing, we don't want to put anybody in that kind of 80s with SROs. They were horrible examples how poor they are. It's just, it is inhumane. And housing with chicken wire, no matter how poor they are, And I do have one question. I would be careful about what you do there. Amendments be, if we can work with the mayor, and that is, I haven't finalized it yet in my head, but I'm thinking about it. Commissioner, can I propose an amendment to that right up until the moment that we take the final? After today's hearing? You have to put the amendment forward. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. But it will require a commissioner. Thank you for allowing me to testify. My name is Brad Hogan. Thank you. Thanks, Dean. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Individual along with my wife. We have a house in the north welter. I'm testifying as a and I am supportive of the change. District in the alphabet district. Others that are changing the revising the. ...that are being brought up. I think it's Amendment 3 and RM3, I think, down to RM3. I think that's the right way to go. Alphabet District, my gratitude both to the commissioners and the mayor, and I also want to express our work. This is outstanding to see this kind of dynamic, and also the staff who prepared all of this. It's special. And I think I'll fit district a lot going on. I think it's what makes Portland that way. I moved there 15 years ago. And it also is a special district in the states and towns like Austin, which is often compared. I've traveled a bit in terms of its accessibility and the intimacy of the area to Portland. It's not even close in terms of the neighborhoods and tree-lined streets and stuff. And that's what the alphabet district is of the city and the ability to have love. I live in a house that's 135 years old, and it was moved there to me as a great example of that. and a lumber yard to go in. And they moved it, ironically, about 50 years ago. So we didn't even take any extra space on the street or anything. So into the Alphabet District in the middle of the blocks, amendments, and I hope that that goes through. Anyway, I just want to support you for those who don't support the 100-foot. And I also want to say, too, I do support that are right adjacent to where my house is. I think that... allowance for those areas, Cooch and all those areas that other speakers have talked about. Along Davis and Everett and churches and other buildings and big homes. There are really a lot of special structures there that are protected. Thank you. Thanks all three. So I would hope that those could be protected. As a personal matter, mention that I support the MAP Amendment 1. May I I live in Lowellhurst. I live all the three blocks on the manned property. I'm a strong man. I cannot testify on that in a representative capacity, but I'm a strong man. It's the old disregard. I'm a supporter of that. No, you can't do that. Sorry. Take it. Next three, please, Carla. Are Julie heard everything you heard? Reynolds. Reynolds. And they'll be followed by Richard Shepard Garber, Nathan, and Allison. Who said zoning can't be fun, Commissioner? I don't know who said it. Carrie Metzger and Thomas Metzger. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. They were wrong. Why don't you start? Presenting Innovative Housing. We're a private, non-profit, affordable housing council. My name is Julie Garver. I'm here representing to thank City Council and staff and citizens for the developer in Portland. And I just wanted to take a side effort, and I think it's definitely worthwhile. Our work on better housing, this has been a big of those efforts, so thank you. And I am generally supportive and all of the diverse views today really support. I don't want to say that yet today, but I think it represents an interesting of all the amendments. And I think I'm the only one helping to address diverse needs. And so mix on bringing things together and innovative housing brings together an interesting mix of affordable generally supportive. As you might know, so we've done several projects in Portland that involve historic building housing development and historic preservation. Historic buildings from non-residential uses to residential uses. And a couple others that have converted. I'm here specifically to ask for your and so we really value that opportunity. The man house and we believe that it support in passing the amendment for the man house by providing this different density array is going to help preserve that extra density in a way that actually better supports the henchmen. and help to provide specifically the development on the historic resource of the manhouse. And so that historic resource will always be protected. While the manhouse site will always be covered by Landmarks Review. We would like to add those additional affordable housing units in the future, allowing the additional affordable housing units for manhouses. selecting our project for the Portland. We're committed to 88, and thank you for additional units there in the future in a sensitive way that does prevent bond funding. But we would like to build some. And then finally, I wanted to mention that you probably know protect the original asset. single-family housing on it. It was built originally as an old... This parcel didn't ever have a different use than single-family housing. Old folks' home, but it's always had a... We feel like we're glad that Better Housing came along because in closing, we wanted to save density because of its proximity to Sandy Boulevard. I feel like this is a great location for some additional close-in neighborhood. And I wanted to mention that and additional income diversity in open space and SROs in case anybody's interested. I think I do have a few opinions on parking. Mail me those thoughts. That would be very interesting. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. Very good. I'd love to hear if you could. Nathan LaRue, I'm the Dean of Trinity Episcopal Cathedral in northwest Portland. Hello, Nathan. You're up. Hi. district. I just want to flag a concern that we have regarding the Northwest 19th and Everett part of the alphabet historic properties. These are changes that will significantly affect historical amendment to code concerning FAR transfers from historic that are located in multi-family zones. Trinity Cathedral, which I represent institutions like schools and houses of worship. Efforts in historical preservation, we received the 2016 Art DeMuro Award and has a long history of being recognized for our efforts. So it's an issue that we care deeply about. For 160 years we've been from Restore Oregon for our accessibility enhancements. But all kinds of people in our neighborhood across beliefs and tradition have been serving not just Episcopalians in Portland district. We're We're the only daily emergency food provider in our district. We're more than just a historic structure contributing to historic neighbors. We're a significant arts resource and venue, and we worship more than 40,000 meals a year to our food insecurity sanctuary. It's unreinforced masonry, and it costs a lot to keep in this big, beautiful barn of a 1906. We're really grateful for Better Housing by Design, which expands the ability of contributing keep up. That's something that keeps me up at night. so needed income for historic preservation. However, our concern buildings to transfer FAR and generate includes the city's historic faith communities from taking real and mean is that the way this language is currently worded, perceiving sites are restricted to residentially zoned sites. The advantage of FAR transfers because because the risk but our partner faith communities in northwest portland congregation beth israel this is proposed legislation that impacts not just trinity cathedral so we respectfully request an expansion of the permitted receiving saint mary's cathedral emmanuel lutheran and others those zones that will make it possible for portland's historic institutions to generate the insights to include commercial zones as well as residential structures for generations to come thank you thanks and and dean income we need to make sure that we can preserve and enhance our structure bds staff BPS staff. I just wanted to let you know I have my staff in this issue. Thank you. I appreciate your attention. I apologize. This is coming to you. Taking a look at a potential amendment that could address by volunteers, and we don't have teams of lawyers to review this stuff, so I'm in the process. I can only plead that we're a church. We're run by from Ups and Legal Council. And Commissioner Udailey had a question or a comment. I just want to... With some good support here from... Well... Your important partners say that I flagged this as a concern as community with incredible potential to provide affordables. And I think really an untapped resource in the community and certainly not make it harder. And I don't think that was full housing. And we need to get out of your way. Mayor is working on an amendment. Thank you. Ever the intention. So I'm pleased to hear them. I'm unclear of what you cannot do. Sure. Hardesty. I'm, uh, thank you, Mayor. I don't. So what is it that you can't do? And I think my colleague will speak to that in just a moment. It sounds like people already know what's eligible for receiving FIR transfers from historic structures. She's much closer to the details on this, but it has to do with the receiving side. Giving us more tools, but not actually giving us the means to use them effectively. And because of the way the code is worded, it means that you're giving... Oh, thank you. That's a very good and succinct description. I'll wait for more. I'm with Stoll Reeves, and we are here on behalf of... Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Allison. I want to give, I guess, the Trinity Episcopal Cathedral. And so we were taking a look at a floor area transfer that Trinity code perspective on this stuff. I'm really excited about this because it has the opportunity to fund. They have the opportunity to do and... We came across a change that's being made through Better Health. A lot of exciting things on the site, but actually going to be a problem for this particular transfer. And then kind of noticing by design and realized that this actually handles a lot of floor area transfers in the city. And so we realized that this would be bigger as well. So my office, like right now, and how this change actually is creating a problem, I want to just kind of go through what the code looks like. noticing this and interested in trying to deal with this. And we're so thankful that folks are excited to enter into private agreements to sell extra density. So the Historic Transfer Program allows historians for historic preservation, including these costly seismic upgrades, to other sites. This provides funds. First, you need the zoning to allow the transfer, and then you need a buyer. But in order for transfer to happen, you need two things for their project. If there's no buyer, there will not be a transfer. Who actually needs and can accept extra floor if there's no transfer. So right now, a residential zone has stored, and the program does not provide any funds under the existing code. The first is it can transfer to other residential sites. The historic site has two options to transfer its FAR, and it was one of the only options for those residential projects to get extra funds. And this used to actually work pretty well because it housing changes started providing automatic bonus FAR, However, in 2017, the inclusionary, that's fantastic and do not get rid of that. We like it. However, that to these bigger residential projects. We think they actually could not accept extra FAR because they got all that they meant that these projects no longer needed. So this means that residential to residential site trade were entitled to under the code. And that remains true today. Residential sites under the current code have a second option. They can transfers stopped happening. But that was fine because the ones can. And so these are commercial sites. They have commercial projects transferred to EX and C-zoned sites. Like certain will trigger inclusionary housing so they don't get the automatic bonus. So these commercial projects do not, if they're fully commercial. The problem that's happening under the recommended draft is there is this experience. These are folks that still needed FAR. So it's now going to be limited to just residential to residential transfer that Nathan mentioned of this transfer program, but put back in so that we actually, if you're a residential transfers. So we are asking that the commercial, you have folks that can actually buy your floor area. landmark or historic district contributing resource. That was brilliant. That was really brilliant. So that's the change. Does that answer your question? Thank you, Mayor. Yes, thank you. That was a very good answer. Thank you. Are you requesting that we add explanation? Sure. And so a commercial... property based on adding commercial back ends and we will do anything that's a commercial property will be okay if we can come back I mean the ability to build it yeah so I think what this will do and correct me if this if we agree to put this back in but this will just allow these commercial sites that are isn't what you guys think is happening a mayor and others through historic transfers to get that from a property in where they have the ability to take in extra density through zones. Because right now these transfers can happen. It's just that of the residential zones as opposed to just the other commercial zones. They're not going to, under the proposed language, be able to be those. As a residential zone, these folks change what can happen at all in the commercial zones. It just changes the sending sites. So it doesn't really change it from Trinity as opposed to purchasing it just from a different historic site. There was sources of the FAR that they have where they could purchase it. I'm sorry. We'll let it in a commercial zone. And I think Sam Diaz from my staff later is going to stand there because I know that we'll ask Bill for a proposed amendment. We can dissect it a little bit. Assuming we have language worked out. Appreciate it. Next three, please.
 Richard. Thank you for being here and thank you for your testimony. And Thomas Metzger. And the last person who signed up was Tom Shepard. Carrie Metzger. I always feel like the last person should get some sort of a prize. Thomas Karwakian. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for having us. I know. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to the BPS staff for putting together this Better Housing by Year. And a big first thank you to the Neighbors Welcome, Sunrise PDX, Portlanders for Parking Reform for my design, as well as also those from Portland Brief. I want to just say that, for their testimony as well, In oppose Amendment 4 to limit bonuses and FIR, please support Amendment 2. Please oppose Amendments 3 and 5, which would limit the amount of affordable FIR transfers to within 1,500 feet. And oppose Amendment 6, which also impacts the viability of housing, which can be built in many closer neighborhoods, a much more context-specific thing. I wanted to spend the next of affordable housing projects, which I think this can be if you've ever heard of David Wallace Wells' book, The Uninhabitable Earth, little time reading from, I'm not sure, you probably don't want to read this before bed, but, which I think is a really terrifying read. A random page, you can get this at the library, by the way. For centuries, let's go ahead and start this. I kind of just pulled out first project, then observe ourselves. But what is moral? There is nothing to learn. We have looked to nature as a mirror onto which to contemplate its lessons. We are, after all, not merely telling them from global warming because we do not have the time or the distance. How immense. One 2018 paper sketches the math and the story about living it, that is, trying to. The threat is a team led by Drew Shindell tried to quantify the suffering that would be of horrifying detail. In the journal Nature Climate Change, it's rather than two degrees. In other words, how much additional suffering avoided if warming was kept to 1.5 degree? Their answer, 150 million more people would result from just that additional half degree of warming. In a two degree warmer than... world than in a 1.5 degree warm people would die from air pollution alone is the stakes further in the gap between 1.5 and 2 degrees. Later that year, the IPCC rate numbers that large can be hard to grasp. But 150 million said hundreds of millions of lives were at stake. Holocausts. It is three times the size of the death toll is the equivalent of 25 death toll humanity has ever produced. It is more than twice of the Great Leap Forward, the largest non-military. The numbers don't begin to climb only when we hit the greatest death toll of any kind, World War II. Surprise you, they are already accumulating at a rate of at least 1.5 degrees, of course, as should not appear. An annual Holocaust, pursued 7 million deaths from air pollution alone each. So I just want to leave it with that. This and prosecuted by what brand of nihilism? A broad strategy to really significantly change is the first step, I hope, and to inspire others as well. I know change how we live here in Portland. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Carrie Mansker. Can you hear me? You will do the right thing. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Okay. There you go. All right. I was not prepared to talk. You can bring it closer. A little bit. He's dragging me up here. So on that, I guess I will just say today it wasn't going to be my thing. Rezoning and the 100-foot buildings, for say, I am concerned about. They've already been. or raising one for certain areas. I'm from the northwest area. We expected it tore down on one story, and they're putting in a building quite higher than an issue on our street. And there's a lot of low-income, quite large, with no parking, and there's already a parking. Two other places that are probably going to be targeted units, and we see it developed. And so I think you need to get re... there's any affordable housing in a brand new building. I just don't see where you're going to have some consideration. And I don't think they're building a new building. And then they're going to say, oh, yeah, we're just going to, you know, rent all that money going in. The developer's going to have all this money going in to happen. And there's no car, so how do they get around if they have to work out, you know, and they're not for $500 a month, you know. That's probably not going to go up in Washington. So that's another issue. Like Hillsborough or wherever they have to work. So much of it. Thank you. We're glad you came to testify. I see. So that's pretty much it. But we do live on Northwest Upshur, which is appreciated. Thank you. So I didn't set her up. I apologize. And the two blocks that we're concerned with is one block from the Northwest Industrial District. Okay. affordable apartment complexes on them. The Elijah and Garden apartment I'm here to talk about have three street court apartments and all of them are small, affordable places that rents the Upshur House, which is a non-profit, and the other side of the street. And so the area was designed for it. There are also some row houses on are strong supporters of the work to multi-family density. It's what attracted us to the area we are housing and the availability. So thank you to improve the design of multi-family and the team. We've interacted with the planning bill, Cunningham's leadership, professional and informative. So thank you. A group they've always been very concerned and what we're here to request is The so what we're working on here, Northwest Upshur, the two blocks of the 2600-27 Manor with what is defined as RM2. In fact, they're kind of are currently built out in the consistent street, including street trees, which were asked for in the last ideal versions of that. There's only on October 2nd and 3rd. There's a lot of council testing apartments, use public transportation or bike. Most of the people that live in these apartments, but some do need vehicles, as Carrie pointed out, to where they're going, as we did need to do, and for caring for family, opening up your opportunities for jobs, because not all jobs are... maybe open your job may start. So also served by transportation, especially the time of day in our area is for local businesses. A lot of the demand for parking, you know, allowing their customers to have a place to come. And so we want to support our local businesses by not with increased density. There will be more demand for street parking and We know that when these houses are – our request here is to – that could negatively impact those. But of high density, between 2,600 and 2,700 of northwest up – take this island of 900 upshare blocks, which is RM2, rather than and zone it the same as 2800 and 2900 targeted for extreme density before this taking its RH zoning that for some reason it has been RM2. So that's our request. We've sent letters to some of you in the program. And take it and do the right thing and make it that what is affordable today when it's rebuilt as new. And we are really concerned. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks, all three. Will not be affordable. And our neighbors are concerned, too. Thomas, you get an award for being an AM. Last person is? Thomas Karwacki. Thanks again for joining us this morning. Thank you. On a PMS. Yeah, first and last. The association speaking on behalf of that as the board. Thank you. It's good to see you. Tom Karwocki, University Park neighbor. I'm very thankful for the staff and BPS's staff for doing the land use committee. We have time reading. It's quite a substantial, really incredible job. This is my bed. The concerns we have is accessibility, particularly for those who are financial documents. One of the biggest and one of the concerns that we had is a number have a disability of some sorts. We were looking at maybe instead of having two, we were looking at for a minimum number having a reduction or relaxing if it was beyond 15. Elimination of parking requirements. people. We have several of those facilities in our neighborhood that are 1,500 feet, because I think that is a big concern for sheep, but now they're expensive and it's a concern. Years old, that didn't have a problem. There were some sort of parking for them. Um, Perhaps we could require some... We had a real... We agreed with that. The main issue that we had was number four. To Christy White, after a sidebar on this, an issue in number six, I look at is... And I understand the need for the space. One of the possibilities that I think you might have issues that Overlook had with that. But what we had, we supported the main street overlay and the door space could be covered. And a percentage of that covered. Maybe it's a function of the out considered as part of the indoor coverage. So just looking at that outdoor space. playground area could be cushions. The other final issue we had is really most important is something to explore as you make your – I've talked before about universal design. We're a big fan concern is with the universal design. The city of Portland seems to be in Tucson, Austin, use visitability approach. But what the real concerns we have is adopting Birmingham, Alabama's approach, which is that this is not enough to get a wheelchair through. 32 inches, 31.75 inches, 36 inches, and that's a real concern. And you've created two inches is about the very minimum, and usually it's 34. He proposed, and this, as far as two totally different standards under the RIB, two of that. I documented on page 66 of Volume Slope on ADUs. That's not a concern, but it's totally different where you have different standards. I understand the size of the bathrooms, etc. When you just said that... Standards in terms of the grab bars, the eyebrows arched And what I noticed, one of Joe's standards under better housing and RIP. And then you're also, I heard you say that there might be a conflict. We've already imposed a lot on you today, but since we're not going to be voting on whether it's the right standard. will understand specifically what you just told us. Sure. Because I think there are a number of us that are on amendments. Could you take two minutes to make sure Joe... What specifically was that pertaining to? Well, you're going to want to follow up on that. Thank you. It deals with specifically on page 66 issues... Volume 2, so on the commentary which is, it does describe. Which volume? It's dealing with the bonus FARs and things dealing with visitable units. ADUs. ADUs. that deal with the visitable units, the duplexes and triplexes, et cetera. And so what the point is, those are ADUs. Okay, that's all I was trying to determine. Right, but this is also a difference between the RIP and that, and I think that it would behoove the system, even staff identified that there wasn't as much as possible. But you saved the best for the last. That's a very, I don't, to try to get them together. The materials, thank you very much. And please do take a minute with Joe to make sure he can... That's a very close reading of very good colleagues. So that completes our public to translate that for us in terms of options. Back to ask questions with your forbearance. I'd like to put testimony and now we have the opportunity to bring stuff you want to do first. I really have to go. So I just wanted to write an amendment on the table. Unless Commissioner Fritz, do you have something? I'd like to continue the discussion. However, I actually have to go. I'm sorry. Okay. I have many questions. Sam, could you come up? Bill could to now settle on some language with regard to the receiving site issue. The Commissioners, my name is Sam Diaz. I work in the mayor's office. I'm liaisoned to... Thank you. Sure. Good afternoon, Mayor. To address the issue that you heard that Trinity Church raised on the FBR planning on sustainability, we had BPS staff do a bit of analysis for you all. They are transfer... We did amendment language. This proposed amendment in preparation to accompany the FAR to be transferred from the multi-drilling zone properties due to do two things. So first it would allow the second piece of this, the second really goal here is allow to sites in commercial mixed use zones to sites in multi-dwelling zones. So again, we're making sure FAR to be transferred from commercial mixed use zone property. We're changing the creativity and connections that historic that we're expanding the eligibility, we're leveraging and kind of we're unlocking the land use potential that like churches like Trinity Church has to Tom Armstrong and to Bill Cunningham to give more air for community benefit. So I'll turn it over to kind of any scenario questions. I'll turn it over to the mechanics and in case you have ratio. Thank you. You know, this is a good F.A.R. stands for floor area comfortable with a one pager that set forth the discussion, Mayor, but I'd also be I'd be come entertain my motion. Can I put it on the table? Let's put them in an explanation. Would you would you can you have the language in front of you? Seconds on that when we when we're on the table, I move it as a second discussion and And I appreciate that, Commissioner Fish, because we come back and let's settle on a date to come back and further. It's also been a very long day. It has been a long day. We all want to be at our. I really don't want to have the conversation without Commissioner Fritz. Second, that is added to the list of amendments. Best when we deal with these details. Okay. So we have a motion to continue this hearing, a date or a time and or. So, Carla, do we have a date for us to. Yeah. November 20th at 4 p.m. is the time? Yes, we have November 20th at 4 p.m. Make sure that that's okay. Commissioner Hardesty is absent that day, though. So I'm certain. Okay, and have we checked with staffs tonight? So that's a Thursday? That's a Wednesday. That's a Wednesday. If you want to. And that's our last hearing before Thanksgiving. It follows the fossil fuel item. And we have, right now, we have a Wednesday morning on the 26th. Thanksgiving? No, we have a Thursday. I'll be in Salem that day for a legislative. Seventh. I won't be here. Well, let's take the earlier one then. Okay. And I've offered Commissioner Hardesty if she'd like to prepare a written statement. 20th. Just so we have a control data? Yes, or a general statement. I will read that on her behalf. So may I? Statement on her preferences. Talk out loud, just some next steps. Yeah. So my understanding, just so that, can I just talk, that we, standing is you're going to close the record. Correct. Although there is. We have to be cognizant of are going to entertain potentially additional amendment. It may trigger a requirement that we hold a hearing. So we have the fact that depending on the amendment, Joe, think through that. Well, just to the. He was afraid you'd see his. No, excuse me. What happened to Joe? Oh, I'm sorry. He's hiding. I assume that between now and the 20th, but to our crack team from planning and sustainable briefing, we could find half an hour to do some follow-up in our office. If any commissioner needed to have a follow-up, that would be helpful. I would ask questions and, and fine tune some of them, you know, to see who's available to come in and do that. And I would very much, I, I, uh, we will be scheduling that to answer the question of, of ultimately what is your recommendation? Much appreciated. If staff came in prepared him and frankly, uh, I understand the delicacy of that, but we do it all the time. I like to know where someone stands. I like the clarity of that. It doesn't mean I have to agree with it, but be prepared to come in and stake a claim and argue off of it. So please be patient. We can do that. Thank you very much. I'll just defend it so that we can have a robust discussion. Back to the date for just one moment. Okay. Carla, is there a... Mayor. Before I go to you, Commissioner Daley, back where all of us are present, and Commissioner Hardesty, an opportunity to find a date on the... Which date were you looking at, Commissioner Hardesty? Okay. indicated that potentially we could do it on there is there any other option we're uh we have thursday the 24th okay that's not bad how's that that's perfect and we're all here first at 3 45 and i show everybody in so it's two weeks but we're all here that's the week let's do that okay thursday the weekend yeah i i feel uncomfortable not having commissioners here yeah Thursday. I'll clarify one question. Sorry? I understand that the Okay, good. So we'll do that. So, Mayor May, unless of course there are some amendments that are fundamentally different, is the intent of the oral testimony portion of the record is closed at this point? What's the preference of the council? I don't see any reason why we Also to close written, the record to written testimony at this point. Money open. Well, particularly because I'm hoping some people can't keep written testimony open. Let's keep written testimony. I think that would make sense. So we'll close the oral record. We will choose to send us copies of their very thoughtful testimony. Yeah. They're certainly welcome to do. We'll keep written record open, so if people want to email us, it is November. November 21st, which is Thursday. And Ben Carla, could you review the date again? Time certain. And that is a time certain. Very good. Day at 345 p.m. Okay. I'm going to try to whip through these really quickly. I just want. Thank you. Sorry to interrupt. Commissioner Udaly. Issues and concerns, I think they will be mostly for Mr. Cunningham. I don't want to go on record today with some counsel, but I really want to say these things out loud in chambers. I am happy to follow up outside of council on broadening the affordability bonus. First of all, I was prepared to offer amendments available virtually everywhere. Is that correct? Correct. And I understand that it is important. ... amendment, but shared housing is also... ... I was looking at making an SRO... And some other arrangements that are similar to SROs are allowed. Contrary. ... allowed under current code. Group living... Perfectly acceptable and... ... what someone else suggested earlier is that in shared housing, almost my entire adult life, which is... form of housing. I love kitchens. It's not extraordinary. It's actually pretty normal. People living in rooms and sharing bathrooms, millennials are sharing bedrooms as well as kitchens. At this point, can't afford the rent. Okay. So my big concerns with bedrooms and bathrooms, because it's displacement, number one. Have we put adequate measure housing by design and with RIP remain the same? Density, as far as will we have measures in place to mitigate displacement need? Okay. And demolition just get the number of units and the kind of units we concerned that because average income incentives, I really remain could these zoning changes that their only way to real homeowners cannot really realize the benefits at. And that increases the likelihood of it being as the increased value in their home is to sell zones. This is more relevant in RIP, but I think it's somewhat relevant in demolished. Now, I know we're talking about multifamily. I really like to know that our policy here, reality, and the reality is that people are willing to walk. These are based on frequent transit. And the reality is low-income people walk a quarter to a half a mile to buy a bike, contrary to popular opinion. So I am much more likely to walk or park an exemption to 1,500 feet when people are out. I am curious why we have limited the park to 2,600 feet. and actually willing to walk much farther. Half a mile is housing in transit-poor areas. Instead of not allowing bike parking in transit hubs, I would argue that we need to have secure... can bike to the transit and safely park so that people who are living in these development density drives... expansion in our transit, so our bike, and also as was mentioned earlier, is where transit already exists, about half of our resident system. So if we're only focusing on area bus, max, or streetcar, live within a quarter mile of either expand, greatly expand that access. We're not going to be able to. I wanted to know what the current height limit is, so that's that. feet? It is. Yes, that's existing. It is in the Northwest Historic District. I think it is 100. And I think the final issue that I was interested in, we've addressed the church issue, not uncommon challenge with sloped sin is this Kind of where since the building is measured from the bottom of the sites, typically in southwest Portland, actually build to their full potential, they're losing the lowest side of the building. They can't in that triangle between the, you know what I'm saying, some FAR of modest fix for that. So I am wondering if we can come up with some kind of thank you and that's it. Appreciate it. And we can certainly. And. Commissioner Hurst. I want to talk to you more about these issues. Great. Thank you. For the incredible hard work. I know that this has been a heavy. Thank your office of the work that's been done. Thank you. I lift and I am greatly appreciative, because I still believe that if we pass, I have a couple of questions. I guess I'm the amendments that we are once again solidify this as is not even addressing and we will be affirming that bad and racially discriminatory policy at practices continue on. So when I think about, pass that in historic districts. I don't see that as limiting growth of housing at every income level, and I'm not interested in historic districts having their fair share and making them permanent. I'm interested in carving out discriminatory policy from housing to commercial. We know that small businesses are also kind of concerned about this shift. But I didn't hear anything about we talk businesses are being priced out of the city of Portland for more affordable housing units. But we're basically going to get about affordable housing and creating this opportunity. I don't have any responsibility for making sure that the commercial industry are free ride. And they're not actually providing a business space that's affordable for us if. they're getting these incentives that their action is in the city of Portland. So I have small business owners, which are 95% of business owners, doing carve-outs for individual, some real concerns. I also have some concern as of the property owners that currently have those properties. Properties based on the niceness or polite policies are supposed to work for everyone. I think if we put policies in place, those properties are very problematic for me. And so I look forward to writing exceptions for individual plus trying to be creative and not just assume that if we give it continuing the conversation. I look forward to. I'm also very concerned about the whole SRO commercial, that somehow that's going to work. Crappy places to live. When we had SROs in the past, and I agree with someone who said they were really, if we're bringing SROs back, they will go back to being crass. And if we don't do something different, and so, again, thank you so much for the work you've done. I look forward to happy places that people really don't want to live in. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion? To continuing the conversation. I want to echo what's been said about the superb staff work. Question at this point? Just one comment, Mayor. Very good. How much information you have at your fingertips and – It's amazing. Most people are mind-numbingly complicated in the command on things that, from preparatory work you've done to raise the level of awareness on council, hard to follow. So thank you. Thank you for the, you know, there are multiple on the sort of basic framework that we're dealing with. As I like to joke, I go home and I tell my wife, I'm surprised. There are moments in our service where when we're debating, you know, having debates, I get paid to do this work. What's it going to look like? Who are we serving? How are we going to use in discussions like this about the future of Portland? Fascinating. And I think even our toolkit to advance our values, I thought we saw some of the best of Portland coming forward and making with some of the sharp disagreements we heard today. some of the arguments that were raised today, although I'm going to go back. Very thoughtful arguments and I don't agree with by and large the quality of the testimony was superb. I can make sure I'm on solid footing but I thought it was lighter than heat which in our debates these days where we hope and and I thought it was more achieved. I can't resist putting my little marker down on the S.O. that we can come reason together is harder and harder to reach city. Many years ago, I was part of a number of because when I lived in another housing being added and the truth is. efforts that led to award-winning SRO stereotypes to guide our thinking, or we can imagine that we can allow old and outdated to have both the know-how and the technology to SROs could look like. And really not just, we said millennials, younger people, but frankly, for Pioneer and for many, including savings. We better have other options. Or the growing number of people retiring with no symbol about other options. And one thing I do is we better be creative and flex social isolation that we see in some of our. What I like about SROs, if done properly, is it ends some of the community building that goes with people sharing. So affordable housing. And it enhances. I look forward to the next discussion. I have a hard time imagining on them. Um, anyway, um, I think we'll, we'll, I look forward to starting to have the discussion the 21st. We'll settle all these questions, Mayor, but good start. So thank you very much. and debate at council. And I think today was a good day. Five or six times from people giving testimony, uh, even people, again, I just want to echo what I, I know you heard at least perspective from the planning and sustainability bureau. I mean, potentially we're approaching this from a very different effort that you've put into this and Sam, that goes for you as well, uh, which is that they really appreciated the time and the energy and the discussion today. Uh, I too heard things that I strongly support, uh, I would like to also just say I thought this is a grace that I thought were thoughtful, but that I probably will not support. That are reflected in my amendments and some things. Maybe tip my hand a little bit and acknowledge that while I also just want to impact would be on the community based on the way that we live. And we am certainly concerned about what the immediate is actually a long-term play. This is defining what we were organized and structured today. This and much of the groundwork that we would lay through this zoning want the city to be years from now for a long, long time. But it's establishing the standards is actually work that will not happen. We started to talk a little bit about commercial as well today. So I wish. we will create housing and be waiting this. What kind of future do we want? What do we want the next generation? That is the frame through which I'm evaluating code to ensure that there's a diversity and a mix of housing to be able to experience how can we use this housing and how do we ensure that people who work in this options, both in terms of affordability and the kind of house community as well. So it's all a good discussion. Thank you, community. in the years ahead can afford to live in the originally intended, but it's important work. We have continued. Thank you colleagues for putting up for a little bit longer than it was previously mentioned. 21st at 345 this conversation to the day our journey. Thank you. 5 p.m. time certain here in council chamber.