Okay. Hey there.
 does the run of show include having the folks that were there come forward at some point and be acknowledged I think we should do that that's not quite clear but let's do that that way when you have the two chiefs up here have those who are able come forward yeah I like that idea Peter St. John's is not here I don't believe he's just gotten home alright are we ready
 Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the November 3rd meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? No, thank you.
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. We have two completely different subject matters on the counter this afternoon, and we'll deal with them in order. I want to welcome you all here for either or both of those discussions. The first of them is an unusual thing, and it is a resolution that was introduced by all five members of the City Council. So would you please read the item, Carla?
 Item 1225, recognize city emergency responders for heroic efforts in responding to significant rain October 13-15, 2016 and an explosion in northwest Portland on October 19, 2016.
 Thank you, and thank you all for being here, and thanks to my colleagues for jointly putting this together as a way for us as a community to recognize and say thank you to our first responders for the great work that they do and that they did on that particular day.
 As it happens, yesterday morning I was meeting with some of the merchants and property owners and residents that were affected by this catastrophe. And there's a lot of work to do to rebuild people's lives and their livelihoods and the physical loss of that explosion. But there's a lot of joy in their hearts about the service that they received from the professionals that responded from our city. And so that's why we're here.
 So let me start by reading the resolution and then call on my colleagues to make some comments. And we have some people here that we've invited to testify and talk a little bit about that day and what happened and what it means. Thank you.
 The resolution says this, recognize city emergency responders for heroic efforts in responding to significant events on October 13th to 15th, 2016, and the explosion in northwest Portland. Whereas city employees exemplified extraordinary efforts during extensive rains and flooding between October 13th and 15th and during a major explosion in northwest Portland.
 and whereas city employees worked long hours and under arduous conditions to keep the residents of Portland safe, moving, and informed, and whereas the Bureau of Emergency Communications responsibly handled more calls than usual, and whereas 120 neighborhood emergency team volunteers deployed during high wind and heavy rain events from October 13th to October 15th,
 Volunteers cleared storm drains and helped Portland Fire and Rescue maintain a perimeter around downed power lines so that nearby residents would not be harmed. Many volunteers worked into the night, some not returning home until 2 a.m. And whereas Portland Fire and Rescue's highly trained, highly skilled, and highly competent firefighters serve over 600,000 residents and protect over 150 square miles with both emergency response, community education, and life-saving prevention,
 And whereas Portland Fire and Rescue has 30 stations situated strategically throughout Portland to respond quickly to all types of rescue calls, including but not limited to medical, natural gas leaks, hazardous materials incidents, motor vehicle accidents, and is the lead responder to any natural or human-caused disaster,
 including earthquake, extreme weather, and terrorism. And whereas on Wednesday, October 19th, Portland Fire and Rescue responded to a reported gas leak in northwest Portland that quickly escalated into an explosion, resulting in a four-alarm fire
 Firefighters evacuating the surrounding buildings before the explosion and took brave and courageous steps that saved lives. And whereas officers from the Portland Police Bureau, who routinely run towards danger rather than away, worked to close streets and secure the surrounding area, ensuring the safety of Portland citizens who were nearest to the explosion.
 And whereas the Bureau of Emergency Management worked quickly to deploy NET teams into areas in need, and whereas 40 NET volunteers responded to that incident, to the gas explosion in northwest Portland, volunteers helped police officers and firefighters maintain a perimeter around the incident from 2 p.m. until 10 p.m.,
 Whereas in both incidents, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management had an overwhelming response from volunteers with many hundreds canceling plans and remaining on standby to help out as needed, with 326 net volunteers on October 15th and 197 on October 19th.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City Council declares the City of Portland employees to be the best employees in the world, and be it further resolved that the City Council, on behalf of the residents of Portland, shares its gratitude and appreciation to all employees and volunteers who assisted in responding to both storm efforts and the explosion. We don't normally allow applause in this chamber, but let's hear it for our employees and our net volunteers.
 So we're here to celebrate, and I know each of my colleagues does as well, wants to celebrate. Dan, you had to leave a city council meeting because of one of these incidents. Yes, I was sitting in this chair that Wednesday, October 19th. Did I get the date right? We had just started council meeting, and I started getting text messages from Chief Myers about...
 The explosion at Northwest 23rd, it wasn't quite clear exactly what it was then, but what it was clear was three firefighters were injured, at least two police officers injured, and at least a couple of civilians, at least at the time. So I slowly left the chambers during the middle of our meeting and made it out to the scene. And I just can't tell you, first of all, the devastating impact of that explosion is still unimaginable.
 in my mind, but what really sticks out to me the most is just the extreme bravery and heroism demonstrated by our police and our firefighters and later by our NET volunteers and the neighbors in that neighborhood who were severely impacted by this. The magnitude of it, I know the mayor came out and saw the impacts as well, is still mind-boggling and I'm just so grateful, so thankful
 that nobody was killed. It's really hard to believe, and nobody was seriously injured. We know Lieutenant St. John was seriously injured, and we know he's recovering, but I know we all wish him well. But I just want to thank all of those who are on the scene and all of those who helped during the severe weather incidents too. You really are Portland's finest, and we owe a debt of gratitude to the work you do day in and day out on behalf of the residents of our great city. So thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish.
 Well, first, Mayor, thanks to you and Dan for organizing this effort and bringing the whole council with you. And second, I want to echo something Dan just said. There's something about emergencies that bring out the best in our community. And whether it's severe weather or whether it's an emergency like this, it's folks stepping up to help each other and in some instances risking their lives for fellow citizens. And it's very inspiring. And the truth is the men and women of our police bureau and our fire bureau get up every morning and go to work.
 not knowing whether they're going to come home. And they leave behind families that are not sure they're always going to come home. And there's a certain kind of bravery and heroism in that kind of work and willingness to sacrifice for the better good. And so today we're really honoring the men and women who work for the city and our partners in the community who stepped up during this emergency. And just one comment about Lieutenant St. John.
 One thing that has struck me in the press coverage and then when I had a chance to meet him in the hospital is that he rejects the idea that he's a hero. Whenever he was asked, he said, I'm not a hero. I was doing my job. Well, that to me makes him twice the hero because he is not seeking any kind of glory for his work. He will tell you that's just part of the job description. And he suffered significant injuries in this event. Thank you.
 But we should remember that Peter St. John is not atypical of all the folks who serve us. And today, with the leadership of the mayor and Dan, we're honoring and thanking our employees and our community partners. Thank you. Mr. Fritz?
 Thank you all for being here, and of course, thanks to our wonderful staff. I get the pages from the Bureau of Emergency Communications because I used to be in charge of it, and so every day I'm seeing difficult situations where our police officers or our firefighters have gone into dangerous situations or saved somebody from jumping off a bridge or just...
 Every day there's something good that's happening because of our police and firefighters. And when we get into the controversies over some of the things that we don't think are quite so good, I think it's really important to remember that every day these public safety officers are there for us when we most need them. I also want to thank my staff in parks in the urban forestry department because they were out in that storm as well.
 working on downed trees and making sure that the transportation system was as free as it could be, and also the staff in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Information and Referral Service, which is 8234000. And by citizens calling that number, instead of the...
 at 911 Center, we can get more information out and make sure that the priority calls are taken by the 911 Center. So thank you very much to everybody who's here to honor our employees. And this is a special occasion because it was such a highly visible set of events. It's not unusual that our staff are absolutely fantastic. Thank you.
 Thanks, everyone who's here, city employees, NET volunteers, and others who have come simply to honor our city employees and NET volunteers. I want to again thank our NET volunteers for being on the ground after the gas explosion on October 19th, and also for their efforts during the storm on October 13th through 15th.
 Net Volunteers stepped up for both dramatic emergencies and we are incredibly grateful to them and they demonstrated once again they aren't just an added benefit to city staff, they're an integral part of our emergency response system. And I want to thank Jeremy VanCuren, PBM's Net Coordinator, for having such a great net.
 I want to thank the Bureau of Emergency Communications for their exceptional hard work and professionalism during both incidents. They experienced dramatically higher call volume during the storm, and then of course they're fielding tons of calls and getting responders and callers the resources they need after the gas explosion.
 It's important to remember that when a big incident like that happens, they're still getting other calls. And so BOEC folks have to work exceptionally hard to keep up with the normal call volume and also deal with major incidents. So thank you very, very much. I really appreciate the level of coordination between NET teams, police, BOEC, and the firefighters, all of us working together.
 And, of course, I want to thank the Fire Bureau for saving a lot of lives on October 19th. And thanks for the risks you took to protect the citizens of Portland.
 We're thanking, of course, all the injured citizens, police, and fire bureau members. We're so grateful that everyone should be able to recover. And thanks especially to Lieutenant St. John. We know you've got a long road of recovery ahead of you. We all want you to know that you and your family are in our thoughts. Your courage and selflessness is remarkable. We're lucky to have you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. We have a panel of some of our leaders from the city to talk a little bit about these incidents and how our teams of both city employees and volunteers responded. So our fire chief, Mike Myers, is here. We have representation from the police bureau and BOEC as well. So why don't those three bureaus come up, and then we also have some other folks to call on as well. Thank you.
 Mayor, I apologize. I left something out that's really important, which is my other bureau is also instrumental in both incidents. PBOT folks worked really hard to keep the city moving during the storm. And when the explosion happened, our maintenance operations group was pulled away from regularly scheduled work to really set up street closure signs and other barricades to keep responders safe from motor vehicle traffic. So I don't want to leave them out. Good point. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone.
 Chief Myers, would you like to start? I certainly can. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Mike Myers. I'm the Fire Chief for the City of Portland Fire
 We too would like to thank our partners at BOEC for the great work they do, not just on these two incidents, but every day. We communicate with them 24 hours a day, and they're certainly part of a team that delivers exceptional care here in the city of Portland. Additionally, we work whenever there's a big incident with the NET volunteers and regularly with our partners in the police department and emergency management. So we too want to extend that appreciation. Thank you.
 I think it's important when events like this occur that the city in general takes a look at the outcome of what occurred on the 23rd. I've had an opportunity to work in another big city, a couple other cities other than this, and I can't tell you how absolutely impressed I am, not just with the delivery of care and how the Fire Bureau handles emergencies. This is a strong Fire Bureau. They're one of the best I've ever seen.
 But I think when we see an outcome in the city that is of the nature of the 23rd incident, the explosion, these city bureaus came together and delivered a good product in the end. Not only did we put the fire out, we responded well. There was cleanup efforts that went well. Businesses got open. Streets got open. Investigations got done.
 This is a rare opportunity to really evaluate all the different bureaus in each one of your areas and see how they all coordinated together and worked together. And I just thought it was extremely impressive. Every time I turned around to get information, every time I needed to lean on someone to get something done, there was another bureau director there to help us. And I just think it's important that we recognize and take a moment to recognize
 that commitment and breaking down those silos when it's time to do that. And I was very appreciative of everybody's cooperation that day. I, too, agree that when I talk to these firefighters, they don't think they're heroes either. And I try to explain to them how impressed I was with their work, and they just tell me, Chief, we're just doing our job. They say the exact same thing, every one of them.
 And I try to encourage them to please accept my thanks, and they just won't. But, you know, I'm just so impressed with everything they did that day, and it was just a neat opportunity to really see them work. And you don't want to call out any specific individual, but we had some unique opportunities there that I was able to witness. I'll tell you, I was on my way to Salem, Oregon at the time. I was in a business suit heading to a state meeting down there for the Oregon State Fire Chiefs Association.
 And I got the call about eight to ten miles out of town from our division chief of operations, Tom Williams. At the time, on the phone, he said, are you aware of the explosion in the northwest? And I said, no, I'm not. I'm on my way to Salem. And he said, chief, I've ordered ten ambulances. And so my thought at that point was we're going to lose firefighters today. And I have an absolute commitment to all of you and the citizens to make sure those firefighters go home safe to their loved ones. And I know it's not all about fire every day here.
 They put their life on the line regularly for fires. I know that. But they're also out there 24 hours a day delivering care to individuals that need it, whether it's a shooting, it's a traffic accident, it's somebody that simply needs to get picked up and put back into bed, it's a hazardous materials call, it's a downed power line, it's somebody stuck in something. It seems like any problem that we have and we can't figure it out, we just simply call the firefighter and they go figure it out.
 They find the tool, they find something clever to do, and they figure it out. And I get a call an hour later and it says, hey, Chief, it's all done, wrapped up, we got it done. And yes, oftentimes it involves a number of other bureaus to get it done. So thank you for your support. I know it's hard sometimes to be commissioners and try to make sure the city is completely whole everywhere.
 But as a fire bureau and as the chief of that bureau, I want to tell you thank you for your commitment and your support of this organization. Thank you. Thank you. Well, Chief, I haven't had a chance to say this, but I'll go ahead and do it publicly and embarrass you a little bit. I was fire commissioner and hired a couple of fire chiefs. And I've seen the responsibilities of that job. It's like police chief or any other major bureau responsibility. You have to do everything from budgets to...
 organizational leadership to incident management, and it was the first time that I had the opportunity to see you in command at an incident as you were that day, and I thought you did an excellent job. I thought you were clear with the teams that were working together and clear with the press of news media that had to have information right that instant from you. So I just thought it was a job particularly well done on your part, grace under pressure, which is, of course, what we expect from our leaders in situations like that, but thank you.
 Well, thank you, sir. And just so we're clear, there were a lot of great commanders out there that day, including Chief Williams and Chief Klum and Chief Espinosa and Chief Scott Byers. They did a fantastic job that day. Sure did. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Lorraine Paulson, and it is my honor to be here representing the proud and professional people at the Bureau of Emergency Communications.
 Thank you very much for including us in this honor. The folks on our team are truly first responders, and we are the first first responders because the calls come in to us. So it was a normal day for us, just a little gas mage. You know, we had crews out there, a few other things going on in the city. And the dispatcher at fire who heard the mayday said,
 alerted the rest of the team and they seamlessly morphed into this huge well-oiled machine. And we had tactical channels going from medical and for command and for incoming, for staging. Police split up. And so we had apparatus or we had people on two different nets for the police. Our call takers were overwhelmed with people calling from miles away.
 Was that an explosion? And there were also those emergencies that were happening all over town. And our team just did an absolutely phenomenal job. And we couldn't have done what we did without the great professionalism and the efforts of the fire and EMS and police officers.
 responders that were out there and later on with the NET teams when they came out after the incident. And I'm sorry that some of our folks that were there that day working the floor aren't here today to take a bow because they really did a phenomenal job. And thank you for including us. Thank you, our partners, for doing such a wonderful job in saving lives and protecting the citizens and the people of our communities.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Well done chief. Yeah. Mayor commissioners again. Thanks Mike Marshman. I like to echo what chief Mike Myers has said today. When I started my early career in law enforcement, uh, I've told a lot of people actually grew up or not grew up. I had a house in between Greg's Brando and Dave's Brando to a lot of people shaking their head in this room right now. So I actually knew more firefighters and police now would go around and, and, uh,
 take my lunch and have coffee, a lot of fire stations. So I feel sort of embedded in that group anyway. So when this day came forward of the explosion in the Northwest –
 I'm not surprised, frankly, that seamlessly with police, fire, BOEC, the net teams, I'm glad some of the folks are here today, they all stepped up. I think it finally shows the residents of Portland how the city can work for them. And it's not an anomaly. Since that day, I think most folks in this room, you know, we saw the car chase going on in I-5 or somebody shooting at the police and stuff.
 And I was nearby that, I'll say, and I knew if something happened, fire would help us out that day too. And Bullock was seamless on that. And then just last night with a cert call where fire helped us with a person who was barricaded in a house and there was a fire for a couple hours. It's just kind of how we do it. I agree with Mike Myers, Chief Myers, that the police and fire folks should do this day in, day out.
 They think it's routine. It's what they get paid for. They are heroic. They really, really are. I'm just glad that the city can see how, especially the Fire Bureau, it's a seamless organization. I think they've learned from us. We've learned a lot from them. It's just a proud day to be in that city. So thank you for taking the time today to honor the folks who do the work. I appreciate that very much. Thank you all. Well done. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 We also have some representatives here from the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, from our NET teams, and from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Come on up, please. Is Vicki Terrell here? Vicki here? Yes, yes. I understand she has a conflict, so we asked if she could speak first. That's the scheduling. Oh, sorry. Well, welcome. Thank you. Actually, I was downtown hosting a party the night of the storm.
 I was downtown hosting an art event the night of the storm when during a quick break I checked my voicemail only to get a message from my guest that she couldn't come to the party because a fire truck was blocking the driveway so
 So I understand that they had to pound very hard to get her out of the shower and let them know. My neighbor's huge fir tree had fallen onto some power lines in my backyard, which was rather dark, and it borders the park.
 and actually burned through some of the limbs there. And as you had stated earlier, the firemen needed to move on to other emergencies as well. And I feel extremely grateful that we had a member of the NET team come over about 4 o'clock in the afternoon and stay for hours and succeed.
 secured the perimeter, including in the parks, so that people wouldn't come near the power lines. And I think it was a very brave event on his part, considering that there were other very large fir trees that were actually leaning. So he was putting his life...
 at risk as well. Because, and I understand that he was very, very courteous and helpful during that time. Because of that, I'm asking a representative from the NET team to come to a meeting where we hope to have about 100 people where we're organizing a network of neighborhood watches and hope that we can recruit more. I think it's an excellent program. The fire, the
 The fireman and the volunteer did it again seamlessly. That word's been used a lot, but it was a very good transition and kept everyone safe. In fact, I think he's here today. Could he stand up? There he is. Thank you. Good work. That's Pete Rock and Michael Schillmuller on our team. Good job. Thank you.
 Thank you. Oh, sorry. Thank you. Thanks very much. So we know from FEMA and other organizations that in the aftermath of a catastrophic disaster, more than 90% of all the persons who are rescued are rescued by their neighbors. And so it's for that reason that PBIM manages the Neighborhood Emergency Team Program, or what we call NET for short.
 NET started in 1994, and we work with Portland Fire and Rescue to instruct folks who live and work in the Portland area on basic search and rescue, medical triage and treatment, radio communications, team organization, community outreach, the core skill set that they would need in order to respond effectively and safely in the aftermath of a disaster.
 When I started with PBM in 2012, we had 480 volunteers, and today we have 1,086 and 54 teams across the city of Portland. And also in that space of four years, they've provided or given, I should say, 60,000 hours of volunteer time to the city of Portland.
 Interest in the program has also grown significantly. At present, we have more than 1,400 people who want to be net trained and join their neighborhood team, which I think really testifies to the notion that these volunteers are not just trained to respond in their neighborhoods, but they're also community leaders. Thank you.
 And during incidents like the windstorm that we had, NETs helped firefighters by maintaining the perimeter around power lines, allowing other fire units to go to 911 calls. And in the aftermath of the gas explosion, over 40 NET volunteers assisted police by directing traffic, answering questions from the public, and also maintaining the perimeter around the area so that police officers were able to return to service sooner and respond to other incidents later.
 I really want to thank City Council and the Portland Fire and Rescue and the Portland Police Bureau for all the support that they've given to NET over the years. Of course, most of all, I really want to...
 thank the NET volunteers. Their dedication to keeping Portlanders safe and prepared for a disaster is truly extraordinary. I have one of the most fun jobs in the city. I'm pretty certain of that. And it is a sincere privilege to work with these volunteers.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mark. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, city commissioners. Thank you. My name is Mark Ginsberg. I've testified here before but never in this capacity. I've volunteered for the city in a lot of different capacities. I'm the former chair of the Bicycle Advisory Committee. I've worked with several of you through the years. I'm also the net team lead for the Woodstock neighborhood, and I have about 150 people under me in that team, and it's a great team.
 I want to specifically thank the director of PBAM, Director Merlot, and Jeremy VanCuren, who works thanklessly with all of us and takes our calls and takes our emails. And he herds cats all hours of all days and all nights for us. And he deserves a lot for that. And also Felicia Heaton, who's excellent. Narnia Jones has been a great addition to the team.
 I want to thank Portland Fire and Rescue, Portland Police Bureau. They're great to work with. They're learning about us in a new way over the past several years, which is great. And they're using us as their force multipliers, which is great because we have them and they're incredibly well trained and they know what they're doing and they're competent. And then sometimes we make them stand around and wait. And we have nets and we have the ability to free up our fire and our police bureaus to go back to their primary duties by using those net volunteers.
 And that's a great opportunity. The NET volunteers deserve that credit as well. Also, I want to point out a piece that's been left out is that NET volunteers can do things beyond simply being in the field. NET is open to people of all physical abilities as well. The night of the first rainstorms I technically deployed, I was home making pumpkin bread.
 But I had a team, and we had good communication, and I was able to coordinate my team and help them. And through the use of some Google Maps, even, I was able to show them in the dark underwater where the storm drains were they were working and looking for so they could successfully clear some intersections. So we need to encourage our fellow neighbors, if they say, I'm too old, I'm too short, I'm too tall, I'm too tired, that NET has a place for all of those people.
 I'm glad to see NET growing, but we need to remember that it's not just the physical specimens who are exemplar. It's everybody who has those opportunities, regardless of age or ability. And really, but if NET volunteers are the body of this, you know, it is the city staff who are the lifeblood, and they deserve a ton of credit.
 I also think there are other opportunities with additional support from the bureaus that we can grow NET even bigger. We saw NET peak years ago when we counted the number of people who had been trained to thousands, but they were not active and they were not deployed and they were not engaged. And we're seeing a great resurgence right now thanks to Director Merlot and city staff to really get NETs involved. But with more resources and more opportunities, there's no question the NET program could grow and could be better. We see the classes are packed. Thank you.
 One of our primary bottlenecks right now is we can't get enough training time. So with that opportunity, the system will grow even more. And I thank you all for this opportunity. Thank you. Thank you and all the volunteers. Great work on both the city's part and a lot of help from our community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. I have to ask, how did the pumpkin bread turn out?
 I'm a sucker for my daughter. It came out great. Thank you. That's great. Now, I didn't see Suzanne Kahn, but is there someone here from transportation or anyone else that would like to add to this record here today? I have public testimony. You have some public testimony. Okay. Let's call those folks, please. I have two people, Sarah Hobbs and Dan Bell. And if you're here on another item, just let us know. We'll make sure you're up on the second item. Good afternoon.
 For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. I live six blocks away from where that gas explosion happened. And even six blocks away, the blast concussion was so strong, my apartment literally shook like it would in an earthquake when it hit my building.
 After the initial what the beep just happened, I quickly realized, oh my God, construction workers have hit against me. But I thought it was going to be up and down 21st where I live because of the violent shaking in my apartment and was greatly shocked when I learned that it had been such blocks away.
 I was on Facebook. I was now updating everybody on Facebook all afternoon long. But I came to really greatly appreciate all the efforts of the first responders on that call. I ended up at 5.30 the next morning walking out as far as I could go. We had a very good discussion with a central precinct director.
 police officer who was out there blocking the intersection. And we both agreed it was a miracle nobody was killed. And that took the efforts of firefighters and everyone else. So I came to say thank you to you all. Thank you.
 And the humility thing is just not with Lieutenant St. John. I went to Station 3 the next morning to say thank you, and they were all saying the same thing. Just grateful you were not hurt. Now, coming from a family full of ear, nose, and throat doctors, I was like, that explosion was so loud.
 I'm worried about your hearing, and they're reassuring me they're all fine. But I was not going to miss the day because I really wanted to come and personally say thank you to all the first responders on that call. Thank you, Sarah. Thanks very much. Anyone else signed up? I think it was Dan Bell. He may be on the wrong list. Okay. Anyone else on this item? No.
 Yes, so before we take action on this, I know that some of them aren't able to be here, either because they're working a shift or because they're still recovering. But for all those professionals and volunteers who responded on those incidents, the storm and the explosion, would you please stand and accept our thanks? Well done. Well, we need to formally adopt this resolution. I suspect it will pass. Would you please call the roll? No, thank you.
 I want to call out the names of the people who were hurt of city staff for the firefighters it was Eric Kent Peter St. John and Brett Kimple and from the police bureau it was Chris Culp and Larry McNabb and so we're just very grateful for their service putting themselves in harm's way to save others everybody thank you very much and Mayor I want to offer a friendly amendment I'd like to call this a continuing resolution yeah yeah
 In my family, with my kids, we have this conversation at Thanksgiving, Christmas, Hanukkah, and other important dates. And the conversation goes like this. Today we celebrate something very important, but we don't limit it just to this day. Let's take the spirit of Thanksgiving and apply it every day. Let's take the spirit of the holidays and apply it every day. So with my friendly amendment, Mayor, let's, as a grateful community and as grateful leaders, celebrate.
 Let's acknowledge that every single day people do great service for us and put themselves in harm's way and evidence an ethic of service which is inspiring to our community. And for that, we're very grateful. Hi. Fultzman? Hi. Niels? I read a lot of nonfiction. And occasionally I'll read a book about a disaster. I'm not morbid, but I'll occasionally read one like In the Heart of the Ocean or Into Thin Air. And if you look at
 When things go really wrong, there's always a chain of little decisions, of little moments where somebody made a mistake, made the wrong assumption, didn't communicate well. And those chains add up to tragedy. In this case, it was a chain of excellent decisions.
 instantaneous decisions by firefighters, by police officers, by 911 operators, by NET volunteers who showed up to help, by Red Cross folks who showed up to help, by PBOT folks who came out to get the streets open again. It was a whole chain of things done right, and that's why we have no deaths in an incident that still we marvel that everyone lived through.
 So that's a joyous thing for us to celebrate the good work and the community that all happened just the right way with everyone working together. Job very well done. Thank you all. Let's take a recess, and again, let's hear it for our responders and our volunteers. Ready, Carla? Yes.
 Good afternoon, everyone. We'll return to our council meeting. Thanks for coming. Hey, how are you? It's good to see you. We just had the opportunity to thank a lot of people, both our first responders and a lot of volunteers, who did a great job in a big storm and a big explosion, and we're very proud of them. So we appreciate them being here and taking that moment. Now we're going to move on to the next item of business on our calendar, which is item 1226.
 Bill 26, adopt the open and accountable elections policy. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Before we get started, I know that many of us were shaken to hear of the death of Justin Burpree, who was formerly with the Community Alliance of Talents, and I had mentioned in
 we just had, how our first responders, firefighters and police officers often take care of people who are experiencing mental illnesses. So I couldn't start this other item without just a moment of silence to think of the wonderful work that Justin had done with the Community Alliance of Tenants. So if we could just have a few moments of silence. Thank you. So it's been a long time coming today.
 Let me start by being very clear to everyone. This proposal is as important to me as paid sick time. In fact, perhaps more so. Paid sick time, which was supported unanimously by the five of us in the first three months when we began working together, gave thousands of low-income Portlanders the ability to take time off work to care for themselves or a child when ill.
 Portland's own sick time ordinance led to statewide adoption and is pushing change at the national level. I know that each member of the council shares my satisfaction in forwarding that agenda for the people of Portland and every worker in our country. Now, Open and Accountable Elections is a new, improved public campaign financing system, which would give every Portland resident the opportunity for meaningful engagement in elections to the Portland City Council.
 Today, five days before the end of the most frightening and divisive presidential election in my lifetime, I am more than ever committed to promoting positive, effective community engagement in elections here in Portland. I particularly thank Mayor Hales, whose support may make enactment of this proposal one of his enduring legacies. This issue really, really matters to me, and I know it matters a lot to everybody who's here today. Thank you for coming.
 The most difficult challenge facing our country today is lack of trust in government. I believe this proposal will help to address that issue. The policy will make Portland City Council elections more open, providing opportunities for more people to engage with power in the democratic process as campaign contributors and as candidates. And it will be accountable, building on the great work, improving policies and practices on reporting and transparency led by Commissioner Fish and Auditor Caballero.
 This proposal sets high standards of financial reporting for all candidates, whether or not they choose to use the voluntary campaign finance system. Mayor Hales and I first started talking about developing a public campaign finance proposal in the middle of last year, when he decided to spend the remainder of his term in office working for the people of Portland, rather than campaigning and fundraising to win re-election.
 Like Mayor Adams, he chose the most honourable option available to him. Incumbents shouldn't have to make that choice. It should be possible to work full-time for the City of Portland and run for re-election on a more level playing field with candidates offering different skills and different community connections also being able to run. My staff and I have partnered with many community-based organisations and individuals focusing on increasing access and improving democracy to reach the proposal that's before us today.
 Representatives from Osberg, Common Cause, Every Voice, Sightline, Service Employees International Union, the League of Women Voters of Portland, ColourPAC, United Oregon, APANO, Working Families Party and the Coalition of Communities of Colour have participated in the discussions over specific aspects of this policy.
 These organizations and my staff team, led by Christina Nieves and Tim Crail, have partnered with representatives from the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 555, the NAACP Portland Chapter, Main Street Alliance, AARP, Democracy Spring, Bernie PDX,
 Portland Forward, Latino Network, Communication Workers of America Local 7901, Sierra Club, and the Oregon League of Conservation Voters, who have all shared information with their members and participated in discussions.
 I vividly remember the speech that Commissioner Fish gave when voting in support of paid sick time. He said that the community demanded that the council take action. This open and accountable elections proposal is another issue where I'm responding to Portlanders eager for change in financing city elections. Now today we're going to have the first reading of the proposal. The goal of today's hearing is to explain the proposal, hear from community members and take questions from council.
 After the hearing, I will work on amendments to the proposal in response to the suggestions we hear, and then return a revised proposal to council for a second first hearing, another opportunity to comment on a revised proposal, just like we did for paid sick time. Already some concerns are known as a result of discussions inside City Hall and in public meetings. One example is that the City Auditor does not want her office to be involved in the implementation of the programme.
 The proposed code language already allows the city to contract out the administration of the programme, but I pledge to define that option more clearly and to remove the auditor from the code language in response to her concerns. Depending on the outcome of the election next week, there may be opportunities to partner in an intergovernmental agreement with other agencies for the administration of the proposed system. Let me be very clear again. Nobody will be forced to participate in this programme, whether as a candidate or as an implementer.
 This is a voluntary system, and everyone choosing to engage in it, from donors to candidates to administration, will do so only if they want to. The Open and Accountable Elections Small Donation Matching Programme is much different from the previous voter-owned elections grant system adopted by the council in 2005 and narrowly defeated by voters in 2010 by approximately 1,600 votes out of 210,000. At a time when it was the middle of the recession...
 and the fire bond that would normally pass by 70 or 80 percent only squeaked through by about the same margin. I read that vote as Portlanders saying, not now and not this system rather than nothing like this ever again. The proposal I'm asking council to consider today is based on New York City's proven model, which has been in place since 1988. The voter-owned election system that was formulated under Mayor Potter
 was a new thing that we thought would be very Portland-centric, and it was indeed, but it had flaws, and I think that was one of the reasons that it was... It's not. It was voted down. And so we didn't want to start another new programme that hasn't been tested. In New York City, it's been very successful. It's increased the range of neighbourhoods where candidates engage in fundraising and also broadened the diversity of candidates seeking and winning election to the New York City Council.
 The Open and Accountable Elections proposal would create a small donation matching system and adopt new provisions of accountability and transparency for all election campaigns. I'm going to just deal with a few of the comments I've heard in advance so that I can get all this information out. Some Portlanders have questioned why this proposal is not a referral to the voters.
 The council votes on over 400 million in general fund discretionary dollars every year in the city budget process, which is led by the mayor and guided by the independent city budget office, which was created four years ago by code that I initiated. This council does not ask voters to approve every dedication of each $1 million. We don't ask voters to vote on that. We have the responsibility to make those votes ourselves.
 So we're putting a cap on the proposed fund of 0.2% of the general fund, which is about 1.2 million per year. Every year that I have been on the council, we have granted special appropriations to outside entities in excess of the cost of this program. The charter provides for community recourse when citizens disagree with an action of the council.
 When the council voted to fluoridate Portland's water, community members connected signatures to refer the matter to the voters, and Portlanders reversed the council's decision. That process is how our city's democracy works. I hope the council will show leadership in adopting the final version of this proposal, trusting that if our community doesn't agree, voters will pursue the referral option.
 Now, some say that this is not the most urgent challenge we're managing compared with funding shelters and permanent affordable housing, building community trust in the police bureau and other difficult problems. And I agree. Thank you.
 And investing in democracy and community engagement is also important. The open and accountable election system will address one of the most fundamental challenges that we face, which is that many Portlanders don't trust their elected representatives to do the right thing for the right reasons, in part because of the perceived influence of campaign contributions in elections. I believe this proposal is essential to restoring trust in government, along with many other things that we will need to work on as well.
 So, as I said, this is the first public hearing. As with the own sick time, I expect the council and community members will have proposed amendments that we'll need to address. I asked my colleagues on the council to listen to public input before expressing concerns or proposed amendments, because we'll have plenty of time for that before the next hearing. I promised to take the time needed to refine the proposal, which considers all input, both councils and community members, and return for that first reading before the end of the year.
 Now, we're going to also do a little bit different today. We've got three invited speakers who have time constraints. So Oregon Senator Diane Rosenbaum, NAACP Portland President Joanne Hardesty, and United Food and Commercial Workers Local 555 Representative Jeff Anderson are going to speak first.
 After the speakers, Christina Nieves will run through a presentation of the proposal. And I think we've given you kind of the run of show for council so that you'll kind of know what to expect. And we do appreciate everybody's patience as we get the information out. Thank you so much for taking the time to come to see us today. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioners Novick, Saltzman, and Fish. It is great to see you, and it was a real pleasure to be able to see the honoring of our first responders. Still, I cannot believe that we were so fortunate to have their work and such good luck that we had no loss of life.
 Today I'm here, my name is Diane Rosenbaum, I am a state senator as I was introduced, but I'm also a member of a legislatively created task force on campaign finance reform that was convened by our Secretary of State, Gene Atkins.
 that's been meeting for over a year. I also chair the Senate Rules Committee that deals with all the elections issues and proposals in the state legislature. And I am here and pleased to kick off this hearing in support of the open and accountable elections proposal that Commissioner Fritz has brought forward. I thought in my testimony I would try to put this in a little larger context of why I think this,
 We have a problem that needs to be addressed and then why I think this specific proposal is a great step that you can take and we as a city can take in addressing it.
 As has already been said, we do have a huge problem in terms of credibility and lack of trust in government. And I just want to say at the outset that I am somebody who has raised large amounts of money in my 18 years in elected office. I've been the Senate majority leader, so a big part of my job has been raising what I consider fairly obscene amounts of money to get people elected.
 I probably have called all of you at one time or another and asked you for money. So it's not that I think that money is inherently something that equates to corruption or that for me personally, I have ever felt that I've compromised my integrity any more than I think you good people have compromised yours by virtue of living with a system that I think is very broken.
 But having said that, we are living in a time with an election where people really do believe, a lot of people in Portland, in Oregon, and around the country, that the system is rigged, that it's rigged against them.
 that they don't have the same voice that wealthy people and corporations have in our system. And frankly, although you could say a lot of things about it, I think in Oregon we have a particularly broken system of the way we fund campaigns and encourage people to run for office. So, for example, we are one of only six states in the United States that has no limits on campaign contributions.
 And it's not that we figured something out that's so great that other states haven't. It's because we have a very hefty free speech proposal in our Constitution, and our Supreme Court at the state level has said that we can't have limits unless we amend the state Constitution. And that's something that needs to happen, but we can't use that tool in the toolkit that other states have.
 And so the task force that I referred to earlier has been looking at a range of options for over a year of things that would make our system better. But because of this lack of any limits whatsoever,
 We have some of the most expensive campaigns for office in the entire country. So, for instance, two years ago in 2014, I think the total amount spent on state legislative races was in excess of $29 million. And so per capita, that put us ahead of states like Texas and California.
 I think almost every other state in the country, we spend more per voter for people to get elected. And I don't have the figures for running at your level, but I would assume that it may be similar. So what can we do about this problem? Because I think it is indeed a problem. It is a perception that people have that people who give the money speak with a louder voice than the average citizen can possibly bring.
 Whether or not that's true in every instance, I think it is a problem because it means that we're not only not addressing that credibility, but we're making it more difficult and putting up barriers for people who would like to run for office or even for ourselves.
 Because which of us really enjoys dialing for dollars during election time and spending half of our time doing that as opposed to the work that we're elected to do? Whether it's solving affordable housing or transportation or any of the true challenges that we all ran for office to be able to address. And I do agree with Commissioner Fritz that looking at the analogy of paid sick days is the right place to look.
 that we may be able to do something here in Portland that could become a model for the entire state of Oregon. So just getting down to brass tacks, this proposal I think is a very good place to start. In fact, the Task Force on Campaign Finance Reform has a subcommittee that is looking at public funding as one model that
 would be legal under the existing constitutional interpretations of our state constitution, something we could enact right away at a state level or a local level. We have a subcommittee that has set out some parameters for what we think such a system should look like, and we'll be meeting in our final meeting in December and voting to adopt a recommendation that may include this proposal.
 So I think it's a great place to start to have a voluntary system that allows people who are serious candidates to be able to collect small donations and then qualify for a viable amount of public funding to allow them to run for office. No one knows if this is going to reshape the face of government in Portland. I would love to see...
 At City Council, you all look great today, but I would love to see another woman on the City Council someday. I think Amanda probably would enjoy that too. I would love to see people of color elected in greater numbers in the state legislature and on the City Council. And I think that may be a consequence of adopting this system.
 And that's why, as you've heard, a coalition of 31 organizations have come together to support this specific proposal. Because the time is right. Portland is the right place, I think, to be taking this up. I am hopeful that Portland can adopt this system and that this can become a model for the state of Oregon to do something.
 It isn't a magic bullet that's going to solve every problem. I still believe we need to amend the state constitution. I personally believe, I think like most Portlanders and Oregonians, that Citizens United, that decision six years ago by our US Supreme Court was wrongly decided, that that ultimately needs to be changed. But that's not something that we can do today.
 Adopting open and accountable elections for Portland is something that you have the power to do. I think that will go a long way to restoring some credibility and trust to what I think is a broken system at a statewide level.
 And I applaud Commissioner Fritz for putting this proposal together. I hope that you will give it your serious consideration. I will be here to help in any way I can, and thank you for allowing me to kick off the hearing. Thank you. Thank you very much. Who would like to go next? Joanne? Good afternoon, Mayor. Hails Commissioner Fritz, Saltzman, Fish, and Novick.
 My name is Joanne Hardesty, and today I wear the hat as president of the NAACP Portland branch. The NAACP and a community coalition representing over 30 organizations that reflect the diversity and inclusivity of Portland are all behind the measure that we are considering today. We represent communities of color.
 youth, elders, small business owners, and community-based leaders that collectively represent every corner of our great city. Today, we celebrate the 102nd anniversary of the NAACP Portland branch, the oldest continuously operating branch west of the Mississippi, and in less than two hours, we will host the
 and honor the long legacy of multiracial, multicultural, and multigenerational cooperation and collaboration to eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination in the Portland metro area. As the president, I have many things I need to do today, but nothing as important as me being here to speak in support of this measure today.
 I'm here now because this issue is really at the heart of our democracy. The people's ability to run and serve in public office and to believe their financial contribution, no matter how small, matters. I am here to ask you to unanimously support this proven system of public financing for city council elections and to use your pulpit to educate the public on the necessity of this system.
 and why voting this measure into law now is vital. When I ran for office, there was campaign and donor limits in place. I could only raise $100 from an individual or a business owner, and with a maximum of $25,000 for my legislative race. I spent a lot of time on doorsteps, talking with people who could vote for me and give me $100.
 It made a huge impact on me and the voters I talked to. They felt that they were in that election with me. That system was only in place for one election cycle, but I have no doubt, without it, I would not have been elected to serve as a state representative in the Oregon House of Representatives. The last couple of times I testified in this building were difficult.
 As an activist, it's my job to provide you with the perspective on critical policy decisions. As my elected representatives, it's your job to take my input and to consider it along with many, many other input. And sometimes it doesn't always turn out the way I would hope. As is the case with this policy, today's another day.
 Today I stand united with 31 diverse organizations, many you will hear from later today, to encourage you to be courageous and intentional. This is an opportunity for us to join together in a common vision of Portland City Hall that is open for all, regardless of your zip code, your gender, your age, your socioeconomic status, and of course your race.
 The public finance system before you today is proven effective at engaging diverse communities in the democratic process. After this election season ends, many will believe today's election system is broken and only works for a very small number of people, and they won't be all wrong. Our coalition represents thousands of Portlanders who believe City Hall should represent all Portlanders.
 And we elect our leadership to lead, not pass the buck, because you know intimately what it takes today to run and serve in public office. I lost my spot. You know the barriers others face. Mayor Hales stated he decided to spend this year being mayor rather than running for mayor when asked why he wasn't running for reelection.
 That statement stayed with me. Ironically, only two African Americans and six women have ever served on the Portland City Council. Your vote can move us towards that vision of a city council that reflects all the riches of Portland and all the riches Portland has to offer and an opportunity for regular folks to believe that they also have a role in our democracy.
 Thank you for listening. And if you're done around 4.30 or so, we've got a party happening at Portland Prime. Love to see you there. Thank you very much. Thank you. We'll try to make it. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Commissioners, Mayor. Thanks, Commissioner Fritz, for the leadership on bringing this issue forward. My name is Jeff Anderson. I'm Secretary-Treasurer of United Food and Commercial Workers Local 555.
 In additional reference, I'm the president of the Northwest Oregon Labor Council. I'm co-chair, if I'm remiss if I don't say, I'm the state co-chair of the Oregon Working Families Party. UFCW Local 555 represents 24,000 members who work in retail, healthcare, and manufacturing. Our union is supportive of this proposal because we see firsthand how the influence of big money plays between those at the top and those at the bottom.
 Large amounts of money is ruining our democratic experience in this country. Unlimited and unbridled flow of money has created an unlevel playing field. The middle class has been squeezed by policies favoring the wealth in this country. When a wealthy corporation can call the Oregon legislature into session for a special tax deal, you know we have an influence problem.
 Phil Knight's recent contribution of $380,000 to some Oregon legislative candidates dwarfs the largest private sector union in Oregon. This is a timely case study why we need reforms. The cost shift to the little guy affects my members and their families by reducing much needed resources to pay for education, health care and job training and much more.
 I find it incredible that thousands of my members can pool their dollars together only to have that amount be diminished or offset by a single large donor. They say all politics is local. That's why we start at home here in Portland. The Oregon Open and Accountability Elections Reform takes a much-needed step in equalizing the playing field.
 Placing dollar limits while matching small donor dollars will bring a voice to the community that feels shut out, and I believe will ensure working families of Portland will have a voice. So on behalf of the United Freedom Commercial Workers, Local 555, we ask that you support this measure as it goes through whatever errations that it's needed to make it a fine product,
 But put Oregon on the map, put Portland on the map, and let's be the leaders in election reform. Thank you. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fritz, can I pose one question? I guess we're going to lose Jeff. Jeff, Commissioner Fritz has said we're going to discuss amendments at another hearing. And I'm actually glad she did because, Joanne, you are often the voice of reason on this one when we have these hearings.
 We dump a lot of amendments out. People don't know what the amendments are. We spend the first two hours arguing about the amendments as people are waiting to testify. So I applaud Amanda for putting that over to a second hearing so we get a chance to hear from everyone today. There is a significant impact on the labor movement in this current draft. And as I read it, it says that union PAC money for participating candidates is not allowed. So that's clear.
 The match is available to every union member. So a union member that makes a $50 contribution can have it matched, so it becomes a $300 contribution. It has to be their money. It can't be a pass-through. There is a cap on in-kind contributions to a participating candidate of $20,000, and I'm guessing –
 because I've been on the ballot a few times, that I'm guessing that's the kind of stuff that labor does, like sending out a brochure or something where you put a value on it, but it's capped at $20,000. I think that's pretty clear. And then there is an exemption for so-called independent expenditures.
 So between today and our next hearing date, would you make sure that the definitions of in-kind and independent expenditures are clear and that they reflect the real world of labor movement activities at election time, which includes telephoning members to say get out and vote, alerting members as to who's been endorsed by the union, and other activities which could be used to support the election?
 could either become in-kind or independent, depending on the definitions. And I want to make sure that we've got it right based on your experience. Just from my experience, because we have a political action committee, our active ballot club. We have about 7,500 members that contribute small amounts into it.
 That's a federal PAC that I would assume would be excluded from this, but Oregon is a soft-money state, and that's where there's this unlimited. So what's interesting is that it doesn't read that I couldn't use general fund dollars of my members if they approve it through the executive board. That's one. Okay.
 So it probably does need to have some clarity, but I would say that... Mr. Strath, if I might just interrupt. I think some of these questions will be answered, so maybe it's a good segue to get Christine to do the presentation. Because we're going to lose him, I just want to say that...
 Because you deal with this at election time, the difference between an in-kind and an independent. I just want to make sure that something you do, alerting your members as to who you support, doesn't trigger another provision of this which then is used against a participating candidate. So I want to make sure the language is clear. Right. And I would also want to – You can send us an email on that one. But I think it's just – if I could, I want to say it's really important –
 Unions communicating with their members will not be excluded by this provision. I mean, there are certain things that are preempted, and democracy of unions talking to their own members would have no impact under this ordinance. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Do you have additional folks that you're going to call on? I'd like to have Christina Nieves come up and do the presentation. Okay. Come on up, Christina, please. And then we're going to hear from the auditor immediately after that.
 And Tim Crail, my chief of staff, has also been working very intensively on this. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Tim Crail, Office of Commissioner Amanda Fritz. I think before Christina goes through her presentation, I think there might have been one or more of your colleagues that wanted to have a quick opening statement as well. So I want to give that opportunity here. Well, I'll say a little because I want this to move on. I think...
 We're going to hear a lot today about access to democracy, and we've already heard from the first three folks on that subject. And as I've thought about this proposal, I thought back to not just my most recent decision, because one of my friends actually said to me, for the next year you can either be a great mayor or a great candidate. Pick one. And that was putting it kind of starkly, but it did clarify my thinking. But I think back to my first campaign where I ran a shoestring campaign
 uh with a lot of volunteers making lawn signs out of um wood not plastic in those days that's how long ago it was that's why my hair is gray um but we did a lot of shoe leather we knocked on 25 000 doors and the city was smaller it was physically and numerically smaller basically we hadn't annexed all that east county that's now east portland and of course we hadn't added all the growth that we've had we had a daily newspaper that endorsed candidates um
 The ability of a new candidate to succeed then is noticeably different than it is today. And so I want to hear from people, perhaps we will, from people who've been attempting to run for office, as well as those like Ms. Hardesty and the five of us who've succeeded at it,
 But I just thought a lot about that personal experience that it was possible then for a new candidate who hadn't run for office before to run a shoe leather campaign on a modest budget and win. Can anyone say that's still true? Other comments? I wanted to make a comment. One, I just wanted to say that there's three concerns that I have and I think others have.
 one is you will need it someplace. Steve, we lost you. There you go. Carlos, whispering incantations over our PA system. How about now? There we go. Okay. So one concern is we do need to figure out who's going to administer it. I hope we can resolve that concern.
 Another concern is how we're going to pay for it. And I know it's proposed to be only a couple of billion dollars or less a year, but we are sort of spent to our limit. We spend our discretionary money on police, fire, parks, and housing. And although it's a small fraction of the budget, we spend hours every year during the budget process talking about whether we can afford much smaller items like the Selwood Community Center or the Buckman Pool. So we will need to figure out how to pay for it.
 I also have to say that I'm not sure that this will work with the annual limits that Commissioner Fritz has proposed, because I do think that it takes about $250,000 to run a campaign that can reach a majority of 600,000 Portlanders. And if we have a $1.2 million annual limit, then...
 If we have three viable mayoral candidates and six viable council candidates, then we're going to be asking people to run with less than they actually need to run an effective campaign. So I do have those three concerns. I really, really hope that we can make this work. I really, really hope we can. The major reason, of course, is that right now in the city where we all run citywide, a city of 600,000,
 People are deterred from running because if they don't have personal wealth or know a bunch of other people With personal wealth because they look at the task of fundraising and they just say I can't do it So this proposal would make it possible for people without personal wealth or without Knowing lots of people personal wealth to run that in and of itself is a reason to adopt this I want to provide another subtle reason Senator Rosenbaum, you're wrong
 This proposal would not stop us from spending lots of time raising money. We'd still have to spend a ton of time, but it would change the way that time is spent. I don't think people realize how much time is involved in raising money. If you've got six months to raise $250,000, then even if you can allocate 10 hours a week to raising money, which is a lot, that means that you have to raise $1,000 an hour.
 And that is why you wind up talking to people who have muddied.
 because you couldn't raise that much talking only to people who give $50, because that would mean you'd have to get 20 contributions an hour. And most of the people you call, you don't reach. And then some of the people you call don't give you money. So you're not able to have 21-minute conversations with people to raise money at $50 a pop. It's just not physically possible, which is why people wind up spending most of their time talking to the small minority of people who can afford to write $500 checks, because you can raise $1,000 an hour for people who write $1,000.
 write $500 checks. So what this proposal would do is level the playing field so that you can afford to spend some time talking to somebody who can give $50 and hear their concerns, which might be different from the concerns of people who can give $500, because that $50 contribution is actually a $300 contribution. And that's a chunk out of the $1,000 an hour you have to raise. And I'll just give one example of how I think this would make things different.
 Most of the people with enough money to give $500 are homeowners. There aren't too many renters. I mean, there's a limited number of renters who can do that. So we wind up hearing largely during campaigns concerns from homeowners. If everybody can give $50 can really give $300, then that means I think we'd spend a lot more time listening to renters.
 That's just one example, but I just wanted to, as somebody who, as Senator Rosenbaum said, has raised a bunch of money, I just wanted to highlight what I think might be an unknown aspect of this, which is that one function of our current system is we spend too much time talking to people with money and not enough people without that much money, and this would even that out.
 Thank you. Other comments at this point? Mayor, I have a lot of questions, but we're at risk here, I think, of not getting to the public. So let's move on, please. So let's proceed with your presentation, and we'll take more testimony after that. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Christina Nieves. I work in the office of Commissioner Amanda Fritz. And I want to start my presentation with just reiterating a couple of points that have already been said. Answering the question, why? Why do we need this election reform? Why do we need open and accountable elections?
 through creating this policy we saw two glaring issues number one there is a clear imbalance an imbalance that exists in elections an imbalance in access and imbalance and opportunity we also hear as commissioner fritz said this mistrust
 this mistrust in the election process, and this mistrust in government. And as stated in the ordinance findings, the Pew Research Center came out with a poll that said about 19% of people in the United States say they trust the government. That's a really broad statement, so let's get more specific. 84% of people polled in the United States say they believe money plays too big of a role in campaigns. So we have this issue of trust and then this issue of the role of money in campaigns. And we know...
 That money certainly plays a role in campaigns. This graphic brought to you by the Sideline Institute shows that it costs about a billion dollars to run for US president, and that cost has greatly increased over the years. Here in Portland, it can cost over a million dollars to become Portland mayor. That cost has greatly increased over the years. So I think we can all agree that it does take a substantial amount of money to run a successful campaign. Candidates must fundraise. They must raise and spend hundreds of thousands of dollars or even over a million dollars.
 The impact of this is that otherwise viable candidates, candidates without political connections, without financial connections, or who aren't independently wealthy, are not able to participate. They are essentially selected out of being able to participate in this process. But what we do see is a small group of financially well-off, wealthy individuals who are able to engage in the system. This graphic brought to you by Osberg and Sightline shows that in 2012,
 Just 600 donors, only 600 donors in the entire city of Portland, accounted for 60% of total donations given during an election. So again, you see a small group of wealthy individuals who are able to fund these campaigns are doing just that. And candidates must then, of course, engage with a small group of wealthy individuals in order to, as Commissioner Novick said, fund their campaign.
 But for the average individual, somebody who isn't able to make a big donation or write a check to a candidate, the optics issue exists. They may feel that they see the small group of wealthy individuals, and sometimes it's the same individuals, consistently helping people get into positions of power. And that optics issue causes a negative impact on the overall trust in the process. So how do we solve this issue? We propose, through open and accountable elections, adopting a small donor matching program.
 This program is voluntary. Candidates may choose to participate in this program. Candidates who participate must commit to only accepting small allowable donations from registered Portland voters. And the idea is that each small donation received would receive a certain amount of public match. So the idea is that this candidate would collect many small donations and use the public funds, aggregate those donations to fund their campaign.
 We're going to jump right into the details. We have an allowable contribution limit set of $250, which means that a candidate who chooses to participate in this program would commit to not accepting a donation that's over that amount. We have a match rate set of 6 to 1. Currently in the policy, 6 to 1.
 for up to $50, which means that anything between $5 and $50 could receive a 6-to-1 match. We are allowing up to $250, which means that if somebody gives a $250 donation, up to $50 would receive the 6-to-1 match. The remaining $200 would be allowed as a contribution, but it simply would not receive a public match. I'm trying to balance the public funds and the private funds dedicated to a candidate's campaign. So to show you how this works,
 this candidate decides to opt into the program she'll have to meet a few requirements and thresholds which i'll talk about in a little bit but she meets those thresholds and she gets a 50 donation with the current match rate set that 50 donation would become 350 dollars so the 50 is matched six to one and then you you add the original 50 donation that totals 350 dollars
 As you can see, if this candidate is serious about talking to many community members, going to many neighborhoods, collecting many small donations, she can pretty quickly become financially competitive. The great thing about this program is that consistently throughout the election, this candidate will have to continue to engage with many people. She will have to go talk to many individuals.
 The fundraising aspect is not taken out of this program. The difference is, now, somebody who can only give a $20 donation or a $50 donation can have a positive impact on this candidate's campaign.
 In order to participate, this candidate would have to file for office by petition. So currently you can pay a $30 or a $50 application fee to run for city elected office. But this is really about individual support, getting the support of Portlanders. So right off the bat, this candidate will need to show that she has support of community members through filing for office by petition. She will need to become certified as a public finance candidate, establish a campaign account,
 And then again, only accept allowable donations, only accept donations that are $250 or below. We also have some additional thresholds for participation. This is public funds, so we want to make sure that these are serious and viable candidates. Before receiving public funds, a candidate running for commissioner's seat would need to collect donations from at least 250 individuals for an aggregate total of at least $2,500. For mayor's seat, the threshold is 500 individuals for an aggregate total of at least $5,000. Okay.
 Another key component of this program is that all of these contributions may only come from individuals. Again, this is about individuals' engagement with the election process. So participating candidates may only accept contributions from individuals. Christina, the threshold for participation could also be the same dollars that's ultimately eligible for a match, correct? I do believe so, right? It could be, but that's not how we've currently set it up. That's not how it's currently set up? Right, but it could be.
 So currently you'd raise the $2,500 from $250, you'd become a participating candidate, and then future fundraising would be matched. That's the current system? That's correct. Okay, good. We do have one exception to the individual provision, and that is $5,000 of seed money. Candidates may begin with up to $5,000 of seed money. The seed money can come from any legal source, and it can come in any amount. Okay.
 And it can pay for a website or anything that a campaign really needs to start off a campaign in a good way. We are also allowing in-kind donations, as Commissioner Fish pointed out. We are allowing $20,000 of in-kind donations in the primary and up to $20,000 in the general. So a total of $40,000 throughout the election. We will be exempting in-kinds such as volunteer in-kinds, efforts for phone banking in-kinds,
 Canvassing in-kinds. These in-kinds really seek to increase civic participation and voter participation. This is the basis of what we want from open and accountable elections, so we will be exempting these types of in-kind donations. We have also set contribution limits. In this program, these contribution limits serve as de facto spending limits. So a candidate running for commissioner's seat would be capped at $550,000 for the entire election. $250,000 of that could be spent in the primary. Okay.
 the remaining $300,000 of that could be spent in the general. For mayor's seat, the cap is $950,000, $380,000 in the primary, and the remaining $570,000 in the general. These contribution limits serve as a way to check the rising cost of campaigns. As we saw, the cost of campaigns is increasing greatly. It's also a way to limit the amount of public funds dedicated to this program
 We are going to be limiting the funds dedicated to this program to 0.2%, 0.2% of the total general fund. And we do believe that, yes, we have a lot of needs in the city, but it's a small price to pay for increasing access for Portlanders and improving the trust in the election process.
 We have additional provisions of transparency and accountability throughout various discussions of open and accountable elections. We heard a concern, a concern essentially to protect against fraud. So we will be raising our fines for those who make intentional fraudulent uses of the program. We understand this is a new program. We will have new candidates, hopefully. So there will certainly be a learning curve. We don't want to impose these high fines on those making honest mistakes. But for those who make intentional fraudulent uses,
 of the program, they will be facing hefty fines. There will be strict limits on the allowed uses of public funds. No wining and dining with public funds, and no lavish travel expenses. Again, we want to make sure that we're protecting our public funds and using them in an appropriate manner. Let me also add, I think I read, and Tim pointed me to this, that it also, there's a prohibition on hiring family members during the campaign. So you can't take the money and essentially build a home office business with public money either. That is correct.
 Candidates will also be prohibited from going into debt or self-financing their campaigns. Candidates who participate in this program must use the program appropriately, and that is by engaging with a broad group of donors, talking to many people, and being held accountable to many people. What do you mean by not going into debt? So they couldn't take out a loan.
 We will also be increasing our reporting requirements. We want to be able to quickly track what is being reported and what actually occurred. So we will be increasing our reporting requirements under this program. I believe most of the concerns around reporting has already been taken care of. Commissioner Fish did pass a lobbyist reporting policy earlier this year.
 Providing oversight to this will be an open and accountable elections commission. This commission will consist of members in the community interested in community organizing, interested in campaign finance, or who have experience with campaigns and funding campaigns. So we hope this will be a holistic set of folks to provide expertise and do things like safeguarding our public dollars, making sure that we're keeping in line with best practices to protect against fraud.
 They will be making recommendations through assessments of audit reports and speaking with candidates who go through this program. They will be able to assess whether or not changes need to be made, changes to matching ratios, changes to contribution limits, or other aspects of the program.
 Essentially, they will be in charge of overall program improvement. We know that systems that are able to have frequent assessments and change when necessary, these programs have a higher chance of success. Programs that remain stagnant and that are not able to change, these programs meet serious challenges. So we hope that the Open and Accountable Elections Commission will be able to provide the program the ability to have longevity and be something the City of Portland can be proud of.
 As Commissioner Fritz said, we base this off of New York City's model. New York City's model is proven. It's been in place for almost 30 years. And other local municipalities are thinking about adopting similar programs. And just to show you what an impact these programs can have, this is a map of New York City during an election without a small donor financing program. And the colored areas in red, pink, and blue show small donation areas, areas where people were able to give small donations.
 and this is during an election with a small donor matching program. Candidates are now going to 90% of neighborhoods, talking to people from 90% of neighborhoods rather than just going to the wealthiest areas. That is the impact. Candidates are going to more places and talking to more people. That really should be what campaigning is all about. As we assess various versions,
 of small donor matching programs, we saw consistencies across the port. Number one, we saw the empowerment of small donors, people who are only able to give a $20 donation or a $30 donation. Candidates are now going to their neighborhoods, they're talking to their neighbors. We see a reduction in big donations, a reduced need for big donations. We also see the empowerment of our candidates. Candidates no longer have to worry about the optics issue if they commit to this program.
 Candidates now have a different way of running. They can spend time talking to people who can only give small donations. And finally, we are removing some barriers for new candidates, candidates who perhaps aren't independently wealthy, who aren't politically connected or who aren't financially connected. We are allowing these candidates an opportunity to participate in the election system. We also see that candidates have the ability to be competitive. New York City has a very high participation rate for candidates in this program.
 And finally, we see that our public dollars are used wisely. As Commissioner Fritz said, we have a lot of needs here in the city. When we adopt open and accountable elections, we are making a statement. As Portland, we prioritize true democracy. We're making a statement that above all else, every voice and every Portlander has the equal right to be heard during the election process. So I will conclude my presentation and hand it off for...
 clarify questions before before we take any questions i just want to clarify my answer to commissioner fish you asked about the original 250 uh donors twenty five hundred dollars to the extent that those are under fifty dollars they would be matched
 The question I thought I was answering was they can come in any amounts. Somebody could give $250, and you could get to that $2,500 total as long as you also had the 250 donors. So it's a combination of donations of any size. But for those that are below $50, those would be matched. Commissioner Fritz, can I ask you something? Sure. In the run of show, we have a bunch of panels to follow and some other things and then questions.
 As you know, I have an excused absence at 5, so I won't be for that. And I want to be guided by your preference. I could ask six questions for which I would not seek an answer, but to put them out there, that would also give people testifying an opportunity to address them if they think they're relevant. Or I can wait for the second hearing. MS. Or you could get them to me immediately afterwards. MR. Yeah. So what's – I mean, I don't – but I – you know you have a lot, and we're going until 6.
 So what's your preference? I'd prefer to hear from as many people as we can today. Thank you. What are the estimated administrative costs of this program? Is that counted under the...
 0.2% of the general fund? Yes, we have envisioned that it would count within the 1.2 cap. We don't have a firm number because we don't yet know who's going to administer it. Using rough figures, we had figured one full-time permanent FTE, overhead costs, other administrative costs, and then some seasonal employment if needed during the heaviest periods. Okay.
 What does that ballpark out to? Well, we're figuring, I mean, just a ballpark of 200,000, but that's so ballparked that I hate to even say it. Thank you very much. I would like to ask our elected auditor to please come and share her thoughts on this. And one other just point of order while she's coming up. I have to slip out for about 10 minutes for a conference call at some point in the next half hour, so when I leave, don't take it personally, but I will be right back. Thank you for sharing. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I would also like to introduce former Auditor Gary Blackner for the record. I know you all know him. I am Mary Hall Caballero, Portland City Auditor. That's also for the record. Thank you for the opportunity to speak on this item. I will start by saying I support the goals of having more competitive elections and more inclusive campaigns. Thank you.
 I know that this issue has been a priority for Commissioner Fritz, and I respect the advocate community for its dedication in putting together a proposal that levels the playing field. I also appreciate Commissioner Fritz's acknowledgement that there is no intent to place the program in my office in light of my objections, but I do want to take this opportunity to explain my position. I understand why the auditor's office may seem like the natural home for this program, but unfortunately my office does not have the capacity to take it,
 I do not have a management structure in place that could absorb additional programs and do them justice. My staff's time and resources are already spoken for among performance audits, police oversight, and the various other accountability and transparency functions. I could not devote the proper resources to the proposed program without shortchanging my existing responsibilities.
 I also have concerns about the program's design. The aggressive timetable and insufficient funding make it unlikely that the proposed program could be successfully implemented. The proposal envisions being fully operational by July 1st, with the collection of seed money and receipt of in-kind donations as early as the end of this month. Yet as the Budget Office notes in its fiscal impact analysis, there is no funding for this program in the current year.
 The proposal also does not provide the necessary funding to fulfill the management, legal, investigative, and administrative needs of the program in the out years. There also are a couple of things in the proposal that are problematic for my office, no matter who ultimately is responsible for the program. It sends disputes to the hearings office for resolution, which presents a conflict of interest because it is in the auditor's office.
 The second issue is that it potentially duplicates work done by the Secretary of State's office by requiring voluminous documents to also be filed with the elections officer in my office, which unnecessarily adds to her workload. You may recall that the city's first attempt at publicly financed campaigns, which was a joint effort by Commissioner Eric Sten and Auditor Blackmer, was undermined by fraud and ended when the electorate voted to discontinue the program.
 For these reasons alone, the city has no room for error in a successor program. It must be tightly managed and closely monitored. Notwithstanding the stated intent to place the program elsewhere, I think it's important to make clear why council needs my consent before it could assign the program to my office. Thank you.
 For those who are not familiar, the auditor's charter-mandated duties include performance of audits, maintenance of official records, provision of official certifications, and supervision of city elections. Each of these charter-mandated duties take their meanings from corresponding sections of charter. According to charter, counsel may only assign other duties if the auditor consents. Programs within my office by consent include independent police review, the ombudsman, and the hearings office.
 The supervision of city elections is a confined mandate. It is described in Chapter 3 of the Charter. Chapter 3 lays out the nomination procedure for elective offices, the terms for holding office, and the timing of primary and general elections. In essence, the indispensable elements of city elections. Charter does not contemplate the supervision of elections as involving campaign financing or other discretionary programs related to elections.
 My reading of Charter is consistent with how the Oregon Supreme Court treated analogous language in the state constitution. In a 1997 case, the Supreme Court determined that based on the text, context, and historical circumstances, the word elections in the state constitution did not include campaign financing. In summary, I am not in a position to assure Portlanders that implementation of the proposal would be successful and fraud risks could be controlled.
 For those reasons, I cannot offer my consent. And while I recognize that language was added intending to allow the city to contract out the administration of the program, I am still concerned that the proposal effectively assigns my office the responsibility. To avoid any confusion, I am asking that council strike the definition of auditor in the proposal and any subsequent references naming my office as responsible for its implementation. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, Gary Blackmer, former city auditor, 1405 Southeast Martins, Portland, Oregon, retired now. And I want to start by saying that I've probably spent thousands of hours trying to work on
 clean money, public campaign financing, and I strongly support anything we can do to keep money from distorting our elections process. So I don't want to in any way discourage you from going forward with this, but the big concern I have is exactly what Auditor Hulka Bayero raised, which was that it's a program that exceeds her capacity to do well given all the other workload that she has.
 Just to give you a quick overview of some of the things that I did that increased the workload. Soon after I was elected, I did considerable research and proposed the ombudsman. After more research...
 proposed having independent police review in the auditor's office. Those added considerably to our responsibilities. Several years after that, Commissioner Sten approached me and expressed his concerns about the increasing campaign spending that was going on, and he and I looked at the
 the trends that were occurring, looked at possible strategies and put together the clean money proposal. We put considerable effort into writing the rules to try to make it airtight. One of the things that we learned was that
 it's not going to turn out right the first time, that there are always going to be things that need to be fixed. So your citizen commission was very similar to our public campaign finance commission, intended to look and review and improve. And we did. We found fraud. We sent the person to prison. That was very clearly in the newspaper and put out there. We also changed the rules in terms of what the qualifying amounts were.
 But still, it left a lingering bad taste, I think, among Portlanders. But also, in putting all this together, I didn't anticipate the large workload that it would put on the office. And to be quite honest, one person I don't think will be enough because what happens is you get a huge amount of work during the election year and nothing in the off year. So.
 So it tends, it's either, you know, flooded with work and then a drought or, and trying to staff for that can be very difficult. So I would urge you to think about adequate staffing. It also took a considerable amount of my time just because it's such a public responsibility and,
 The auditor's office gets in the middle of campaigns where allegations are made against each other. They need to be reviewed. The timing of complaints was – I've lived through all of this. I can tell you all the concerns that arose that we didn't anticipate. Mr. Blackburn, if I could interrupt. Yes. I really appreciate you coming in. By the way, thank you for doing the votes around election system because otherwise I wouldn't be sitting up here.
 And if you would be willing to meet with me and my staff to have a more thorough discussion of, in hindsight, and then looking forward. Because as I've said in the outset, we absolutely agree that the auditor will not be the best.
 what the stop will be. Great. From my perspective, it's a program that is critical to have, but it's also critical to get right. And so I would strongly encourage you to kind of study it and do it well. Thank you very much. Can I ask the question? Oh, yes. I guess I'm the chair, president. But I'm just curious, would either of your opinions change if this were an approved charter amendment by the voters of Portland? Absolutely.
 No, because it's a capacity issue for me. I couldn't do it justice. I couldn't. Okay. And, you know, IPR took a lot more work than I anticipated when we first proposed it, and it's grown since then. And to that degree, I have to defer to the auditor because the auditor is the only one that really has a good sense of the capacity of the auditor's office to handle more workload. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Do you have additional invited? I do, yes. And I really appreciate everybody being so patient. We wanted to make sure that everybody understands what we're talking about. But we are going to time the people who are coming up now. First of all, Casey Jarmer from Unite Oregon, Jesse Beeson from Colour Pack, and Amanda Manares from the Communities of Colour. You want to go to time? Time, just one minute, three minutes. I think Tim has given Carla the time. Okay.
 Welcome. If you could just give us your name and you each have how many minutes? Three. Three minutes. There's a timer in front of you.
 Okay, great. Well, thank you to Mayor Hills and the commission for having us today. My name is Amanda Monjarez. I'm with the Coalition of Communities of Color. I'm the advocacy director, and the coalition is an alliance of 20 culturally specific community-based organizations, including representation from the Latino community, the African American community, the Native American community, Asian Pacific Islander community, African, Slavic, and immigrant and refugee communities. Thank you.
 And we work to advance racial justice by addressing socioeconomic disparities, institutional racism and inequity in services. And the coalition has been very active in the Open and Accountable Elections campaign because we believe in the spirit of the act. We think it will do great work to amplify community voices and improve our democracy by doing four important things. One is raising voices with the MATCH program. Two, reducing the influence of big money by raising...
 requiring the caps for those who participate. We think the work to establish the oversight board is, we'll make sure the system is accountable and working the way it's supposed to. We also believe it will give community leaders and people of color the opportunity to run for office. I know you have heard a lot of reasons for enacting this.
 We think that elections are foundational to our democracy. And so for us, the community has been very involved in this. And we think for our democracy to work, we need two things that are reflected in this act. One, we need people's voices to be heard in the process. And we also need leaders that reflect our communities. I think we've heard data around only two people of color ever being serving on the commission. We think this hits right at a fundamental barrier to running for office, which is fundraising. I think...
 Commissioner Novick hit it right on the head when he talked about requiring a candidate to be wealthy or well-connected in order to be successful is part of the thing. I've worked with candidates before, and a lot of times a candidate is scared off by running for office when you ask them to sit down and make a list of every person they're going to have to call in order to run for office. Some candidates in communities of color also experience cultural barriers to running for office.
 They have issues in asking for money when they have to step too far outside of their communities and would prefer to reach out to their neighbors to do so. So we think this reform is pretty simple in that if you can show enough community support and if you can do the work to reach out to small donors, you can be successful. And we've elected each of you to enact these kinds of solutions together.
 We think this type of measure requires a thoughtful approach, and our communities are calling and ready for it. So with that, we ask you to support the Open and Accountable Elections Act. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Beeson, just give us your name. Sure. Good evening, Jesse Beeson, founding member of ColorPAC. Thank you all for having me here today. ColorPAC is building an organization to regularly recruit, train, elect, and support candidates of color to run for all levels of office here in Oregon. But today I'm here to read the open letter from our diverse group of folks in the coalition. Thank you.
 So as a diverse group of advocates that represent tens of thousands of Portlanders, we urge you to build on your work to advance transparent and participatory government in our city and to join us in supporting the open and accountable elections reform. Portlanders are indeed concerned that the current system of how candidates raise money creates barriers for people from our communities to participate in democracy.
 For instance, in the 2012 elections, 60% of all money raised for city campaigns came from just a few hundred donors who gave over $1,000. Their $1.7 million in donations dwarfed the $570,000 from 6,000 small donors who gave less than $250. This dynamic makes it more difficult for the everyday person to feel engaged in his or her democracy.
 Our city is stronger when everyone has an equal say and greater opportunity to engage in our democracy, whether by running for office to represent their own communities or bringing their perspectives forward on the policies that impact us all. Though Portland faces a host of challenges, we know that we can meet them together. We want to raise all of our voices to unlock meaningful solutions to our city's biggest challenges. Open and accountable elections creates new pathways to get us there.
 Our groups are on the front lines every day, advancing the interests of Portland's women, people of color, working families, immigrant communities, small businesses, young people, seniors, LGBTQ individuals, and other underrepresented groups. We believe in a Portland where the people we serve contribute to meaningful solutions to our city's biggest challenges and where they have a truly equal chance to run for office to do so.
 but there are real barriers to running and participating under our current system. Open and Accountable Elections Portland offers a powerful suite of tools to boost the trust and the pride that Portlanders have in their local government and to offer more Portlanders an avenue to engage in the city that we all love. We hope you will vote in favor of this reform.
 And our letter is signed by the Coalition of Communities of Color, the Asian Pacific Action Network of Oregon, Common Cause Oregon, League of Women Voters of Portland, Latino Network, Oregon League of Conservation Voters, Rose Community Development, Main Street Alliance of Oregon, SEIU Oregon State Council, Unite Oregon, NAACP Portland Branch, COUSA Oregon, Communications Workers of America, The Bus Project, Color Pack, that's me,
 The Urban League of Portland, Bernie PDX, Portland Forward, Thousand Friends of Oregon, Osberg, the Sierra Club, Opal, Associated Students of PSU, Oregon Work and Families Party, Democracy Spring Oregon, Move to Amend PDX, 350 PDX, Western State Center, Represent Portland, and Oregon Walks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Jala.
 Give us your name. Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Casey Chama. I'm the executive director of the Center for Intercultural Organizing. You have my testimony, so I'm not going to go and read through, but I'm going to make a couple of key points. United Orga
 I'm here today on behalf of United Oregon and Community Coalition of OVT organization, as my colleague said. We are supporting on this process because we believe Portland. We believe Portland is accountable. We believe Portland is inclusive. We believe Portland represents all the people that it serves. We run a program, for example, United Oregon, that is funded by the city of Portland, called Pan-Emergency Leadership and Organizing Training Pilot.
 I can attest to you there's many folks that are in that program, they are graduating, who I believe have the capacity to be sitting in that chair that you are sitting today if it's given the opportunity and the barriers that they face have been removed. I can tell you we can do this. I know that there's a lot of questions that have been raised in this process, and it's important to have those discussions and have those questions be answered.
 But at the end of the day, we are not an island. We are not a unique city. There are other cities across the country who have the same issue, who decided that this is an important issue for them to implement a fair and accountable election. They did that because they wanted to make sure that everybody is represented. We are in a crossroads in this country right now when we are polarized, and people are fearful of participating.
 So I think an opportunity of creating this type of program, what it will do for us, number one, is that it will show that everyone, borderlanders, regardless of their background, their country of origin, their race, their social status, can actually talk to their average borderlanders, their neighbors, their friends, their colleagues, and be able to raise the funding necessary to be able to run and represent a borderland if the borderland gives the opportunity.
 So for me, the end of the day is that we can – what is the options we have here? We can answer the questions and do the hard work and then create a program that's equitable and serves the city of Portland. Or we can sit back and be talking about and asking questions and creating and stating what the status quo that we are today.
 I do believe we are better than that. I do believe that Portland deserves better. I do believe that you care. I do believe you want to be accountable to the Portland community. I do believe that Portland wants the first city council members. I do believe Portlanders want accountability. I do believe that Portland does not acquit people when you are running for office if you get money from the police.
 the way you do right now. It doesn't mean that you are creating a corrupted system. But we need to create an opportunity where people like me can be sitting in this chair, this table in front of me, and see the presence. I have 60-year-old twins. I wanted to see people like me
 or any average Portland be able to be able to say, these are members of my community. I can be at that table. A child of Portland who has my first background, she needs to be sitting, someone like them, to be sitting in that chair. So thank you very much. Thank you. Just a couple of final people. Susan Motay from Every Voice and Kristen Eberhardt from Sightline Institute. Welcome. If you could just give us your name and you each have three minutes. And there's a clock in front of you.
 Hi, thanks for having me. I'm Kristen Eberhard from Sightline Institute. Sightline is a Pacific Northwest regional think tank, and you saw some of our research in the presentation. So why does Portland need open and accountable elections? Well, we all agree our democracy should be of, by, and for the people. But things are out of balance. Wealthy donors have an outside influence on elections, and candidates for public office have to spend an outsized amount of time talking to those wealthy donors.
 So, and this is true not just in DC, but here in Portland. So, for example, in 2012, just 600 big donors accounted for nearly 60% of all of the money going to council races. And these few big donors just drowned out the voices of people who could only give $10 or $20. And in this year's mayoral race, we saw that the winning candidate raised almost half a million dollars from just 400 wealthy individuals.
 So these figures aren't just about the money. It's also about how candidates spend their time, who they make it a priority to talk to. So these numbers indicate that candidates for public office are probably spending a lot of their time talking to these wealthy donors, and that leaves them less time to be talking to people in working-class neighborhoods or, as Commissioner Novick said, to renters who don't have that much money to give.
 And this imbalance between these few big donors and everybody else impacts how people feel about their city government. So when candidates aren't coming to their neighborhoods, aren't calling them to ask for money, people start to become disengaged and feel that local politics is an insider game that only certain people can play.
 So we know from experience that a public match can really change this dynamic. So a public match can restore balance, strengthen the voices of everyday people, and free up candidates to spend more of their time serving regular Portlanders. Mayor Bill de Blasio from New York explains that New York's public match system lets a candidate run a people-powered campaign. So he says you can make small donors the centerpiece of a campaign, and you don't have to rely so much on big money donors.
 Portland could do the same thing. A public match also allows candidates to spend more time reaching out to more people and to more diverse people. So in New York, candidates in state races where they don't have a match available, they only get contributions from 30% of the neighborhoods, mostly the wealthiest neighborhoods in New York.
 But in the city council races where they do have a match available, those candidates go to 90% of the neighborhoods, including African American, Latino, and immigrant neighborhoods. And their list of donors includes not just wealthy professionals, but also artists, barbers, cab drivers, carpenters, police officers. All of them are able to participate when there is a match available.
 A public match also makes it possible for more regular people, including women and people of color, to run for office. So New York Council member Jumaane Williams, who defeated an incumbent to win a seat on this New York City Council, said it was the public match that absolutely made it possible for someone like me to run for office. Without those matching funds, winning would have been difficult, if not impossible.
 So Portland has the opportunity to do the same thing, to empower and engage everyday people in city elections. And especially at this time of change and growth for Portland, it's important to level the playing field and empower a greater diversity of people to participate in shaping the city's future. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Susan Mattei. I'm representing Every Voice, a national organization dedicated to passing and helping implement small donor funded election reform. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. It's hard to deny that money in politics creates a problem at the federal level. And even federal elected officials are conceding that point, although nearly all of them say that they personally are not influenced by money in politics.
 However, I find that many state and local officials say that money in politics isn't a problem at their level of government, and I have yet to meet a state or local official who will admit that money in politics influences any of their decisions. Kirsten Eberhard just reviewed the data that shows that Portland's democracy is out of balance when it comes to key measures of money in politics, so I won't repeat her data. I have something different to share. Sure.
 Because every voice did polling in Oregon last November, I can share how Portlanders perceive money and politics in their own backyards. Portland respondents revealed the following. Eighty-one percent of Portlanders believe that the middle class is struggling because politicians rigged the rules of the economy, including taxes. Eighty-one percent believe that unless we change the way elections are funded, elected officials will work for large donors.
 72% say they support new laws that control the way political campaigns can raise and spend money. And 70% believe that candidates receiving limited public matching funds after agreeing to take no large contributions is an effective way to clean up politics later.
 32 localities and states have small donor-funded elections programs. These programs increase and diversify participation in democracy so that participation by donors, voters, and elected officials reflects the diversity of the jurisdiction and brings residents back into the center of the democracy. Thank you.
 New York City's program, which is a six-to-one match on small contributions, is very similar to the Open and Accountable Elections Act, and it gets results. It increased, as Kirsten said and also Christina said, it increased the number of neighborhoods that contribute to campaigns from 30% to 90%. It increased the diversity of the donor base. Donations from predominantly Latino neighborhoods went up 13 times.
 24 times higher for African-American neighborhoods and 23 times higher for Asian-American neighborhoods. It enabled candidates without access to networks of wealth to win elected office. The first African-American woman to ever win citywide office in New York, Tish James, credits the program with her ability to win for this very reason, her lack of access to wealth and the fact that she was able to win with the matching funds. Thank you.
 It also increased racial and gender diversity in elected office in New York. New York elected its first African-American mayor in the first cycle of its public financing program. And it elected its first African-American woman to citywide office ever, both of whom used the program to win. For the first time, a majority of New York City council members are from communities of color, just like the population of New York City.
 Data collected in other places reinforced that small donor-funded elections programs increase and diversify participation. In Arizona, donations from Latino neighborhoods and those neighborhoods with the highest poverty levels increased dramatically under their Clean Elections program in closer alignment with state demographics requirements.
 I see that there is a question about which office should administer the program in Portland. I can tell you what other jurisdictions do. Many are administered by the person who administers elections, such as Seattle and New Mexico.
 Montgomery County, Maryland is using their director of finance to administer the program with a citizens commission to recommend how much money to appropriate annually. Many jurisdictions create new or utilize existing commissions to administer the program, including New York City, Arizona, Maine, and Connecticut. All are five-member commissions appointed by elected officials.
 Regardless of who is responsible for administration, it is not unusual for cities to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with counties for implementation functions because counties already perform elections-related functions that overlap with the way you implement a public financing program.
 There is a wide range of administration options available to Portland, and every voice would be happy to consult with Portland officials on options as well as connect whichever agency implements with technical assistance and implementers from other jurisdictions so that Portland has access to the best practices that have worked in other jurisdictions. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to testify today, and I'm available for any questions you may have. Thank you, Susan. I understand you've come from the East Coast to participate today. Yes, but it's to come home. I'm from Longview, Washington.
 Thank you very much for being here. I think we're good. Thank you. Great, thank you. And Commissioner Fish, if you would like to list your questions quickly so that people who are going to be coming up to testify may be able to address, speak to them, would you like to do that? Thank you. I'll do it very quickly. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 I had the benefit the other day of sitting down with Tim Crail and walking through some of the open questions because there are some things marked to be determined in the draft we have. So I'm going to just put some questions on the table. The first is, under the hard cap of 0.2% of the general fund, it is possible that there will be more participating candidates than there are available dollars. If that happens, you would go to a rationing system
 because there wouldn't be enough dollars to fund participating campaigns. How would a rationing system work and what would be a fair way to do that? Number two, there's an anti-collusion provision in this draft, which I think is very important. But there is also the possibility of collusion informally, and here's how it might work. Four or five people who are single issue candidates,
 who participate in this system for the purpose of talking about one issue for the duration of the campaign, hoping to have someone make a runoff. In that instance, you could swamp an incumbent if those people all had a single issue that brought them to the table, even if they didn't collude. Is that fair, and how might we mitigate against that? There's a provision in this current draft which would lift the limits from $250 to $500
 in the event a non-participating candidate spent more than the $250,000 in the primary. I'm using the example of a city council candidate. The idea, I guess, is to sort of have an elevator that raises the amount above the existing limits for people to raise if a non-participating candidate goes above the $250,000 limit. So again, using the example of multiple participating candidates,
 How might that work to the extent there are, say, five participating candidates and one non-participating candidate? Would each of the participating candidates be allowed to take advantage of the increase in contributions? And would that then therefore not work against the whole goal of taking big money out of campaigns? Because you would then have the prospect of participating candidates swamping the ability of a non-participating candidate in that particular race. Yes.
 Next, one of the hallmarks of this and one of the cornerstone values is about transparency. My understanding is currently Orstar does not – Orstar is the state system where your contributions are reported – does not identify a donor if the donor makes a contribution of under $100. Actually, that's not correct, Commissioner, because the police union has listed all the $10s on Orstar.
 Well, if the candidate doesn't take affirmative action, Orstar will just list them as a bundle of people making contributions under $100. Yeah, but that's the reporting. I'm flagging it just as an issue. If transparency is a cornerstone, I think there should be a requirement at some database that all the qualifying contributions are listed. Okay.
 commissioner novick and i i think have a disagreement about the the threshold amount for for these races um under this proposal uh the number is pegged at 250 000 for a primary in a city council race and i want to just put that in context for a second i looked at my last three races and i averaged out how much i spent in my races because i'm a i guess a typical city commissioner
 And over my last three races, my average cost of that race was $120,000. Now, let's take me out of the mix and take someone who is not a typical candidate. If you were to take someone who spent more, then the question is,
 What is the logic of going much above $150,000 for the primary, which, as I recall, was the limit when Commissioner Fritz successfully used voter-owned elections to get elected? The current figure of $250,000 is about twice what I have spent on average in my three campaigns. Thank you.
 for the primary. I've been successful in all three primaries and is substantially more than Commissioner Fritz used to be successful when she was successfully elected. So the question is, what is the appropriate amount and where should it be pegged? It is not an idle concern if there's a hard cap on the amount of money that goes to participating candidates.
 because at $250,000, which would per candidate mean $140,000 under this proposal, there's a greater likelihood of rationing if lots of people participate and the fund does not have sufficient amounts to cover it. The question of referral is something we're going to debate at some point. And I hope people take the time to say where they stand on whether there should or should not be a referral.
 The two considerations that I'd like to hear people speak to are, number one, does it make a difference that voter-owned elections was repealed by the voters? And number two, yes, this council appropriates general fund monies for lots of purposes, but this is a unique purpose. This is appropriating general fund monies for our own re-elections. And is that something we can do and take advantage of without an intervening referral to the voters? And finally-
 On the question of in-kind contributions and independent expenditures, the reason I asked our friend from UFCW 555 that question and the reason I think we have to grapple with it is that as the auditor, as both auditors said very eloquently, these things are complicated and there will be glitches. There are glitches in all well-intentioned things. I seem to recall there might have been some glitches with the arts tax in its implementation.
 So we need to be especially clear about what is allowed and what isn't. And the last thing we want is a system where people spend the entire election cycle filing complaints against each other and having them adjudicated for tactical reasons. So...
 The definitions of things like independent expenditures with clarity about what it covers, the definition of in-kind contributions with clarity is important because those will be guideposts. Those are some of the issues, Commissioner Fritz, that I hope to hear from today and in the future, and I appreciate the opportunity to put them on. Thank you. And again, we appreciate everybody's patience. We'll go to the sign-in sheet now. I'd show 47 people have signed up.
 The first three, please come on up, are Stephen W. Bartlett, Sophia Rose, and Gary Marschke. And they'll be followed by Ethan Skarl, Chloe Udaly, and Mage Burgio. So folks, I want to ask you to try to be as succinct as possible so we can hear as many people as possible, because I think we're losing a quorum at six. Is that right? Why? Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Who would like to go first? I must say that I'm quite surprised. We didn't expect this. But I would also like to say I agree with everything that's been said here today. Give us your name first, though. Steve Barton. Thank you, Steve.
 And I'm in support. That's the briefest testimony we've had in a long time. Thank you. I'm in total support of the concept, and I do appreciate some of the issues that are brought up that in answering those issues can only strengthen and make it more successful.
 Thank you. I'm Sophia Bartlett Rose and I second my husband. Wow, you two set some kind of new record here today. Gary, take the full 15 seconds. Yeah, right, I'll take the full 15 seconds this time. Gary Marshke, recently deposed Executive Director of the Multnomah County Office of Citizen
 So as I've heard before, we screwed up public funding of elections and campaigns once before, and we may not get a second chance. So we really need to get it right. We need to do it transparently, but we also need to do it now, because it's election time. We've got everyone's attention. This is the time when it's important that...
 thing, so I support all of this. The thing that concerned me the most, and that's why I'm, I've got notes all over the margins on my testimony, is that it seems as though there was lots of input that was gotten from lots of different disparate communities going into the structure of this in its, in its inception. What I'm not, what I heard though, was that the oversight was going to be done by, by a committee or a commission of experts and community leaders.
 And frankly, with all due respect to all the community leaders and all the voices in this room here, we need less community leaders and more community voices at the table. And so what I propose is in addition to this commission, we also have a community review committee that is equitably, inclusively, and transparently
 perhaps through the Office of Citizen Involvement, where there's lots of diverse and equitable programs going on. And then armed with all the data, they also in conjunction with the Commission can be looking at this measure.
 A plethora of perspectives suddenly drawn from all over the community, working with their city government to bring truly open access to elections to anyone that seeks a voice. Part of the past fraud that we heard about could have actually been prevented in voter-owned elections if people from certain cultures would have been represented at the table and could have shared their perspectives. Because some of it was really based on cultural misunderstanding of how government really works in this country.
 So if we have those voices at the table, we have those people represented, what we have is better solutions and more sustainable solutions. People from communities are experiencing the obstacles and the barriers guiding new approaches that open doors to public participation in elections. People with political and social and personal agendas, leading their passion in conversations, pushing the envelope of progress.
 and those people with privilege opening doors and stepping aside while the community does its work. So bringing all communities together to develop and administer, along with the experts, viable community-based solutions to one of the fundamentals of our democracy is really what I would call the practice of equity and inclusion.
 And that's what I'd like to see incorporated into this new proposal. Thank you. Thank you. That's a great suggestion. And actually, everybody, we're going to continue to have these discussions. So send in your comments to me or to Christine and Nieves, and we'll make sure that everything gets moved forward. Thank you. I second him, too. Thank you very much. The next three are Ethan Scarle, Chloe Udeli, and Maje Bergio.
 And they will be followed by Jason Kafoury, Jefferson Smith, and Daniel Lukow. Good afternoon. Welcome. I think you're first. Go ahead. Very good. Mayor Hales and commissioners, I appreciate the opportunity. And I'd just like to affirm my support for the excellent testimony that we've been hearing, both from the council and from the floor. Thank you.
 My name is Ethan Skarl. I'm a retired physicist and computer scientist. I currently work with the Alliance for Democracy. I'll just add a couple of little points. One, we are in the midst of perhaps the most tumultuous and bizarre election season in American history. And the dominant theme coming out of that is citizen cynicism.
 people don't believe that they have a voice. And I do believe that the situation in Portland is vastly superior to that of the country as a whole in this respect. But nevertheless, there is cynicism in the street. And I would love to be able to turn to the guy on the bus who says, those guys in City Hall, they don't care about us. They're just after their own business.
 and tell them, hey, if you can scrape together 50 bucks every couple years, there's a multiplier that'll give you enough, that'll make it reasonable to ask for an audience or have your voices be heard. Another aspect of this proposal, which has not been perhaps emphasized enough, is transparency. And that
 that when, that what this proposal does not restrict large money, wealthy individuals or corporations from making sizable contributions. But as long as those become, it becomes clear to the voters that that has happened and where that comes from, then we'll be a long way toward remedying the worst effects of that.
 And so that's much appreciated. So I do have faith in this council. I believe that you are dedicated and will find a way to – I understand that the problems are not trivial, but that you will find a way to implement this and address the problems that the auditor has raised and give us some public financing again. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome.
 Hello, my name is Chloe Daly. Today is a sad day for Portland's housing justice community, so forgive me if my testimony is a little raw. To be honest, this is about the last place I want to be to talk about how our lack of diverse and true representation is contributing to the inequities and injustices that we are confronted with every day, but here we are.
 Before I begin, I want to send word from Representative Alyssa Kinnegyer, who is out canvassing for Measure 97 and wants to express her support for open and accountable elections. So, the fact that in over 100 years only seven women and two people of color have ever been elected to council should be proof enough that our form of city government deeply entrenches incumbents and favors the politically connected and affluent.
 And the current state of our city certainly reflects the fact that too many of us do not have real representation. But let's use my candidacy as a case study. Despite my lifelong connection and service to this community, my decades of experience, my significant support, and my over 700 campaign contributors...
 I have struggled to raise enough money to run a competitive campaign, in part because I've declined to take donations from entities that stand to profit from doing business with city council for many of the reasons that people have already expressed today. And, you know, most of those entities include the 600 people who typically fund our elections. So I have had challenges. Yes.
 As a person of modest means, a single parent, a small business owner, and a renter, I have more in common with the average Portlander than I do with anyone currently sitting on city council. That's a problem. That's a problem because when our elected leaders only represent a narrow and privileged segment of our community, the rest of us tend to get left out.
 If we had a publicly funded option in place today, I would have been done fundraising many weeks ago and could focus on what's more important, building relationships with constituents and gaining a deeper understanding of the issues we're facing as a city. It's not the fault of individual commissioners that they can't understand and address all the needs and challenges of our broader community.
 but I do believe it's incumbent upon you to recognize and reduce the barriers to participation in our political process and help make way for a wave of new leadership, which must include women, people of color, and members of other marginalized groups in our community. I support Commissioner Fritz's open and accountable elections.
 I'm proof that it doesn't take half a million dollars to run a viable campaign for city council. But I won't deny that it's been incredibly challenging, and I want to ensure that people with less privilege, opportunity, and resources than me can run and win in the future. Thank you. Hi, my name is Meg Bergio. I'm a member of Portland Forward, and I also live and work in Portland as a case manager for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
 And so because of my job, I get to see the daily struggles that so many have in our community for individuals that are living in crisis and those that are struggling to stay safe and to stay housed. You know, political rhetoric and policies are typically far from a priority. It's hard sometimes to find compelling reasons to motivate people living in these situations to get involved in our local political process with so many other things on their plate and on their mind.
 But I believe that this proposal could truly make a difference in engaging everyday Portlanders, and I'd like to offer an example for how. Right now, I have the privilege to help facilitate a self-advocacy group for about 10 individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. In our group of about 10 people, only one person has a part-time job, and every other member lives off of Social Security benefits, which is about $733 a month.
 So as we meet as a group, as we talk about the things that are important to us, about how government affects our lives, about why we should be engaged and involved and interested in our local campaigns and getting elected officials that share our values, asking even a donation of $10 is a huge sacrifice for people. But if we could get as a group and...
 If each of the members of this advocacy group was able to donate $10, and I could say, guess what, that's going to be matched six to one. Your $10 donation actually turns into $60 donations. If everybody in this group can give $10, all of a sudden this group can give $600 to a candidate for local office.
 that builds true political equity within that group. We might have elected officials running for office that would want to come and talk to us at our meeting. We might get to share a little bit about what our lives are and what is important to us.
 So I just would like to say that I think you have the opportunity to show leadership here in passing a policy that really makes a difference in engaging everyday Portlanders, and I hope that you take it. I think that all Portlanders deserve a voice, not just a voice that's proportionate with their income. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three are Jason Kafouri, Jefferson Smith, and Daniel Lukow.
 and they will be followed by Carol Cushman, Amira Streeter, and Octaviano Mercurius. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thanks for having us. Money in politics is obviously important.
 Oh, sorry. Jason Khafouri. I'm an attorney at Khafouri & McDougal, a law firm. I'm also helping with many people in this room on the local campaign finance reform measure at the county level, which is before the voters measure 26184, which would have $500 contribution limits and disclosures. And
 I think, let's watch and see what happens. I think that is going to pass. I think you're going to see that it's a left-right issue, campaign finance reform. This, to me, is a great start. I think I still need some tweaks here and there. I love the idea that
 Going to a coffee shop and meeting with a small number of people would be financially beneficial for candidates. I love that idea. I love the idea of going door to door, knocking, and being able to tell someone, hey, give $5, $10, $20, and it matches. And I think we'll see a lot more people engaged in our political process if we pass this. I do have a couple of concerns. I think that –
 these caps without some sort of flexibility and some sort of monitoring group could lead to people not deciding to run because there's too many people already running, the pot's not big enough,
 Commissioner Fish, I heard your concern. Just running this local campaign, it costs tens of thousands of dollars to get up on TV. It costs tens of thousands of dollars to do mailings. You have to have enough money in the system. And you have to be able, if we're really going to get more people to participate, to be able to not have folks feel like their hands are tied
 because there's not enough money and there's too many folks wanting the money to be able to run. So I think that there has to be some sort of flexibility, and I don't know if it needs to go back to city council to change in the middle of a cycle, but we don't want to have a system where we create this brilliant idea, but it turns out to not work in reality because people can't use the money. Thank you.
 This doesn't do anything, obviously, in terms of the independent, you know, dark money as we're seeing now. And so that's, I think, something down the road that we could add to it. Overall, I'm a huge supporter in the idea of more empowering small donors, getting more people involved in our political process. And I'm not going to go into too much detail on that.
 And Oregon ranks 49th in the country, according to the Center for Public Integrity and Political Financing of our elections. 49th. We're one ahead of Mississippi. We should be a leader. We should be an innovator nationally. There's going to be public financing across the country in many states. Let's see what happens in this election cycle. But let's start something here in Portland that we're proud of, and let's give it the flexibility to be able to be successful and lead to more candidates. Thanks. Can I just ask one question?
 you said that you referenced dark money and said this doesn't address that. Do we locally have any authority to go after the 501c4 abuses? Well, it –
 I think that we can create taglines. That's what we did at the county level, where that way at least the independent expenditures that are coming in, you know where the money is coming from. And we don't have power under Citizens United in stopping it currently, but if you know where the money is coming from, I think that that's a start. And, you know, I think that's also an enormously popular thing. They have it in California. They've had it for decades. They have it in Maine. And it's actually going to be on the statewide ballot disclosures of the independent money in Washington this cycle. So let's see what happens.
 Good afternoon. Welcome.
 They came out with a set of recommendations that reflected very well in this proposal. Rather than going through those again, they're being, I think, really well covered by the good turnout today and by the invited testimony. So instead, what I wanted to do is take a stab at responding to some of Commissioner Novick's, I think, three concerns, and maybe also to the question that Commissioner Saltzman raised.
 First, I heard the question about who administers. I agree, got to solve it. I might disagree with the auditor that the definition of elections wouldn't cover this. I think it might have something to do with administrative preference.
 But I don't think she is the only option, whether it's something in the city apparatus, even contracted, or come with strength to the county. Vote this unanimously, and I'm looking at this side of the table as well. Approach Deborah Kofori and friends with full strength and humility. They administer elections, and greater city-county collaboration would be useful anyhow.
 Annual limits of the fund. I agree that we want to make sure that this has enough money so it would be worthwhile. A few thoughts, or at least a couple. One, I view it as a base. I don't think that the first $100,000 that you raise would not matter, even if there were a few people competing for that so you couldn't get your second $100,000. You might by then have generated enough momentum you might be able to raise the next $100,000.
 I don't think that eliminates your concern. I do think there is a discussion that should be had now and an iterative process of the commission to think about what that proper cap is, that proper fund size should be. And I think it's worthwhile to consider the amount. And if the amount needs to be increased in the future, that ought to be an option. And then that raises the question of how to pay for it. I start with a basic belief that this is as big a priority as anything else we do.
 that an expenditure to allow for greater participation in our democracy is as high a value for city investment as a road or a sidewalk, as important as road and sidewalks are. For people in my neighborhoods who die on streets, that matters more than anything else. For people who want to get somewhere quickly, feeling like they have an opportunity to weigh in to where those cities get spent matters as much as anything else.
 But also, let's imagine practically that this will get a little bit thick, so I apologize in advance, that costs of elections increase in the city as they have been in the state. I think thanks in part to the public financing regime before, they were chilled a little bit, and we saw a little bit of plateau in cost.
 But if you'll bear with me for a moment, the year that the majority of the city council, 1974, when the majority of the city council was in high school, and I think, Commissioner Novick, I think you were 11, and I think also in high school. Jefferson, I was in diapers. Very good. Very good. Likewise. So cost of a state house race in this state on average was $3,000. I'll be almost done.
 In 1994, $30,000. This last election, not average but expensive, raised $750,000. If that trajectory increases, the kind of pressure that it will take to raise money from people with business to bear at the city council will be significant. All you'll have to do is avoid one, two, or three deals 10 years from now that would be avoided by having a less corrupt system 10 years from now to pay for this for many years. Thanks for your indulgence. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome.
 Hi there. My name is Daniel Lukow, and I am the political director for Common Cause Oregon. Common Cause urges you to pass open and accountable elections proposal by council vote.
 Common Cause is a non-partisan grassroots organization dedicated to upholding the core values of American democracy. We work to create open, honest, and accountable government that serves the public interest, promotes equal rights, opportunity, and representation for all, and empower all people to make their voices heard in the political process. Open and accountable elections will help to grow our democracy.
 Right now, the average citizen is less connected to our democracy than at any other time in our history. People believe that their voices are not being heard by their lawmakers. Even in this toxic and bitter election, one thing that unites people of all parties is the feeling that our voice matters less in the process than those of big donors. And this has led to a collapse in trust in our government and an increase in feeling disengaged, disillusioned, and disenchanted.
 Open and accountable elections is a smart path forward. When we limit big money and match small contributions, candidates have an incentive to campaign in every neighborhood and among every community. That gives everyone the ability to engage in the conversation. As we've seen in other communities where similar reforms are enacted, this increases participation, it broadens the discussion, and ultimately supports a more robust and representative government.
 And this is how we rebuild confidence in our democracy, because democracy only works when everyone owns a piece of it together. Our country has a long history of growing our democracy. First we gave men the right to vote, then men without property, then women, then people of color. Then we let people vote by mail. Then we let them register in a simple manner. Open and accountable elections is the next logical step in bringing people in and making sure that they have a seat at our tables.
 Thousands of Portlanders have come together to call for open and accountable elections. Please work together to pass this reform by council vote and to take the next step in growing our democracy. Thank you. Thank you. Reiterating a question or a request that came earlier, and that is, by happenstance, the three of you ended up here together, or at least might have signed up together, but at any rate, all three sound like you might be qualified to be tuning mechanics in terms of making the –
 proposal work better and answering some of the questions that we've heard here. So as Commissioner Fritz said, could you keep it coming, please, in the interim between this hearing and when we work on this next because some of these questions about where it's administered and how the caps work, those details will matter. And your ability to bear down on those details and help us get them right would be much appreciated. Let's get through Tuesday. Okay.
 That's right. And Mr. Mayor, if I might respond related to that, sort of the iterative nature of this policymaking, and this is at least for Commissioner Novick and I think would be for Commissioners Saltzman and Fish, is that one of the reasons I think Daniel's testimony is so apropos is that we should pass this in a way that makes it clear that it is expected to make improvements and adjustments.
 not that it's just a yes or no vote at the ballot, that people here should hold sacrosanct and never change, but that it is thought that we will change it, and that's, I think, another reason to do it here. Not only because it would be tough for the people in these rooms, in these chairs, to raise a quarter million dollars to a million dollars to try to get it on the ballot and pass it, but also because they're trying to get access to the system, and money is the barrier, so let's not erect that barrier to even getting this done, but also that it should be iterative. There should be a chance to make it clear to people that we anticipate to make it better over time.
 Yeah, that's great. And we found with the arts tax that because it was sent to the voters, a lot of people are saying, well, it has to be exactly what it was sent to the voters, even though there's some things in it which should be fixed. Agreed, Commissioner. Thank you very much. Thank you, guys. The next three are Carol Cushman, Amira Streeter, and Octaviano Mercurius, and they will be followed by Charlie Fisher, Jesse O'Brien, and Emma Easley-Darden. Good afternoon and welcome.
 Who would like to be first? I don't remember the order. I've got all kinds of time. I'm Carol Cushman and I'm representing the League of Women Voters of Portland as an organization that promotes active and informed participation in government
 We have made money in politics reform a priority issue since 1973. At the local, state, and national level, leagues throughout the country are working towards our goal of a more inclusive political process with broad-based open elections. We urge you to move Portland one step closer to getting greater participation in elections by directly participating.
 enacting open and accountable elections reform. This reform would reduce the influence of big donors by matching small donations from ordinary Portlanders, making it easier for all to have their voices heard, and allowing candidates without access to networks of wealth to run for office and win. In Portland, we don't shy away from breaking with the status quo when the status quo isn't working.
 We don't have to wait for Washington, D.C. to act. You have the opportunity to reduce the power of money and increase participation in city elections right now. This approach to reform has proven to work in places such as New York City because their small donor matching system, candidates are campaigning in 90% of neighborhoods instead of just the wealthiest areas.
 Here in Portland, we can replicate this success and ensure more people have a say in our elections by encouraging candidates to campaign and seek donations among voters in all parts of the city. These donors will have a stake in the success of their preferred candidate and likely will be inspired to increase their involvement in city politics and policy development. Participation.
 This reform will enhance political equality, ensure maximum participation in the political process, protect representative democracy from the distortion of big spending in election campaigns, ensure transparency and the public's right to know who is using money to influence elections, and enable candidates to compete equitably for office.
 The League urges your support for this reform. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Yes. Hi, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Thank you for having me today. My name is Amira Streeter, and I am the policy and advocacy director for the Urban League of Portland. The Urban League is a community-based organization founded in 1945 to empower African Americans and other Oregonians to achieve equality in education, employment, and economic security.
 The Urban League supports this measure and elections reform. Our democracy is stronger when we increase participation, and this measure would allow more equitable representation in the most important form of government that we have in this state. It would raise the voices of the people. It would reduce the influence of big money and increase the ability and accessibility for people of color to run for office.
 This meaningful election reform will foster a great diversity, both for those who run for office and for the policies that are taken up by our government. The method being proposed today has a proven track record of success to break down barriers that prevent people from having a voice in our democracy by making an impactful contribution, particularly for underrepresented communities. I was just...
 shocked to see that there had only been two people of color and seven women total in the past 100 years. And we need to work to fix that. People from every Portland neighborhood and every background should have an equal voice, and that is simply not happening. And this method, before you could be part of that solution. Ordinary people and their concerns are not getting the attention that they deserve. We can change how candidates campaign.
 Because of small donations being matched, candidates would have an incentive to spend more time going door-to-door, going in neighborhoods that maybe they don't live in to understand the issues that real people are actually facing every day. So in conclusion, with this reform, more diverse candidates can run for office and represent their communities equitably, but
 And you would see more women, more people of color, just more diversity overall. And we trust our elected officials to work this out on how to get this reform passed and to make it successful and to fulfill the wishes of your constituents. When everyone is empowered...
 empowered in our elections, everyone has a chance to have a seat at the table. And that's basically what it comes down to, just breaking down those barriers so people have a chance to make an impact in their community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Octaviano Merecias, I live, pray, play and work in Portland, Oregon. Currently I'm the manager for Civic Engagement and Policy Latino Network. I had a bilingual presentation but time is a dictator and time is precious so I'm going to keep it in English. Our team develops leadership trainings and works alongside diverse leaders from the Latino community and other communities of color.
 My motivation for supporting this proposal comes from my experience working with diverse communities for the past 18 years in topics related to community development, civic engagement, and leadership. The struggles and the success of many families are imprinted in the history of Portland. Today, we face many obstacles such as affordable housing, equal opportunity and employment, and moving towards breaking the cycles of generational poverty.
 The immediate focus on these issues have kept many members of our community distant from engaging in the political process and the development of policies. But throughout our civic engagement and leadership programs, we have learned that participants have become more engaged when they learn about the opportunities to contribute to their city. Their willingness to be part of the process increases when there's a fair way to become part of the fabric of democracy.
 Members of our programs have participated in focus groups, working groups, advisory committees, leadership initiatives, and our hope is that one day they will exemplify and support their elected officials in transformational levels. Running for office is very expensive. That has become almost unthinkable for members of our diverse communities to give it a try.
 therefore slowly banishing the opportunity to bring a full range of perspectives and voices to flourish to the table. The contribution of small donors towards the election process is one way to open the door to new and emerging leaders to contribute. Additionally, it provides a space for new and vibrant communities to be an important element of the democratic process.
 The dream to achieve a more inclusive process where members of our community, regardless of background and neighborhood, can serve and represent their community without having the fear of the obstacle of financing an expensive campaign. The multiplicity of voices, our diversity of ideas and actions toward solving pressing issues. This proposal is an opportunity to include more people of color, emerging communities, young people, immigrant communities, and voices resonating, waiting to be heard.
 We believe in a more transparent, open, and accountable election that includes a stronger transparency rule. We ask for the support for this resolution. This beautiful city, the City of Roses, it shines in a colorful way of prosperity when diverse voices become an integral part of the democratic process. Muchísimas gracias. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all.
 The next three are Charlie Fisher, Jesse O'Brien, and Emma Easley Darden, and they'll be followed by Mark Sturbois, Steve Carter, and Anne Littlewood.
 Well, I guess I'll start. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Charlie Fisher. I'm the state director of Oregon State Public Interest Research Group, or OSPIRG. We're a statewide citizen-based organization with thousands of members in Portland. And I think we kind of bring a unique perspective to this to some extent because, you know, we have thousands of conversations with people at their doorstep in Portland every year. I'm sure many people in this room, probably multiple times. Yeah.
 And I can say for certain that one of the things that's really on the mind of a lot of our members is the influence that big money has in our elections process. People want to participate and make a difference in the democratic process, either as a candidate or as a donor. But too often, these people just decide not to, because they think either they can't run a successful campaign against well-funded candidates, or they don't think their $5, $10, or even $50 contribution is going to make a difference. So we think that this reform can play
 play a positive role in how representative our candidates for office are.
 And then I think the other thing is, you know, we – I can say from experience that the fact that we fundraise small dollar contributions from people at their doorstep actually leads to greater accountability and awareness of the issues that people care about. So as a grassroots organization, we do get the vast majority of our funds from small individual donors. And it means that we really do have to think long and hard about what people care about and, you know, what they really want to support. And I think that can –
 that concept and philosophy can be translated through this because it'll mean candidates doing often the same thing that we're doing, asking people for small contributions and giving them the opportunity to kind of invest in their democracy. So for that and many other reasons, we urge an unanimous council vote in favor of this. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I am Jesse O'Brien, and I am the policy director of OSPIRG. And Mr. Fisher ably represented our organization's position, but I have the distinct pleasure to be here to deliver a petition signed by over 1,000 Portlanders from all over the city that I think is very important to us.
 And I'm just going to read the petition. I would like to note that it is in the first person, but I hope you will hear that and not think of me, except in as much as I'm one of the people who signed the petition, but think instead of over a thousand Portlanders from every corner of the city and every walk of life. Dear Portland City Council, as a Portland voter and constituent, I write in support of the Open and Accountable Elections Act.
 Portland candidates are spending too much time raising money from wealthy donors and powerful corporate interests instead of campaigning among everyday voters. In 2012, a few hundred large donors gave three times more to candidates for city office than 6,000 everyday voters. This creates a disparity in which some voices speak louder than others in our democracy.
 I want to restore balance to the election process by ensuring that all Portlanders have an equal voice. I am strongly advocating for the Open and Accountable Elections Act because it promotes community-supported candidates, makes our elections more accessible, and ensures that people of diverse backgrounds can work to represent the interests of everyday Portlanders. With this in mind, I hope that you will support the election reform vote coming before the City Council.
 Hear, hear. And thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks very much. I should also add that I've received over 500 emails on this topic, so thank you very much.
 My name is Emma Easley Darden. I'm one of the co-chairs of Bernie PDX and a member of Portland Forward. I also have worked on collecting these petitions and having members of the community write letters, which you've hopefully received and read. Over the last year and a half, as I've worked with the Bernie Sanders campaign to organize the main grassroots arm in Portland into the force that is still known as Bernie PDX, we work on local issues.
 I spent countless hours engaging with members of our community with every nervous, not from you, but my two little girls who are creating mayhem in the hallways. That's quite all right. I spent countless hours engaging with members of our community from every background that one can imagine. Teachers and students, middle class homemakers and homeless veterans, high school students, blue collar workers, millennials and seasoned activists. It has been an eye-opening experience to say the least.
 and an amazing one, but so many of these people, literally thousands, had either never engaged in the political process or had gone years since they had been involved. And the common thread was, I don't have a voice. There are too few politicians who reflect my values, my desires, who understand my life and my needs and my concerns. They simply feel disconnected from the process,
 As we tried to engage them on both the local level and national level during the primaries, I heard those phrases again and again. But then an amazing thing would happen. One by one, they gained a vision of what might be possible. And those hopes didn't just lie in the presidency. Over and over, we were encouraged to look from the bottom up, to prepare a groundswell that could change this country on every level. You've seen some of that today. I was talking with Meg Bergeau in the hallway earlier, and she said,
 A year ago, I don't know that I would have imagined testifying before the city council, but now I'm involved and engaged. One day, I got a call from my friend Rob. I won't yell as loud as he did, but he exclaimed over the phone, I did it, I filed papers to run for office. He was so inspired that he just had to dive in to represent those voiceless people we'd been meeting. He ran an engaged campaign with dozens of friends canvassing throughout the district that he hoped to represent, but he was outspent exponentially.
 And though we had been cautiously hopeful, we weren't surprised when his challenger, the one backed by the normal power players, won. Over the last few months, I've seen others step up. One is running for mayor of the Dalles. One is running for city council in Lake Oswego. They're fighting hard, but like that first friend, they face steep uphill battles because they struggle to compete with the big money of their opponents.
 It is time to change the dynamic of constantly seeking money to run for office. And we can start here in Portland. We can bring open, accountable elections. We can make it so that small contributions become donations that allow a campaign to thrive. Candidates can run for office without having networks of big donors. That isn't to say that knowing big donors is a big thing, or a bad thing, I should say. But wouldn't you rather spend your time meeting with constituents...
 in large groups or small groups, some of them with large amounts to spend, up to the $250, and some with $5 or $10 to spend, like Bernie collected from so many people throughout the nation. This would mean that more people could be part of our democracy and contribute their voice and their vision to continue to make Portland the kind of city that I grew up in and the one that I want to raise my three little girls in.
 People should be able to run for office based on their ideas and their passions and not the passions of those from whom they have to raise money. Thank you very much.
 Thanks. You can send the rest in. Yes, I was done. Appreciate you all being here. And maybe if we get this right, one day one of your daughters will be causing mayhem from inside of one of the offices. Thank you. The next three are Mark Sturbois, Steve Carter, and Ann Littlewood. And they'll be followed by Gregory Monaghan, Akeesh Singh, and David Delk. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Hales and commissioners, my name is Mark Sturboys, and I'm representing the Communication Workers of America Local 7901. I am also privileged to be a member and supporter of many of the groups who are testifying today. Instead of citing statistics, I would like to give an observation, which I'm sure most, if not all of you, can relate to. In today's climate, your tasks...
 With making decisions that can occasionally disturb a significant portion of the electorate, you have a reason for making said decisions, yet your rationale is lost with a simple trip to Orstar. Instead of being able to defend your path to reaching your decision, you are hit with innuendos on contributions and the independence of your votes. Regardless of the validity, it clouds the decision. With the exception...
 Since of the open and accountable elections, this could be a moot point if you were a participant. As incumbents, you should have the networks to meet the participation requirements and still have the name recognition and free media in the course of doing your jobs. You'd be able to meet the public and talk to them on their doorsteps or over the phone instead of dialing for dollars, and you have a record to run on.
 I volunteered on campaigns and interviewed candidates for many years, and over the years I've gotten to meet many bright and principled community advocates. One is sitting on the council at this time. We are richer for having these people enter the process. We are richer for the debates and the passion that these people bring, but so many of them have little experience in running a campaign or raising funds.
 The city is richer with more voices at the table, and the foundation this plan would have in enabling these robust discussions with people passionate enough to be put on display. Portlanders want the City Council to pass open and accountable elections. Over 30 organizations representing tens of thousands of people have come together to call for this reform.
 We hope that the city council will listen to the voices of the voters and work together to make our democracy to everyone, to open our democracy to everyone. This plan has a track record to protect the city, and I believe that the price of implementing is a pittance compared to what it offers. Thank you.
 Thanks. Appreciate that point, sort of how it works on this side of the dais. And that is I'm a little bit of a laboratory experiment here in that I announced a year ago that I wasn't going to run for office again. And people have disagreed with me on one or another issue, as always is the case, as you pointed out. But people immediately stopped questioning my motivations, and I noticed the difference. Welcome.
 Thank you. Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Novick, and Saltzman, thank you for the opportunity to speak in favor of the open and accountable elections reform. My name is Stephen Carter. I am a volunteer here representing AARP Oregon, which has over half a million members in the state.
 AARP supports this proposal because we believe it will encourage broader representation in city government, greater participation of citizens in political campaigns and elections, and create more trust in government and greater transparency and accountability in campaign contributions and spending. Transparency is a critical component of good government.
 Citizens deserve to know and must know how public money is being spent and who is spending that money on political campaigns. There is a tremendous amount of public distrust about the influence of big money in government. That trust may be concentrated at the state and national levels, but it inevitably seeps down into local government as well, whether it's deserved or not.
 The open and accountable elections reform fights this perception by tightening Oregon State reporting requirements for campaign spending and contributions at the local level. And there can be very stiff penalties in this proposal for violations of these requirements. So the tighter reporting requirements together with tough penalties equal more transparency in political campaigns.
 Now I want to touch very briefly on the importance of civic engagement. AARP believes it's vital that citizens participate at all levels of our democracy, and this proposal has every chance of improving that. In New York City, which has had a similar proposal, as you've heard, for almost 30 years, studies have shown that the Fair Elections Act there has invigorated civic engagement.
 The donor match program has increased the number of campaign donors overall, and it has increased the number of small donors. Candidates who have participated in this program in New York say they can profitably spend their time in small neighborhood meetings talking to a broad spectrum of residents. They report this outreach in many cases as resulted in local citizens getting involved in their campaigns.
 And that is civic engagement, my friends. So for these reasons and many others, we at AARP Oregon urge you, the council, to improve our local government by passing the open and accountable elections reform. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Anne Littlewood, and I'm speaking as a small donor.
 I've lived in Portland most of my life, a good many decades, on the East Side. I've always tried to be informed about my city. I read the news, I vote, I talk to candidates that come to the door, I make contributions. My contributions were small potatoes until about two years ago when I accidentally entered my visa security code in the amount field for an online campaign donation.
 It wasn't a huge amount, but apparently it was enough. Ever since, candidates call me to chat and to hear my views. But what I really want to tell you today is that I never once thought of running for office. Now then, I'd wonder why people would do the hard work, put up with the aggravation, and drain their bank accounts to get elected. And like everyone else, I'm quick to criticize, but not so fast to step up.
 When I looked at this campaign finance reform measure, it finally occurred to me that it really ought to be possible for anyone with a starch to run for office, including people who haven't got access to big donations and people who represent the diversity of Portland.
 I've been persuaded that this is a tested, practical approach that can work for Portland and that it will open a space for voices that really should not be so hard to hear in our political discourse. We all know that our national politics are not very representative or in gridlock. Change will have to come from the bottom up. Let's be part of that process. Let Portland show the way. Please pass the open and accountable elections. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 The next three are Gregory Monaghan, Akeesh Singh, and David Delp, and they'll be followed by S.V., Casey Cohen, or Cassie Cohen, and Kelly O'Hanley. Welcome. Thank you for having me. I'm Gregory Monaghan. I'm here as a representative of the Oregon Sierra Club, where I'm a volunteer organizer. I'm going to truncate my testimony, which you have copies of in the interest of time,
 The Oregon Chapter of the Sierra Club supports the adoption of the open and accountable election policy. I'm skipping the reasons which are in my testimony. But in summary, the outcome will promote a more representative government that is more responsive to the needs of the diverse residents of Portland.
 This, in turn, will make our city better prepared to meet the challenges thrust upon us as we seek to make a just transition to a carbon-neutral society. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to share our views, and thank you for listening. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 I'm David Delk. I'm the president of the Alliance for Democracy. It's a little grassroots organization that believes that we need to establish true democracy. So I am very pleased to say that the Alliance for Democracy is totally supportive of the proposal by Commissioner Fritz, and we're very grateful that you brought it forward.
 We need to move from a privately financed system of electing our city mayor and commissioners is very clear. The present system causes people to believe that their officials are bought and sold to the highest bidder, certainly not a system which builds confidence and trust. However, we do note that all other governments using a public financing system mechanism also have limits on campaign contributions.
 Seattle, which earlier this year enacted a public funding system, at the same time tightened the limits they already had in place. The danger with not having limitations is that privately funded candidates can swamp the publicly funded candidate, making elections non-competitive and subject to the same distrust that the present system engenders.
 On the Multnomah County ballot is Measure 26-184 to limit campaign contributions and expenditures and require a disclosure of major funders. The City of Portland should consider and then adopt the same requirements for city elections.
 We also think that candidates who accept public funding should be identified as having accepted and participated in the system, while those who have not should be identified as not participating. At minimum, such identification should be part of each candidate's voter pamphlet statement. Limitations combined with public funding and clear identification of participation as the way to create a democratic system
 with public way and build public confidence in the system thank you thank you for reminding me about the stipulation to have that as a participating candidate we had to do that you know what thank you very much welcome good afternoon my name is Akash Singh and I regret to inform you that my testimony will not be the record for the shortest one
 The phrase, we the people, at its creation, realistically referred to white landed gentry. In 2016, as we have hopefully expanded the definition of people within that phrase, we are confronted with a troubling circumstance regarding our democratic institutions. When Governor Mitt Romney, which seems like ages ago, said that corporations were people too, there was an understandable anger at that sentiment. But as abhorrent,
 As those who truly cherish the meaning of a democracy find that sentiment to be, it is a reality. When corporations and donors have a greater degree of power than the citizenry and how a democracy functions, we the people garner an oligarchy instead of a democracy. With oligarchical structures, public services are presented to the public as if they are in their best interests, even if the constituency is affected, ardently voice our opposition, but...
 But there is little to no accountability in such a system, and without that accountability, there simply isn't a system beholden to the public. People of color, women, LGBTQIA individuals, people of lower incomes, and other marginalized communities and populations are often barred from corridors of power. Individuals from those communities and groups, in spite of their experiences and ideas, are thwarted by donor checks long before they even have a chance at the ballot box. Open and accountable elections is a way for that barrier to be eradicated.
 Without individuals of all walks of life taking part in the decision-making process, the amount of progress Portland can make is truly minimal. I urge each and every single one of you to support our democratic values and be in favor of open and accountable elections. I urge each and every single one of you to stand up against the diluting of democracy in a renewed age of voter suppression by respecting the power of the public.
 I urge each and every single one of you to make it known that you value your constituents, your voters, and your public more than you value large donors who believe that democracy can be purchased not with a vote, but with a check. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are S.V. and Cassie Cohen and Kelly O'Hanley, and they will be followed by Valdez Bravo, Carly Edwards, and Sammy Aloy. This should be S.V. and Cassie.
 From Gresham Address, Cassie Cohen. Okay. Please go ahead while they're getting settled. Great. My name is Kelly O'Hanley. I'm a physician. I'm speaking on behalf of the Climate Action Coalition. Our coalition is composed of about 11 local organizations and has been responsible, among other things, for helping stop the proposed propane terminal as well as advancing the no new fossil fuels infrastructure measure.
 While two-thirds of the general population acknowledges that climate change is real, the overall political response to this threat has been muted at best. This begs the question, why? Fossil fuel companies pour money into political system. Exxon knew about climate change about 40 years ago and spent millions to promote misinformation.
 In 2015 alone, fossil fuel companies spent upwards of $140 million on lobbying efforts. In the past year, they spent $90 million in campaign contributions. We're up against a Goliath. We need to place the voters' interests, not those of outside donors, front and center in the political process. Open and accountable elections will help ensure that Portlanders concerned about climate change can be heard in our democracy.
 Therefore, the Climate Action Coalition views any and all steps at the federal, state, and local levels to get corporate money, notably fossil fuel money, out of politics as absolutely crucial.
 So the Climate Action Coalition says in full voice, bring on Portland campaign finance reform, yay. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Cassie Cohen. Thank you for having me and listening to us tonight. I'm here on behalf of Unite Oregon.
 I'm a staff at Unite Org, and I also come before you with my experience as a woman who was born and raised in the Portland metro area, as a former city employee who worked to help complete Portland's largest citywide community visioning process, Vision PDX, as a volunteer who has contributed hundreds of hours of service on community and city commissions and boards,
 And as a leader who has helped ensure communities of color and people experiencing homelessness, houselessness, had and have a say in the Portland Harbor Superfund cleanup process. But yet, even I could not run for office today. I do not personally have the network and the connections with the 600 folks who are the most common contributors here.
 to elections. And many of the folks that I've worked with over the years cannot, even though I think there are many, many candidates who would be interested. So I believe that open and accountable elections is a very critical step towards removing the real barriers of
 of wealth, knowledge of systems, special interests, or connections to major donors that are present to people of color, immigrants, and refugees. For you all, this may be personally difficult.
 personally a vulnerable step for you to take on as city council members to endorse this. But I feel a critical step in your journeys as leaders to take this step to find a way to kind of
 Work out the logistics that I've heard tonight that are issues around who will operate this new program and find a way to make it work. I really, I feel encouraged by your good questions, and it sounds like there is some genuine interest in finding a way to make this act happen.
 happen, and I do envision starting a new trend where the City of Portland can lead in its practice of having full representation of all communities on its City Council. So thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, or good evening. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Sirisai Villalai, hence I go by SV. It's my first time speaking today, and I'm honored and thankful to have this venue, this opportunity, this ability. Actually, a little back story is...
 United Oregon used to be known as CIO, Center for Cultural Organizing, and I was fortunate to be one of the graduates in 2009 as the first pilot. So it's just wonderful to see that they're progressing and growing and building a strong network. They did not ask me to come here today. As a matter of fact, I was born in 1980, and I feel I'm a bridge in a way for the Generation X and the millennials of our time.
 And what really spoke to my heart to come out and speak today was attending an event that KBOO, thankfully, is around for me to listen to while I drive throughout town to lift an Uber. I was able to catch an event that they were hosting about a documentary. A gentleman, an investigative reporter by Greg Pallas, came in and showed his premiere documentary.
 powerful, insightful. I highly recommend everybody in this room to watch it before the second gathering so we can have a bigger picture of what we are worried about as a society in this world we live in. And it was wonderful to see Chloe here sharing her testimony. I got this by hanging with some KBOO people afterwards. So it was like, wow, real in the flesh to see here in person. It was really fun to see that. My hope is that as city council representatives lead us in our city, that
 Not only learn from investigative reporting, but listen to the wisdom from Howard Zinn, the questions that he's asked that I've learned through KBOO as well. As I'm almost finishing the book, Think and Grow Rich, I've come across 1776 and the 56 people that signed the Independent Declaration. What were their reasoning? I want us to be reminded that this is a proponent to move forward to help more diversity grow.
 for us to see more representatives out there of color and sex, of both. And times are changing, I would say, and we need to change with it. With technology, we can have more creative ways to get outside the box to get votes, to get donations. And I wanted to address over in New York, where this is being adopted from, we have this Statue of Liberty, which represents freedom.
 But I read a book recently by Victor E. Franco, Man's Search for Meaning in Life. And his quote is, if a man knows his why, he can bear by just any how. And in his book, he suggested not only having the Statue of Liberty, but I see Portland being the underdog, a story where we can have a statue of responsibility. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 The next three are Valdez Bravo, Carly Edwards, and Sammy Alloy, and they will be followed by Bill Harris, James Offsink, and Ben Gerrits. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Valdez Bravo. I'm a native Oregonian, a Latino, and a veteran. And I'm proud to be the descendant of a Yankton Sioux chief and an affiliated member of the Standing Rock Tribe.
 I'm also proud to have served eight years in the Army, serving in Afghanistan before returning home in 2003. I now serve my fellow veterans at our local VA hospital. Twelve percent of Americans served their country during World War II. Today, less than a half percent of Americans serve. This, along with economic barriers to entry, has resulted in a lack of veterans serving in elected office. In 1975, 70 percent of Congress had served in the military. These days, it's closer to 20 percent.
 And there are also less veterans serving in local government. There are no veterans on our Portland City Council. And there hasn't been a veteran on our city council in 24 years, since Mayor Bud Clark, a former Marine, left office in 1992.
 Open and accountable elections will level the playing field and ensure that veterans will have a voice at the table. And the opportunity to once again serve and participate in the civic process. Veterans bring their loyalty, duty, selfless service, honor, integrity, and personal courage and diversity to city council. People of color, while underrepresented in government, are more than overrepresented in the military.
 Veterans' leadership and diversity will have a powerful and positive effect on local government. This will create a pipeline of future leaders who can serve in positions of increasing responsibility, leaders who look like the communities they serve. Every day at the VA, I see the lasting damage that war has wreaked upon my fellow veterans and their families, men and women, old and young, forever altered by their experiences. The impact of war on our communities is often invisible.
 And when our elected leaders do not have that experience of serving, they are more likely to repeat these same mistakes, more willing to send our young people into harm's way.
 We need campaign finance reform in all levels of government. And Portland has the opportunity to take the lead and be a model for other cities, counties, and states. If we can demonstrate a commitment to transparency and open elections across the nations, we will be able to transform the landscape of the political environment and open the door to achieving real progress. And at the micro or macro level, whatever your passion, be it racial justice, climate justice, social justice, or economic justice, we're not going to war anymore.
 We need to reform our political campaign finance system. And when the donors have open access, we lose. And when the average American citizen has open access, we win. And when we, the average American, has an equal chance of being elected, we will achieve a more engaged electorate, a representative government, and a government that is truly of the people, by the people, and for the people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your service.
 Hello, my name is Carly Edwards and I'm the State Director for the Oregon Working Families Party. Our minor party represents 11,000 registered voters and over 30,000 supporters. I'd like to thank Commissioners for your leadership and for bringing this issue, and in particular Commissioner Fritz for your leadership on this issue, not by just bringing this here today, but for living your values using the system Portland has had in place in the past
 and also for hosting the town halls, which I had the opportunity to attend. I also want to thank those who helped put on the community aspect of this and bringing people here today. There was a tragic loss in the social justice community, and I think it's very poignant given the issue to just
 raise a quote from Sarah Ayanna Rhone that she posted today that was, please give us fierce hearts for the fight and soft hearts for the fighting. So thank you for my brothers and sisters for being here for helping organize this.
 It feels like a common theme for me to be able to come here in the last few weeks and be able to highlight proposals that are being brought up that are the exact kind of creative common sense policies that our voters want to see and are looking for from local leadership. And in particular, I know that our voters are overwhelmingly enthusiastic to support policies that limit big spending in politics. This policy has the power to fundamentally improve our local democracy. Thank you.
 Our voters are tired of the big money in politics that Citizens United has unleashed, and are also tired of feeling narrowed into choices because too many of our community leaders are left out of the political process, and because of their lack of access to big dollar donors. Many of our voters purposely have chosen to be part of a third party that they feel represents their values, in part because we aren't supported by those same big dollar donors.
 This policy excites voters like ours because it gives a breath of fresh air that we can change broken systems. Our voters also want to be seen and heard by those that are elected. And we know public financing models help promote candidates talking to more people, which helps our democracy as those elected have stronger connections and understanding to the issues in our communities.
 In short, this policy is exciting. This policy is proven. This policy will overwhelmingly make our community better, and passing it by city council is an excellent reflection of our city, your leadership, and the work of all those involved to make this happen. Thank you for your time.
 Hi, good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. Thank you so much for your dedication to this issue. For the record, my name is Tammy Alloy. I'm the Deputy State Director of the Working Families Party.
 The Working Families Party seeks to create a voice for working people in politics. We're working to create a future where our economy works for everyone, not just the wealthy and the well-connected, one where politicians are accountable to working people instead of corporate interests and wealthy donors. We believe that our local elected officials should reflect the diversity of our communities,
 and should have the ability to focus on policies that matter to working families. Good jobs, secure housing, accessible health care, and quality, affordable education. Open and accountable elections is an exciting step towards achieving those goals. This policy is a game changer. By amplifying small contributions, it'll change the way that candidates campaign, giving them more time to focus on the needs of constituents and their policy goals, and less time fundraising.
 By adding more transparency around campaign contributions, it'll help make our democracy more open and accessible to everyone. And by limiting the influence of the wealthy and the well-connected, it'll give women and people of color a real chance to run and win, making our democracy more representative of all of us. In considering open and accountable elections, Portland is on the right track. Similar policies have been tried and proven in other cities, and this is the right time for Portland to follow suit.
 The Portland City Council, rather than the ballot, is the right place to pass this reform. Voters have been clear that they're fed up with big money in politics, and I think after this election cycle, we've all seen enough multimillion-dollar attack ads.
 Voters want our elected officials to focus on solutions. People of all backgrounds and political affiliations want a democracy that values everyday voters over large and out-of-state corporations. That's why there's such strong public support in Portland for this reform. I also just want to share a couple of pieces of information that were shared with us by our colleagues at Connecticut and New York working families where they have public financing of elections today.
 You know, the data bears out that this is a system that works. The New York Brennan Center for Justice took a look at who was donating to campaigns, and they were shocked by the results. In 2009, they compared city council races governed under public financing with 2010 legislative races in the same neighborhoods which weren't. In the low-income communities of Bedford-Stuyvesant, low-income communities, they were shocked
 income donors were 24 times as likely to donate to political campaigns. So I think the proof is in the pudding there. And also, I want you to consider that in New York and Connecticut, their public financing systems were really a result of political corruption scandals that happened there.
 We're lucky here in Portland that we haven't had to have such a crisis, and let's not wait for that to occur. So, you know, thank you again for your vision and leadership, and I urge you to keep moving forward. Thank you. Thank you all very much. The next three are Bill Harris, James Opsink, and Ben Gerritz, and they'll be followed by Jordan Earls, Hugh McGavick, and Dan Meek. So how many more do we have to testify?
 Would you just raise your hand if you could calculate that while... I'm thinking we could perhaps go to two minutes. How long can we... We've got eight more signed up. Eight more? We can make it then. Okay, good. Thank you. Bill, I think you're on first. My name is Bill Harris. I am a board member at Oregon Common Cause. We're going to project the photographs for people to see of
 a large group of people, scores of people, who filled out cards describing why they want this measure passed. I'll be reading the, I'll be reading their cards while the projection occurs, after a while, sometime. Everyday Oregonians, and here they come. They ready to go? Here they go. Oh, there's a card. I believe we need more diverse representation in our elected offices.
 The current state of elections unfairly amplifies the voices with the most money. We need to change that now if we believe we are truly a democracy. Big money cannot have more of a voice than the people. Please support meaningful election reform for us all.
 I believe that candidacy for city council should be more open to people of color and to women. People should not have to spend so much time raising money from big donors. They talk more, they therefore could talk more with the people of Portland. All should be able to run for office without being held back by people with weighted pockets.
 Please support publicly funded elections so that everyone, regardless of their economic situation, has an equal opportunity to run for office and so elected officials aren't unduly influenced by their donors. Money is not speech, so I support election processes that increase public participation and decrease special interest financial influence.
 An investment in our democracy as an investment in the solutions we find together. Despite a country whose ideals empower the individual, it is discouraging how much influence money and those who hold it control things. This can be changed. Please help."
 I want open democratic elections in fact and appearance. Let's do this now. Thanks for voting yes. I believe in democracy and I believe this is an important, protective measure for keeping ours healthy. People like me who would like to run for office can't afford to run a campaign and don't have access to big donors.
 The political priorities of large donors frequently do not align with mine. With open and accountable elections, I believe that my views will be more openly represented by our policymakers. Thank you. James Offsink, CFO, OECD, and OECD Administrator, OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD, and OECD,
 Voter-owned elections was the first campaign that I was closely involved in, and I was heartbroken to see the promising program fade away due to a few hundred votes. Throughout my tenure in local activism and advocacy, I have consistently been impressed with the policy ideas, passion, and political savvy of members of the community who are outside the traditional circles of power.
 These individuals have a lot to contribute to the way our society is run, but as our system exists today, they will most likely never be put in positions where they can enact real change. As I can attest, being a candidate in our system as it exists today requires a tremendous amount of money to print literature, make lawn signs, use voter tracking technologies, and to do all the other things that are required to run a viable campaign. And that financial burden is an invisible barrier that limits who even starts the process.
 For someone working full-time and making $30,000 in an entire year, the idea of raising $200,000 or more from some of the numbers that we've heard in just a few months is daunting to the point of discouraging. Without being part of an existing network of wealthy individuals or organizations, it's difficult to know where to even begin.
 The result is that the groups of people who most need a bigger voice in our democracy, including communities of color and young people, are exactly the groups of people who have the least developed network of wealthy donors and are shut out from a large and important part of our political process. Our existing system exerts pressure shaping the types of candidates that are viable, and because of this, we miss out on a lot of potential that these individuals and communities would bring to the leadership of our city.
 Aside from who can run from office, it's also important how community members can participate. When people see the tremendous amount of money going into political campaigns and know that they don't have a lot to donate, they may be discouraged from donating at all and end up believing that they don't matter in a political process that places so much emphasis on campaign contributions. Thank you.
 Open and Accountable Elections offers time-tested solutions to both problems, allowing any Portlander an opportunity to galvanize grassroots support and have the resources to run a viable campaign. Our democracy works best when everyone has a voice and when people know that they can meaningfully engage in the same way that everyone else can. While other places in the country put up blockades to people participating in their democracy, here in Oregon, we can continue to build upon our legacy as democracy trailblazers.
 For a fairer, better, and more participatory democracy, I urge the council to enact open and accountable elections. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Benjamin Gerritz. I'm an SEIU 503 board member from the private nonprofit sector, also the Cape Council chair for the Portland region, SEIU 503. And I want to thank our honorable commissioners, our mayor, the people in this hall, coming together in celebration of democracy.
 I'm here today as a lifelong Portlander in a city that's rapidly changing. And I embrace this change, provided everyone, new and old Portlanders alike, have the opportunity to shape our more inclusive future. I'm here today for my family, for my husband, who's an immigrant from Spain and Mexico, for our daughter, who's studying in Veracruz on the dean's list in her college, getting a law degree.
 our daughter who will soon have the opportunity to join my husband and me shaping Portland's future as the first generation who has had this opportunity through marriage equality. I'm here as a brokenhearted case manager, serving so many people who are ill, doing their best to stay healthy, and forced to sleep on our streets every single night.
 They may have very little in a superficial sense, and they're among the most gracious, grateful, humble, appreciative Portlanders I've ever known. I imagine the unlimited potential that our city holds when we uplift the voices of those that I serve, the voices of every family that shapes our city. How Portland is changing.
 and whose voices are valued raises really important questions about our political process, and currently that process is out of balance. The voice of a wealthy donor writing one check too often silences the voices of families like mine. We struggle to pay the bills. We contribute what little we can with the hopes that our working class voice may be heard. So I ask of you to raise your voices.
 Raise your voices of leadership and support this resolution for the people of Portland who are here today and the new Portlanders like my daughter who will help shape our future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Jordan Earls, Hugh McGavick, and Dan Meek. And then there are eight more after them. The next three after will be Nicholas Caleb, Chelsea Penning, and Gregory McKelvey.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. I'm Jordan. I'm a senior at Portland State. I'm here in support of the Open and Accountable Elections Act. I was born at OHSU in 1991. I decided to attend PSU because I wanted to integrate my education with my goal of positively impacting the city I call home. Our motto is, let knowledge serve the city. As a student and a young person, I see my future as tied to the future of our community.
 And in order to move towards a brighter future, we need to find comprehensive solutions to the problems we all face together. Our current campaign finance system prevents us from doing that, though. Right now, candidates are required to fundraise from wealthy individuals in order to run competitive campaigns. When candidates have to focus their time and energy on those who can give the most, they spend less time with people who are most hurt by the problems we face together.
 That means the experiences of those most impacted by these issues are divided from the solutions that are sought on their behalf. I'm a political science student, and in political science we say policymaking is a form of problem solving. You don't have to study political science to know that all good problem solving requires nuance. And as Commissioner Novick pointed out at the beginning of this hearing, when candidates
 have to spend their election campaigning towards a specific set of people, we lose that nuance in our policymaking, and that's a problem in and of itself, and that's why this should be a priority, both in terms of the policymaking of our city council, but also in terms of our budget. Under the Open and Accountable Elections Act, candidates will get to know the problems we face as a community more intimately because we'll be exposed to more diverse perspectives, which can only improve the solutions that are brought to the table.
 um commissioner fish is not here anymore but i would like to address some of the questions that he posed um voter voe as commissioner fritz pointed out was repealed because it didn't work um i can say with a degree of confidence if this were to be referred to the ballot it would pass with an overwhelming majority portland supports us we got over a thousand petition signatures on this
 That's not really the reason it shouldn't go to the ballot. The reason it shouldn't go to the ballot is because before you, we have 30 organizations who serve the most marginalized sectors of our community. They have spent their time and resources advocating for this proposal because it will serve those people and if it goes to the ballot, that means they'll have to use their time and resources raising money against individuals and groups who this proposal is designed to balance our democracy against.
 Their time and resources are better spent directly serving the groups they represent, and this is something that should be passed in-house for that reason.
 Good evening. I'm Hugh McGavock. I'm a retired civil rights attorney from Washington State who's retired here. I came to convince and persuade and argue as I'm trained, but I'm not going to do any of that. This page of comments is moot now because I haven't heard any opposition to this.
 From the panel and Commissioner Fritz, thank you for bringing this forward. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner Novick, for hearing the citizenry. I haven't heard any opposition anywhere. I've heard comments and constructive suggestions. This is moving forward, I strongly feel, as it should. This is a great way to empower people to change the definition of what it means to be a candidate in a Portland election.
 It's no longer who is the marathon can person who can go the distance and raise the most money, who can become the most beholden, who can become the most burdened, who can do the things that are not essential to govern but are essential to getting elected. So this is a beautiful pathway to that, and I strongly commend where you're at. The...
 The other thing it will do is change public perception. Who is a candidate? Why should I pay attention to them? Will they pay attention to me? Who are the people we've elected? I know them. They came to my house with 17 other people, and we each gave them $10. That was great. I'm in the game. I got skin in the game now, and they know who I am, and they'll listen to me. I can go to city council. This is democracy.
 This is democracy exemplified. This is beautiful. And I've heard ideas and comments and questions, and they're all with regard, how do we do this? Not shall we do this. It's pretty clear we shall do this. This needs to happen now. And may the angel be in the details. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Dan Meek. I'm a 33-year resident of Portland. I'm currently co-chair of the Independent Party of Oregon. It has about 120,000 members statewide and probably at least a few dozen in Portland.
 I'd like to suggest that the ordinance could profitably incorporate a couple of the provisions that are in Measure 26-184 of Multnomah County, which is on the ballot, and I hope will win in about five days, and is described in great detail at honest-elections.com. One provision of this, of your ordinance, proposed ordinance, is that once a candidate...
 receives public funding up to the limit provided, then that candidate can no longer raise money from any sources at all, not even from small donors. And, for example, for a council race, as I read it, in the primary, the spending limit essentially is $250,000, of which $144,000 comes from public funding. In the general, $300,000 and about $216,000 comes from public funding.
 After that, the publicly funded candidate has to shut down all fundraising. As I read it, can't even receive a dollar from anyone. That prohibition, that shutdown is then lifted if a non-participating candidate exceeds those spending limits. Well, that might not happen. Or you might have two publicly funded candidates running against each other, and they both get up to the limit, and then they're stuck. Right.
 And far be it, you know, I'm sure that particularly Commissioner Novick will be interested in when I say that sometimes you restrict contributions too much. And essentially shutting down even small contributions once you get up to a particular level of contributions received, I think you might want to reconsider. You might want to lift the limits under less stringent circumstances. In addition...
 Let's say that you have a publicly funded candidate reaches the limit, and then someone comes in to support a candidate on the other side with $500,000 of independent expenditures. This measure still doesn't allow the publicly funded candidate to raise even one more dollar from anyone. So I think that the limits on what a participating candidate can raise should be raised also if independent expenditures come in on the other side.
 Now, the two provisions of Measure 26-184 I would suggest are put taglines on independent expenditure ads. The county measure says those ads have to identify their top five true original sources of funding. And a provision like this actually saved the city council and mayorship of the city of Richmond two years ago in an example that you're probably familiar with.
 Maine has adopted that. California's had it for a while. It's on the ballot, statewide ballot in Washington and will probably, I would assume, I hope will pass in about five days. And finally, like the county measure, I think this measure should ban or limit independent expenditures.
 The county measure bans it from everyone except an individual can spend $5,000 in independent expenditures. A political committee can spend $10,000, but only from contributions received from individuals in amounts of $500 or less. Do those limits violate Citizens United? You bet they do, absolutely. And we don't need to be governed by the dead hand of Antonin Scalia and his 5-4 Citizens United majority.
 Unless Donald Trump wins the presidency, there's going to be a 5-4, if not 6-2, 6-3 or 7-2 majority to go back to the pre-Citizens United regime. U.S. Supreme Court upheld statutes totally banning independent expenditures by corporations and unions as recently as 2003. Thank you very much for your testimony. Do send whatever you can from that testimony in in writing as well, please.
 The next three are Nicholas Caleb, Chelsea Penning, and Gregory McKelvey. Come on up. What about Andrea McLeod, Barbara Dudley. Barbara's still here. There she was. Matthias Quackenbush, Michael Withey, and Karen Jagera-Rogel. Okay. Looks like we might have our last three. Go ahead, please. Thank you.
 um just want to start out by saying like i know we had a rocky month or so but i don't i don't hate any of you guys and i actually really respect all your guys's commitment to public service but anyway i'm going to start with the story um a few weeks ago put your name in the record my name is gregory mccovey um so a few weeks ago when we were all considering like any means necessary to get um
 The elected officials up here who voted for the police union contract out of office and Commissioner Fish decided, I feel like I'm kind of preaching to the choir because I feel like this is the three people that maybe my testimony doesn't really apply to and maybe these two are the ones that oppose this but whatever, for the record. A man by the name of Charlie Williamson commented, I think you know him Steve, commented on the status of Nick Fish and let him know and asked him when to, for Nick Fish to let him know when to start writing checks.
 So I looked into that guy's donation history, and it turns out that him and his wife have given over $2,000 to political campaigns or PACs just since 2011. And I just asked, what does it say about our politics that when a rich person sees that the community is standing up for something, he believes he can squash that with checks? And I've obviously become a regular here at City Hall.
 Yet with all my work, some of you have refused to listen to me, my group, or the community. And I submit that it's probably not the same for Charlie Williamson. So who would this hurt?
 Who is hurt by having community members be able to combat politicians with friends like that and others who can write big checks. And who does it help? It hurts you guys other than Mayor Hales, because he's not running for reelection, who have developed as part of this establishment and those connections become less valuable. But it helps the community as we get commissioners who represent us instead of wealthy donors.
 and not by choice, but similar to what Steve was saying, when you have to call these wealthy donors, you start living in a bubble. And there's a Portland out here that can't really afford to give to political campaigns. Like, I have negative $36 in my bank account right now. And...
 So when election season comes along, I'm not the one that gets calls. If we had people in these seats up here who had our interests, I think they would have stood up when someone filed a false police report in order to beat women, children, and disabled and elderly out of this building on October 12th when they simply came to testify.
 I would submit that if it was Charlie Williamson who was dealing with the pain of batons in his ribs still, something would have been different. So in 2012, 600 people who live in Portland gave small donations to support candidates for city office, but their voices were drowned out by just 20 big donors from out of town who gave twice as much. So I urge you all to do the right thing for the community. I believe you all probably got into this line of work due to a commitment to public service and the resolve to make our community better. So please do the right thing, because if you don't,
 I won't be quiet. We won't be quiet. We will analyze each of those donations specifically to Nick Fish or Dan Saltzman if they have re-election bids. And this won't go away. I won't go away. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Karen Brobel. I'm going to be very short, but I work in the educational sector of the city, and I think as a community member, it's important to be aware of the need to restore our city, and
 our elections. Every single person in Portland needs to have a voice and equal treatment. At the end of the day, we are a community who needs to promote equality and treat all individuals with the same exact value as anybody else in our community. The importance of having an understanding of leadership and representatives in office will make a great impact in our community. Instead, being their under-representative. This is important because
 By individuals, we need to have representative, or we need to be represented by individuals who promote transparency, which is going to make this city better. The main reason why I'm here is because I want to make sure that people like me are being heard.
 Thank you so much for your attention. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening. Well, this is very exciting, obviously. Put your name on the record, Michael. Mike Withey. Just as a resident, I'm really excited about this proposal because I think about five years ago, we were doing something called Occupy Wall Street. Portland had something similar done.
 Right near here, you probably heard about it. But that's basically what we were trying to say, is that we really need to get big money out of politics, especially right here where we live, because that's where the homeless people live. That's where we live. That's where we need to work really hard. So this is personal to me, having worked in the homeless field, volunteered in the homeless field, because I've seen it firsthand, and we talk about it often,
 it all the time when we look at our city leaders and we look at everybody's Oristar accounts and we talk about recall elections. That's the first thing we're going to do is say how many developers has been participating with them politically and is there pay for play here? And of course there is. It's part of politics. But unfortunately, people die on our streets that don't have to.
 And nobody can tell me that Terminal 1, like it or not, was shut down because of political reasons, political will and money.
 And that became very political, and that's why people are going to die on the streets of Portland, on the sidewalks of Portland, because we don't have the other space, the other 100-bed set. Do you guys have another place in mind? I know you supported them for the most part. We are going to open more beds. But this is where we're getting to. This is a life and death situation.
 So the thing I'm excited about is that whoever says no to this proposal, it's like political suicide. And I just wish that at least one person would do it because that would make our recall election a lot easier. Anyway, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you all. So before we close the hearing, Commissioner Fitz, why don't you outline the schedule of what you have in mind of when we're going to have work sessions and hearings?
 Right. Well, first I want to state on the record that we did invite the Portland Business Alliance to give testimony and the invited testimony. So in answer to Mr. McGarrett's point, there are some people who are not entirely enthusiastic about this. There are also a lot of people who are very enthusiastic and thank you for staying. Thank you for the 31 organizations that have been working with us and getting the word out to people in Portland.
 It feels like something that we are all doing together. And so, obviously, my staff and I have been making lists of the suggestions and such. What I'm thinking, Mayor, actually, is like what we did for Own Sick Time, to have a task force with representatives that we've heard and maybe representatives from each of the council offices to look at, you know,
 a number of different issues that we should be able to work through and to do it as we did with Earn Sick Time, that the question wasn't whether they should do it, it was how to do it. And so I'm going to take a leap of faith and hope that there will be...
 unanimity on the council, this is something we want to do. And so that will take three weeks or so, maybe at the beginning of December, come back for another first hearing. I'm looking at my stuff over here, that's all right. Come back for another first hearing at the beginning of December so that we could then have the vote the week after. Okay. Yeah, we talked about the 7th or the 14th, right, of December? Yes. Yeah.
 That's enough time to get the work done, but still the vote on it in December. Right. I mean, we know what we need to do. And one of the nice things about this is it is based on a system that's been used since 1988. So it's not that we have to think of a whole – that the realm of the things that need to be sorted out are obviously who's going to administer it and how. Some discussion about the numbers –
 which I think we'll probably get even more testimony about. And we have also met with former city council candidates and with other elected officials to kind of get their take on, because each of us is different in our fundraising styles and the campaigns that we've led have been really different for all of us. So that's the work we're going to continue to do. Does that sound like a plan? Yeah, that's helpful. And I guess I also want to look at some...
 some of the financial mechanics of it. I realize I won't be proposing future budgets, but I know how to propose them. And I think there's some options that we might want to think about about how the funding works. Yes, there should be a general fund appropriation, but could there be some accrual and an election when there's not a lot of demand on the fund? Oh, yes, that's what happened with voter-owned elections. So the council regularly raided that fund if it hadn't been used. Right.
 Setting up funds and not rating them would be my preference. Well, no. And let me just be clear that our proposal is that people could start campaigning the summer before the May primary, so in July of the previous year. And it's set up to encourage people to get started earlier. And so it's not that there's a cap on the amount each candidate can get, but if they
 Commissioner, you're worried about the pot itself being big enough. One of the purposes of doing it this way is so that people don't wake up at the beginning of March and think, well, I think I'll run for city council, that'll work out well. Because it's just not possible with 600,000 voters, you...
 especially people in the community. As was pointed out, we as incumbents do have, we're on television even as I speak, and we have a lot of opportunities to show what our bureaus have done and those kinds of things. But for a community candidate, like Cassie Cohen mentioned, they are going to need to get their word out earlier to get started.
 Good. Well, thank you all very much. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for organizing an excellent hearing. That's the schedule. So, again, if you have specific suggestions that you want to get to us in the meantime by e-mail or other means, that would be very helpful. Thank you all very much, and we're adjourned until next week. Thank you, everybody.