Could I ask for your attention, please? We have a pre-Galvin proclamation. We're honored today by former State Senator Diane Rosenbaum, who is here today, and Sharon Harmon, who is the Executive Director of the Oregon Humane Society. They are here in force with many of their supporters.
 And we just had a really nice celebration outside talking about the great work of the Oregon Humane Society and the importance of caring for our four-legged friends in our community. And we also had the mayoral pet ambassador, Coco, who's sitting here in the front row.
 And so I'd like to read the proclamation, and then maybe afterwards we can come up and get a photo right here in front of the rostrum. And so here is the proclamation. Whereas for 150 years, Oregonians have led with their hearts creating a more humane society where animals are treated with kindness and compassion.
 Whereas the Oregon Humane Society was the fourth humane society established in the United States and has one of the highest save rates in the country. Loving Pets is an Oregon State core value, and Portland has one of the highest pet ownership rates in the nation. Whereas canine companions are an integral part of the life of Portland.
 From dog parks to hiking trails to dog-friendly restaurants and breweries, our fondness for dogs is ubiquitous. And whereas the city of Portland has been named one of the most dog-friendly cities in the country with an abundance of dog-friendly parks, restaurants, and shopping areas,
 And whereas Oregon has some of the toughest animal cruelty laws in the nation, and Portland ranks as one of the safest cities in America for animal protection. And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 14, 2018 to be Oregon Humane Society Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you.
 Colleagues, I don't know if you want to say anything about your dogs. Commissioner Fritz, you look like you do. I just need to speak up on behalf of cats. There was no reference to cats in the proclamation, and we also value our cats and cat owners, thank you, and other support animals. I just want to say, Mayor, that I...
 I was misled by the Humane Society. Last week, I got a visit by the Humane Society with another dog that I thought was the mayor, so I spent the entire time sucking up to the mayor, only to find out that they'd been a bait-and-switch at the last minute. I actually have no built-up reservoir of goodwill now with this dog. My cat, who is a rescue cat, is bigger than that dog. Very good. Why don't we come on up here and get a photograph, if we could.
 They brought this to me. I want to start. Yeah, I have a big coat. Huh? I have a big coat, too. Get a picture of us. Compassion, a value that is distinctly Oregonian, woven deep into our state history. 150 years ago, it started with a single plea. Thomas Lamb Elliott called for action after witnessing the abuse of a horse pulling a wagon in downtown Portland.
 In 1868, just nine years after Oregon became a state, the Oregon Humane Society became a beacon of compassion, recognizing the special bond between humans and animals. Kindheartedness and benevolence translated into action, legislation and advocacy to give a voice to those who cannot speak for themselves.
 Today, the welfare of animals is evident in our state laws, our public artwork, and our community's nationally renowned life-saving success. For 150 years, the Oregon Humane Society has embodied each generation's determination to save lives, stop suffering, and bring loving best friends to our families. Today, the pioneers are now innovators.
 blazing new trails with record adoptions and life-saving programs a teaching hospital for veterinarian students behavior and spay neuter resources for the community a team of experts that can respond to disasters and new tools and techniques for investigating and fighting animal abuse and true to our history
 OHS is the driving force behind some of the toughest animal cruelty laws in the country, making Oregon one of the safest places to be a pet in the country. As each new chapter unfolds in the Oregon Humane Society's history, the quest to do more is unwavering, fueled by the vision to create a more humane society. Thank you. That was great. That was excellent. Thank you.
 Thank you for your leadership. We appreciate it. Senators, good to see you again. Thank you. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the morning session of the Portland City Council, 11-14-2018. Carla, please call the roll. Udaley. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Wheeler. Here. Here.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. First up, communications. Item 1161, request of Philip J. Wolfe to address council regarding an amendment to the caption ordinance. Good morning. Good morning.
 Excuse me, give me just a second. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning, city commissioners and all of our supporters and community members here. Good morning to all of you as well. First, before I begin, I would like to request, instead of three minutes, I would like five minutes for my testimony. This is not just a simple message. This is a true testimony that I would like to really be able to present in full. Thank you. First, a little bit of history. Okay.
 Amanda, Commissioner Fritz, I know that you were actually involved in a champion for the amendment and the captioning law that we already have, the ordinance that's in place. So thank you for all of that work. Three years after the ordinance was passed, so from 2015 until today, I myself have been around the city of Portland at the DMV and other public places, restaurants and bars included.
 And I would say that about 80% of our city is in compliance with the captioning ordinance, but still about 20% of our city does not comply. This 20% is an issue, and I wanted to address that lack of compliance with amendments today. For example, I saw that there was no captions on the video at the beginning this morning, and then captions were added. But it's about an attitude of wanting to add these captions and these accommodations. So the 20% that do not comply with the ADA...
 will now have to comply because of the amendments here. So I would love to make a few suggestions, friendly suggestions, to amend this ordinance. I assume that all of you have already read this. I did send it to all of you before. Wonderful. One crucial thing that I would like to really make sure that everyone understands is about the fonts and the backgrounds of closed captioning.
 The color of the word itself should be yellow or white. I've noticed that some TVs have purple or even blue, and it's hard to see from a distance, and it blends in with what's going on in the television screen. It's not easy to see.
 I've asked managers in these places before to change the backgrounds on there, but they have refused. And I noticed that because the ordinance does not have something specifically stating that, they're not needing to comply. So I wanted to add that in. I've also noticed a lack of...
 backgrounds with the captioning. So it's hard to see when you have a thin letter against the TV screen. It's easier to have a dark background on those words for anyone with vision problems, deaf-blind members of our community,
 And it's very stressful and tiring to have to depend on captions, so whatever we can do to make that visually easier on anyone that needs to depend on it, so that they can casually enjoy whatever programming is on the same way that hearing members of the community are able to. So again, I just wanted to emphasize the importance of that dark background.
 It doesn't have an impact on our hearing members of the community who are watching, but it's a huge impact on the deaf community. And so there are things that I could expand on more, but for reasons of time, I won't do that today. You'll find some of that in the information I sent to you. Another example, last Thursday actually was here, and there are four TVs on the first floor in City Hall.
 There was no background on the closed captioning there. I actually brought a picture as an example. You can see the background behind the words is clear and makes it unable for us to read it clearly. Like I said, I'm sure that you all have read this already and are familiar. I would love to be able to review and bring this to the table for a discussion and possibly a vote to go ahead and amend that ordinance to make sure that we're...
 really providing an equitable opportunity for everyone. And I know I have about two minutes left, so I'm just going to wrap up with one last thought.
 I've noticed that for a lot of political, government, or emergency service vlogs and videos that are uploaded onto social media and to the internet, most of them are not captioned. And I have repeatedly asked people who are in charge of these videos to add the captioning to no avail. There is now a change that I've seen. And I do make sure to say thank you whenever I notice these captions. But it seems like that change and that improvement was short-lived. And so I would like to be able to emphasize the fact
 that important information should be captioned and anything regarding political, government, or emergency services or involves powerful decisions needs to be accessible for us. And historically, they are not.
 I think that it's important for our leaders and for people in City Hall to keep track of three things. Political, government, and emergency services should always, always be accessible. And hopefully we can become an example for other cities in the United States to have videos captioned universally for access. If any of you have any questions about this, I'd be happy to answer that at that time now too. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for bringing this forward, Mr. Wolf. You're very welcome.
 I took note of your email when you sent it in. As you know, the Portland Commission on Disabilities, which is staffed in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, is taking a break until the new year. So that gives me some time to do some due diligence on your suggestions. And I'm here to represent myself. I just wanted to clarify that. I appreciate that.
 Since the Commission on Disabilities was the entity that brought it forward before, I would like to have a review. And I also want to mention that City of Salem is considering a captioning ordinance, so I hope that you and your colleagues here today will contact them and offer your services. And then finally, we did pass a regulation that the city emails, I mean the city videos,
 have to be captioned. We don't currently have an enforcement mechanism for that. So if anybody notices that a video that's posted on Portland Oregon.gov is not captioned, would you please email Yesenia Carrillo, who is my constituent services specialist, and we will follow up with the individual bureau until we can figure out a better compliance routine. Okay.
 because we do want to make sure that it's accessible for all kinds of different reasons. And I also very much agree, it was an omission in the original ordinance about the background on the captioning. So while many of the establishments that I've visited are technically complying, it is very difficult, especially for those of us with visual impairment as well, to read the captions. And I appreciate them, even though when the sound is off on the television...
 I appreciate knowing what's going on on the screen, and there were multiple benefits, as we knew when we passed the ordinance before. So thank you for bringing this to our attention, and I'm happy to take the leadership in working on your suggestions. On a personal note, Philip, you and I don't always agree on everything, but I want to thank you for your leadership on this issue.
 And I want to thank you for opening my eyes to the deaf community in our community, in our state. I appreciated joining you at the Northwest Deaf Festival for the Arts last summer.
 And captioning is an issue that I frankly didn't know very much about until I got here to City Hall. And you have been very helpful in helping me to understand the importance of not only captioning, but how the captioning is done. So I thank you for that. And I appreciate your being here today. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Any other questions from any other commissioners?
 No, perfect. Thank you, Philip. Thank you very much. Just as a wrap-up, I want you all to know that I mean well and I'm always here. I have many, many options and many ideas to provide in terms of accessibility, and I'd be happy to help with all of that. So thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. 1162, a request of Stan Herman to address council regarding an answer to a question. Good morning, Stan.
 Oh, well, here we are again. You know, I really respect your position that you've chosen to represent the city of Portland. But again, I must switch this business communication to a political agenda. Our city leaders, you are paid to voice your opinions and make decisions. I've seen and heard your remarks and your votes on many issues in the city council meetings.
 I've been asking my city leaders for an opinion starting from my first appearance two years ago, 24 months ago, November 2016. For the record, why are you not giving me an opinion to my question I presented two years ago? I'm not asking for a legal answer. Rather, just please read and give me your personal understanding and who should enforce ORS 830.035. Mr. Mayor, no disrespect, but 156 days ago we met.
 And as of today, we have no progress regarding that meeting. On January 20, 2017, I hand-delivered to all of your offices the statute of reporting enforcement law for the ORS 30.05. I'll give you a minute so you can read that. I think you have it in front of you, do you? Please give me your opinion to my question below. I'll try to make it as simple as possible. On the second page, please reply with an X on this paper stating your opinion regarding my questions.
 The question again, Oregon State statute reporting enforcement law, ORS 830.035. Who's responsible to enforce this regulation? Put an X on yes. I think the City of Portland Police Department.
 Is responsible and should have launched an investigation, or you can put an X on no. I think the City of Portland Department has no responsibility to enforce and launch an investigation regarding Mr. Herman's reported hit and run to his building on 1300 North River Street, or you can choose the third one. I don't care to comment on Mr. Herman's question. And if you'd like to reply, I'd like to take your information with me, and I gave an extra copy for your reference.
 The bottom note is the first responder to that accident was Officer Jeff Myers, which required by state law he was supposed to start an investigation, but he did nothing. Any questions I can answer? I'd just like to respond that I have actually added a number four, and I'll give you that with the signatures. I've already sent you a letter with my response. I'd be happy to resend it. Okay. Can you guys respond to my paper there one way or another? I'll resend my letter.
 Anybody else know his books? We'll send you the whole file again. Okay. Next individual, please. Item 1163, request of Mike O'Callaghan to address council regarding update on shelterlessness. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. My name is Michael O'Callaghan. It was good to hear about the Humane Society making Portland a more compassionate place for animals.
 You know, maybe it'd be a good idea to expand their mission to include humans. I would think they would do a little bit better job with homelessness. Well, congratulations. Okay, I want to start out on a good note. Okay, only 79 people died last year on the street. A drop of one from 80. Good deal. The sweeps. Now, I was here last time. I asked you the question what the outcome of the sweeps was. You gave me an answer. Okay.
 that really wasn't an answer. So I would like you to know what the outcome of the sweeps are, okay? Three days without sleep, you're certifiably insane. Physiological fact. Another that they have found, which is really quite interesting, is that social isolation causes addiction. You know the classic one of the rat with the cocaine, they'll take the cocaine till it dies, right?
 Well, this guy says, oh, hey, let's put them in a cage with other rats and other food and see what happens. They don't do that. Okay, so the mythology out on the streets is they were all alcoholic, mentally ill drug addicts. Okay, why? Were they all alcoholic, mentally ill drug addicts when they were housed? No, they weren't. Okay, this is what your sweeps are causing. Okay, they're illegal.
 Here's the response that I got to my two-page from your attorneys, okay, about a restraining order to prohibit the sweeps because they're unconstitutional. Two pages I wrote, and this is the response I got. In this litigation, I'm not sure if you're really familiar with the term churn. Look at my previous litigation up to 9th and back down. See how much churn your attorney's office has put into my case.
 and see how much churn they're going to put into this case. This is an example. Solutions. I like to orient towards solutions. Three solutions here. Villages. You already have. You've seen the replication. This works. You know that.
 You need a code to allow small villages, 25 or smaller. You can even put them on there for 90 days at a time with a community agreement. You can do all kinds of things, okay? That's number one. This is a doable. Another one, which is really kind of interesting, over here on 6th and Division Place, they just built a great big building storage unit. I've got some of my stuff stored in there. Go lease it or buy it for five years.
 They've got 1,200 units in there. You can put bigger units. You can put families in there. They've got coded security for entrance. You'd have to put things on there for more showers and things like that. Oh, and one more comment about the roses. I'm working the roses in the LAT edition. And they came through with a hedge trimmer and cut all the roses down there.
 Okay. I see. Chloe, you know, could you tell them not to use hedge trimmers on roses? Okay. You can communicate with the rose gardens about that. Thank you, sir. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you. Next individual, please. 1164, request of Terry Parker to address council regarding Northeast 60th Avenue street lighting. Okay.
 Thank you. And I just want to remind people, the council rules, the reason we don't clap or boo or anything is it's distracting to people. So please, just a thumbs up or a thumbs down is sufficient. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Terry Parker. I'm speaking on behalf of the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association. Late last year, the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association, through Central Northeast Neighbors, applied for a placemaking in the streets grant to install two pedestrian-scale street lamps
 At the intersection of Northeast 60th Avenue and Halsey Street, planning was already underway by PBOT to pull together funding associated with the Growing Transit Communities Program for new sidewalks replacing three- to four-foot-wide sidewalks on 60th Avenue between Halsey Street and the MAC Station.
 The grant, which was not awarded, was to be a demonstration project with the goal of adding pedestrian-scale streetlights at all intersections between Halsey and Max at the same time the sidewalks are replaced. Since then, full funding has been found for the new sidewalks. PBOT advised me that if the project came in under budget, some lighting could be included. Thank you.
 I am told by experts the new LED streetlights PBOT has installed citywide deliver the same amount of light as the older sodium vapor lighting. It may be the color or the fact that it's cut off lighting, but it is far more difficult to see pedestrians crossing the streets with the new lighting. The majority of the area around 60th Avenue MAC Station is currently built up with mostly modest single-family residences. The entire area has been upzoned for higher densities. A number of the streets do not have sidewalks.
 Within the past year, two commercial properties at 60th and Halsey have been sold to a developer. The Rose City Park Neighborhood Association has maintained that infrastructure needs to be in place before any new development occurs. 60th Avenue should be a street with amenities that says it goes somewhere and safely connects people and places. The Rose City Park Neighborhood is, and always has been, from the time it was plotted in 1907, a working class neighborhood where families have called home for much of their lives.
 I have lived in the neighborhood for over 60 years. My neighbor to the south has lived in the neighborhood just under 60 years, with others on the street living in their homes for 30 years or more. This type of long-term investment is what makes a stable and livable neighborhood. We pay our share of taxes, but like the grant dollars, much of the money goes elsewhere. I have been told by PBOT that Prosper Portland has changed their mission and no longer offers place-making grants.
 The need for those types of grants still exists. What I'm asking for today is to add $250,000 to $300,000 to the 60th Avenue sidewalk budget for the purpose of adding pedestrian-scale streetlights, if necessary, from the general fund, which is supported by property taxes. Although the lighting is not mode-specific, think Vision Zero and a street that attracts people walking, especially from to and from Max.
 It simply makes sense to add the pedestrian-scale streetlights when the new sidewalks are constructed so some of the costs can be shared. And just for the record, the TriMet letter, which I'm reusing, I got permission from Steve Whittier to include it in the packet today. Terry, could I ask you one question? In here there's a letter.
 And it says the cost is approximately $10,000. Is that per light or what is that $10,000? That's per light standard, and that was obtained when I was working on the grant from Dan Layden, who is a PBOT employee.
 And you'd propose then approximately 25 lights, is that correct, just in the immediate vicinity of the mass? Right, right, right on the street there. A couple at each intersection. I think it's actually 28 if you had it full, but I'd have to go back and recount now. There's a picture in there that shows the proposed lights, the little stars. Got it. Thank you, Terry. I appreciate it. Thank you. Any other questions? I just want to say this predates –
 PBOT being in my portfolio, but I'll certainly follow up on this and try to get the answer back to you this week. Do you need me to check in with your office or anything like that? You could talk to Marshall, sure. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Terry. Great. Thank you, Terry. Next individual, please. Item 1165, request of Colette DeWitt to address council regarding impact of rental relocation ordinance. Good morning. Good morning.
 Hi. So I was here this summer to talk to you about returning to Portland after working overseas for five years and needing to pay my renters $4,200 to move out of my apartment or my condo. That's happened. I sold it, paid the rent, the thing got taken care of.
 Now I bought a place I can afford on my social security out in southeast Portland, and I have another issue, which is I am living by, even my son warned me, can you do this, Mom? I'm like, no problem. They're squatters. They are criminals. There's criminal activity going on all the time.
 There was a fire. They started in the backyard trash a couple weeks ago, and this is sad. It's on the Humane Society Day, but I called about the fire. The fire department came. I warned them that there are these two pit bulls in the yard, and anyway, eventually died.
 The dog was shot. Do you remember this? The Portland police had to shoot a dog. So this is my new neighborhood. And I'm not complaining, okay? They're going to be gone because they're really saying, even to the police, well, everything was fine before she got here, so you have Mrs. Kravitz out there, right? But what I don't understand is how—
 how homeowners people who have properties who do for instance i had a property manager when i was overseas and took care of my property i had to pay over 10 000 to improve my place after the renters left in order to sell it i learned to refinish a cabinet countertop okay i did a lot myself um so
 is it that homeowners are so vilified with this rental relocation ordinance in
 And how can you help homeowners like me who are moving into a place that needs improvement? Also, I live by Laotian, Vietnamese, Chinese, and young property owners, first-time buyers. And I want this neighborhood to improve. It can. But the reason no one's called, there was an invalid living in my home. So now it's up to a...
 65-year-old white woman to call and people are listening. What can be done? Two issues. I mean, it sounds like this is a zombie house, perhaps. Do you know who the owner? I know it's a strange term. Well, no, they know the owner. They do know the owner. Yes. Yes.
 Yeah. And neighborhood response team, East Precinct, Robert C. Brown and Joe Young talk to me often. I talk to the coding department, child protective. I mean, I call all the time. But you describe them as squatters, but they know the owner. So are they there with permission or not? No. Not that anyone can prove. Okay. I think they met in jail. Yeah. Yeah.
 But it's been going on for years, and in fact, their neighbor, I just met him, he put his house on the market, and he was practically in tears, and he said, I love my home, and I can't live by these people anymore. My wife won't live here anymore with me. So, you know, I'm a homeowner. I'm going to make it better. But on the other hand, I was vilified as a homeowner for renting my place out when I went overseas.
 So we're not all bad people. And that's what I think that rental relocation ordinance switched it over so that all landlords are people trying to take money from renters. It's not true. Well, you may be a good landlord, but we have thousands of landlords taking advantage of a housing crisis
 raising rents. Okay, Chloe, I hear what you're saying. No, your time is up and you are criticizing my policy, so I get to respond. We didn't vilify homeowners. We told landlords, if you are going to no-cause evict or raise your tenant's rent 10% or more, which by the way is three or four times the average
 cost annual cost increase you will share in the burden that you are creating for your tenant and for the city Now you doesn't sound like you were one of those landlords and I'm sorry that it negatively impacted you, but we had to take action to protect hundreds of thousands of renters who are at risk of Displacement and homelessness and that's all I want to say. I'm sorry. Just a little more this
 This isn't an opportunity for a dialogue. Feel free to contact my office. Did you watch my previous testimony? So let me do this because the commissioner is correct. This is communications. It's not a game show. I'm just wondering if she saw my previous one. Yeah, there is more to this. As I was listening to your testimony, there's also a public safety component here and there's a policing component. And it sounds like you are...
 In touch with your precinct, is that correct or no? Yes. Okay. Yes, I called them a lot. And if you need me to connect with somebody there, let me know, and you can. I would like that. Do I just tell them when I'm. Is Michelle still. Yeah, just talk to Michelle and give her your contact information. I'll follow up and get back in touch with you. Thank you very much. Certainly. And Chloe, I do hope. I wanted to be here last time so you could hear. Thank you.
 Very good. All right. Consent agenda. Have any items been pulled, Carla? I've had no requests. Call the roll. Eudaly? Aye. Fritz? I want to note, I am going to note that the consent agenda includes replacing gender-specific language in Title 21, which is the Water Bureau's code. All bureaus were directed to update their codes to remove gender-specific language.
 and I'm really proud that the Water Bureau is first out of the gate. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item 1166.
 authorize the purchase of certain real property known as the West Wind Apartments, located at 323 and 3237 Northwest 6th Avenue, for purchase price and closing cost in an amount not to exceed $3,052,056. Colleagues, we regularly hear during communications
 that we are either not addressing the homeless crisis or we are not sufficiently addressing the homeless crisis. I hope that this ordinance goes some way towards compelling people to understand that we are approaching this with a sense of urgency, that it is a priority, that we are making significant investments, and we are even taking significant risks to be able to address this crisis that we all agree is unfolding on our streets.
 This ordinance is for the acquisition of the West Wind Apartments in Old Town to be redeveloped under Portland's housing bond, which was supported by the voters in the City of Portland. The West Wind represents the fifth property identified for the bond program, bringing the total number of units acquired and planned to just over 600, nearly halfway towards our goal of 1,300 units. Thank you.
 Currently, the West Wind provides 70 low-cost, low-barrier, single-room occupancy units. This acquisition will preserve a scarce type of housing that's vital to our efforts to tackling homelessness in the central city for our most vulnerable neighbors and moves us closer towards our goal of 2,000 units in 10 years with regard to supportive housing.
 Future plans to replace the existing building will create new units that are safe, high quality, and permanently affordable homes with services for very low-income individuals, including permanent supportive housing units. And so with that, I'll turn it over to our presenters' panel. We have Shannon Callahan, of course, from the Portland Housing Bureau, Mark Jolin from the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Welcome and thank you both for being here.
 Good morning, Mayor. Thank you very much. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau. I am pleased today to be here to request your authorization to purchase the Westwind Apartments located on Northwest 6 in the Old Town neighborhood.
 We will, I'm also joined here by Mark Jolin, and in a moment you will also hear from Andy Shaw and Dana Brandon of Central City Concern, as well as Peter Beyer of Home Forward, all of whom are partners in helping us operate, provide services, and provide vouchers, rent support for low-income households who will be residing in the future Westwinds.
 As you heard at the permanent supportive housing briefing that you and Multnomah County held earlier this year, this is a joint project of the Portland Housing Bureau, the Portland Housing Bond, specifically in Multnomah County.
 As the Mayor mentioned, the West Wind has for many years served as low barrier housing for many of our most vulnerable residents. And to our knowledge, it's one of the last remaining single room occupancy buildings in private hands within the central city.
 Many of the single-room occupancy buildings that we've been able to save are either in the ownership of the Portland Housing Bureau or our partners, notably, as you'll hear from Central City Concern, who owns many of the single-room occupancy buildings left remaining in the central city.
 The fate of this building has long been on many of our city agencies' radar, including the Portland Housing Bureau, the Bureau of Development Services, many of the county's agencies, including Mental Health and Addiction Services, as many of their clients reside in this building and currently receive services from the county agencies.
 When we heard that this building last year had the potential for sale, we all worked together to act to save and preserve this building, both for the current tenants and for the future tenants. And we're pleased that after almost a year of working on this building, we're here today to bring you this purchase. Thank you.
 As the Mayor mentioned, we do plan on replacing this building with approximately 70 units, which is currently the current number of units in the building. We have about 50 of those units that are currently occupied by households, many of whom have been placed either through county services or our non-profit support partners.
 This ordinance today asks you to approve approximately $3 million of downtown waterfront urban renewal area. We will be using those funds to acquire the building. And then in partnership with Multnomah County and the housing bonds, we'll be replacing that building.
 I also would like to note that we are currently exploring the use of low-income tax credits, which to replace this building, it is made possible to us by the adoption of Measure 102 last week, the constitutional amendment. This was not something that was possible before that, but it could bring a significant amount of equity and capital to replace this building and ensure both a safe...
 community for the residents, but also a lively commercial ground floor for the Old Town neighborhood. By the way, when is 102 effective?
 It goes into effect 30 days from the time that it is certified by the Secretary of State. And I apologize, I don't know that that has occurred yet. Okay. But we are working with the Bond Oversight Committee the first week of December to start to make plans on how to adapt the rollout of the constitutional amendment as it relates to the Portland Housing Bond. Okay.
 As the Mayor mentioned, this property is significant to ensuring the goals that you set for reaching supportive housing. 2,000 new units in the next 10 years. As you heard earlier this year, we've already programmed or planned for at least 500 of those units.
 And finally, before I turn it over to Mark, I'd like to note, as the Mayor said, that this is the fifth bond project that we've identified, which so far we've identified more than 634 new units or acquired units of housing. And I am pleased today to turn it over to Mark Dolan of the Joint Office.
 Thank you, Shannon. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Mark Jolin, the Director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services. And I just want to take a minute to celebrate the partnership that this project represents amongst all of us who you'll hear from today, but in particular the city and the county. At the time that Wapato was sold last year, the county commissioned in a resolution brought forward by Commissioner Lori Stegman, directed an exploration of the best uses of the proceeds from that sale. Thank you.
 There was quickly agreement that the most critical need was to expand permanent supportive housing. We reached out to Shannon and the Portland Housing Bureau, asking where there might be an opportunity to co-invest the funds in a project with the city that would add supportive housing capacity, in particular for people who are chronically homeless and struggling with serious mental and physical health challenges.
 The West Wind represented the perfect opportunity to acquire a building to prevent the displacement of the vulnerable tenants already in that building and to invest in replacing it with 70 new SRO units with intensive on-site support services. The county board voted unanimously to approve the intergovernmental agreement transferring $4 million to the Portland Housing Bureau for use in the redevelopment of the West Wind.
 As the project moves forward, the Joint Office will use city and county supportive housing funds to provide the wraparound support services that the tenants in the building need. We will also use our coordinated access system to ensure equitable access to the units for the most vulnerable adults in our community.
 Through a network of more than 27 nonprofits, including seven culturally specific providers, we have implemented a single assessment for supportive housing that can be conducted anywhere in the community. We've trained more than 200 people to conduct those assessments. Coordinated access prioritizes people for access to the dozens of different supportive housing projects in our community, including both permanent supportive housing and recovery housing.
 No longer does someone who is extremely vulnerable have to travel all over town to be assessed and apply for multiple different supportive housing programs. They do one assessment, and we match them to units as they become available in any of the community's supportive housing projects. And given that some people are so vulnerable and isolated that they won't seek out services themselves, we have a whole team of outreach workers who are in the community conducting supportive housing assessments on the streets and in people's camps.
 Right now, we have about 1,300 chronically homeless people who have been assessed through coordinated access and are waiting to be matched for an appropriate supportive housing unit. The West Wind will be a critical addition to the inventory of units available to these extremely vulnerable people in our community, many of whom are living unsheltered.
 The West Wind is also a great example of the kind of partnership that will allow us to fulfill the promise of adding at least 2,000 units of supportive housing in our community by 2028. I thank you for your support of the West Wind acquisition and of the people in our community who so desperately need this kind of housing opportunity. Thank you. With that, Mayor, I'd like to invite up Andy Shaw and Dana Brandon of Central City Concern as well as Peter Beyer of Home for a Life. Thank you.
 Colleagues, while they are coming up, I'd like to add a technical amendment at the request of the Housing Bureau. The amendment would read as follows. To ensure that we're in compliance with local budget law, I move to strike section 1C, which reads C, increase appropriations to Portland Housing Bureau by $154,000 through the end of the current fiscal year and replace the language with the following. In order to ensure sufficient cash flow to operate the subject property,
 for the remainder of the fiscal year, this ordinance authorizes a transfer of $154,000 from the Housing Investment Fund to the Tax Increment Financing Reimbursement Fund. Can I get a second? Carla, please call the roll. Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. This is a technical amendment that I can't imagine anybody would object to. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment's adopted. Sorry and welcome. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Andy Shaw. I'm the Director of Housing at Central City Concern. I'm here to speak a little bit about the historical use of the West Wind as a low-income and low-bare housing and also talk about the importance of preserving this housing type and benefits to this neighborhood and the city and how properties like the West Wind is also a tremendous asset for service providers.
 Lastly, I also want to talk a little bit about CCC experience operating and managing low barrier housing for very low income individuals.
 West Wind, I think a couple years ago, there was a study in San Diego that came out that talked about the correlation between the loss of SRO housing to the rise of homelessness in that city. And I think since the 1980s...
 about 14,000 units of SRO housing, they started losing about 75% of their 14,000 SRO units. And concurrently, they saw a rise in homelessness. I think the city's acquisition of the Westwind is a great step forward to reversing trends like that in our city. This morning, I was just there and just seeing kind of how neglected the property is. There was
 following the kind of plaster and I think a lot of people, there were hoarding activities and very filthy conditions. And so the city's acquisition of the West Wind is really critical in not only reversing the role of providing more affordable housing, but really kind of helping those who have been most marginalized to get connected to services.
 In terms of assets, as you know, Central City Concern, the three arms, four arms of our organization is health services, behavioral health, employment services, and housing, supportive housing services. And I know that in a lot of the SROs currently owned, at least in one of the SROs currently owned by private owners, we have in one building, not the West Wing, another building, we have at least 20 individuals connected to our health services and behavioral health arm.
 So I think these assets are very critical because our primary care physician, our behavioral health staff, one of the things they'll tell you is health without housing is impossible because people just get...
 their wounds kind of open up again and they have no place to stabilize finally our experience operating and managing low barrier housing we have about at least 10 sro properties right in the vicinity within the west wind apartments and you know near old town and we've been doing this since 1979 so we're confident that we can go in and properly manage the property for the city so
 until a more long-term game plan will be in place. I'm going to turn this over to Dana Brandon, our Director of Supportive Housing. Good morning. Dana Brandon, Director of Supportive Housing at Central City Concern. I'm just going to talk briefly about the types of services that we provide in our buildings. We, as you know, provide – we're up to almost 23 buildings of affordable –
 low barrier in most cases buildings with recovery housing as well. We have on-site staff in some of our buildings, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We have resident services support coordinators who assist our permanent tenants with
 any variety of needs that they might have. We support them in eviction prevention. We support them in acquiring food. We help connect them to health services if they're not connected. So we provide really robust services throughout our portfolio in every building with resident services coordinators as well as case management staff in a number of our buildings. So we have, as I know you all know, great resources.
 depth and breadth of experience in providing this work and ensuring the safety and security of the buildings that we oversee. Thank you. Mayor, can I ask a question? Commissioner Fish. You know, one of the things that discouraged me a little bit in an otherwise very successful election season is
 was when we were making the case about ballot measures 102 and 26-199, there were some people that chose to oppose the regional bond on the grounds that by serving low-income people, with particularly people that had needs beyond just subsidized housing, needed intensive services,
 We were at risk of creating, and I'm going to put this word in quotation marks because I can't believe in 2018 we're using language like this, but we're going to create ghettos throughout the region. And that was a line of argument used at editorial board meetings and some public meetings
 Well, clearly the public rejected that scare, that fear-mongering that happened during the campaign. But I think it is fair to ask you, from your position, what's the most persistent myth that we have to sort of address about why it is nationally it's become a best practice to provide a deeply affordable rental apartment with services to help chronically homeless people get back on their feet? I don't know. I don't know.
 I really don't know certainly one of the myths around the homeless is that the homeless want to be on the streets that they don't want to be in housing and I guess that's a myth about homelessness that I see as being perpetuated yes
 And I can also kind of speak to that. I think CCC's approach is to provide comprehensive services, employment, housing, supportive housing, and mental health and primary care. And I think what we've seen is, you know, people who come through our housing, they are desperately want to –
 want to have safety and security, employment. And within our organization, what I see my staff is, who have kind of come through the ladder from homelessness to voluntary through our community volunteer corps to getting employment,
 What I see is some of our best employees are actually people who have come from homelessness through recovery. So I think the myth that by providing more housing and intensive services is going to create more ghettos, I simply don't see that. That's the case. That hasn't been my lived experience with my own staff.
 And I think CCC, we have one occupational therapist that serves Huber Detox. And I think what she'll tell you is like, people who come through recovery, they do want to get employed, they do want to get better.
 I think people need ideas on how they can manage their pain, how they can kind of live a more stable life. So I think the need for services is tremendous because I think people need that navigator or people with special expertise to really help them overcome barriers. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council Members. My name is Peter Beyer, and I am the Chief Financial Officer and current Acting Executive Director of Home Forward.
 Home Forward is proud to partner with the city to help acquire, build, and asset manage housing funded by Portland's affordable housing bond. We enthusiastically endorse the acquisition and redevelopment of the Westwind Apartments. In connection with the passing of the housing bond, Home Forward utilized the flexibility of our special moving to work designation to ensure we could commit to pairing up to 400 project-based vouchers with bond funds.
 From what was envisioned at that early time, the Westwind Apartments represents a perfect example of the value we saw in pairing vouchers with the bond. It is a building that is located in a great neighborhood near amenities, services, and transportation. There are multiple partners working together to ensure the residents will have access to the ongoing services they need. And because of the vouchers, the property will serve people living with very low incomes and help people transition from homelessness.
 Beyond the voucher commitment, Home Forward will provide asset management services for the property. We have decades of experience in asset management and managing properties like the Westwind Apartments. And our asset management team is incredibly skilled, and we will utilize our expertise and the processes we have spent decades developing to ensure the Westwind is successful. Not just from a physical asset or financial statement perspective, but from a livability perspective.
 Housing is at the core of what Home Forward does, but the people are the reason that it matters. I know the members of this council understand the importance of the PSH model of housing, and as was stated, the challenge for our community will be to stay focused and committed to all three words connected with that acronym, permanent, supportive, and housing. Thank you.
 I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the City Council and all of our partners for entrusting us with this work. We are excited about the West Wing Apartments, and we're looking forward to helping create a building that will be a long-term and vital resource for Portlanders now and for years to come. Again, thank you. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your partnership.
 Public testimony, Carla. Yes, we have four people signed up. Very good. The first three are Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Maggie, and Joe Walsh. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. It's not fun to be the bearer of bad tidings to have to... So, just to be clear, this project...
 does nothing to address homelessness. It's a place that has 50 people living in it now, and when you're done, it'll have 50 people living in it. So it's a zero net on homelessness. It is changing the status of those units from slumlord-operated $500 per month paid by people who only have $700 a month of income to...
 those people will now be paying 30% of their income and will live in a clean, hygienic building. But it's actually zero gain in the struggle to end homelessness, period. There's no way around that, no matter how... You're welcome to invite them back, but that's the actual song-and-dance truth here. The other thing is that there's no... The other thing is that this is a nothing. What this is is taking $2 million...
 Taking $2 million, you could go over there and get a bag of $2 million, or you could just get a nice check. And we're taking it to Newburgh. I lost the address. I'm not going to log in. And giving it to the slumlord that bought this building in 2004. So in 2004, a predatory slumlord bought this building for $1.1 million. Okay.
 has emotionally and psychologically abused every human being that has lived there since 2004, and now we're giving them a $2 million cash reward. The people that live in this building deserve this project. They deserve to be saved, rescued, helped. We need permanent supportive housing.
 This plan, and we've only seen a glimpse of it, because what we're talking about is buying the property for $3. something million in here. We're not talking about the actual construction cost of replacing the building. That comes next. Then there's the funding of the PSH, the permanent supportive housing. So it's sad, but...
 that's the simple truth. We have a building that has had at times 50 to 70 people in it. We're going to shut it down for a while, like we've done for the Joyce. It'd be great to also get an update on the Joyce at this time. So people just need to know that that's...
 The truth. No net increase in available beds, roommates, housing, apartments, come from any of the money that will be expended at this address. It is only a change in classification from a building that you guys could have had for free. If you had, as Mr. Udaly has pointed out, we need rental inspections. We have people living in substandard, dangerous places with abusive landlords.
 If, when I moved to the city in 2011, people had been going into the joints and documenting that, you would have had a clear eminent domain. Can I answer your question now? The difference is it's now permanent. We own it. So in perpetuity, this facility will be available to people. And because we own it, we can actually build larger on the site and put more people into permanent supportive housing.
 And had we not bought it, somebody else would have. And guess what they would have done? They would have evicted, no argument there. They would have evicted everybody in it. They would have demolished it. And they would have built market rate housing with the inclusionary zoning, of course.
 But if we want permanent supportive housing for very low to zero income people, many of whom are struggling with very serious issues, whether it's addiction, whether it's mental health, whether they're domestic violence survivors, this is the kind of play we need to make. The $2 million, I wish it was free. It's not. The $2 million was the price to get rid of the guy who owned it so that we could own it and do it right for the people who need it the most. Thank you for your time, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Mayor.
 Commissioner Udali.
 Mr. Johnson, while I don't agree that it's not a net gain for the city, I do share your frustrations. I don't think any property owner providing substandard housing in our city should be allowed to raise rents at all. And I would like to see the city get a lot more aggressive with enforcement. It's one of my regrets, no longer having BDS, that we weren't able to make headway with that. But I'll continue to advocate for it. Thank you, Felicity.
 Good morning. Good morning. Okay. So they're still kicking people out of hospitals and kicking people out of shelters. And when I say people, I mean the elderly, the disabled, and the mentally ill. And...
 These people are ending up on the street, and then the business owners call clean and safe. And did you know that Oregon state law says that you cannot repeatedly and abusively call city services like 911 and your point of contact?
 it's between a $10,000 and $25,000 fine when you do that. Now, if you're kicking people out of hospitals and you're kicking people out of shelters and they're disabled and they have nowhere to go, guess where they're going to be?
 And it was really unfortunate that you allowed those bars to buy that alley on 2nd and Ankeny, because now they're proprietary. And when people are legally parked to live in...
 Salvation Army female emergency shelter. They're calling and complaining about their cars when they're legally parked. I know someone who's in there who gets up every morning and she would move her car, and then that guy, the business owner from the Oyster Bar, complained she got three tickets and they towed her car even though she was moving her car during... She was parking during the legally...
 allowed time and then she would get up very early in the morning, 5 a.m., and she would go down and move her car. From what I understand, the parking there was between the very late night and 7 a.m. in the morning was legal to park there. And so this guy was calling and having her ticketed and towed when she was legally parked.
 Now, why is that? So I would like the city to, like, give her back her, you know, wipe those tickets off and give her her car back and give her her towing money back. And this happens all the time everywhere, is that these business owners are calling in abusively and repeatedly when nobody's doing anything wrong. So, like, they'll call when, you know, people cross the street to smoke, you know, where those planters are.
 So let's not sugarcoat the fact that there's more and more disabled people and elderly ending up on the streets, and there's no housing for them. Thank you. Okay. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. We take no money from this council.
 We take no money from the county or the state. And I wish you would require people that give you testimony to tell you how much money they do take. How much does city concern take from the city? I don't know. In the millions. How much does anybody that testify before you take?
 That would be something interesting to hear because your testimony is really biased. If you take money, if I give you $100, you're not going to tell me I'm a rotten person. If you take no money, you may tell that person they are a rotten person to the core. We can't stop you from doing this because you've been doing it for 50 years.
 20 years, 10 years, you buy property, you put people in there, you buy more property, you put people in there, you close down on the original property, and you put people in there. You just move people around. That's why we have 1,700 that we know of on the streets, and we can't seem to do anything about it.
 You had 10 years on a 10-year plan, and you blew it. Did you apologize? No. People are dying on the streets. We're going to die. People die. We had 48 die already this year. We had 80 last year. And you keep doing the same things. What do you think outside the box? Come on, a creative.
 solution to the problem? This is not rocket science! Ask the people on the street, can I help you? What is it you need? Tell me! Don't use psychiatrist, don't use Mark. He doesn't know anything. He is a millionaire! You guys are millionaires, you know nothing about being broke! Nothing! So ask them! Ask
 Commissioner Doudali, she may be able to tell you, I can't, I've never been on the street. But we have people here that have. Ask them. You keep doing the same thing, we give you money on the bonds over and over again. And you blow it over and over again. And sooner or later, people are going to realize you're going to get voted out of office.
 The last person who signed up is Steve Entwistle, Sr. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Steve Entwistle. I ran for mayor twice. And I'm a former Golden Gloves champion and a former homeless. Well, actually, I'm still homeless. I live in a place that is called housing. But to me, housing is a house.
 So that's a lie. It's privatized sheltering. And that's a correct term and not housing. Unless you want to consider housing warehousing. That would be more of the term. But housing in itself, no. Privatized sheltering. Why? Freedom. There's no freedom. Because you have to have a manager check to make sure...
 that whoever you bring over isn't somebody that's on a bad list. And you can't have anybody over after 10 o'clock, no visitors. The electricity is shut off at 10 o'clock, so you can't cook. Electricity doesn't come on until 8 in the morning, so you can't have coffee or get ready for work. That's your housing that you're talking about.
 And I'm not going to even go into the part where the bedbugs and the cockroaches and the contracts that these private property managers just gloat over. Because they're making some bucks. And when you get somebody that's on Social Security, and they're getting whatever, $700, $800, whatever a month, and then you charge through your, quote, housing, one-third of...
 Now, most people that get SSI or SSD or whatever are only getting about a third of what they really need to survive to begin with. And then you go and take a third of that. And then you put them in the shelter and you say, well, they're supposed to be humble and know that they're being taken care of. No, no, that's wrong. And you wonder why people don't want to stay in that housing. You wonder why they go back on the street. That's the reason why. Okay.
 But nobody seems to care about that. You know, we got a shower curtain that's been in that shower. We got 40 people that use that every day. You know, it hasn't been changed. It hasn't been, you know, it's the same. It's actually starting to deteriorate. It's moldy and stuff. You know, a lot of people don't even go into the shower. And then I'm supposed to bring folks over to, you know, homeless folks to try to help them bring them in off the street, right? And then I got to...
 be embarrassed to show them what kind of shower that we have to live in. You guys don't understand. We live in a conservative world. For 50 years, it's been a conservative world. It's wrong. Homelessness is going to increase. You think the president is going to do anything to help homelessness? What politician have you heard anything talk about homelessness at all? In fact, in the last five years, ten years, none. That's the problem. Conservatives. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superdata XX1 PDX. Again, on the bond money, as I've always stated, I do want to see new development for units that will last long term, basically outlive us all in here. Now, one of the issues you have on this is you're buying this originally using TIF funds from the downtown waterfront.
 urban development, and then you're going to possibly redevelop it using the bond money. I'm a little confused why you just didn't buy this with the bond money. Maybe that can be explained now. I understand you're going to try to preserve this for the next two years. So does that mean you're going to put a lot of money in preservation? And I noticed you did a seismic study also. I sure hope you're not going to do a
 seismic upgrade on a building you're going to possibly demolish in a few years. So those are some concerns to me. I would rather have this building saved, preserved, and keep the cost minimal, and then do your 70 SROs and implement supportive services into the building currently. So I'm not really a fan of seeing this building being demolished.
 And one of the biggest concerns I have, and it's also referring to the Oakleaf Mobile Home Park, is that my main focus on these tenants is if they're not going to be able to stay in this building, that you don't, as the city, think you have a right not to pay their relocation fees. I want you to pay double the amount to these people when they are relocated because
 In my opinion, you think you have a pass on that. You took a pass on Oakleaf Mobile Home Park where you brought all these people in, filled this place up with the idea there might be a point that they can stay in there and maybe even end up buying their spaces. Well, guess what? You threw most of those people out and you didn't pay any relocation fees to them.
 You came in here with these people, and then you threw them out of their place. And you paid them nothing, and then you stand there and go, well, it just didn't work out. I'm sorry. No, that doesn't work with me. At the very least, you need to pay their relocation fees on that Oak Leap mobile home park. Send them a check now in the mail from Lightning and pay that full fee.
 And on this here, if you remove these tenants out, they better all get these relocation fees paid because I'm going to monitor this and I'm going to make sure you treat these people the same way anyone else should be treated on these fees. You have no exemptions on this because you're the city. You pay them the fee and you write them that check and let them smile about receiving all that money. Is that going to be done?
 Can any of you answer me? Thank you. Will they be paid the relocation fees? Thank you. Can any of you answer me that? Thank you for your testimony. That's what I thought. Shame on you. Shame. Is that complete public testimony? Very good. Call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Congratulations and thank you to the Portland Housing Bureau on the acquisition of this property and for the partnership with the Joint Office and Central City Concern. Thank you.
 70 units of permanent supportive housing is really significant. Congratulations, Mayor. Aye. Fish. Again, I want to thank the voters for overwhelmingly passing ballot measures 102 and 26-199. And in concert with the Portland housing bond and the monies we have left, we'll be able to stretch the tax dollar and serve even more people.
 Last year, we set an audacious goal of 2,000 units of permanent supportive housing. It is a national best practice. It is our most effective tool in addressing chronic homelessness. I am pleased that we continue to make progress, and this is difficult because this is deeply affordable, subsidized housing with services, and we haven't figured out all of the ins and outs of how we're going to cover the costs of the services, but we're making steady progress.
 And I'm also pleased that we are acquiring this particular building, and in time we'll make sure that it's a community resource for the next 100 years. Hi. Saltzman. Well, this is a great addition to our portfolio of bond-funded projects. Congratulations, Mayor. Very much needed. And, you know, it's my understanding from the tenant relocation ordinance debate, I think we made it abundantly clear.
 The public agencies are responsible, just like the private sector landlords are, to pay relocation expenses. So I fully expect when this building is renovated, there will be relocation payments made by the city or home forward to the tenants at that time. Aye. Wheeler. So there is a strong disposition in this chamber to not try anything different, to stick to the status quo.
 to not take any risks. I heard somebody stand up and say, why do you guys always do the same thing over and over again and expect something different to happen? Well, this is something different. We are reinventing the SRO model. This is just the first of many projects you're going to see like this, and the goal is to connect people who really, truly need a helping hand get inside, out of the elements...
 into a place where they can get whatever help it is they need to regain their lives. And how many times have we heard people sit at those microphones and say, that used to be me, and then somebody connected me, or someone's connected me to the help I needed. Right?
 And now I've got a job and I've got my family back and I've, more importantly than anything else, I've got my sense of dignity and my sense of pride back. These kinds of projects are what it is going to take for this community to be able to make progress against the scourge of homelessness. And
 Frankly, I find it ridiculous that every time we bring an idea that I believe is a good one and I believe is a solid one, we hear a hundred different reasons why we can't do it, why we shouldn't do it, why we should stick to what we are doing. That's not where I'm going.
 I'm going in a different direction. And this project, the West Wind, is the beginning of a different direction for this administration and for the Housing Bureau. And I believe we will look back on this and we will say this was the right strategy to help a lot of people. No, not just the people who live in the building.
 but the people who will live in the building and the people who will live in the successor to this building on this site for many, many years to come. This is the kind of leadership that you asked me to provide when you elected me your mayor. You may have some second thoughts about that. That's okay.
 But this is what you asked me to do. This is the kind of leadership I told you that I would provide as your leader to address the homeless situation in our community. So don't expect less of these. Expect more of these coming down the road. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thanks to my colleagues. Next item. Item 1167, accept Portland Parks Board annual report to council.
 Commissioner Saltzman. I'm sorry. Commissioner Fish. I apologize. Wow. That's a first. It is a first. It's always been my honor to be confused with Commissioner Fritz. I picked the wrong week to give up coffee, Commissioner Fish. But we do have, Mayor, what you have highlighted is that we do have the luxury of three former and current parks commissioners on this council. And so let me have some brief opening remarks, and we welcome...
 Pat, Kendall won't be joining us, I guess, so we welcome the chair of the Parks Board, and we also welcome the interim director of the Parks Bureau. The Portland Parks Board was established in 2001 to advise the city to advocate for high-quality park and recreational services for all residents and to provide a forum for discussions about parks-related issues.
 Before we start with the presentations, I'd like to personally thank Pat, our chair of the Portland Parks Board, our vice chair, Kendall, and for their leadership on the board, as well as the other community members who volunteer their time for this important service.
 We have in your materials the annual report of the Parks Board. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz. She was the commissioner in charge during most of this time, and so most of the accomplishments that are highlighted occurred under her watch.
 But Pat Frobes, thank you very much for your leadership. And also thank you for agreeing during this year of budget transition to serve as the Bureau Budget Advisory Committee. That's a big ask, and I appreciate that you've taken that on with some other community members, and we look forward to getting your recommendations. Ladies, why don't you take it away. Good morning. Good to be here representing an energized, informed, and involved Parks Board.
 We're committed to preserving our legacy of great parks and natural areas and building on that legacy to extend a core essential city service to those who have been historically underrepresented and underserved. In the last 18 months, the board has shifted its focus as a board as a whole to a more strategic system, system-wide issues and decisions that will affect our parks and natural areas for the long-term future.
 including cost recovery policy, level of service, and financial sustainability. We welcome the new budget process. As Commissioner Fish said, the board, together with additional community and labor representatives, are acting as the Bureau's Budget Advisory Committee.
 In that capacity, this year, rather than looking at specific cuts and adds, we're working to align the Bureau's total budget with its strategic objectives and ensure that core strategic priorities are adequately funded. We're working to deepen our partnership with the Portland Parks Foundation, and we very much appreciate the support the City Council gave to one of our key partners several weeks ago.
 We look forward to assisting in the appointment of a Permanence Park Director and assisting in making his or her transition a smooth one. We're also looking forward to the renewal of the 2020 vision in the form of Vision 2035, which we hope will be a robust, community-driven process that will include reimagining our parks and open space to deal with the effects of increased gentrification and density.
 The members of the Parks Board focus on these issues because we all have a very passionate belief in the roles parks and natural areas play in building the foundation for a vibrant, healthy city and vibrant, healthy civic life. We very much have appreciated the support we've received over the years from Commissioner Fritz and now certainly from Commissioner Fritz. Fish. Fish.
 I've been delighted to work with Director Selle, and we've been honored to serve. I'd be happy to answer any questions about the report. Pat, can I also just – I left one other comment off.
 Recently, you invited the mayor and me to come before the Parks Board to answer questions that you had structured and then questions from the Parks Board. I don't know that that is something that is typically done by other oversight bodies where invitations extended to both the mayor and to the commissioner in charge. And I know that if it was the normal practice, the mayor would not be getting much sleep.
 on top of his other obligations. But I did very much appreciate the opportunity to have a conversation that you facilitated with both the mayor, one of whose unique powers is to make a budget and to present it on the table, and the commissioner in charge. And I hope that's a practice that other oversight bodies consider.
 It certainly facilitates good communication. The mayor had some interesting observations about some of his priorities. We got to have a frank conversation. I think the next time we're going to have a similar conversation, if the mayor is not available, we'll have a senior member of his staff. I thought it was a good innovation, and I appreciated the spirit behind that gathering. Good. And we certainly appreciated the time of both of you.
 The mayor had been there once before, and we appreciate it. Could I just second that? And I appreciated being invited because, as you know, we have sort of a squirrely form of government here, and sometimes the walls go up. And I actually appreciated being asked questions. I appreciated hearing what Commissioner Fish had in mind for the Parks Bureau going forward.
 And the value to me was understanding how to center the next budget and understanding what your priorities are, understanding what my fellow commissioner, who happens to be the commissioner in charge of the Parks Bureau, what his priorities are, what some of his concerns are. I found it to be a very valuable exchange.
 And I look forward to more. So thank you for including me. That was very thoughtful. More than welcome. Thank you. Thank you. And I will note that you also visited the Parks Board while I was commissioner in charge and responded to their request to keep coming back. And so I appreciate knowing that you have kept your word as expected. And since Kia is at the table, I should also say to Director Selle that –
 that you could not ask for a more welcoming transition than I've received from both the interim director and her leadership team. And I think there's light at the end of the tunnel in terms of the briefings we're going to get on the core programs of the Bureau. We've done...
 more than I can count, and we have a number to go. But the Bureau has been very welcoming and has been working overtime to make sure that their newest commissioner in charge is up to speed on their work and has the tools to meaningfully engage in the big policy questions that we have to take up. So, T, I want to thank you and your leadership team for the courtesies you've extended to me and to my office. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, I am Kia Selle, Interim Director of Parks and Rec. And I want to take this opportunity to thank the Parks Board, particularly Chair Frobes and Vice Chair Clausen, who couldn't make it today. They have spent countless hours...
 guiding the board as well as guiding staff. And the board has provided instrumental work that will continue to make us more financially sustainable as well as to really help us with some of these landmark projects that we have ahead, including Vision 2035.
 So I want to thank them for their guidance and for the investment in our parks community. I also want to thank them for their collaboration with the Portland Parks Foundation. That has not happened a lot in the past, and they have really reached across the aisle to make our parks and rec communities stronger. So thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mayor, I make a motion to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. E. Daly. Thank you for the report. I vote aye. Fritz.
 Very much appreciated reading a summary of the results from the last year. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for acknowledging that. I had the honour of being the Commissioner of Charge for most of that. Thanks to Pooja Bhatt and Christina Nieves, who are my parks liaisons, and to Patricia Frobes and Kendall Clausen, Echo, Commissioner Fish's...
 Lording of Interim Director Chiaseli, and I hope that you will engage the Parks Board in the interview process for the Permanent Director because I certainly came to rely on their wisdom and their commitment to equity and inclusion and to having a representative board that covers in its membership...
 All demographics, all areas of the city, all backgrounds. It's really a phenomenal group that I was honored to work with. Hi. Well, let me address that right off the bat. Members of the Parks Board will be included in the panels that review the final candidates and that help make a recommendation to the commissioner in charge. So it's an inspired suggestion and one that we're going to take.
 And I will also say, Commissioner Fritz, I've, in my 10 years, appeared before a number of parks boards. We've had really the luxury, I would say, of very committed people with deep roots in this movement serve on the parks board. I don't know that we've ever had top to bottom a stronger parks board.
 And probably you could say that I don't know whether we – I don't think there's been a time when we needed – I mean, this is probably the time when we've needed the strongest board we have because we face –
 We face a big question about future leadership. We face a big question about budget and resources to do the job. We have work to do to continue to extend the benefits of our system to people underserved in parts of our community, and on and on and on. So I think we're very well served. I'm very proud to be the commissioner in charge and pleased to accept your report today. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Thank you for your report. Aye. Wheeler. Excellent work. Appreciate it. Look forward to a lot more. I vote aye. Report is accepted. Thank you both. Next item, 1173.
 Authorize the commissioner in charge of the police bureau to order content neutral time, place, and manner regulations for demonstrations held in the city. Colleagues, this is the second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We've already heard a presentation and taken extensive testimony on this item. Anything else for the good of the order before I call the roll? Chief, anything else you want to say? Please call the roll. Udaly. Udaly.
 I want to thank the police chief, her command staff, and the city attorney for answering my questions last week. My office received the written responses to these questions yesterday. We have submitted them to the council clerk so they will become a part of the record, and we will post them on our website and push the link out through social media so the public can read them as well.
 For members of the public who were surprised by my line of questioning last week or expressed
 I guess gratitude that I was finally addressing this issue. I want to explain that this was an extremely rare opportunity for us to have a public dialogue with the police bureau and the city attorney, that this is actually nothing new for me. I just haven't had a chance to really speak about it publicly.
 As I mentioned previously, these questions were generated by myself, my office staff, constituents, and advocacy organizations. I asked them with multiple intentions. First and foremost, because these are questions that Portland activists have been waiting years and sometimes decades to hear the answer to. Secondly, to illustrate the many concerns I have with this ordinance. And finally, thank...
 to give the Police Bureau an opportunity to clarify possible points of misunderstanding with the public. I also want to go on record as saying that I believe the mayor and the police chief have good intentions with this ordinance. Even if they can't be as explicit as I can, I know that they want to stop right-wing extremists from disrupting our city and threatening our residents as much as I do. And I also know that many of our officers are committed to this objective as well.
 However, because of how existing policies have been and are being applied, I cannot vote to expand their powers. We are trapped in a dangerous dynamic between right-wing extremists, counter-protesters, and police with no clear path forward. This poses a threat to public safety, and there is a growing frustration among the public that we can't seem to manage these protests effectively. I share their frustrations.
 and I agree that something must change. However, this is not an issue that can be solved by policing alone. We need advocacy organizations to continue to step up and offer us meaningful policy solutions and community supports. We need a concerted community effort to shut these right-wing extremists down. Yes, they have constitutional rights that must be protected regardless of how repugnant we find their beliefs.
 But businesses have the choice of who they choose to serve. And if these groups don't meet their community standards, they shouldn't be helping them peddle hate, raise money, print T-shirts, or publish websites. And if they do meet their community standards, we shouldn't support them with our business. Nationalists, bigots, racists, and fascists are not protected classes.
 We need our colleagues at every level of government to speak out against hate and specifically the hate groups who are targeting our city. And we need the media to bring an objective and critical eye to these matters to better help the public understand the issues that we're contending with.
 I'm going to repeat something I said last week because I think it bears repeating. Our policies and our police bureau may have to be content neutral, but I don't have to remain neutral in my remarks. Right-wing extremists pose a greater threat to our national security than ISIS. This is not my personal opinion. This is a fact known by federal law enforcement.
 Counter-protesters are not the problem. They're a byproduct of the problem, and I'm grateful to the thousands of Portland residents who've engaged in peaceful protest in opposition to this administration, in opposition to the global rise of fascism, and in opposition to homegrown racism and bigotry. I am very concerned about the false equivalencies being made between right-wing extremists and left-wing counter-protesters, both inside and outside of this building.
 There's a tendency to paint all counter-protesters with the same brush based on the worst actors when people committing violence and vandalism are a tiny minority of the overall resistance playing out on our streets. And when that behavior is often provoked by the police bureau's crowd control tactics.
 Counter-protesters occupy a broad spectrum of the left, from moderates to radicals, and the vast majority of them are peaceful. Yet I often hear them all characterized as lawless anarchists. I would expect a more nuanced understanding of left-wing protesters than the antiquated caricatures of the bomb-throwing anarchist.
 Anarchism at its heart is a political philosophy based on mutual aid and direct democracy, autonomous individuals working together for the greater good in a non-hierarchical system. It is not an inherently violent belief system and, in fact, has a strong tradition of nonviolence and pacifism. I'll take anarchists over fascists any day.
 Over the past 27 years, since I started attending rallies, marches, and protests, I have personally witnessed police brutality and excessive use of force. I have friends who have been victims of it and have sued the city and won settlements. I was part of a group of activists being illegally surveilled by the Portland police in the 1990s.
 I'm not taking this stroll down memory lane for fun or street cred. I'm painting a picture of my perspective as an activist, observer, and now policymaker. We have a policing problem when it comes to protests, but it's not just the protesters.
 We have each taken an oath to uphold the constitutions of the United States, the state of Oregon, and the city of Portland Charter. We have a moral and legal obligation to defend the constitutional rights of everyone, regardless of whether we agree with their politics, speech, tactics, or strategies. We also have a moral and legal obligation to ensure the public's safety. There is a balance to be struck here. Unfortunately, I do not believe this ordinance achieves it.
 I look forward to continued communication and collaboration with advocates and activists, my colleagues, and the Portland Police Bureau on how to best achieve our obligations and ensure public safety. But with all due respect to the mayor and the police chief, I vote no. Fritz.
 Thank you to everybody who took time to testify during last week's hearing, including Representative Janelle Bynum, Andrew Hone of Portland Business Alliance, Steve Falstick of Travel Portland, Kim and Lee McCullough from ACLU Oregon, Beth Wooten of the Portland National Lawyers Guild, Commissioner-elect Joanne Hardesty, and many others. Thank you, Chief Outlaw, for listening to all the testimony in person and for being here today to hear our comments in person.
 Thank you to my staff for helping with this response to the Mayor's proposal, especially Cynthia Castro and Tim Crail. And thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for listening to feedback and amending the ordinance to make it much improved from the original proposal. Even so, I cannot support this ordinance. Oregon and the Pacific Northwest have been strongholds of white supremacy for over two centuries. The City of Portland has a long and shameful history of discrimination, hate crimes and racism.
 This is unacceptable and must end. White supremacists are not welcome in Portland, and the City Council should make that clear in every decision we make. Violence during demonstrations is a community issue that has threatened public safety, resources, our economy, and our reputation as a safe and welcoming city. This is a community issue that requires community engagement and buy-in to address.
 From its very beginning as a state, Oregon has normalized hate speech and emboldened individuals to act on their hostility towards marginalized communities. Now, vitriolic rhetoric at the national level is further inciting violence all over our country. We can point to many examples, such as the tragedies that took place in Pittsburgh and Kentucky last month, in Charlottesville last year, and in the Maxence incident that occurred right here in 2017.
 It is all too familiar as we remember the murder of Ethiopian immigrant Malagata Sarra 30 years ago. Thank you to the Urban League of Portland for commemorating the anniversary with an inspiring conference yesterday. And thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udeli for joining me there. We must counter hatred and divisiveness with love and unity.
 With a policy that proposes to tell people how, when and where they can protest, the community must be engaged and listened to in forming a proposal. This did not happen before the ordinance was proposed and the ordinance should not be the starting point for these conversations. We need to convene discussions with stakeholders such as business owners, the Portland Police Bureau and the ACLU to develop reasonable, specific mechanisms to reduce problems at protests.
 The ACLU has already signaled their desire to help, as has the Western States Center, the Council on American Islamic Relations of Oregon, and the Oregon Justice Resource Center. There are alternative solutions. We can support counter-demonstration and we can support counter-demonstrations that draw attention away from white supremacists rather than feeding into their quest for an audience and a fight. Lawyers will debate whether this ordinance is constitutional
 Arguing about the restrictions in court, when they may not even help much on the ground, is not wise use of taxpayers' money. The regulations distract attention from the underlying problem. There have already been protests about the protest ordinance, and more may happen if it passes. We need unity and compassion in Portland right now, not more arguing amongst ourselves.
 This ordinance seeks to address the problem of violence at demonstrations by giving the mayor the authority to tell Portlanders and others what to do, with the Portland Police then charged with enforcing those rules as well as existing laws on criminal and misdemeanor behaviors. The problem we are addressing today is not disparate treatment by Portland Police.
 The problem is that white supremacy has been woven into the fabric of our community for far too long, and we are faced again with the rise in hate speech by white supremacists, leading to violence and protests at protests and in our community. That's where we need to focus our energy. As we grapple with the violence on our streets, the nation watches us. The proposed ordinance is not an accurate reflection of who we are as a city.
 Let us show our community and the nation that we are resilient, that when Portlanders come together, we are a force to be reckoned with, that violence will not be tolerated, and both perpetrators and instigators will be held accountable. To do this, we first need to do another thing that Portlanders do well, talk with each other and listen to each other. I'm confident Portlanders can help the council define better solutions than this. No. Fish.
 Mayor and colleagues, after careful consideration, I cannot support this ordinance. But I want to begin this morning with where we agree. Everyone should be welcome in our public square. Hate, bigotry, and violence have no place in our community. And it's long overdue that we all link arms and say to the Proud Boys, Patriot Prayer, and those who would bring hate into our community, stay home.
 Protecting public safety is one of our basic obligations. Any limits on the rights of free speech and public assembly protected in our state and federal constitution are subject to heightened legal scrutiny. In general, government must establish that those limits are a last resort. There's been too much violence during recent protests, especially instigated by members of alt-right groups using Portland as a staging ground.
 These events have taken precious resources out of other neighborhoods, leaving East Portland and other areas without the services they, like all of us, help fund and deserve. They also have a consequence for our goals around community policing. My vote today is based on several factors. First, I have concerns about the constitutionality of the protest ordinance. At the very least, it sets us up for a costly and divisive legal battle.
 Second, I'm not convinced that we've done everything we can with the tools already at our disposal. That includes arresting people who violate our laws. Third, I am encouraged by the offers we have received from civil liberties and civil rights organizations to develop a new approach to address the alt-right violence in our streets. This is a close call for me. The mayor, as police commissioner, is entitled to a certain amount of deference, and I'm grateful to Mayor Wheeler for beginning this conversation.
 He's right to focus on solutions to the unacceptable violence on our streets and the rising tide of hate and intolerance of a vocal minority. And he has made real progress pursuing the police reform agenda on which he ran for office. At the same time, I cannot ignore the many community voices that have raised fair concerns with this approach and have offered to be part of a different solution. My vote is not a referendum on the job Chief Outlaw is doing.
 She has the hardest job in local government and she deserves our respect and our support. Nor is it a commentary on the women and men in uniform who serve and protect our city. They too deserve our respect and support. Rather, it reflects my sincere ambivalence with this path forward and my belief that other alternatives will be more successful. I am grateful to the many community leaders who shared their perspective during this debate.
 I'm proud of the conversation that we've had among colleagues on this dais, but today I vote no. Salt Smith. Excuse me, folks. Mr. Walsh, you're here a lot. You know the rules. Please. I know the rules. Yes, sir. Mr. Walsh, if you continue. All right, we'll take a recess. I'm sorry. Hold on. You got me? No, no, no. Come on. It's an action area. It's not a service. It's not a service.
 No, it's when you guys are interrupting and you guys heard the rules when you got here. Did you not hear them? When you interrupt the council's discussion, that robs everybody else of the opportunity to hear what's going on. So please don't do it. Excuse me. Excuse me. They're interrupting you because you brought your spotlight again, didn't you? Yeah, please turn it off. Thank you. All right. We're back in session. Okay.
 Well, I want to, first of all, I want to associate myself with many of the remarks my colleagues just made about the state of affairs in our country, in our city right now, and the predominance of alt-right and hate groups. But I come down on this very differently. First of all, I'm no lawyer. I'll leave the legal arguments to the lawyers to decide. But I look at it from a simple matter of how do we best protect Portlanders.
 And I think in many respects, I fully, you know, we all fully respect everybody's right to protest and exercise their rights to free speech. But there's also a public safety factor as mayor Wheeler's proposed or ordinance does. And that is to provide the mayor, the ability to say, do your protests, but do it a block away from each other. So you're not provoking goading one another. And, and to the extent that that happens, uh,
 You know, the Patriot Prayer and Proud Boys, they're playing us like a fiddle. They know they can come down to Portland because they know they can provoke the response, and they know that they can ultimately, you know. The police, to my mind, are often just caught in the middle, and they get provoked too. I mean, they're only human. You know, if you insult somebody, throw something at them,
 They're going to respond like any human would. They're going to try to protect themselves. They're going to be angry. These are very fundamental, basic human emotions. But I think that, you know, we have too much goading, and we're being played like a fiddle. And, you know, I can't help but think that this week is the 80th anniversary of the Kristallnacht, the night the Nazis played the German people like a fiddle to unleash their fury on Jewish merchants and Jewish residents of their country.
 And these groups are doing that to us. And I think we need a strong step forward. I think Mayor Wheeler's proposed ordinance, you know, it may not be unconstitutional, it may not be constitutional, but we need to try things. We need to try solutions. We can't just sit up here and, you know, celebrate the First Amendment and say, and at the same time express our concerns about the predominance of the alt-right and hate groups without trying to do something about it and protect Portlanders from violence.
 getting into situations where they are going to be hurt, maimed, God forbid, even killed. And I see that the current path we're on provides no answers. This is a proposed answer. It's a modest step to protect Portlanders. And I thank Mayor Wheeler and Chief Outlaw for bringing this forward. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler.
 So obviously, anybody here who can count knows that this is over, but there's a few things I'd like to say nonetheless. First of all, I'd like to start with this. The ordinance, the very first sentence of the ordinance was a reaffirmation of this council's commitment to First Amendment rights, to this council's commitment to the right to assembly and the right to speak one's mind, even if what is being said is considered reprehensible.
 That was first and foremost in our minds. So those who say that this is an abridgment of the First Amendment, I want you to know that's certainly not my intention, and that was never my intention. There are two people in this city who are routinely held accountable for violence on the streets, and both of them are sitting in this chamber, Chief Outlaw and myself as the police commissioner.
 And it is our responsibility to maintain the public safety during demonstrations. And the safety includes those who are demonstrating and those who are counter-demonstrating. And we have seen many instances where people who are peacefully assembled get caught up in a violent situation with an opposing group and protest.
 That is the kind of thing we don't want to see happen because it actually dampens people's enthusiasm for showing up and being heard. Nobody wants to be put at risk. I asked for this tool as an additional tool, and I was a little surprised by some of the testimony. You said, well, if you do this, that means you're not doing that. No, we're going to do a lot of different things. We're going to continue to enforce the laws.
 with the tools and the resources that we have available.
 Second of all, we're going to continue to set clear expectations around protests. And you've heard me say the mantra over and over again. Don't block the regional transit system. Don't go on the bridges. Don't commit acts of violence or vandalism. Those things are unacceptable. And there is no circumstance where violence is a justifiable means to a political end. And we've made that very, very clear.
 If we're going to enforce the laws, and I heard from a number of the constitutional attorneys who came up, and by the way, I hope you appreciated the fact I didn't try to run the table. We invited the ACLU and others to come up and speak in opposition, freely speak in opposition for as long as they wanted to.
 against the ordinance that I was proposing, because I really wanted us to take a deep dive, and I wanted us to hear the different nuances around constitutionality and the law. And what I heard repeatedly is, you need to enforce the laws that you have on the books. Yes.
 Great. If we're going to do that, though, I hope we're committed to giving the police bureau the resources, the personnel, the tools, and the training that they need to be able to do that safely. And you heard Chief Outlaw testify that even during that last significant protest.
 we, you know, she made the decision, or her commanders, her command staff made the decision to pull in resources from north and east Portland. That meant people who are paying their taxes in this city who expect a certain police response did not get it because all of our resources were deployed downtown. And she said as a law professional, a law enforcement professional, with several decades of experience, that she believed this ordinance was,
 would actually reduce the need for arrests by clarifying in advance what the rules are. Not abridging people's First Amendment rights, but keeping people separated within a reasonable distance so they could still hear each other, they could still interact, but there would be less of an opportunity for people to commit acts of violence.
 This ordinance, despite what I read in the paper, I was a little surprised to read a couple of times that it gives broad authority to the mayor around crowd control. In fact, it was a very narrowly tailored ordinance. And I hope at some point for those of you who didn't
 And a lot of times people don't want to wade through an ordinance. I totally get that. But read it. It's actually very narrowly prescribed, and it explains very specific circumstances where the ordinance could be implemented, and it required an unprecedented level of transparency before the ordinance could be enacted.
 I thought this was a very reasonable preemptive tool to have in our toolkit along with other tools that we have. Other cities have successfully defended time, place, and manner restrictions in court. We heard a lot on the constitutionality, and like Commissioner Saltzman, I am not a constitutional lawyer, but I will tell you, constitutional lawyers are divided.
 on the constitutionality of this particular ordinance. It may be came a little bit too late in the game to help shape the narrative. I've learned one thing, colleagues, from this. If you put an ordinance out there and there's any question about its legality, make sure your lawyers get to the media first. Because once that frame is set, it is very, very hard to turn that frame around. And I wondered why people were jumping before they'd even seen the final version of the ordinance before.
 and expressing their complete confidence that the ordinance was unconstitutional, having not actually read all of the details in the ordinance. And now I know why. It is nearly impossible to turn that narrative. But there was somebody who did chime in near the end, and I want you to know who she was. Her name is Mary McCord.
 She is the senior litigator for the Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection. She is a professor at Georgetown University's Law Center.
 She was the one who led the successful litigation that we heard a lot about on behalf of the city of Charlottesville and local small businesses and neighborhood associations against the alt-right, white nationalists, and militia organizations and individuals who engaged in paramilitary activity after the August 2017 Unite the Right rally. She said, number one, the ordinance on its face is constitutional.
 She agreed with our city attorney and disagreed with some of the testimony that we heard last week. She said, on its face, the ordinance is constitutional.
 The second thing she said was that there are other legal strategies that we could pursue in addition to this ordinance. And we had a couple of very good conversations, and we heard some testimony around some potential other legal strategies. We heard about educational strategies, training, litigation. All of these things were ultimately included in the ordinance, and I appreciate that.
 There were concerns about the mayor, in this case actually the police commissioner per the ordinance, sorry, being able to put into place time, place, and manner restrictions, recently referred to how, when, and where a group could protest. Colleagues, we already do that.
 When you file for a permit with the city of Portland, you are already agreeing to a time, place, and manner restriction. The difference is we know how many police are needed. We know where they are needed. We know if there's conflicts with other events that are taking place. Commissioner Fritz raised a great question last week, and I don't think it was very well stated in the ordinance, and I want to clarify this.
 The number of people. People said, well, is Ted going to say only 100 people can show up for a demonstration? Number one, it would be stricken down as unreasonable on its face if it was a large public space. But we already have restrictions on the number of people. If you file for a permit and you want to be in a park block and you say, I want 10,000 people in a park block, we're going to tell you no. We're going to suggest a different location, maybe Waterfront Park.
 where more people could congregate safely and also not damage the facilities that we have. This ordinance only impacted those who choose not to apply for a permit.
 I want to be very clear. It would have put non-permitted demonstrations on the same footing with permitted demonstrations under very limited circumstances, where we knew two or more groups with either a history of violence or a stated intent of violence were coming together. So where does this leave us?
 This was an approach the chief and I thought could help address what we saw as a potentially escalating situation in our community. We put it out there. It has not carried the day. We are still interested in doing something more than the status quo because the status quo is clearly not working for our community. While we are very concerned about the rights of professionals
 against protesters and counter-protesters. We are also concerned about the rights of everybody else who works and lives in this community and who are increasingly troubled by what they are seeing unfold on the streets of this community. I heard a lot of people at the microphone say last week, we have different approaches, we have new approaches. I hope they mean something other than a two-year-long conversation about,
 the general state of policing. We have plenty of tables already focused on police reform. We already have our directives on crowd control that have been out there to the public. We already have a lot of conversations going about best policing practice, 21st century policing, community policing, the use of technology like body cams around policing. Those conversations are ongoing. But if we have more to say on this immense
 immediate issue, this urgent issue that is unfolding on our streets today, I'll continue to work with anybody who has a good idea. Last but not least, I read in my Willamette week this morning, Babin Singh said something, and I have to call it out because I believe he mischaracterized the meeting that my staff and I had with him. He did offer three good ideas for
 three good ideas around policing. His first idea was that we educate public employees, we educate the community, and we educate the media about the alt-right in our community. I'm all for education.
 The second thing, I told him I'm not supportive of it. It was a whole slew of ideas and discussions and conversations that are already taking place at other tables. I don't want to create more tables. I wanted to engage him and his group at the tables that already exist.
 the PSAP, the CRC, other areas where we already have that opportunity. The third thing he suggested was that we go to Georgetown, we go to Mary McCord, the woman who endorsed my ordinance, and work with her and her colleagues to see if there is another strategy to keep militia-type organizations out of our community.
 And Commissioner Fish was compelled by that, and he added it as an amendment to this ordinance, which I appreciate. And I think we should continue to take a good hard look at that strategy as well. So that was a little longer than I wanted to be. I apologize. I just wanted you to know that this is very important, that –
 I'm sorry, there's one more thing, and then I promise I'll stop. Commissioner Fish said something that resonated with me, and that is telling Joey Gibson and the Proud Boys and others to stay home. I want to remind you all, I tried that strategy, and I honestly learned from that experience, because I heard from many people, including many people in this room right now, that that was unconstitutional. I asked the federal...
 Homeland Security to cancel the parks permit for the Proud Boys in the days following the Mac's murders.
 And I wasn't saying stay out of Portland forever. I was just saying don't come this week when our community is angry and it's grieving and we have limited police to deal with what could be a potentially very, very ugly public safety situation. I thought it was a very reasonable approach to take, but I think something like 150 editorial boards around the country –
 described me as an enemy of the First Amendment. The ACLU was profoundly upset with me. Others in this community, in this room, felt that I'd really stepped into it and overstepped my bounds as mayor by asking them not to come because, after all, the First Amendment protects all speech, even reprehensible speech.
 So this ordinance was something else, new direction. I obviously vote aye. I support it. But I will continue to work with you and the chief and anybody else who has good ideas. As a community, we've got to come together and solve this problem. I vote aye. But the ordinance fails. Thank you. Next item.
 Let's see. 1174, please, Carla. Appoint Sarah Stevenson, Molly Rogers, and Felicia Tripp Folsom to the Portland Housing Advisory Committee for terms to expire November 30, 2021. Good morning, Shannon. Good morning, Mary Lou. I'm Helen Hannigan from the Portland Housing Bureau. I am pleased to be here today to request your approval
 for the appointment of three new members to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. The Portland Housing Advisory Commission advises the director of the Housing Bureau, the Housing Commissioner, and City Council on policy, strategy, and resource issues. It helps us promote improvements within our own bureau and within the larger housing system.
 I am honored that each of the appointees today are willing to devote their time and expertise to advise us. They are each respected experts in their field and represent different facets of the work involving affordable housing.
 Felicia Tripp Folsom is the Deputy Director of the Portland Housing Center with deep expertise, experience and a passion for creating new homeowners. Her particular emphasis is on closing the minority homeownership gap in our region. Felicia was here with us this morning but unfortunately had to leave just a few moments ago. I'm joined today by Molly Rogers who is the Director of Asset Management and Housing Policy at Home Forward.
 She brings to us best practice expertise in successfully managing and operating buildings with appropriate services. And also joining me today is Sarah Stevenson, the Executive Director of Innovative Housing, Inc., a committed nonprofit developer, owner, and operator of more than 1,300 units of affordable housing with an emphasis on wraparound services. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to both Sarah and Molly to say a few words. Thank you.
 Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. So I'm Sarah, and I began working with homeless men and women in Washington, D.C. in 1994. For the last 24 years, I've dedicated my professional life to creating safe, accessible, and affordable housing for low-income people. I've done this in D.C., in New York, and in Portland, where I was born and raised. I feel very strongly that home is the foundation upon which we build our lives and that everyone deserves a safe place to live.
 I would be honored to join the Portland Housing Advisory Commission to contribute my passion and my expertise to this city that I love as we work together to find a path out of our housing crisis. If the last 24 years has taught me anything, it is that affordable housing is not easy or fast. But I do know that you all share my commitment to this work and that we can do better. Thank you.
 We have the political will, the professional capacity, voter support, and significant resources to get started on our solution. What we need is a comprehensive plan with clear goals and measurable outcomes that moves us toward housing for people of all abilities and income levels.
 It will take time, but our leaders, our housing providers, the public, and most importantly, those who do not have stable housing, need to know that our city has a plan that makes sense and the steadfastness to implement it. I think that that is true and that we can do that. I appreciate the opportunity to participate in this critical work with you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners.
 As Shannon said, I'm Molly Rogers. I'm the Director of Asset Management and Housing Policy at Home Forward, the housing authority serving Multnomah County. I've been working in affordable housing development, implementation, and policymaking in Portland for 16 years, and prior to that in New York City and Minneapolis. Thank you.
 Over this time, I've had the honor to work on ending homelessness initiatives, permanent supportive housing policy and implementation, asset management, capacity building, fair housing, streamlining compliance, turnaround strategies for affordable housing assets, and long-term housing sustainability. I am currently the co-chair of the Housing Alliance's Preservation Workgroup Program,
 Board Chair of the Housing Development Center and member of the Housing Oregon Portland Metro Policy Council. I'm excited about this opportunity to serve on the Portland Housing Advisory Commission because I believe we are poised to take this city to the next level of integration and inclusion with unprecedented resources and tools. I've been particularly interested in inclusionary housing.
 and how to integrate diverse populations within a single community. As the former president of the new Columbia Owners Association, I have seen firsthand the challenges and the benefits and vibrancy of a mixed-income community, what it can bring. I'm also extremely interested in figuring out how to better align health care with housing, starting with systems alignment and ending with improved outcomes for individuals.
 What I've learned over the years is that good policy is informed by those affected by those policies and by those asked to implement them. I appreciate this opportunity to join these other leaders on this Portland Housing Advisory Commission. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. That concludes our presentation. Thank you. I move the report. Commissioner Fish moves. Second. Commissioner Saltzman seconds. Please call the roll.
 Eudaly. Well, congratulations, and thank you for your willingness to serve the city. I'm really excited to see what you do. Aye. Fritz. This is such an important commission. Thank you so much for your willingness to serve because it's a lot of work. Aye. Fish. I was just reflecting on what a fantastic lineup this is, and I'm not one for baseball analogies, but I'm sure there's a –
 Yankees team in the 20s that was comparable to the meat of the order. Sarah Stevenson, Molly Rogers, and Felicia Tripp Folsom are big-time community leaders around affordable housing and addressing homelessness. And I have one special request. So Mayor Adams and I worked on creating the Portland Housing Bureau, and when we created the Portland Housing Bureau, I worked with Director Van Vliet
 to create the PHAC, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. It was our hope at the time that it would be an oversight body that not only helped shape the legislative agenda and the priorities of the Housing Bureau, but where the commission disagreed with some action taken or was split in some way, it was our hope that the council would be the beneficiary of that information. Thank you.
 And it is actually fairly rare that we get a communication from the PHAC. But in my view, to honor its full potential, the council would welcome the opportunity to hear from the PHAC from time to time. And that includes where you have a dissenting view with the Bureau. After all...
 It's not just about having kimba moments. It's helping to understand where there's principal disagreements. And I think this particular body has shown that we can manage principal disagreements at a very high level. So if the PHAC feels that we're on the wrong path, if you feel that an investment we're making is not justified, if there's some policy disagreement, or even if you have comments about how to strengthen an ordinance before council,
 I know that the three nominees are not by nature reluctant to share that information, but what I want to encourage you is that was really what was intended when we set up the PHAC, was to have a separate independent body that provided us with guidance. So please take full advantage of that opportunity if there is a disagreement about something we're doing. Thank you for your service, and I'm very proud to support all three candidates. Thank you.
 Saltzman. Well, thank you, Sarah, Molly, and Felicia, for your willingness to serve. And we really appreciate the wealth of expertise that all three of you bring to this area of housing. I also wanted to point out that Felicia is also the newest member of the Children's Levy Allocation Committee, appointed by Multnomah County as their citizen representative. So she's a busy person in addition to us.
 We all got to see her daughter being honored last night for her activities and received the Spirit of Portland Award. So I know Felicia says in her bio when she's not working, she's busy carpooling her kids around. So we know she's busy. Anyway, I really appreciate all you've done for our community and all you will contribute as members of the Housing Advisory Commission. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. I could not be happier that you're willing to step forward. This is a great panel, and I'm very pleased to bring such incredible nominees forward. And, yeah, you're already established leaders. You already have a great track record. You already have forgotten more than most of us ever knew about these issues.
 and we're all going to benefit from your leadership. So thank you for your commitment. We know there's many, many other things that you could be doing, and I'm personally just really pleased. Just as a resident here, not even as the mayor, just as a resident, I'm just really happy that we have people like you that are willing to step up and volunteer your time on an important issue. Thank you so much. I vote aye. The report's adopted. Thank you. Thank you. And congratulations. Next item is 1175.
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the connected Cully project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority.
 Commissioner Udaile. Thank you, Mayor. This project will provide seamless pedestrian connections on portions of northeast Killingsworth and northeast Prescott. It will advance our Vision Zero goals, and it's also essential to safe routes to schools in the Cully neighborhood. We have Marty Maloney here from PBOT to...
 give you more information. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with Peebot Right-of-Way. The agenda item is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as the ability to offer just compensation to affected property owners for the needed permanent and temporary rights associated with the Connected Cully project.
 All effective property owners have been informed about the city's needs for the property rights, and we're invited to attend the agenda reading. I guess I'd be happy to answer any questions Council might have at this time.
 Colleagues, any further questions? Looks like the areas are fairly small. Is that correct? Yeah, mostly temporary construction easements. We do have a couple permitted acquisitions, but they're fairly minor in nature. And as far as you know, none of the property owners are concerned about that? No, no. I haven't spoken to everybody. I've sent out mailings, but everybody I have spoken to have been on board with the project. Thank you.
 Any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Well, look at that. You answered everybody's questions, and you're totally non-controversial. That's a good thing. Please call the roll. You, Daly? Well, thank you, Marty, and thank you, everyone, who has come together to make this important project happen. I vote aye. Thank you.
 This is a much-needed project in a neighborhood that has a significant lack of sidewalks. So if I were a property owner there, I would be really excited about having a safe access way on very busy streets. So thank you very much for your work. Aye. Saltzman. Yes, much-needed improvements. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. One more step and connected. Coley. Thanks. Great work. Thank you, Commissioner Udalli. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, 1176.
 authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder and provide payment for the construction component of Road 10R MP28.
 0.77-31.85 project in the Bull Run Watershed at an estimated cost of $1,540,000. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. My staff and I recently had the opportunity to tour the Bull Run Watershed to look at the Water Bureau's assets there and
 I have challenges with motion sickness and I would have to say thank you to Russell for driving the van so very carefully. He knows every bump and pothole and curve in the road and had to take much of it at like five miles an hour in order to be able to make it safe and comfortable for us. And then when we got to the portion of the road that has been improved,
 I had a sigh of relief, and it's particularly important because, obviously, there are sometimes public safety issues that occur in the watershed that vehicles need to travel faster than five miles an hour. And so this is a project to continue the improvements in the watershed. And here to tell us about them is Theresa Elliott, the chief engineer. Good morning.
 Good morning. I think it's still morning. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer for Portland Water Bureau. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. And I, too, have a lot of motion sickness, and so I don't go on those tours any more than I absolutely have to. And for me, it's the windy roads. Forget the bumps. Thank you.
 I'm here before you asking for approval to solicit bids for a construction project to authorize payment for us to do the Road 10 project. This project will rebuild roughly three miles of the Road 10, which is our primary access in the Bull Run watershed. If...
 If approved, we will be doing the – we expect to be doing bids this winter, probably in January, February, and then construction starting this summer. And we will be using the city's formal competitive low-bid process. We have an estimated construction cost of about $1.5 million. And with that, I'm certainly willing to take answers or take questions. I'll take the answers, too, but I'm willing to answer questions, too. No. No.
 There was somebody else. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. One person signed up. Charles Bridgetrain Johnson. Good morning. Barely good morning. Still good morning, Commissioners. I think we'll make it. I probably won't even need three minutes. But while we were noting people who get perfect testimony on challenge, it's...
 Got to be the professional competence and excellence of Amanda Fritz that leads us to having only me testify in a Water Bureau issue, not the history that Nick Fish had to go through during his time of contention about different projects under the Water Bureau. I remember it a little differently, Charles. Yeah, really. Come on, Charles. You're entitled to your... And you just jinxed Commissioner Fritz. Really? She knew it was coming. I want to thank...
 the chief engineer for doing the math so we didn't have to subtract, and for the water bureau on keeping the milepost designations down to the decimal point of the hundredth.
 I don't know if we can even get the pavers to be that accurate, but I look forward to you all voting yes on this ordinance, even if you won't be mailing me at 21035 Northeast Sunnycrest Road, Newburgh, Oregon, 97132, where the $1.9 million check for the other project goes. Thank you very much. Okay. Very good. Thank you.
 Before you move to the second reading, Mayor, I just want to acknowledge the great work that Commissioner Fish has done over the past five years because that would be a time that there would be 20 people signed up for a simple road improvement in the watershed. So thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. Well, I feel fortunate because I missed that era. It seems like it's been pretty smooth sailing. So thank you both for that. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 1177.
 Authorize a contract with the Active Network, Inc. for a not-to-exceed amount of $3 million for a five-year term to provide hosted software and online services to support recreation program and class registrations, facility reservations, memberships, and payments for a point of sale with the option to extend for an additional five years. Commissioner Fish. Yes.
 Mayor and colleagues, one way Portland Parks and Recreation provides excellent customer service is by allowing customers to register for classes or to make facility reservations on their computer at home or on the phone. Today we'll hear a presentation about this tool from Claudio Capazano, Parks Business Operations Manager, and David Grinstaff. I think so. No? David, it can't be with us today. We've got Shelly Pendergrass, the Technology Manager for Parks. Even better. Shelly, welcome. Thank you.
 Claudio is a switch hitter. He is here not only to support this as Parks Business Operations Manager, but if you'd like him to put on his hat as the Independent Budget Office, he's also prepared to tell you why he would recommend it in that position. No, I'm just kidding. Claudio, take it away. Great. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. Claudio Camposano, Finance, Property, and Technology Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. As the Commissioner mentioned, I'm joined by Shelly Pendergrass, our Technology Manager.
 So this ordinance authorized the continuation of our subscription service for our online provider of recreation management software. Portland Parks and Recreation is responsible for developing and maintaining facilities and places for public recreation and providing coordinating recreation services and programs that contribute to the health and well-being of residents of all ages and abilities. Thank you.
 Since 1993, Parks has used recreation management software to support recreation program and class registrations, facility registrations, pass sales, payments by point of sale. Parks has contracted with the Active Network since 2009 for these services. Since Parks has offered online activity registrations, starting in 2015, we also began reservations of picnic and wedding sites.
 50% of parks customers register for activities online, equating to about 100,000 registrations last fiscal year. 30% reserve their picnic or wedding sites online. And so in fiscal year 2017-18, we served 85,000 customers with approximately 300,000 registrations, reservations, and past sales and transactions through ActiveNet.
 So, Park's software subscription with ActiveNet is built based on a monthly transaction volume. As the total volume of transactions increases, our costs will increase, but the requested amount is based on the last three years of transaction history, and we feel pretty confident that we won't surpass the $3 million over the course of the five years. So, continuation of the ActiveNet process.
 Software provides continuity for the public and staff. We actually just went through a big transition to their online tool a couple of years ago, and that's been a big lift for the Bureau, but it did require a considerable amount of training and effort. So we're happy to be continuing with this product for the next five, perhaps ten years.
 and it really allows parks to avoid expensive and time-consuming migration to any new software product and allows us to provide really efficient and effective support to customers. It's really a key tool for meeting our objectives. So that's really all I've got. Very good. Any further? Any public testimony on this item? Maggie, she may have left. I think she has departed. Very good. Any colleagues, anything else before we call the roll? Please call the roll. Eudaly? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. I remember what a huge undertaking it was to transition from the previous recreation management software class to ActiveNet. After utilizing ActiveNet for the past three years and vetting other vendors, there were four other vendors that responded to the request for proposals. I trust Parks' determination that continuing with ActiveNet is the best option at this time. The cost to continue with ActiveNet is also the same as it has been. So thank you very much for your work. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1178.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contracting with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for construction of the Leach Upper Garden Development Project. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, this ordinance is the culmination of five years of planning, design, and fundraising by multiple partners who have a shared vision for improving Leach Garden, an iconic place in East Portland.
 By having Portland Parks and Recreation move forward with the Leach Upper Garden Development Project, PARCC continues its commitment to closing the recreation and open space gaps in East Portland. Ross Swanson, Portland Parks and Recreation Project Manager, is here to give us a brief presentation. Good morning, or good afternoon. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, Mayor, Council Members. I'm the Capital Project Manager with Parks and Rec for Leach Botanical Garden.
 I'm here today to seek permission to go out to bid for the Leach Garden Upper Garden Development Project. The project's been in development since 2014 and is a collaborative effort between Parks and Rec, Leach Botanical Garden, or Leach Garden Friends, Prosper Portland, and Metro. It's been a very successful partnership between the agencies and the nonprofit. Leach Garden Friends has successfully raised $1.26 million in the project as part of a challenge grant put forth by Commissioner Fritz. Other project funding comes from Metro, Prosper Portland, Leach Garden Friends,
 Parks STC, and the resulting total project budget of $9.8 million. There's all my notes. Can you put that in full view? The scope of the... Russ, excuse me, could you make that larger? Thank you. Sorry. There we go. Thank you. Okay.
 The scope of the work for this project include improved infrastructure and utilities for the garden, an aerial tree walk, as you saw in the previous slide, community open spaces, which includes a fireplace terrace and a gathering green that's demonstrated above, habitat and pollinator garden.
 The project is currently working its way through permits and is preparing to go to bid this winter. In order to do so, we're here to receive authorization from council. And the current opinion of cost for the construction contract is approximately $6.4 million with a moderate level of confidence. I'm here to answer any questions. Public testimony? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Udailey? Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fisch.
 I love this garden. This is such an exciting project, and I'm just excited to follow it every step of the way. I vote aye. Prince.
 Thank you for your presentation and all your work on this project. This is an extremely exciting project, and Leach Botanical Garden is a hidden jewel in outer southeast Portland that we hope to become less hidden and more accessible and even more well-visited. For decades, community members have visited the garden to gather, learn about horticultural and environmental sustainability, and find respite from the city. It was what founders John and Lella Leach envisioned for the property.
 This upper garden development project will carry on the legacy, and I'm particularly excited about the accessible pathways that will be built. Thanks to Leach Garden Friends, Metro, and Prosper Portland for your funding contributions to make this project become a reality. Thanks to Portland Parks and Recreation. I. Fish. You know, as a parent, I'm not supposed to favor one child over another. And so as a parks commissioner, I'm not –
 I'm not supposed to have one partner that I prefer over another, but I want to join with my colleagues in celebrating the real importance of Leach Botanical Garden, not only to our city, but to an underserved part of our city in East Portland. And we got some good news recently. The old Phoenix drugstore that is on, I guess it's on Foster.
 that had been in disrepair for a long time, which is where the Leach has had their drug store, is now the subject of a preservation effort led by Rick Michelson, of course, and others. And that's one of my favorite buildings. And my colleagues know it because it's the last building you see before you head over to the Firefighters Association for your endorsement meeting. And it's a beautiful building that someday will be restored, hopefully, to its great glory.
 There are many ways that we can support Leach Garden. My colleagues, for example, if you're doing an event or you know someone who wants to do an event, you can rent space at Leach Garden. So, for example, my team has decided that when we do our retreat to make our agenda for next year, we're going to do it at Leach. I see Commissioner Udaly is saying she's going to do that as well. It's a modest fee, but it's also another way of giving back and supporting what they're doing.
 I want to thank Commissioner Fritz, who had the great benefit during her tenure of one of the great bull markets on SDC revenue that we've ever seen in this city that go to parks. And she invested quite a lot of money in the future success program.
 of this vision for Leach Botanical Garden. And just like Washington Park is a treasure on the west side of the river and has amenities that are citywide in focus, this is on the other side of the river and is also a citywide treasure. I am so pleased that we're getting started by taking this action and putting out a solicitation.
 I thank the staff at Portland Parks and Rec for their commitment to this project, and I thank my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, for the work she did to get us to this point. And I'm proud to vote aye. Seltzman. Well, this is a fantastic master plan for Leach Botanical Garden. It's really exciting. And I'm happy that we're getting started on making that master plan a reality.
 Wheeler. It's a stunning vision. Thank you, everybody who worked so hard. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We have a four-fifths, 1178-1. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Department of Transportation for jurisdictional transfer of portions of Pacific Highway 99 West Barber Boulevard. Commissioner Udaly.
 Okay, so before us today is the last of three actions for Southwest Corridor Light Rail project that were needed this fall. In September, we adopted the equitable housing strategy. About two weeks ago, we accepted the locally preferred alternative and approved a work plan. And today, we consider authorizing an agreement with ODOT to transfer portions of Barber Boulevard to the city for ownership.
 This jurisdictional transfer will ensure that when light rail is added to Barber Boulevard, that the street is rebuilt to meet city standards for travel lanes, sidewalks, protected bike lanes, crosswalk spacing, and stormwater treatment. We will become the owner and operator of the street.
 These types of transfers are common between ODOT and the city. In fact, in 1993, we accepted the north section of Highway 99 West in order to add light rail on Interstate Avenue. We've also accepted Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, portions of Nato Parkway, and Sandy Boulevard to transform what were once urban highways into corridors that are at city scale.
 I am pleased to offer this agreement today because it brings us one giant step closer to our vision of what Barber Boulevard could become in the future. In the future, I anticipate returning with a transfer agreement for Nato Parkway so we can build the Ross Island Bridgehead improvements. Unfortunately, that will not be happening today. We have Teresa Boyle here from PBOT to address any questions you may have.
 Thank you. Good morning. Morning. I was fortunate enough to be able to listen to some of this morning's testimony, so I have changed the background on my PowerPoint. Thank you. I managed to bring it in. So we're here today to talk about the jurisdictional transfer of portions of Barber Boulevard as a
 Commissioner Udaile noted, we have different standards, we in ODOT, in terms of what we build and how we operate it. And today the action that we will be taking is intended to facilitate the addition of light rail transit.
 So before you is an intergovernmental agreement. It is set up to only be enacted, the transfer would only be enacted upon receipt of the full funding grant agreement, the federal funds that would bring light rail to the corridor because that is the thing that actually would build the improvements. This is the portion of Barber Boulevard that is the subject of today's discussion.
 action. It starts with Barber Boulevard at Nato Parkway and then runs the length of Barber Boulevard. This is the crossroads area and that's Barber Transit Center so it stops just short of the Barber Boulevard bridge.
 The agreement provides $65 million to replace the viaducts, the two viaducts in the woods area. And it really sets us up to complete the future transfer should the project be funded. I'm available for any questions. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. It only happens if we get the money and, therefore, the sidewalks and all the other improvements are guaranteed to be done. That is correct. Thank you. I was just curious, Commissioner.
 I'm really happy that the viaducts are being replaced, but I'm also just curious. I mean, do they have any historical significance? I mean, they're pretty impressive public works projects if you look at them from underneath. Yes, they are eligible, and they are part of our evaluation of the impacts to historic structures. So we're working our way through landmarks and SHPO about those. Okay. And this is really...
 Major, this is great news, and I'm very happy to, even though I'm not voting yet, to support this agreement. Well, there goes the suspense on this. Yeah, there goes the suspense. Is there any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Any further questions? Commissioner Fish was going to be back in a minute. Could we just wait one moment for him? Sure. We'll just take like a 30-second recess. All right.
 That was great. I mean, you were the one that got that on the ballot. I was surprised how broad the support was. I think it helped to have no opposition. I mean, I think, frankly, it was you who worked for me and said I supported it. Any potential opposition, Rumbles? Yeah, I gave it to Salem and got that on the ballot. That's good. We're all looking at you. Where is he? And he signed the four-fifths, right, so we have to wait for him? We could do it with just four? Yeah.
 Is he one of the four who signed up? That was my question. Yeah, I don't have the document. Was Commissioner Fish one of the four who signed the four-fifths? He did not. Ah, sorry. No. Call the roll. I'm glad you could speak for him. We're back in session. I'm sorry. Yeah, thank you. We're back in session. Please call the roll. Eudaly. Well, thank you, Teresa. This is a very exciting project. And...
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your support in advance and, of course, for the work that you've put into this project. And I just think it's adorable. The engineer would bring up preserving the historic Vydex. We'll definitely take a close look at that. I vote aye, of course.
 Fritz. Thank you, Theresa Boyle, for your work on this. This is a continuation, as Commissioner Eudaly said, of conversations we've been having over the past several months. The reason it's a four-fifths is that we were waiting for the state to sign the agreement, I understand, and it needs to be done now so that it can be done before the locally preferred alternative is voted on by Metro. So if anybody's wondering, did we forget to file it? No, that's just how it had to happen. So thank you very much for getting it done quickly. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, as I said a moment ago, this really is a big deal, and the fact that we're dealing with it in 15 minutes really doesn't do justice to all the work and angst and hand-wringing from ODOT and the City of Portland and whoever else about actually making this a reality. I'm very happy that this is happening. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for bringing this home. Thank you, Teresa, for all the work that you've done to make this happen too. It's on to the Ross Island Bridgehead and
 There's probably a few other streets too. 82nd might be one of those. So this is great, and I'm really happy to support it. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 Ready Carla? Yes I am. Good afternoon everybody. This is the Wednesday, November 14th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Welcome everybody. Carla please call the roll. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Sir Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon Mayor. Council? I'm in a time warp apparently.
 Welcome, everybody, to the Portland City Council meeting. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city meetings, and the purpose of this is so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless it's otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. Could you please read the first item? Item 1179, proclaim November 13 of each year to be Molageta Surah Day.
 Thank you, colleagues. Yesterday marked 30 years since the horrific murder of Mulegeda Sarab, who came to Portland from Ethiopia in pursuit of the American dream. This proclamation to honor Mulegeda Sarab is long overdue, but it is also more than just a proclamation. It's also a call to action.
 In the words of the Urban League of Portland, this is a call to, quote, remember, learn, and change, unquote. Commissioner Fritz and I had the opportunity yesterday to attend a celebration of life and a historical event.
 A retrospective of Mulligata Seurat and his life, we heard from family members, including his uncle, who had invited him and encouraged him to come to the United States, to come to Portland. We heard from attorneys who were engaged in the case and the prosecution and the civil lawsuits against those who perpetrated the murder. Thank you.
 It was a profoundly moving experience. It was an important experience. As I listened to what the speakers were saying about what happened three decades ago, I couldn't help but think that it was entirely relevant, that the lessons were entirely relevant to the environment in which we find ourselves today. Okay.
 And so I'm very honored to be bringing this proclamation with Commissioner Udaly. And I'd like to give Commissioner Udaly an opportunity to say a few words. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, everyone, for being here today. I gave some remarks at the unveiling of the sign cap.
 on 31st and Pine this morning and I'm not going to completely repeat myself for those of you who are already there but I do want to say that
 the murder of Molageta Sarra was a rude awakening to white supremacist organizing and violence for a lot of progressive white Portlanders. 30 years ago, myself included, uh, it was definitely a pivotal moment for me as a, as a young person. And the March, uh, preceding the trial was one of the first organized political events I ever participated in. And, um,
 I'm pleased to be in a position today to continue working on issues around racial justice and protecting our immigrant and refugee communities. Today, by honoring Malagada, we take a meaningful step forward by committing to remember, to learn, and to change. I want to thank the Urban League for their leadership and work commemorating his life. I also attended the event yesterday.
 I want to thank PBOT, the PBOT Maintenance Operations Crew, for installing the street signs and attending the conference yesterday. We had two tables. Just want to give a little shout-out to my team at PBOT.
 And as well as Portland United Against Hate, Southeast Uplift, and the Ethiopian Community of Portland for partnership in making this happen. We're also very honored to have members of Molageta Saraw's family here who helped us honor him this morning. So I want to thank them and once again say the city of Portland remembers him. And together we will strive to prevent another senseless act of violence.
 And now I'm going to introduce our invited panelists. I have Nkenge Harmon-Johnson, the president of Urban League. I hope that I don't see her. No. Do I have Jackie Irby from Urban League? Thank you. Nunetu Sehgau from Urban League. Joyce Harris, Molly Mayo from Southeast Uplift, and Simab
 Hussaini, sorry, from Portland United Against Hate. Welcome, everybody. Please state your name for the record. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, Mayor Wheeler. Thank you, Mayor.
 Other commissioners? Commissioner Fritz, thank you for being there yesterday. My name is Jackie Yerby. I am the Director of Advocacy and Civic Engagement for the Urban League of Portland. My pronouns are she, her, and hers. And I'm going to leave my comments very brief because Oneto Sehgau was the brains and heart behind this commemoration, the conference yesterday, and the street sign caps. And so I really want for Oneto to be the person speaking on behalf of the Urban League. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Onetu Segao. I work as a policy staff for the Urban League of Portland, and I'm really honored to be here. I was born and raised in Ethiopia. I was born in the part of Ethiopia where Mulugeta Saraw was born in 1988, that same year when Mulugeta was murdered here in Portland. Mulugeta was around my age when he was murdered near his Portland apartment on Pine and 31st, where we put the street sign markers today.
 In the early hours of November 13th, 1988, Mulugeta left a fellow Ethiopian friend's farewell party to go home and to get some rest because he had to be at work in the morning. His family and friends described Mulugeta as a responsible young man and a peacemaker who always had a smile on his face. 30 years later, as a black immigrant who calls Portland home, I'm well aware of the fact that we still have a lot of work to do to make our city safe for all.
 I know because I have been a target of unprovoked hate incidents here in Portland by random people on the streets who do not know me but see that I'm black. We need to be clear on the fact that Mulu Geta was murdered because he was black. We need to be clear on the fact that there was nothing Mulu Geta did on his part to deserve a murder like that.
 Although we've taken steps and progressed in some areas, our communities are yet to attain freedom from fear, which is a basic human right and an American ideal. We need to step outside of our bubble and hear the lived experiences of Portlanders who deserve freedom from fear, regardless of how they look, how they speak, how they dress, who they love, and how they self-identify. Remembering Lugeta and honoring his memory is very essential.
 At the commemoration conference yesterday, we heard from his family, attorneys who litigated the case on his family's behalf, and leaders of advocacy groups that we need to do better. Thirty years later, we still have a lot of work to do. Earlier today, I was at the unveiling ceremony of the Mulugetas Rao Street Sandcaps at Southeast Pine in 31st. Until now, there was nothing to mark the place and to tell Mulugetas' story.
 Seeing those street sign caps was very emotional for most of us, including Mulugeta's family and members of the Ethiopian community. This afternoon, we are here for the City of Portland's proclamation of November 13th as Mulugeta's Row Day. This is a very important gesture and a big part of our work, not only to remember and acknowledge our history, but also commit to learn and change for the better.
 I want to thank Commissioner Clary Daly and Mayor Ted Wheeler for your leadership on this. I also want to pass the appreciation and thanks from the Ethiopian community here in Portland and beyond, all the way to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Finally, I want to thank all different groups, agencies, and leaders who were a part of this commemoration project, which includes the conference, the street sign caps, the proclamation, the congressional record, and others.
 Special thanks to Winta Yohannes, Commissioner Chloe Daly's Policy Advisor, Portland Bureau of Transportation, especially Irene Marion, Southeast Uplift Neighborhood Coalition, Office of Equity and Human Rights, especially Judith Maury, Portland State University, TriMet, Portland United Against Hate, Travel Portland, U.S. Senator Ron Wyden, and his staff, especially Grace Stratton, Emily's Fund, Multnomah County, Port of Portland, and others who supported this project.
 Being a part of this commemoration project has been an honor, and I'm encouraged by the kind of alliance that was formed through this process. The Ethiopian community remembers how Portland stood in solidarity and appreciates how different groups and organizations worked to make this commemoration happen. It is important that we remember, it is important that we learn, and it is a must that we change if we're to make Portland safe for all. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Molly Mayo. I'm the Executive Director at Southeast Uplift Neighborhood Coalition. Thank you so much for inviting us all to be here today. Southeast Uplift is one of the city's seven district coalitions, and the 20 neighborhoods in our area have a reputation for being friendly and progressive. Yet it was in southeast Portland 30 years ago.
 where the East Side white pride murdered Ethiopian immigrant Mulugeta Sarra in a blatant act of racist violence that drew national and international attention to the small apartment complex in the Kearns neighborhood near Laurelhurst Park. Since Sarra's death, there have been continued acts of hate and violence, from cross burnings in southeast Portland to swastikas to harassment to murder.
 When the Portland United Against Hate Coalition was founded two years ago, it was in response to an increase in acts of hate. This network of community groups ready to stand in solidarity to respond to hate act and crimes has had ample opportunity to act in southeast Portland alone for a vigil when racist anti-immigrant hate graffiti was put up at an elementary school.
 for taking down anti-Semitic posters, and for removing Islamophobic flyers from telephone poles, all in southeast Portland, all recent.
 Southeast Uplift played a central role 30 years ago, organizing local response to Sarawak's murder, and in recent months, Southeast Uplift has been honored to partner with the Urban League, the Ethiopian community, Commissioner Udeli's office, and Portland Bureau of Transportation to coordinate the placement of 17 sign caps at numerous intersections located in the area around the site where Sarawak was murdered.
 While the terrible history of Sarah's death in southeast Portland can never be undone, a new era in the neighborhood of his murder is underway. There, the 17 sign caps were unveiled earlier today. They signify the creation of a new sense of place at the site of his murder, a place that lets members of the Ethiopian community
 the immigrant and refugee community, and the black community know that Portland will remember, learn, and change. These sign caps in both English and Amharic are a tangible collaborative step toward a new segment of history, 17 markers of our city values of peace, unity, and diversity. Thank you for through this proclamation acknowledging the life of Mulugeta Sarawak,
 the crimes of the East Side white pride and white Aryan resistance, and indirectly the many untold stories of trauma, hate, and violence that are repeatedly experienced by communities that are marginalized or vulnerable. I ask that we keep working together to bravely address the systems of oppression and discrimination that contribute towards the perpetuation of hate and violence—
 and to nurture a Portland where all community members have the basic human right of safety. Thank you. Thank you. Greetings, dear commissioners, fellow mayor. Thank you for having me here. Scott Nakagawa said today, My rich and rewarding life is the result of a very ordinary human response to a horrible tragedy. It's the exact same thing that brought me here today before you. My name is Seemab Hussaini.
 and I'm an organizer with Unite Oregon, vice chair to the Council on American Islamic Relations in Oregon, and as a result, a coalition member and political advocate to the city's very own Portland United Against Hate. This month signifies a painful loss, a memoriam today to 30 years ago, the murder of Mulugeta Sarawak.
 Yesterday, the Urban League of Portland hosted a commemoration conference where I was happy to see the many of you before me today. There, we took a glimpse into the beautiful life of the man we are here to commemorate. The heart-wrenching story from Jim McElroy, describing the violence subjected upon Mulugeta, was reminiscent of when Rachel Macy held Taliesin in comfort till his last words in her own hands. We lost Taliesin Mirdin Namkhaimich,
 and Ricky John Best, we almost lost Micah Fletcher. Their sacrifices allowed for the intended victims, Destiny Magnum and Walia Muhammad, to live. The loss of life to the inhuman hands of hate on the MAX train one and one half years ago immediately echoed the names of Mulugeta Sehraw. These worlds are connected. The city took quick action to address the rise in hate crimes last year.
 allowed a small budget for a community-initiated partnership of community-based organizations, neighborhood associations and the city, working with the Office of Community and Civic Life to build a rapid response system that combines reporting and tracking of hateful acts and providing support and protection for our communities. In commemorating this day in the name of Mulugeta Sera and remembering the lives that have forever changed in the name of hate,
 Let's continue to advance the causes of the affected communities together. As the city takes this step in commemorating Mulugeta Sara, may it also signify the action of working with communities that are providing the winning solutions and leading the efforts to eradicate it from hate. With this, I will end with another quote from Eric Ward. I have never forgotten that it was in Portland that government, businesses, and
 and community leaders successfully out-organized white nationalists in the 1990s. I believe Portland will do this again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all of you. Joyce, Dr. Harris. Good afternoon. My name is Joyce Harris, and I work with a number of organizations. But my connection to Mulugeta Saras' killing is very personal.
 The morning after he was beaten savagely, I received a phone call about 6.28 in the morning. And I remember the time. It was from a woman in the community. Her name was Shanisha Smith. And she said, sister, an Ethiopian brother has been beaten and they don't expect him to live. And the community doesn't know what to do. Can you call somebody? Can you call Ron Herndon? Can you call Halim?
 And I did that. At the time, I was running a school, the Black Educational Center. And that Monday, I went to school, and we would always gather the kids first thing in the morning to kind of see what they had done over the weekend. And it's real important to talk to children, no matter how old they are, about things that might impact their lives. And so I talked to the children about Mulugeta and how he had been beaten to death.
 And, of course, these kids, kindergarten through fourth grade, had questions. Well, why? Why didn't they like him? And so we had a long conversation. And then one of the little children said, can we make cards for his family? And so we stopped whatever we had planned to do that morning. And we let the children make cards, ask more questions. And that afternoon I went over to the apartment and I delivered them.
 And let me just share with you the whole imagery that day. First of all, I was afraid to travel down that street because I didn't want to see his blood on the pavement. So I parked around the corner and I walked. I wouldn't even look in that direction. And when I got to the apartment, it was dark. The blinds were drawn. People were terrified. People who were in there were crying.
 And I gave them the cards, and I stayed for a while, and then I had to leave because I knew that I was not going to be able to hold it together much longer. Later on that evening, I got a call from this same lady who had originally called me and said she had went over there, and she said they had put the cards all around the room and how appreciative they were. Well, one of the reasons why that was important is because
 Sometimes it appears that our communities are divided. And, well, this happened over in North Portland. It doesn't have anything to do with me. But during that time, it was important for me as a leader in the African American community to connect with the Ethiopian brothers and sisters and let them know they weren't alone. And over the years, I've come to realize that, of course, I was traumatized.
 I would always like to admit that, but I was traumatized, as was everyone else. And we marched and we rallied. We were at the funeral. And all of this has come back, you know, with us commemorating and remembering what happened 30 years ago. But the message that I wanted to share today is 30 years ago is now, and we need to clearly understand that.
 And as I was talking to some of my brothers and sisters from the continent today, when people are doing hateful things like that, they see the color of your skin, how you worship, who you love, and they don't ask you questions. They don't say, are you from Ethiopia? It's just hatefulness that we all have to address. And I also want to say that whenever any of our communities loses someone,
 regardless of who the shooter is, what the reason is, it traumatizes all of us. And I just want to leave you with a poem by Margaret Wheatley that I often have to look at when I need to be comforted, when I need to be reaffirmed, and it's called Turning to One Another. And it starts out, there's no power greater than a community discovering what it cares about.
 Ask what's possible, not what's wrong. Keep asking. Notice what you care about. Assume that many others share your dreams. Be brave enough to start a conversation that matters. Talk to people you know. Talk to people you don't know. Talk to people you never talked to. Be intrigued by the differences you hear. Expect to be surprised. Treasure curiosity more than certainty.
 Invite in everybody who cares to work on what's possible. Acknowledge that everyone is an expert about something. Know that creative solutions come from new connections. Remember, you don't fear people whose story you know. Real listening always brings people closer together. Trust that meaningful conversations can change your world.
 Rely on human goodness and stay together. And I would urge the city council, as you deal with some of the tough issues that you're dealing with, dealing with issues of police, you're dealing with protests, keep your ears open, your heart open, and try to work with people. And I would ask people who are coming, demanding that you work with them, that they have the same mindset. We have got to change things.
 We must. We have children that are growing up, and we want them to grow up in a community where they feel safe, where they feel protected, where they feel honored, and where they know that there will be people like all of us who are going to step up and speak out and protect them. So I thank you for this proclamation, and just do the work that needs to be done,
 and do it in a principled, caring, healing way. Thank you very much. Thank you. So Commissioner Fritz, sorry. Well, first, thank you, Dr. Harris. Thank you, everybody, for coming and for helping us all understand better. Thank you to the Urban League for the event yesterday. And thank you, Commissioner Udali, not only for this proclamation, but also for your support of that event.
 There's a lot of people who weren't here in Portland 30 years ago, and I was newly reminded that it wasn't just a random act of violence. It was a calculated campaign across the country to incite violence.
 And I want you to know that I changed my speech that I was going to make this morning about the protest regulations in response to what I learned and knew yesterday. White supremacy is not something that just happens. It's not just a mindset or something that people hear the president or somebody else making a speech. It's an organized campaign to instill fear through violence. And so that...
 what we need to do, and especially what we white people need to do in response to that. And so I really appreciate the timing in the context of what we were discussing this morning in terms of what do we do about protests, because this remembrance of a terrible something that happened 30 years and one day ago, remembering what happened on the MAX train just last year,
 It's part of a campaign, and thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for reminding us that it was part of a campaign in Germany in the 1930s as well. So it's a grave and present danger. It's not a history lesson. It's now. And so thank you very much for bringing this forward.
 Very good, colleagues. With that, I will read the proclamation on behalf of the Portland City Council. And first of all, just props to all of you who have testified. That was very thoughtful and heartfelt testimony. And I appreciate you bringing it here into the chamber and sharing it with the people of Portland.
 of Mulligetta-Sara led to the conviction of the three perpetrators, as well as the bankruptcy of a racist hate group, the White Aryan Resistance, otherwise known as WAR, thus creating a safer Portland for all. And whereas this horrific hate crime brought Portlanders together to vocally condemn hate in our city and demand that justice be served,
 And whereas, Mulligetta's journey from Ethiopia to Portland in pursuit of the American dream is the story of many immigrants today. And whereas, Mulligetta's family and friends describe him as a kind, hardworking man whose life was cut too short by a senseless act of anti-black hate violence.
 And whereas in the 30 years since Sarah's death, Portland has become the widest major city in America, and the Southern Poverty Law Center finds that the number of hate groups in Oregon continues to increase. Yet Portland's progressive reputation often hides its lack of diversity. The safe space our demographics create for racial animosity increases.
 and the lived experience of people of color in Portland. And whereas the city has launched efforts like the Portland United Against Hate, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and the New Portlanders Policy Commission to affirm immigrants, refugees, people of color are all part of the services and programming, decision-making, and placemaking in the city of Portland.
 And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 13th of each year to be Mulligetta Syrah Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you.
 And if I'm not mistaken, Betsy, right on target. Why don't we come down in front and maybe we could get a photograph with those who testified and anybody else who would like to join us for a photograph. Good job. Thank you very much. Thank you for everything you did yesterday. Thank you so much.
 Thank you for your support. Thank you for sharing those words. I appreciate it so much. Are we all set? Yep. All right. Come on in. Oh, yes. Okay. I'm going to have you step up front.
 You can stand a little bit toward the other. Yeah. Okay. All right. So look here. This camera, one, two, three. One, two, three. Slash. One, two, three. Thank you. Thank you. Can you please read the...
 1180, accept the report to develop a strategy and policy to address single-use plastics. And 1181, repeal code for single-use plastic checkout bags and polystyrene foam food containers and replace with code prohibitions and restrictions on single-use plastic.
 Colleagues, I'm excited this afternoon to introduce these next two items, 1180 and 1181. The Single-Use Plastics Resolution passed on June 20th, earlier this year, and it directed the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to work collaboratively with my office and the community on a comprehensive strategy to address the issue of single-use plastics in the City of Portland.
 I believe that this policy is a great first step as we tackle this very large problem of plastic pollution. The ordinance before us today is the result of a lot of hard work and significant engagement with stakeholders from business, ADA, and environmental communities, as well as the general public.
 The quote, by request straws, unquote, aspect of this proposal addresses ADA, that's Americans with Disability Act, concerns by allowing for accessibility for some people with disabilities and people recovering from injury when drinking a glass of water is contingent upon the availability of this tool.
 It also works within the framework of the City of Portland's mixed recycling and composting programs, which do not accept nor have the capability of accepting any small plastics like straws, even compostable ones, as they cause serious problems for end markets, all of which do not break down in the marine environments. Because of this...
 Project leads have turned to waste prevention as the best solution to addressing the plastic problem. I'm now happy to turn this over to Pete Chisholm-Windfield and Bruce Walker, both from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and Amy Rathfelder, who is from my office. They'll tell us more about the city's progress on tackling single-use plastics and give us an overview of the ordinance we'll be hearing today. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler.
 Members of the Council, I'm Bruce Walker, the Solid Waste and Recycling Program Manager, and I work in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. First of all, that was very powerful, and I'm doing my best to keep moving on with the discussion today. So thank you. I appreciate the direction provided by Council earlier this year to address the issue of plastic pollution.
 Through the adoption of the Plastics Reduction Resolution, we have worked with the Mayor's staff and undertaken community engagement efforts that have informed this proposal before you today. The City of Portland and Multnomah County Climate Action Plans prioritize waste prevention of plastics. This report and proposed ordinance
 identify waste prevention as the highest and best course of action from a marine litter perspective and from a climate perspective. The expectation with this recommendation is to reset the default interaction between businesses and their customers to not expect single-use plastics to be automatically delivered with food and drink orders.
 We are excited to continue the work in collaboration with Multnomah County moving forward on this and other issues identified in the Climate Action Plan. One final note, this ordinance reorganizes the city code that includes the existing ban on polystyrene foam, styrofoam, food containers and cups, and the plastic bag ban that are currently in two different chapters of code.
 The new chapter is titled, Prohibitions and Restrictions on Single-Use Plastic, which contains those prior Council actions and adds new restrictions on straws, stirrers, utensils, and condiment packaging. To provide more details, I'll introduce the top-notch team that led
 that co-led this process, Amy Rathfelder from the Mayor's Office and my colleague Pete Chisholm-Winfield from BPS. Thank you. Thanks, Bruce. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of Portland City Council. My name is Amy Rathfelder, and I serve as an Environmental and Sustainability Policy Advisor in the Mayor's Office. With me today is my colleague Pete Chisholm-Winfield from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 And I really appreciate the opportunity to come before you and present on the work we've done to address the issue of plastic pollution in Portland. We good with the presentation? Okay.
 So, we're here at council today following the unanimous passage of a resolution on June 20th, 2018, which directed the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to work in collaboration with the Mayor's office to develop a reduction strategy that would address single-use plastics in Portland with a focus on the plastic straw. This effort included research on outside city policy, stakeholder engagement and outreach, and project workgroup and a public survey.
 And what sets Portland apart from this proposal, and not that I have anything against Seattle or San Francisco, I love those cities, love visiting them, but the one thing that sets this proposal apart is that we don't provide a loophole for compostable plastics, which those cities do. So this is focused on the highest and best way to tackle this problem, which is by avoiding plastics altogether. So I'm very proud of that.
 Waste prevention is the stuff that is not used. Consumers do this when they buy an experience like a gift, such as tickets to a lecture, instead of a power drill. It's also known in the business world as lean thinking. In this case, waste prevention is resetting the default food and beverage order to not include plastics that are not always wanted or needed.
 We also do not recommend alternatives that claim to be recyclable or compostable. These alternatives pose serious problems to our recycling and composting programs because they jeopardize the quality feedstocks that businesses use to make new products and including compost that goes into our gardens. It's very important. While we support and encourage consumers to reuse things like straws and coffee mugs, I think you remember at the resolution Susan brought some reusable straws,
 We want to encourage that, but because of the variability of the impacts of reusables versus single-use plastic items, it was really difficult for us to write that into this policy. A lot of times you'll see that the carbon emissions associated with some materials are much higher than plastics, and so we're looking at a dynamic that is very different. Okay. So at the outset of this work, a small stakeholder work group was formed with the goal of arriving at a policy directive that would address this issue comprehensively.
 This work group was comprised of representatives from all around Portland's business and advocate communities. We included a wholesaler, a medical facility representative, environmental advocates, and two straw users that are supported by the Americans with Disabilities Act around the table. Additionally, the group was advised by representatives from Multnomah County, Prosper Portland, and the Bureau of Equity and Human Rights. City staff, Pete, myself, and Bruce, led, coordinated, and documented the work group feedback.
 We also developed a community survey asking people about their ideas of reducing plastic, many of which ended up in this proposal.
 The one thing I do want to relay is when asked the question from 1 to 100, how much do you support a citywide policy to reduce single-use plastics, 1 being the least supportive and 100 being the most, the average response from over 4,000 people was 86 out of 100. So there was an overwhelming community response for the city to do something about this.
 Additionally, the conclusion of the work group meetings revealed some key findings. First, there is a need for government intervention when addressing this issue. Portlanders expressed support, as Pete just showed, for our city taking the lead on reducing these materials. Second, waste prevention we're not using, as Pete spoke about earlier, and reuse are the highest and best alternatives to single-use plastics.
 And third, there is a continued need for additional considerations and decision lenses as we continue this work, like climate impacts and human health.
 Amy, could I ask you a question? Of course. So you say here a ban lessens accessibility. And quite frankly, the only criticism I've heard of this policy so far is it doesn't go far enough. So could you spend a little more time talking about why not just an outright ban? Sure. So it's got to do with cost, cost-efficiency.
 to businesses, accessibility, as you just mentioned, to folks who need the tool to drink. And
 feasibility of what's accepted and not accepted in Portland's current recycling system. So with the cost, right now we've got a supply-demand issue which is a great problem to have. There are alternative companies that make alternative products like Aardvark straws that are backed up because as social pressure has mounted and we've experienced an uptick in people who are starting to care about this issue and specifically centered around the straw.
 We're getting to the point where these companies can't make alternative products, paper straws, fast enough. So we're not really at the point yet where we can feasibly implement an alternative product solution. And then the accessibility impact to ADA folks is something that was part of our work group feedback, and obviously we took that very seriously. And if I could ask you a follow-up, and maybe I'm asking you to see the future, which isn't really fair. Sure.
 We are clearly on the path to eliminating single-use plastics. That's the path we're on, isn't it? And so really the question is how do we manage that path and take into account the needs of our friends and our neighbors and our family members in the disability community while ultimately getting us towards what we understand is the best strategy both for the environment and diverting waste from the waste stream. Isn't that really where we're headed?
 If I was a little, I mean, I would hope so. I think there are already really great alternatives that just aren't, we haven't quite reached the point where they're commonplace yet.
 metal straws with silicone tips. We had a big discussion about alternative products within our work group sessions and went back and forth, shared some articles and some feedback about which products are better, which ones aren't as good. And I think we are definitely headed that direction. And
 I think the bottom line here is that this policy is, we're looking at it as a building block. And so this work is obviously still necessary and we'll keep building on it going forward and developing new creative solutions for addressing the problem of plastic, which is a big problem. I appreciate that. Thank you. Yeah, thank you.
 So, oh, are you still in your presentation? Yeah. Oh, okay. Okay, we're almost done. So, where are we? Okay. So, after a comprehensive stakeholder and outreach process, we're at council today with what we believe is the right step to take as a policy directive. The proposed ordinance that you have in front of you today would implement a by-request policy for plastic straws and stirrers upon customer requests for dine-in situations. Okay.
 So what this means is that a customer would no longer receive these items automatically when at a restaurant or sit-down food and beverage retailer, and that they would need to ask an employee for the item if necessary. In a delivery or fast food situation, this ordinance would implement an ask-first direction for employers. So when applicable, employees would ask the customer if they needed plastic utensils and plastic condiment packets before giving them out.
 Finally, the policy would go into effect on July 1st, 2019, with a business and consumer outreach period beginning in January. And then the proposal would be we would also need to go out and let businesses know about this as well as consumers. So BPS is proposing to take a lead on designing a notification and an outreach strategy beginning in January 2019.
 And businesses need to be aware of how they reach compliance. In dine-in situations, that means taking away direct customer access to plastic straws and stirrers. For takeout and delivery situations, it means that customers need to be asked first before they confirm that they want these things. A lot of folks will go to a fast food place and take that home, and they have their...
 their condiments and their utensils at home, so they may not need it. So this would also apply to in-person, by phone, and electronic orders. And as I've become familiar with electronic orders, they're much highly used now than they were before. So we want to make sure to take that into consideration. And then customer awareness. We want to make sure that the customers are informed as to why it's important to focus on the reduction of these materials and why we're doing this in general.
 Monitoring and compliance. So we currently have a monitoring and compliance strategy for plastic bags and phone packaging. We're proposing that this ordinance replicate that. All businesses will also have access to technical assistance through the City of Portland Sustainability at Work program. BPS will be responsible for the compliance and intervention based off complaint. So as soon as complaints come in, we will respond and investigate those.
 We're seeking a partnership with Multnomah County to explore some opportunities to notify and streamline communications between BPS and the affected businesses, as Multnomah County health inspectors are already in all these businesses, talking about a myriad of other issues.
 So finally, the compliance and fees. Fees are consistent with the plastic bag ban. So fees are also a measure of last resort. This is never an intention that we would have with the other compliance situations, and we really want to engage with the businesses and use fees as an absolute measure of last resort.
 And then also one final note on the merging and creating a new chapter on prohibitions and restrictions of single-use plastics. We're excited about this because it creates an opportunity to share the program information with the public and other jurisdictions and be able to really bolster some of our outreach efforts to include a myriad of materials, not just the ones that we're introducing, but reinforcing the bands we already have in place for foam and plastic bags.
 And that is our presentation. So I guess I want to push back a little bit on exemption of compostable items. Okay. So on balance, do we want to have compostable plastics or do we want to have fossil fuel plastics in our daily consumption habits? What's better on balance? So on balance, you mean taking in all of the environmental impacts? So...
 I know the DEQ right now, Oregon DEQ, is currently working on a study that is looking at the attributes of certain materials and compostable plastics. At this point, it's not looking like a very good alternative for a variety of issues, including toxicity issues.
 So we have plenty of indication from our well-informed research squad at the Oregon DEQ to really kind of take a step back from those materials. Not only do they cause issues with compostable facilities.
 but they do have upstream and toxic components that we're not really that excited about. So what once was, you know, the kind of golden child of sustainability really has turned. Okay. I won't push back anymore.
 It's okay. It's a good question. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? I do. So I happen to be carrying these around with me, which I got as a normal small business coffee shop in England last summer. And they're very similar to yard debris. They could easily be composted. So did you explore requiring small wooden utensils instead of plastic? Yes.
 So one of the reasons why we really stepped away from talking about alternatives for a few reasons. The resources that are needed to make your wooden product or paper product come from other sources and they have other environmental impacts.
 And so once we go down the pathway of a different material, and especially if we're looking at expanding that to a citywide ordinance, you're looking at using a massive amount of resources in a different way. Because those variables are so varied, we felt like focusing on waste prevention and not focusing on alternatives
 was the best way to go just because we knew that the highest and best use every single time for climate and for marine debris is going to be waste prevention. And also with reuse, if we're encouraging folks to reuse durable dishware, that's the second alternative. But for single use, something like this to eat at McDonald's Sunday, for example?
 You're not going to be able to eat at McDonald's Sunday with your fingers. If you didn't bring your spoon in your bag with you, which I have, wouldn't it be better to have a wooden one rather than a plastic one? I guess that depends on how many trees it takes to make all those wooden utensils. I mean, that was a question that I would probably ask. Well, that's something I would like to be looked into. The second question is, are lids included in this ordinance? They are not. Okay.
 So that I'm troubled by. It seems like there should be some alternatives to plastic lids. Mostly the lack of availability of alternatives for plastic lids. I've read articles about cold drinks having some sort of coffee cup type of a top. But right now that's not available on a massive scale. So that wouldn't be something that we would be able to tell 6,000 businesses to be able to do because they wouldn't be able to do it.
 What's about businesses that are already using things like wooden stirrers? Are they going to be allowed to continue to have the stirrers out? The ordinance is proposed just to be about plastic stirrers and plastic straws. The wooden ones would be exempt, yeah. And I didn't see anything about the little pizza tables that come inside the pizza to stop it. That's not included either, right? It is not included, yes.
 So Mayor, I was happy to hear you say that this is a step along the way, and I know this was a consensus recommendation from the committee. But what's ahead before us is a report from the committee, so I can't amend that, and the code, which it wouldn't be appropriate to amend either. What's the certainty? I mean, the start date's in the report, but no end date come back to council with a...
 something more. I mean, when we did plastic bags, which my friends in Surfrider over here will well remember, you know, we had the same argument. So there's not enough availability of paper, it's not a good product, it'll be too expensive, nobody will do it. And we did it. And lo and behold, now it's kind of standard and people don't really think about bringing their own shopping bag with them or if necessary, taking a paper one.
 So what's the timeline for coming back with something that says, no, seriously, find some cardboard alternatives, find some wood alternatives. We're going to ban single-use plastics.
 So we hadn't really agreed on a follow-up date, but we can absolutely add that in. I think accountability is important, and we would like to keep the council informed as to the progress once this is implemented, assuming it is implemented, so we could discuss a timeline for something like that, absolutely. And what would that... For both the plastic bag ban and our...
 include the food curbside program. We had a one-year report to come back to Council. Would that be something? That would certainly, I think, be a good thing to do. And since you're not implementing it until July, that would mean a year from July, wouldn't it? So I actually enjoy talking about this subject, and I'd either be happy to do that as a matter of the record, or if you'd like to make a formal amendment, I'm happy to. That's the point. I can't amend anything. Oh, that's a good point. You can't. So that's the point.
 So why don't we do this? Let's just make it a commitment on the part of the mayor, and Amy will help me keep that commitment. Absolutely. Let's mark on our calendar one year. And I would very much like our partners to continue this conversation, come back and update the council on, number one, how is this doing, assuming it passes. I never take that for granted. Okay.
 That's as funny as I get, by the way. That's my best material today. And number two, we don't actually know what the technology is going to be. But let's just say this. I am fundamentally committed to
 to single-use plastics being as eliminated as possible within reason and understanding. Since we have done this differently than other communities, and we've had the ADA community right at the table with us, we don't want to move ahead of them. I think it's really important that we hold that value in place. But we're all committed, I think, for the same reasons. Great. So we have an invited panel. Thank you.
 Thank you. Nancy Nordman from Surfrider is here today. Nicole Chiron from the Office of Equity in Human Rights. I see Nicole. John Wasitinski and Jeff Martin from Multnomah County. And Greg Astley from the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association are all here as part of our invited testimony today. Welcome. Thank you. I should have brought my shirt. I forgot my shirt. I'm so disappointed. We have more. Thank you.
 I keep mine very clean. It actually generates a lot of conversation at the gym. I will tell you that. It's a good T-shirt. Great. Welcome. I don't know who wants to start. I will start. Thanks. I'm Nicole Sharon. I'm from the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 So I think a lot of us want to think of ourselves as good stewards of the environment. And so when an idea comes about that is catching on in other cities, we want to jump on it. And so we ban the bag and we wanted to ban the straw. But as government agencies, we need to look at that and apply an equity lens and say, who does this decision impact?
 And when it most impacts one of our most underserved communities, it really is on us to say we need to move forward in a different way. I am a straw user. There are times when, you know, at a restaurant, you get a big, heavy glass pint. Glass, I can't lift that. So...
 I need a straw if I'm going to be able to use that. And so it became really important when we heard that this was happening to connect with the mayor's office in planning and say, you have to consider the disability community and that impact. I am very happy to say that both Yulia and I were at the table and everyone that first day really heard
 what we had to say and what those impacts were going to be. And I think people really learned a lot about, because I think we jump on the, well what about just an alternative? What about bringing metal straws? Well for some people a metal straw isn't an option because they've had a stroke or they have to bite
 the straw when they're drinking it. And so if it's metal, they then risk the damage of damaging their mouth. So I think reduction is the best way to move forward. And I hear you Mayor that you wanna keep moving forward and get to a place where we eliminate them, but
 There has to be a technology then that comes about that really makes sure that people whose lives are already so impacted when they're trying to just be out in the community like everyone else, and then we take away things that take away from that quality of life. Yeah, and to be clear, Nicole, I agree with you wholeheartedly, and we appreciate your being at the table. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you so much for having me here. For the record, my name is Nancy Nordman. I don't know if I need to say that again. I am here representing the Portland chapter of Surfrider as a volunteer coordinating the Ditch the Straw PDX program.
 We're incredibly proud of the impact that Dish to Straw PDX has had over the Portland area. Just over the past year, we've had incredible successes working with over 120 businesses, ranging from large event spaces like Doug Furr to neighborhood coffee shops like Posey's.
 and most businesses have really reported the switch to away from plastic straws to some sort of alternative, whether it's a metal glass or metal straw with a silicon tip
 paper, glass, bamboo, any sort of alternative on request as being easier than they anticipated it to be. And many have reported drastic straw reductions, positive customer feedback, and cost savings. Just to give a few examples, Mad Hanna reported $1,000 in cost savings just since May, since making the switch.
 Portland Spirit, the boat cruise line, estimates between 8,000 and 10,000 straws have been avoided just through their change to bamboo straws. New Seasons has reported preventing around 100,000 straws by removing them from all their coffee bars. And Port Cano has reported a drop from 4,000 straws a month down to 1,000 straws a month through the change as well.
 So because of all these successes that we've seen from the businesses, we believe that Portland is more than ready for policy change on this issue. As you've heard from these examples, this isn't just an environmental policy that we see it as. It's smart business policy. Hundreds of thousands of straws have been eliminated from the waste stream, and we see that businesses are finding it to be a positive change for them.
 We feel that this policy as is creates a nice foundation for furthering the effort as you mentioned, for more comprehensive plastic reduction goals and strategies. We certainly think it's a great start. We do believe there are ways that can be strengthened and we have provided some written testimony with more detail.
 During the plastic resolution in June, we heard a great deal of enthusiasm and excitement around this for leadership and action on the development of an edgy and aggressive single-use plastic reduction strategy.
 We recommend that the city maybe consider using this as an opportunity to lead by example and potentially applying a more comprehensive policy by not allowing single-use plastic at city-sanctioned events, just to serve as a role model for businesses to start to show that potential to change.
 As we continue to learn from implementation and innovation in the areas of fast food and takeout, we'll obviously learn from all of this and continue to refine the strategies that provide the best benefit to business, consumers, and the environment. And we just want to thank the council for the directive to work on the issue, BPS staff for all of their hard work,
 and all of our fellow workgroup members and stakeholders. We look forward to continuing to partner and support implementation of this policy. Thank you so much. Thank you. We appreciate your being here.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and members of the City Council. My name is John Boczczycinski. I'm the Director of Sustainability at Multnomah County, and I'm really pleased to be here today to offer the county support for this initiative. I think that the action that the Council is considering today is properly understood as one step in what has been a decades-long effort to limit the impact of single-use plastic on the environment and on our health. And it's
 pleasing to me to look back at that history and see that the county and the city working hand in hand on those efforts in 1989 1989 so that's a long time ago I guess the city and the county passed parallel ordinances restricting the use of styrofoam in restaurants it was sort of like the plastic straw policy of that era
 And it's worth noting that the policy was targeted at health. It was actually a health policy. And the aim was to limit people's exposure to petrochemicals. It was successful in that regard, but it's also been incredibly successful at limiting the amount of styrofoam that we see in our rivers and in the environment.
 That's something that other communities around the U.S. don't have the luxury of taking for granted. I actually worked in Washington, D.C. before moving to Portland for the Department of the Environment there and for the local city government, and my beat was trash in the water and pollution.
 the amount of styrofoam that we pulled out of waterways was really staggering. So that forward-looking policy has really made a large difference in sort of the quality of life here in Multnomah County, but also the sort of environmental impacts of that.
 Portland has shown time and time again a willingness to reach upstream and implement pollution prevention strategies that will pay dividends into the future. The action by the council today would also align with another area of collaboration between the city and the county, namely the Climate Action Plan. In the plan, we identify plastic reduction policy,
 And as noted by the previous panel, reduction is really the first strategy of the R's that we learn about recycling and reuse as a key area in our materials management framework. And the county is working with East County cities to follow your lead, the city's lead, on plastic bag bans and seeing if we can extend that policy eastward to the smaller communities in East Multnomah County.
 Today's action by the Council builds on an important legacy, and the suite of strategies is a template for other cities around the world to follow when seeking to protect waterways and conserve natural resources. The County is here not only to cheer you in this action, but also to help.
 Multnomah County Health Department looks forward to working with our partners at BPS to help restaurants and mobile unit operators understand the new ordinance and how they can continue to best serve the public. The Health Department provides education in person through inspections to approximately 5,500 permitted facilities in Multnomah County and almost 5,000 in the city of Portland.
 This year, all facilities will receive information about plastic bags, polystyrene, and hopefully next year we will be providing them information about the plastic straws as well. So it's a great opportunity to have in-person conversations with all the business owners that serve food within the city and within Multnomah County. And this has offered us an opportunity to work more closely together with BPS to help implement this policy and other existing policies.
 So thank you very much, and go. Does that include food carts under your accounting? Yes. That includes food carts as well, absolutely. John, thanks a lot. We appreciate you bringing your expertise and your partnership to this. It's critically important, so thank you for that.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Greg Astley, Director of Government Affairs for the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today and for the invitation for our members, the restaurant owners and operators in the City of Portland, to be a part of the work group and the discussion leading to today's proposed ordinance. We always appreciate being involved in the beginning part of a conversation from the start to help shape the policy that we think works for everyone.
 As consumers become more aware of the issues of single-use disposables and the waste stream, the plastic waste reduction, and the restrictions on recycling, restaurants and their suppliers have responded to those requests to reduce use of these items. In just the last year, two major vendors in the City of Portland of restaurants and food service establishments reported significant reductions in the ordering of plastic straws. In one case, more than a third fewer straws are being ordered by food service establishments and local restaurants.
 Some of our members in Portland are already voluntarily reducing usage with their own by-request straw policies, replacement of plastic straws with alternatives, and by asking customers who are getting takeout whether they need plastic utensils. Hotels and bars are also voluntarily reducing their plastic straw usage. Many of them are already promoting the fact that they are a by-request restaurant or bar with signage and materials on tables.
 Having the option to offer plastic straws to our customers who may be disabled or impaired in some way and whose safety may be at risk with metal or wooden straws is important to us too. We've heard from members of the disabled community who need plastic straws as an option for their own well-being and we want to be able to accommodate them. Portland's restaurants, hotels, and bars are cornerstones in our community. They give generously to worthy causes, they feed the hungry, and they provide a place where people can meet and break bread together.
 The people who own, manage, and run them are Portlanders too, and they care about the environment and they're sensitive to the customer's requests and feelings. With so many other challenges facing the people running restaurants, hotels, and bars, we appreciate and support the Council's consideration and approval of a by-request ordinance coupled with education and outreach to our customers. Thank you. Thanks, Greg. Appreciate it. Very good. Thank you all for being here. We appreciate your testimony.
 Next up, oral testimony. Do we have people signed up, Carla? Yes, we do. We have eight people signed up. Eight people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Chanel Hassan, Sarah Mayer, and Celeste Mefren-Soingo. Very good. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. We don't need your address, and the microphones slide around. Thanks for being here. Sorry, musical chairs. No worries. All right. All right.
 Thank you, Mayor and Portland Commissioners, for this opportunity to testify today. For the record, my name is Chanel Hayson. I am a volunteer as the Chair and Communications Coordinator for the Portland chapter of the Surf Rider Foundation. A little educational background for me. I got my bachelor's degree in environmental science, focusing in marine biology, and just got my master's in sustainability education right up the street at Portland State.
 As you have heard from Nancy, our Ditch the Straw lead who testified earlier today, we have worked on this program to decrease single-use plastic straws in the City of Portland for over a year now. I want to personally thank each one of you for your interest and leadership in addressing single-use plastic pollution within the City of Portland. There is no doubt that single-use plastics, including straws, have been stamped across headlines all over the globe.
 It's an environmental crisis, and in some third world nations, it's a health and social crisis. Bold political actions have resulted because of this increased publicity and awareness, such as the European Union's sweeping ban on many single-use plastics by 2021. Plastic pollution isn't a Portland problem. This is not an Oregon State problem. This is not a national problem. This is a global epidemic.
 Based on our current production and leakage of plastic into the environment, it's projected by 2050 that the ratio of plastics to fish in our ocean will be 1 to 1. Even though this is an environmental catastrophe that needs environmental policy, Surf Rider Portland started with a business-first approach, addressing single-use plastics with our Ditch the Straw PDX campaign.
 As a grassroots organization, we began our work on the ground, working personally with over 120 businesses this year to decrease their plastic pollution footprint in Portland. We commend you on the leadership that the city is undertaking in policy actions. We provided you with some considerations for strengthening and growing this work. And we look forward to working with the city further in partnership to reduce single-use plastics in the great city of Portland. So thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate it.
 All right. Hello, city council members. For the record, my name is Sarah Mayer, and I am the secretary for the Portland chapter of the Surfrider Foundation. While I am actively involved in Surfrider, I'm just a volunteer, like most of us here. So my day job is downtown, and I have the privilege of living and working downtown, only a 15-minute walk for me. But
 Every day during that short walk, I see countless plastic on the streets. Straws, coffee cups, coffee lids, food containers, wrappers.
 The cigarette bets is a whole other issue, but each day I see a new view of plastic and trash on our streets. And while most of that trash is plastic that is going to be here...
 because it does not biodegrade. So through simple actions and municipal efforts, I think that we can turn the tide on plastic pollution. I'm fairly certain that most people are aware of the problem as a human race we have created for our oceans. Everyone has seen the sea turtle video where they pulled a plastic straw from its nose
 Most people are aware of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, the giant mix of plastics that aggregates in our oceans, gyres, that harms animals and disrupts the food chains and ecosystems and eventually washes ashore our beaches. Most people are aware of this.
 However, still today, 8 million metric tons of plastic goes into our oceans each year. So while we are aware, it is still a problem. We at Surfrider do our part in cleaning up by hosting action days, beach cleanups, riverside cleanups, multiple green streets cleanups each month.
 Last month alone, we picked up over 60 gallons of trash in our bioswells. And 80% of that litter that we pick up is plastic.
 So we may have 120 businesses who are already committed to this movement, but the reality is that we need to move entire cities, states, and nations if we are going to truly impact this problem of plastic pollution. So I look forward to continuing this leadership with you, and I hope that we can further develop this movement.
 here in Portland. Thank you. Thank you both. The Surfrider Foundation has been just fantastic throughout this effort and a real inspiration to me and to the policy. And I'm just really glad we have local partners like you working with us and helping to advocate more broadly for what we're trying to do. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, Portland City Councilors. My name is Celeste Mayfrin-Suango. I'm the State Director for Environment Oregon. We're a member-funded environmental advocacy organization based here in Portland, just across the river.
 I'm here to express Environment Oregon's support for the prohibitions and restrictions on single-use plastics ordinance before you today, and to thank you for bringing it up for consideration. I also did want to recognize the Surfrider Foundation and thank the volunteers and staff for all of your hard work to get us to this point.
 Educating the public and advocating for the reduction of single-use plastics is a big part of our work at Environment Oregon. We're particularly concerned with the devastating impact that plastics have on our wildlife, particularly marine wildlife. And we believe that nothing that we use for 10 minutes should pollute our environment for hundreds of years.
 We hear from our members a lot that they're concerned about plastic pollution, especially the plastics that they can't recycle. And many have expressed frustration at just how much plastic they interact with in a day. When you go to the grocery store, so much of what you want to buy is packaged in plastic. If you live in a part of the state without a ban on single-use plastic bags, your groceries are likely also bagged in plastic.
 If you want to go out to eat and get something to eat or drink, you're often given a plastic clamshell, plastic cutlery, condiments in plastic, a plastic cup and or plastic straw, sometimes all of the above, and you don't have a real option to opt out. Some of this plastic does end up getting recycled, but most of it ends up getting thrown away, ending up in our landfills and in our natural environment.
 So we think this ordinance is a really good first step to reducing wasteful plastic use. Giving the consumers the option of using a straw or plastic cutlery can also be a really powerful way to give people space to wonder if they really need a straw or plastic cutlery. And while some people may still want or need to use them, many people I believe will opt out.
 And this will result in less plastic waste and changing consumer behavior, both of which we need to do if we have any shot at tackling this global problem. But again, we really do see this ordinance as a first step, as many of you have said today. And we look forward to seeing the impact it can have here in our city and see what further reduction strategies we can implement in the future. So thanks so much for the opportunity to testify today. Thanks for being here.
 Thanks, all three. Next three, please, Carla. Next three are Simon Scoots, Peter Wyrick, and Julia Pearson. It's no particular. Go ahead and have a seat wherever is convenient. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Sure. Thank you. Hello. My name is Piper Wyrick, and I'm a part of the Portland Youth Climate Council, and I'm a senior at Cleveland High School.
 I'm supportive of the prohibitions and restrictions on single-use plastic, though I believe that Portland also needs to focus on larger sources of pollution and unsustainability. Plastics are harmful all along their lifespan. Fossil fuels are manufactured into plastic and also power that production process, which also requires immense amounts of water. Plastic products are also often wrapped in plastic and distributed by fossil fuel-powered vehicles. Their toxins can leach out into food.
 In addition, once they are disposed of into the environment, plastics don't break down but kill wildlife and continue to contribute to climate change by releasing methane and ethylene when exposed to the sun. Polyethylene does so the most and styrofoam and plastic bags take at least 500 years if they ever break down. And that's just what I know. However, I recognize and respect that plastic straws are also necessary for some people to maintain not only their independence but also their basic needs to survive.
 I appreciate the policy's flexibility in that it still allows this vital tool to be available to those who need it, but I also believe that this policy should be stricter in only allowing straws to be available to those who have a medical need. In addition, plastic silverware just cannot be an option if Portland is serious about taking care of our earth. Consumers can handle a little inconvenience and might even learn something from it.
 We also need to ensure that materials and products still used are actually sustainable all along their life cycle. Some additional options are bioplastics or plastics made from carbon dioxide. Also, increased recycling facilities could be a good investment. In addition, as a student in PPS, I see too many ways in which our schools contribute to environmental degradation and climate change.
 along with the use of plastic silverware and food packaging, is food waste, use of paper plates, conical cups while we wait for lead-free water, and the fact that our recycling is just thrown into the garbage. It is important that Portland schools are included in any new requirements, but also that schools are helped to reach them as the existing budget is already stretched too thin. This policy, or at least one following, could do so.
 I appreciate that this policy is seen as a stepping stone to greater changes, as Portland also needs to focus on larger sources of pollution and ultimately change our consumerist culture and economic reliance on fossil fuels. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Simon Skates. I attend Wilson High School as a senior, and I'm a member of Portland Youth Climate Council.
 I'm speaking today because I support the action to reduce the use of single-use plastics in Portland. There is a clear link between single-use plastics and climate change, and we need to be moving away from the use of materials made from fossil fuels and materials like plastics that release methane as they degrade. In addition, single-use plastics cannot typically be recycled and create vast amounts of trash, causing huge problems in our oceans.
 This ordinance is just one of the many steps that need to be taken toward the goal of creating a sustainable city. While I support this ordinance, as soon as possible, I'd like to see it expanded to ban all single-use plastic straws, utensils, unless they're medically necessary for customers. I would also love to see this ordinance be implemented in our schools. Although Portland Public Schools has set a climate and waste reduction goals, there are tremendous amounts of plastic and food waste throughout all of Portland's schools.
 Although I am tall, I'm the youngest one here, and my peers went in here, and my peers and I will be dealing with this plastic problem for years and years to come. So I ask you to pass this ordinance for a cleaner and clearer future. Excellent. Thank you. We appreciate your being here.
 Good afternoon, Council. My name is Julia Person. I'm Sustainability Director at Wimmer Brothers Brewery and Pub and Craft Brew Alliance. And I'm here today. We wanted to show our support for this ordinance and bring the business perspective as well to the testimony. And for one, it's so important, plastic pollution prevention for clean water in Oregon. We need this clean water to brew our delicious beer. Our craft breweries are part of the Portland fabric, so it's so important to keep our watersheds clean.
 waterways clean and also women brothers we were the first to pilot the ditch to the straw alongside Surfrider we were very honored to be able to do that so we know firsthand that by preventing this plastic straw waste in the first place it brings cost savings to the business and Nancy provided lots of great examples of that so we wholeheartedly provide our support for this ordinance and continued work to continue to strengthen
 banning or preventing single-use plastics in Portland. So thank you for the opportunity to talk today. Thank you, and thanks to Widmer Brothers for taking the lead on this. And now I'm getting very thirsty just thinking about it. There was two more. Carla, is that correct? Actually, there's one more. Charlie Pleibon. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mailer-Wheeler and members of the council. For the record, my name is Charlie Pleibon. I'm the Oregon Policy Manager for Surf Rider Foundation.
 Mayor Wheeler, I appreciate your initiative here within the City of Portland and that of the commissioners to work on single-use plastics. I first brought this issue when you were State Treasurer. I presented to the State Land Board on the Marine Debris Action Plan, which is a NOAA-approved plan for the State of Oregon to take action on marine debris. And one of the things that that action plan recommended was for us to be taking actions in inland areas, particularly in high population centers.
 our near water bodies, which flow out into our ocean. And here we are in Portland today in front of some fantastic leaders pushing plastic policy. I'll mention that this was not straightforward policy. Nothing is as simple as it seems. Plastic bag bands are complicated. Portland's a little behind the curve now if you look at the most recent type of plastic bag band.
 Things evolve, they change. We expect these sorts of plastic pollution and innovation to also change and evolve over time, and we look forward to continuing to work with you on a process to continue reducing plastics. It sounded like there is not an opportunity for amendments at this time on this ordinance. I would make the recommendation on a friendly amendment appropriate.
 to 17.103.310B, it basically prescribes that all retail food and beverage establishments and institutional cafeterias where customers may order takeout and delivery shall provide plastic utensils
 Plastic utensils is not defined in the definitions, and so there's a lack of clarity in exactly what we're talking about. My recommendation is that you change that to plastic service wear, which is defined in the definitions. Could you tell me the number of that again, please? Yes. Is it 17? 17.103.310.
 310. This is the restrictions on single-use plastic serviceware. So changing it from utensils to serviceware. Yes. Right now utensils is not defined, so it's unclear, and that may be unclear for businesses as well as advocating for the policy. Good catch. We'll ask staff about that. Yeah. Good. Good. Thank you.
 And in a written testimony, we did provide some other recommendations. We feel comfortable that we can address those in time. We appreciate the mayor and the city commissioners putting a date out there in the future for us to come back to this and continue to evolve this to be the best plastic policy in the country that it can be. Thank you so much. Thank you. It's great seeing you again. Could we just have staff come back up for just one moment to address that issue? On its face, that seems to be a sensible...
 I would even consider that a Scribner's error because it needs to be consistent unless you tell me otherwise. Mayor and council, if I could. I'm looking at the definition of plastic service where it includes single-use plastic straws, stirrers, utensils, and condiment packaging. So I think if you wanted to have all four of those items, but –
 But in the – Ah, I see. So was it intentionally limiting in the ordinance? Was it intended to limit it? It was intended to limit it to utensils and condiment packaging. We had a conversation about when you're in a fast food situation and you order a soda –
 are you going to have to have that request every single time? And it seemed like kind of a no-brainer. If you order a soda, you're going to have to drink it some way. And so we put it in as utensils and condiment packaging because we felt like that was the most relevant conversation to have in that fast food interaction. So that's one of the reasonings why we put in utensils and not all serviceable everywhere. Good. Another question. Are school districts exempt from this policy?
 They are not. They're included within the institutions, which include cafeterias. So that would be medical institutions, educational, and government. So all these new practices will be...
 Employed by our school districts? They haven't approached you and asked for a carve-out or a recession or anything like that? I had a conversation with PPS staff, and they said that this wouldn't impact their operations greatly. It would or it would not? That it would not, and they weren't too concerned about it. But that was one staff person. Other staff members might have different opinions. Don't they currently use plastic forks? No.
 So the way that the ordinance would be written is that that would be considered a dine-in situation. So in a dine-in situation, according to this ordinance, it would be straws and stirrers that would apply. And they only, as far as I understand, not from experience but by secondhand knowledge, provide straws to kids that need them. But then also they talked about juice boxes. They come with straws. That's an issue. That's important.
 not specified in this proposal. So there is no exemption for school districts in this proposal? There is not. Okay, good. Very good. Colleagues, unless you have further questions, I'll entertain a motion on the report.
 So there's two things we're doing. We're voting on the report to adopt the report, and the report is the report, and then we'll be moving the ordinance to second reading. It's a non-emergency first reading. Right, and just to close out the previous conversation, your recommendation is to leave it as utensils even though utensils. So utensils would then have the dictionary definition. Is that correct? We could put in a definition for utensils to be more clear about what that means. But it was intentional to write utensils and not serviceware.
 unless you'd like us to reconsider that. And Commissioner Fritz, I was just going to say that it is common for us to turn to the dictionary definition when analyzing legally what something means. And I would think, I mean, I can look it up really fast, but I would guess that that would be covered. Yeah. Sorry.
 So I don't think we need to change it because it was intentional to not have the other pieces in that second part. It's a two-part. This is for straws and stirrers. This is for utensils and condiments. Yeah, and the intention was to try to figure out what material was the most relevant for certain situations. Yeah. Thank you for raising the question. Do I move the report? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman to accept the report, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion, please call the roll.
 You daily? Well, I think the fact that there are no opponents to this effort here today is notable. Thirty years ago, I watched my then housemate and some of her friends and colleagues sit around our dining room table and craft what would eventually become the styrofoam ban. There was a lot of resistance to that.
 I, as a retailer, supported the plastic bag ban. There was also a lot of resistance to that. And I'm happy to support this initiative as well.
 by environmentally aware parents. A grandmother who grew up during the Depression and was very resourceful and loved recycling. And in rural Oregon, where everything you don't recycle, you have to haul to the dump yourself. So reduce, reuse, recycle is really second nature to me. But as I have strived to reduce my footprint...
 at different times in my life. I'd say I've found it really challenging to find and afford alternatives. And I think it is unreasonable and irresponsible to put the onus of that burden on the consumer. We have to set the standards. There are choices that shouldn't
 shouldn't be choices. We just shouldn't be allowing industry to manufacture certain materials or use certain chemicals or create more garbage. Honestly, I don't know how our entire planet is not completely covered with garbage at this point. With any luck, it won't be.
 I also want to thank the mayor's office for giving serious consideration to the disability community, to the kind of unique needs and challenges easily overlooked and misunderstood. It's vital that as we make improvements, we're not making life harder for certain populations. So I really appreciate that.
 And I was going to make a really bad graduate joke. I think the mayor did that last time. Something like, the future might be plastic, but there's no future in plastics. Yeah. Everyone feel free to groan. It's been a long day. I'm happy to vote aye. All right.
 Thank you, Peaches and Wormfield and Bruce Walker in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thanks to Amy Rathfelder in the Mayor's Office and Cynthia Castro in my office for your analysis on this. I greatly appreciate your thoughtful input that you've gathered throughout the work group and the community outreach, including Americans with Disabilities Advocates and listening to them. Thanks, as always, to Nicole Chiron for her leadership in that regard on behalf of the Office of Sustainability.
 equity in human rights. Plastics is a serious problem. One of our testifiers mentioned about the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, which some people may not be aware of.
 This is an accumulation of millions of tons of plastic, three times the size of France, which, put another way, is twice the size of Texas, which to me, I was like, interesting. Some people here might more relate to Texas than to France. But either way, it's a blooming large thing that is in the North Pacific Ocean that is impacting marine life and leaching harmful chemicals into our foods. So in addition to they don't take the plastic...
 Please put it in the right place after you're done with it. Put it in the garbage for the most part. Plastic bags do not go in the recycling. Straws don't, you know, it was mentioned about the amount of garbage on our city streets. Just put it in the garbage. It's not that hard. The little plastic toothpicks. A, it's astonishing to me that people are picking their teeth in public. But B, then to toss your little thing on the floor. Just...
 Could we just return to this is a planet that we don't, as far as we know, have another one that we can go to once this one's full of muck. So let's all look after it.
 I did appreciate the suggestion that we should do something regarding city events. I don't think we have all that many straws at city events, but we do have stirrers that should not be plastic. I'm considering bringing something that would say we can't use bottled water at city events because I want everybody to drink our wonderful Bull Run water, and we should have the large containers with paper cups. And so I'll be talking to each of my colleagues about that.
 There's basic common sense things that we can do. And so those are some of the reasons that people might say, why are you focusing on straws? Well, it shouldn't just be straws. It should be the lids. It should be a lot of other bigger pieces of plastic that we should be working to address. So I appreciate your commitment, Matt, to bring this back. And thank you, Bruce Walker, to bring it back a year after implementation to give us the next steps, because I don't want to take the foot off the metal arm.
 Pedal to the metal or whatever. It has been quite a long day. Thank you to the Burgerville, who also sent in testimony as far as their support for this. We know that the so-called compostable plastics aren't. I was a little bit concerned to hear that these lovely wooden implements are because of a European Union regulation. I'm wondering if Theresa May gets Britain out of Brexit, we'll have to go back to plastic. But I'll work on that another time. And...
 I just greatly appreciate the amount of effort that's been put into this. We need to do more. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I want to appreciate, thank Mayor Wheeler for his passion on this issue. I also want to recognize Bruce Walker and Pete and you. Amy. Amy, sorry. It's okay.
 Well, I was going to sort of call out the older guard of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. It's okay. I think they've done a good job on all the thorny recycling issues of always getting all the cast of characters to sit down at the table at the outset. So here we have, you know, in this case, you have the disability community, you have the Restaurant and Lodging Association, you have the advocates, and you run them all around the table. And I think you've come up with a good common sense first step policy.
 And I think that's been the hallmark of BPS on some of the more thornier recycling issues that we've dealt with over the years. So I just want to acknowledge that. And I do think that this is a good step in the right direction. It's, you know, for all the reasons that were just cited by Commissioner Fritz, it's something that we just can't ignore. And I still...
 I do my best to recycle every plastic bag I can at Fred Meyers. If it can't be recycled curbside, and I still at some point want to have a conversation with you, why are we still not able to recycle plastic bags in a curbside approach? I'll have that conversation with you, Bruce, before I leave. And I do think we should double-check with the school district. You said you talked to one staff person. The school district has a habit of Portland Public Schools in particular of recycling.
 Kind of sticking their head in the sand on issues until it's too late, and then the board members call us and say, what is this all about? So I think you need to loop back in with at least Portland Public Schools and get a commitment from somebody like the superintendent or the board chair that they have been briefed on this issue and they are on board with it.
 Thank you. That's a great suggestion. I did talk with staff that were involved in the purchasing and managing the purchasing of PPS. So I think it's a good suggestion. PPS, as you know, is a big organization, not always speaking on the same page. So I would really urge you to...
 go higher up on that. But I do hope they are bought into this because it's a good thing. We need to start modeling good behavior at that level. And it'd be ridiculous if we set an example of you can have all the straws and plastic silverware you want at the schools and then expect them when they graduate and turn 18 to be responsible citizens and sort of the Portland ethic. So it's a great idea. Let's just make sure it sticks. So I'm pleased to support this. Bye.
 Wheeler. Well, thank you, Bruce and Pete and Amy from my team. Amy in particular, thank you, since you're the one I spend most of the time with, for pushing us very, very hard and making sure that we covered all our bases on this.
 I want to thank everybody who testified today, the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association, the Surf Rider Foundation, Multnomah County, great partners to have. As always, the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And, Nicole, thank you for being at the table and making sure that we address the needs of our disability community in an affirmative and intentional way.
 The issue of plastics is obviously not a small one. As the planet warms, we're having to deal with the increasingly devastating impacts of global warming, and it's imperative that we consider our consumption habits and the ways that we can work to make them more sustainable in the years ahead.
 Plastics and plastic straws in particular, as we heard today, they're one of the top items. In fact, they're one of the top ten items that are found littering our coastline. In the city of Portland, they're found along our waterfront. They're found on our streets, and they are found in our parks.
 As you heard from testimony today, they can have an adverse impact on wildlife and habitats. Straws are particularly hard on marine environments. Because they don't break down or decompose, they pose a very serious threat to animals and wildlife and these habitats as they enter the food streams in the habitation areas.
 The reduction of single-use plastics will result in the city achieving several of its goals simultaneously around the improvement and protection of land and water quality.
 And I just want to put down a marker. Obviously, I am very happy to bring this ordinance to the council. I think it is timely. I'm appreciative that we were thoughtful in terms of bringing the community and our stakeholders with us in a way that we have a consensus. But I want to be clear, our work is not done.
 There is much work to be done. And it's a two-pronged approach. On one hand, we're going to have to change consumer behavior. And I don't want this to sound like a heavy-handed statement. It's not intended this way. But I want people to really ask themselves as they get a single-use plastic item or any packaging for that matter, do they really need it? Do they really need it?
 And I also, on the supply side, I want our commercial enterprises and I want our manufacturers and I even want our recycling partners to think about what are the products that they need to manufacture and what do consumers really need? Right.
 And I have to tell you, as our economy grows, as our population grows, as we start to see companies like Amazon become larger and larger in scale globally, this is going to expand way beyond plastic straws or lids or cups or utensils or anything else. It's really going to have to be about packaging of consumer products. We're a long way from there.
 But we need to start changing the culture today, or we will never achieve the climate action goals that were adopted by this council in Multnomah County. So I would like us to continue to be aggressive. This is our first line in the sand. I expect we will do very well on this, but I want us to continue to push this ordinance and evolve this ordinance increasingly.
 as quickly and as thoughtfully as we possibly can in the months and the years ahead. That's my commitment, and I believe we can all live up to that commitment. I vote aye. The report is adopted. The ordinance is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading.
 Thank you all. Mayor and Council, before you move to a second reading on that ordinance, I did look up the definition of utensils. It is broader than what I was thinking. I was thinking fork, knives, and spoons. If that's what you were thinking, the actual dictionary definition is broader than that. So if you want it limited to forks, knives, and spoons, you could maybe just amend it in –
 And interlineation, after utensils, parenthetical of forks, knives, and spoons. What's the dictionary definition? It is, well, there's a couple different ones, but like, for example, common is an implement, instrument, or vessel used in a household and especially a kitchen. That's Merriam-Webster. Cambridge University Press has a tool with a particular use, especially in a kitchen or house.
 So it's kind of along that. It is much broader than what I was thinking of anyways. Okay. So maybe you could work with the Bureau to figure out whether we need to amend it at second reading next week. If you want it to be more narrow, yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Are you happy to do it? Great. Appreciate it. Learn something new every day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Amy. Thank you very much. Thanks, gentlemen. All right. Our next item, 1182, please, Carla.
 proclaim November 16th to be hashtag Rock Your Mocs Day. Colleagues, we have a very, I think, important, and I'm even going to go and be so bold as to say, fun and innovative way to end our long day of council today. And I'm going to kick this over to Laura John, and she will tell me when to read the proclamation. Absolutely. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners.
 For the record, my name is Laura John, and I'm the Tribal Relations Director in the Office of Government Relations here at the City. Thank you for this opportunity to bring guests from the Native American community here in Portland to speak in support of this proclamation. I was here just recently for Native American Heritage Month Proclamation, which was really...
 seen as a way to educate non-natives about our culture and our heritage and our history, today's proclamation is really a proclamation for the Native community here in the city. Rock Your Mocs was started in 2011 by Jessica Jalyn Atzi of the Laguna Pueblo in New Mexico. Jalyn was inspired to set aside a day for Native solidarity when she looked at her own feet and realized that her footwear connected her to countless Native and Indigenous people.
 She thought how powerful it would be to know that people all over the world were all making the same small statement about their identity by wearing moccasins on the same day. People from many different tribal backgrounds and cultures who all shared pride in their Native heritage. Rock Your Mocs, once it was started, saw rapid awareness and participation as key national groups began promoting diversity.
 These groups included Powwows.com, National Indian Gaming Association, and the National Congress of American Indians. In addition, this day has been observed by countless K-12 schools, colleges, and universities around the country. I am especially proud to share today that the Rock Your Mocs team in New Mexico reported to me that the city of Portland is the first city outside of New Mexico to follow in the steps of the city of Santa Fe,
 as well as the state of New Mexico to designate a formal Rock Your Mocs Day. Excellent. I have a statement from the founder, Jalyn Atze, to the Portland City Council that I'll now read.
 Thank you, Mayor Ted Wheeler and City Commissioners, Laura John, Melissa Sanchez, who is our Rock Your Mocs event producer, and all those in the Portland Native community that made this proclamation happen. I feel extremely honored and ecstatic that Portland supports Rock Your Mocs. I am also very happy knowledge is being shared about Native American heritage. Unity is power. Thank you, City of Portland.
 I'd like to next introduce our speakers. I have Isha Pertle-Wright, who is here to speak on behalf of the Youth Voice. Excellent. Thank you. Hello, my friends and my beautiful relatives in the back.
 My name is Isha Shoshani Pearl Wright, and I'm an enrolled member of the Confederate Tribes of Warm Springs here in Oregon, an descendant of the Siletz Tribes, and an adopted member of the Klamath and Modoc and Yahuascan people. I can't explain how honored I am to come speak for you all in National Rocky Mox Day. I'm very thankful for Jalene Joseph and the City of Portland to come welcome me here to come speak for my culture and myself.
 The entire month of November is National Native American Heritage Month, the whole month that represents the 100,000 Native people who died defending our lands since 1492. Sorry, long day at school. It's thousands of children and teens who died in the Christian boarding schools where they tried to kill the savage Indians and make us civil. It represents the 302 women, men, and children who died after dancing in the ghost dance, praying for our land back.
 It represents the 50 Modoc warriors led by Captain Jack or Kintipoosh of the Modoc tribes to fight back for our lands over in Southern Oregon and Northern California. It also represents the 5,712 Indigenous women who are missing and or have been found murdered in the United States and both in Canada. It represents the generational trauma that as we as Native people have suffered from. I was prepared to speak out for the people who have been silenced and for the people who are scared to speak out.
 The people who have been raised to stay quiet and not to speak up. The people who have been pushed down and treated terribly by the government while I sit there and allow white people to put lies in history books and in cartoons. My culture is not a costume. My ancestors and my family are not extinct. We are here and we are strong. I made a promise to an elder as a native youth of this generation to speak out so that next generations can learn and so that we can teach their children.
 and that our ancestors will sit here and watch us make a difference in this world and this country. I will speak out until I join my ancestors and my beautiful moccasins, and I join them and dance in the sky. But until then, my voice will be heard by everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you.
 Hello, good evening. My name is Shailene Neltina Joseph, and I am a descendant and member of the Ahani people in Fort Belknap, Montana, and as well as the Kwaikon-Atabaskan in Tanana, Alaska. I'm also a very recent graduate of the University of California, Los Angeles, UCLA, with my master's in American Indian Studies.
 And I also work for a nonprofit here in Oregon, the Native Wellness Institute. And underneath that, we've started a project, the Indigenous 20-somethings Project. And a lot of it is about healing a generation and changing the narrative. So I'll read what I wrote today. Okay.
 I've been very fortunate to grow up in a family that has always taught me to value where I come from, the people, the land, and the teachings that have been passed down from generation to generation. They have shown me these teachings to myself and my siblings through action. In front of me, right here, are accumulated years of work and love that have been put into each one of these moccasins, from family members gifted to a child, myself, as they come into this world.
 I've been rocking my mox since I was a baby and ever since before I could walk. My family is an example of decolonizing and indigenizing our worldview, being raised with tribal values that help guide me through my life's journey. The land is where we come from. We've been connected to these lands through generations of stories and intergenerational responsibilities. The land sustains us, and some believe that our moccasins keep us grounded and connected to these lands.
 The Rock Your Mocs, Native American Heritage Month, and Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls Proclamations are all so important because it shows your support and understanding. And more importantly, it allows our community to come together and show our pride, to become visible in a city where we often feel invisible, and collectively heal from the devastating impacts of settler colonialism.
 Rock Your Mocs is a movement. There is a time in our very recent history where it would have been illegal for us to publicly wear our moccasins or any other traditional regalia. There was a federal policy that outlawed our people from being the kind human beings we were born to be. We cannot speak our tribal languages, participate in tribal celebrations or ceremonies. We cannot live the way our ancestors had lived. Those policies have since left a lasting impact on our people today and account for many of the challenges in our communities.
 There are community members who are not here today because they have no mocks to rock, or they carry the shame embedded deep in their bodies for being Native and having cultural confusion of where they belong or fit in. And within that, we battle against erasure, cultural appropriation, and rewriting our own history based on facts.
 We are taught when we wear our moccasins, we are connected to the land and we walk softly. When we wear our moccasins, we are taught to hold our heads high with dignity and respect. When we wear our moccasins, we are bringing forth the teaching of our ancestors and padding down a path for those to follow. As a young Native woman in the community, I will continue to rock my moccasins and I will continue to uphold my traditions and value systems. And even if I'm wearing my Nike N7s or my boots, in my mind, I'll always wear my moccasins and they'll guide me in every step.
 We are being seen in these spaces, here in City Hall, in universities, and now even in Congress. Times are continuing to change for the better.
 So thank you, Mayor and the city councilors, for agreeing to this proclamation and for being supportive of committing acts of decolonization and allowing the original peoples of this land to have a few more moments to publicly celebrate our culture. And lastly, thank you to Lower John for allowing me to speak and for allowing me to be here and participating in writing a new history ahead. Thank you. Tots mewi. Good afternoon. I'm Judy Blue Horse Skelton.
 Nez Perce, Cherokee, and I think these young women have said it all today. Their families have done an incredible gift to all of us in bringing that next generation right into the halls of City Hall and the Congress. I'm humbled to be sitting amongst them at Portland State University, Rock Your Mocs. The students have hosted that last year as part of our Native Wellness Week.
 making that connection to decolonization, Native youth suicide prevention, healthy lifestyles, empowering the community and themselves, overcoming historical trauma, recognizing that part of our identity is forever linked to our ancestors and into the 21st century and beyond in America.
 how we present, how we carry ourselves and bring these things forward. I, too, am grateful to Laura for your work bringing us together and for the two young women here who speak and all of those, as Shailene said, who cannot be here today for different reasons but are here in spirit. A reminder how important, on so many levels, the...
 the moccasin is for us. It was just out at Cully Park today. We're trying to figure out how to get that dance and gathering area smooth so we can have our moccasins out on the land again without shredding them on the sharp gravel, just a little piece of it. And so, again, how important that is to be able to be in the city, to be in the communities, to be in the land and connection to identity in future generations.
 Thank you for your consideration and all the work you're doing, Missing and Murdered Women. Just tonight we're going to be having an Indigenous Women's Leadership Panel at PSU. And I'm happy to say Shailene will be joining us tonight to share more of this as well as others. So thank you for your work on this. Katsi yao yao. Thank you. Last, I wanted to...
 bring in a song. As Native people, we bring in song for everything that we do. This isn't a prayer song. It's a social song, so we don't need to stand. But I felt that it was appropriate to bring in song as oftentimes as Native people, when we do have our mocks on, it's when we're dancing. And so I would like to introduce Carlos McNair, who is a fairly new employee in Portland Parks and Recreation.
 Thanks, Carla. ¶¶
 Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. It's now my honor to read the proclamation. Carlos, I hope you saw the young Timbers fan behind you there. He was very much enjoying your performance. So thank you very much. I think that was probably the best television we've had in this chamber in a long time. It was really a beautiful shot, and I hope you'll go back and watch that on cable television. Thank you.
 And thank you all for sharing your testimony. Again, thank you. I know you put a lot of heart and soul into your testimony. You put a lot of hard work into it. And somebody said something in the chamber in a different context a week or two ago, which came to mind. They said, we shouldn't have to constantly explain ourselves. And as I was thinking about
 really the effort that you were making to be here, in a manner of speaking, you are explaining yourselves. And I want to acknowledge the work and the effort and even the sacrifice, the personal sacrifice that goes into it. I think it's been very valuable. And the proclamations that we've had here in our chamber since Laura got here have been very meaningful.
 for the community. And I hope you feel that same sense of purpose and accomplishment that I feel as we read this proclamation. I feel like every time we do this, every time we do an event together, every time we share a new idea, we share more of the stories, more of the history, I feel like as a community, we're actually coming closer together. So I just want to acknowledge the sacrifice and thank you for it.
 Whereas, hashtag rock your mocks, is a worldwide Native American and indigenous people's movement and is a day held annually and concurrently with November's National Native American Heritage Month in the United States. Thank you.
 And whereas the hashtag Rock Your Mox movement was founded by Jessica Atze of the Pueblo of Laguna, New Mexico in 2011 as a day for Native American solidarity. And whereas this day serves as a day of honor and acknowledgement of Native American people and their significant contributions to the world.
 And whereas this day is a reminder that Native American people are not provided space to wear their traditional dress and footwear in daily life. And whereas hashtag rock your mocks provides an opportunity for Native people to celebrate and share pride in their culture through the expression of footwear.
 And whereas a person may celebrate hashtag Rock Your Mocs Day by wearing moccasins or by wearing a turquoise awareness ribbon. And whereas the Portland City Council.
 in an act of solidarity, encourages all Portlanders to celebrate this day in a manner that is culturally appropriate and respectful. And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, do hereby proclaim November 16, 2018 to be hashtag Rock Your Mocs Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you. Thank you.
 I have a question. Commissioner Fritz. One of the many, many things... Thank you for your presentations. Thank you for your wise words and for honouring us in this chamber.
 And I have a question. I really appreciate our tribal director, Laura John, because I get to ask you dumb questions. And if I have a dumb question, then I think others might want to know the answer too. So the proclamation said that it's an opportunity for native people to celebrate and share pride in their culture through the wearing of footwear, and also that we encourage all Portlanders to celebrate this day in a manner that is culturally appropriate and respectful. Could you tell me what that means? Absolutely. Absolutely.
 Oftentimes, Native culture is taken and misappropriated. You see that quite frequently during the Halloween holiday.
 and you will oftentimes see replicas of items that are made that are for sale that have not been made by a Native person. They are commercially made, oftentimes overseas, and are not reflective of the true look of regalia. So culturally appropriate, meaning that these items are made by a Native person or someone who has been gifted that right to make moccasins.
 You may have been gifted moccasins by a Native person to a non-Native person. That would be appropriate.
 There are, again, there's replicas out there that wouldn't be appropriate for this day. For those that do not have moccasins, I'm wearing a turquoise ribbon today. I also have stickers for our city employees that also are a way to show solidarity on Friday. Thank you. So if they are authentic moccasins, it's okay for a non-native person to wear them? Yes.
 And for the rest of us, a ribbon and a sticker would be a better display of solidarity. That's correct. Thank you so much. Thank you. Very good. Laura, I don't know if you wanted to do a photo or not. I think we should. All right, good. Why don't we just come down here. We'll pull up those ropes and we'll take a photo. And why don't I do this since this is our last item. Carla, I'll go ahead and adjourn us and we can just take our photo. We are adjourned.
 Oh, that's right.