let's see if carla's ready okay you ready carla all right good afternoon everyone welcome to the november 19th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll here fritz here fish here saltzman here hails here
 Welcome, everyone. So some introductory points here. You may be aware already, but there are actually two related hearings today regarding the comprehensive plan. For the first hour, we'll discuss Agenda Item 1209, which is a series of supporting documents. And then the second, Item 1210, is testimony on the plan itself. Okay.
 We'll take testimony in both cases, but we're going to limit individual testimony to two minutes because we believe we're going to have a very large number of people who are going to want to speak to us on these documents. And that's going to be true at this hearing and at some other hearings which follow.
 This is the beginning of the public hearing portion of readopting our city comprehensive plan. It's a big deal. It governs how we're going to grow for the next 20 years, and we're estimated to grow by about 250,000 people and 140,000 jobs. And those are daunting statistics of change that we're trying to shape here.
 So since good places don't happen by accident, we're going to do some planning with your help. We've already had a lot of help, and we've had about 4,000 comments, I think, at the Planning and Sustainability Commission on the proposed draft. And I want to thank the commission for their huge amount of service. We'll be hearing from them as we proceed today.
 So let's start with our director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability after Carla reads the items. Why don't you go ahead and read both of them, and then Susan can proceed. Thank you.
 Are we just taking 1209, the 2 o'clock, and then the 3 o'clock at 3? 1209 at 2 o'clock. So I guess go ahead and read 1209 now, and we'll wait and read 1210 then. 1209. Adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan. Accept report of the Citizen Involvement Committee. Ms. Anderson. Ms. Anderson.
 thank you mayor commissioners um good afternoon as the mayor mentioned the first hour of testimony today is focused just on the four comprehensive plan supporting documents the four documents include first a report that outlines the work of our community involvement committee that has met for about five or six years now second the economic opportunity analysis this report shows that we have an adequate land supply to meet our employment forecasts
 The third report is the growth scenarios report, and the fourth is the citywide systems plan. We've asked the public to focus their comments just on these four reports, and then comments on the rest of the comp plan can be at 3 p.m. I'd really recommend that after you listen to the comments today that we hold the record open for written testimony until January 7th to give people ample time to comment.
 I'm not going to talk more about the reports. We had five work sessions, a lot of, you know, 10 hours of time together getting ready for today's meetings. I would like to invite both Stan Penkin and Howard Shapiro up to join me. They both provided a lot of leadership, in particular on the community involvement committee, and they want to share their thoughts about the report that you're looking at and the public process.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Can't lose you now, Howard. Good afternoon. I'm Howard Shapiro. I'm the Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but I'm also, by some quirk of fate, the Chair of the CIC, the Citizen Involvement Committee. I say that because the Chair of the committee was commanded to be a commissioner, and I was the one who stepped up.
 Having said that, I want to talk about the, I guess, genesis of this whole idea, which began five or six years ago, I think, with Visioning Portland and the idea of a citizen involvement committee, a cross-section of people who could adequately and correctly report what they were feeling at the grassroots as the planning and so forth of the city went forward.
 That idea was accepted by two mayors previous to this, and the process took about a year, vetting the correct number of people that would serve on this committee. Through that year, people hung in and were very stalwart about how they felt about it. I want to read that they were a group that were committed to equity, to inclusion, and to a vibrant future for our city.
 And we met for six long years. Stan will report on the outcome of it at the end of it. But the process, I must say, hasn't been perfect. There'll never be enough time to hear things, and there'll be too much time to push things through, and I'm sure you'll hear about that today. And I think it's all correct. But I think this is an important, correct, and...
 really vital part of what the whole city functions best about, and that's hearing at the grassroots on a regular basis from people who hear and see and feel things in their community. People are committed to equity, to inclusion, and to, again, the vibrance of our city.
 I can't say enough about the people. They were and they are amazing. And they do represent a cross-section of what our city has come to represent. I also want to take a moment now, if I may, to... Pardon me, I just ran from a parking heater and I'm...
 if I may, to really salute the people who really make this happen, the people of the Planning Bureau. Susan and her staff are remarkable. We even bring you water. Thank you.
 Susan and her staff are remarkable. And the Citizen Involvement Committee is part, I think, grateful for the time and the energy that they all put into it. If I named the names, it would be like an Academy Award of people who have all supported this. Having said that, and having said that the process isn't perfect, we encourage that you go forward, that you continue this kind of citizen involvement and the citizen grassroots reporting back.
 Having said that, I want to let Stan Penken say a few words about how we finally ended up and how I think I hope the committee can go forward. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Howard, it's a hard act to follow, but I'll give it a shot. My name is Stan Penken. I am an original member of the Community Involvement Committee that came together nearly six and a half years ago to begin its work on the outreach efforts of the Portland Plan and later the Comprehensive Plan.
 I was a young man back then and had no idea that what was advertised as four meetings a year for three years would evolve into something far more extensive and exceedingly meaningful. Now, after 50 full committee meetings and countless subcommittee meetings, workshops, hearings, and so on, I want to share some thoughts about the public involvement process. First, what was done?
 A wide range of public information and outreach activities was implemented by BPS for the comprehensive plan update, including a popular interactive map app, a website, and an e-newsletter.
 Among the many face-to-face outreach activities were table events, community meetings, neighborhood walks, a dedicated helpline, district liaison office hours, and open house events, plus many mailings to property owners and articles and advertisements in community newspapers.
 These activities informed the public about the proposed draft elements and its effects on specific properties. It answered questions and ensured that people who wanted to provide testimony to the PSC would be able to. There is considerable data available about the extent of these efforts, which I will not take time to present here. As with any initiative, especially one of such major scope, entailing massive data and complex information,
 There are numerous challenges. There are three major areas for improvement that we observed. First is transparency. All involved value the opinions of all community members, and BPS made an unprecedented effort to reach out to everyone. An unfortunate mishap occurred when PSC, in responding to community concerns, extended the comment period last March.
 Staff, however, had continued their original schedule of preparing reports based on comments that had already been received. Some community members felt their testimonies were overlooked. All of the testimonies were eventually included in future discussions, but the damage of distrust was already done.
 To maintain the highest standards of transparency, we must make extra effort to educate individuals on the involvement process so miscommunication and confusion does not occur. Second is making a plan to continue to build upon established relationships and to build new ones. This is especially important for underrepresented groups.
 We heard comments like, this doesn't affect me, why should I care? And if I'm not being heard, why should I get involved? In a long process, there won't always be action items for community comment, but keeping up the public's interest should be a priority.
 It is important for BPS to coordinate with ONI and relevant community groups to assure that leadership and capacity building continue for all groups in order to develop the knowledge and capacity to fully participate.
 Third is funding for outreach. After six years of experience and a learning curve, we should be able to provide better future funding for additional staff providing outreach, for broadening the reach of our communication tools, and for a designated liaison to communicate between BPS and underrepresented communities. As we move forward towards implementation,
 We believe there should continue to be a CIC entity to, one, evaluate community involvement programs for multiple bureaus, two, to review involvement plans for individual projects, and three, to create and maintain a community involvement manual for implementing the COMP plan goals and policies. Without strong, meaningful, and consistent public involvement,
 the comp plan will not guide us to the outcomes that we seek. The CIC recognizes that city resources are a significant factor in considering future oversight. While we believe resources were responsibly allocated, much of those resources were dedicated to those ready and willing to engage.
 Although we are impressed by the high levels of community response, we feel that underrepresented groups that are often hesitant to join the process were not pursued as much as they might have been. As we address the goals and policies of the ComPlan, the involvement of our diverse communities is as important as ever. Resources must be allocated in a fair and equitable manner. I am honored to have had the opportunity to work with so many devoted individuals
 from my fellow committee members to the professional and dedicated staff at BPS. It was a collaborative effort wherein CIC and staff shared ideas, including constructive criticism, and were willing to learn from each other. The committee thanks and acknowledges the many staff members who guided us. While we cannot mention everyone, we want to especially express our appreciation to Marty Stockton, Deborah Stein, Eden Dabbs, and Sarah Wright.
 And I would be remiss if I did not mention the able leadership of our chair, Mr. Howard Shapiro. While the comprehensive plan quickly approaches its adoption stage, it will not be the end, but rather the foundation of an ever-evolving progression of making Portland the best it can be for everyone in the city. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both.
 may i just add one more thing uh there's a quote that ces wood is quite famous for that says good citizens are the riches of a city that's really what is eloquently demonstrated here in the work of this committee we thank you for your time thank you
 Thank you both. Move on to the testimony. Let's do. Thank you very much. Okay, so we have, I don't believe we have any invited testimony, so we're going to move directly to the sign-up sheet. Again, this is on the supporting documents. If you're here to speak on the comp plan itself, that's what begins at 3. So, Carla? We have 30 people signed up for this item. The first three, please come on up, are number 1, 2, and 3, James Peterson, Bob Sollinger, and Rehana Ansari.
 And they'll be followed by Troy Clark, Rick Brown, and Meg Ruby, number four, five, and six. You get to be first. Go ahead. Hi. My name is James Peterson. I am here today speaking as a citizen. If you've read the 2035 comp plan, you'll be greatly amazed that citizens have been greatly removed from that document. You should really consider getting more in line with goal one. Okay, I'm really concerned about the numbers here
 There's written testimony here that this is being – the numbers – projected numbers are grossly inadequate or overstated. The projected growth of 120,000, 24,000 housing units that the city of Portland is planning for in the 2035 plan has some flawed assumptions –
 MENTRO IS USING A CAPTURE RATE OF 72% FOR THEIR FORECAST, WHERE THEIR HISTORICAL CAPTURE RATE HAS BEEN 62%. THAT'S 8.6% HIGHER THAN HAS EVER BEEN ACHIEVED. THE CITY OF PORTLAND IS PLANNING ON CAPTURING 60% OF THAT INFLATED NUMBER.
 when the best they've ever been able to do – achieve is 36 percent. Thus, the more likely number of housing units should be 68,000 units instead of 124,000 units. The same thing happened during the Southwest Community Plan when the city – when Metro projected that the City of Portland can achieve 50,000 housing units, and the City of Portland requested 70,000, and the – and Metro was more in line.
 Clark County is capturing 56% of the growth rate outside the UGB. Most of the housing units planned in the city of Portland are for mixed-use complexes. The majority of the people, 80% of the respondents, prefer single-family residence. There's a big discrepancy in what people want and what the city is planning for.
 All right. Thank you. Thank you very much. We've got your written testimony here, so thank you very much. Mr. Salinger, I think you're next. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm here representing the Audubon Society of Portland and our 16,000 members in the metropolitan region. First, I want to thank you for your votes on the fossil fuel resolutions over the last couple of weeks. Those are historic votes, and today you have another chance to move us forward to a cleaner, healthier, and more prosperous future.
 We are here to support the economic opportunities analysis that's drafted. We think the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has done a good job, and we particularly want to focus on marine industrial lands, on river industrial. The approach that the economic opportunities analysis takes really focuses in on three things –
 to meet industrial land supply. Rather than destroying green fields, going to natural areas, rolling back environmental regulations, basically what it says is take better care of what you already have, use it better, clean it up, put it into productive use, and that's how we'll get our jobs and that's how we'll deal with our demand for marine industrial lands. It says clean up your brownfields. We have over 900 acres in this region. We need to clean them up and put them back into productive use for our communities. Okay.
 It says intensify use of the existing land base. We can make a lot better use of the land we already have. And finally, it says stop converting industrial lands to other uses. Be more careful about that. And we have a lot of cases in point where industrial interests have converted lands. I think about the shopping mall out at the airport. I think about Terminal 1, which is now condominiums.
 Too often, industrial landowners have cashed out, taken the money, and then come back and said, we need more land. We need to stop that kind of pattern. We know you're going to be under tremendous pressure to bring back Hayden Island into the comp plan. It's not in there now as industrial land. You're going to hear about jobs, but the plan recognizes that it's not going to create a whole lot of jobs. You're going to hear about cargo, but cargo forecasts have been notoriously inaccurate.
 and you're going to hear about balance, but we have a river that's already tremendously degraded. If we're concerned about balance, we need to protect what we have left. Finally, I would remind council that the port had an opportunity to step up a couple years ago and bring forward a plan that would actually protect the environment and the community. Instead, they stepped out. They walked away from the table. They said they couldn't do it, they wouldn't do it, and they should not be able to use the comp plan as a backdoor way to bring it back in. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. Rayhana Ansari here to testify on the Economic Opportunity Analysis on behalf of the Portland Business Alliance.
 The Alliance has been tracking the comprehensive plan update for the last two years, and we would like to commend staff for all their hard work to date. We plan to provide input on the broader plan, but this afternoon I'd like to focus on a few assumptions that have been made to fulfill the State of Oregon's Land Use Goal 9 requirements on economic development.
 First, the proposal, in summary, we're concerned about the following. One, the proposal to accommodate a low marine cargo forecast test.
 The low forecast is not justified by recent market trends, nor is it consistent with existing plans that have been approved by Portland City Council, including the Portland Plan, We Build Green Cities campaign, and the Greater Portland Export Plan. All these plans aim to promote our traded sector economy. As we have shown, our value of jobs report.
 As we have shown in our value of jobs reports, export-related jobs pay on average 18% more than non-exporting jobs across sectors. Manufacturing jobs that produce traded sector goods are also found to provide higher wages and better benefits than non-manufacturing jobs, particularly for communities of color and for those with less than a four-year college degree. A low marine cargo forecast does not promote our traded sector economy or middle-income job growth.
 Two, aspirational brownfield redevelopment. The EOA assumes that 60% of brownfields will convert over the next 20 years. This is dependent in large part on the ability of the state to enact and fund legislation and programs. Meantime, brownfields do not often convert to industrial land due to cost burdens and onerous regulations associated with their redevelopment.
 Finally, the EOA relies on golf course conversion. Golf courses are privately owned, and an owner must be willing to sell their property. Not all of the golf courses that are counted for in the EOA have confirmed an interest to sell. We urge that the EOA reflect market realities to help ensure a prosperous and equitable future for all Portlanders. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Next three are Troy Clark, Rick Brown, and Meg Ruby. That's four, five, and six. It will be followed by Kristen Myra, David Red Thunder, and Jeff Stone, seven, eight, and nine. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Troy Clark. I'm the President of the Friends of Smith and Bybee Lakes, and I'm on the Columbia Sioux Watershed Council. For years, we have seen industry encroach on our city's natural areas, putting added stress on our natural systems. It has gotten to the point where we must draw a line and protect what remains of our precious natural areas. Thank you.
 The current industrial land strategy laid out in the economic opportunities analysis draft takes an important first step in this direction. I'm glad to see that redevelopment of contaminated brownfields is emphasized in the city's strategy. It only makes sense to put these long, vacant lands back into use before paving over our last remaining natural areas like West Haven Island.
 The reclaiming of these contaminated areas will bring needed economic drivers that make our local communities more vibrant and promise local economic growth. Along with this new approach in the EOA, I urge that we retain and reinforce environmental protection on the current industrial lands along rivers and floodplains. Think of the Columbia Slough in particular.
 These are some of the most important natural resources for our city and they need to be protected. Twenty years of involvement on the Columbia Sioux Watershed Council and the Smith and Bybee Wetlands Natural Area Advisory Committee have given me insight to the importance of these waterways, wetlands, and adjacent natural areas and the role they play in the health of our local environment and community.
 I support the EAO's current industrial land strategy as it provides industrial lands and the jobs our communities need, while at the same time protecting the last few natural areas and open spaces that make Portland such a great place to live.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hills, Commissioners. My name is Rick Brown, and I'm here today on behalf of 350 PDX, where I serve on the Volunteer Board of Directors. It's pleasing to reflect back on the landmark resolutions regarding fossil fuel transportation and infrastructure that you all passed in the last couple of weeks, so thank you again. At the same time, it's
 sobering to reflect on the, that despite such measures, we're experiencing and will continue to experience the adverse effects of climate change for a long time to come. Measures that'll keep the majority of fossil fuel reserves in the ground are essential, but so are measures that will provide resilience, that will be adaptive in the face of inevitable climate disruption.
 It's in consideration of those concerns that I'm here today to support the current Economic Opportunities Analysis draft. Its approach to providing protections for streamside and floodplain areas while concentrating industrial development on already developed portions of the landscape will help ensure that our watersheds will be better able to absorb the more frequent heavy precipitation that we can expect to be part of our changing climate landscape.
 In this, the EOA builds on the Climate Action Plan, which recognizes the importance of intact riparian areas in helping reduce temperatures of urban streams and in responding to changes in seasonal precipitation patterns.
 350 pdx urges your support of the current draft of the economic opportunities analysis thank you thank you welcome good afternoon afternoon thank you so much my name is meg ruby i live in southeast portland um i'm a forest ecologist earned my degree at osu i'm a mother of two teenage boys and i'm active in my faith community st michael and all angels episcopal church
 I'm here because I'm a proud Portlander. I'm deeply invested in our city.
 I've worked over the last 16 years to enrich our city's green spaces as in our schools, our parks, and our open spaces. I've worked with kids on hands-on science learning projects in these places, and I do it so they learn science and they're exposed to nature, birds, critters, etc. Fourteen years ago, I founded a learning garden that's going strong still today at Atkinson Elementary, even as my oldest graduated last year from Cleveland University.
 I helped depave and install the community garden at Fraser Park. This matters to me. I'm also, I believe it's actually never been more important than it is today, in part because what Rick referenced, which is the rolling out of change in our climate that is today. Okay.
 But I believe it's never been more important for Portland to remain committed to these high standards of stewardship of our shared environment. And I believe it's essential that the city continue to uphold the moral and ethical obligation we all have to conserve our natural resources for generations to follow.
 The economic opportunities analysis and subsequently the comprehensive plan are important because it will guide land use decisions at all levels over the next 20 years. I support the current draft of this plan. Actions laid out in this version, including cleaning up contaminated brownfields, increasing efficiency and intensity of use on current industrial land, and protecting against conversion away from industrial, will ensure that Portland's economy can continue to prosper and will continue to prosper.
 And in addition, these actions will help maintain a healthy Willamette River and provide for cleaning up of contaminated sites and will protect our last few remaining green fields and natural areas. Portland has been an environmental leader for many years, and this EOA is the next step in that direction.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are 7, 8, and 9, Kristen Mira, David Redthunder, and Jeff Stone. And they'll be followed by Byron Tennant, Janet Labar, and Patty Iverson-Summer, 10, 11, and 12. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Kristen Mara. I'm the Executive Director of the Pacific Northwest Waterways Association. We're a nonprofit based here in Portland, and the Port of Portland is one of our members. I'm here to talk about the growth forecast for the port in the draft comp plan. This Columbia River that we are on is the nation's number one gateway in the United States for wheat and second in the nation for soy.
 When you consider all the grains moving on our river system, we are the third largest grain export gateway in the world. We're also tops on the West Coast for wood exports and for mineral bulk exports. We are an export-heavy system, including significant quantities of Oregon goods, and we play an important role in balancing our nation's trade deficit.
 it's been five years since the columbia river channel deepening project was completed and in those five years over one billion dollars that's with a b in new private and public investment has occurred along the lower river of that one billion three hundred and seventy million dollars has been invested right here in the port of portland area and that's taken place at locations like vigor columbia grain louis dreyfus grain shaver towboat company and many others
 All of these investments were made because leaders recognized the steady growth in cargo movement, which has occurred on our river system for over 50 years, and that this growth is forecasted to continue, including here in Portland.
 The Port of Portland serves a wide variety of bulk cargos, which have grown to over 23 million tons a year, valued at $13 billion. And we know that those numbers are impressive, but what's most important to people is what it means to the folks who live here. This river system directly supports over 40,000 jobs in the region, and over half of those are right here in the Portland area.
 We know the Port of Portland will continue to play a key economic development role here in the city, and we urge you to recognize the trends in economic activity in our area and change assumptions in the draft comp plan from a low forecast to a medium forecast for the port. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Go ahead, please. Hello. My name is David Redthunder. I am the West Staten Island Chairman, recognized by High Noon.
 I've lived on there for seven years, and I like to speak about the creatures. There's nine types of mammals, four types of amphibians, and a variety of species of birds. And they are dealing with 80,000 cubic yards of dread spoils have been placed on there for a future foundation of a deep terminal trading post. But anyways...
 There's a path that leads the homeless problem. I mean, we have a homeless problem here, and there's a path down there that leads, and there's not secured. They can go down there, and the pictures I've seen, it's contaminated right now. I mean, the garbage, the debris, and it is the vegetation line of... above the vegetation line below, because the state owns... the state has controls the water to go up in there, but above that, you can't stop the...
 I don't know if deliberately, but they've – since this pathogen put in, the increase of human – just the human consumption of all the feces and the bathroom problems and the dogs. And I speak about the animals, that we have our state bird back there, which is the Western Metal Ark, and we have the beaver back there.
 I've talked to the poor about it, and now I'm just here to speak about the creatures. Because down the road, I mean, it seems like you have your commission, this other county commission that votes, and they bring these votes down to you guys, and you guys are the final vote. Well, they voted to go ahead and follow through with...
 Making this into industrial land. And so I'm here today to speak about the creatures. And we have this habitat pressed up against the city boundaries. And I think we should protect these black-tailed deer, the beavers, and the amphibians, and all these varieties of species of birds. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, city councilors, I'm Jeff Stone. I'm the executive director for the Oregon Association of Nurseries. We are the second largest sector of ag. We...
 are proud to be in Multnomah County, and we have several members in this great city. My purpose of my appearance today is to express concern over the city downgrading the growth potential of the Portland Harbor to a low-growth forecast, contrary to the recommendation by the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Trade is critical, and the city of Portland needs to be an active player in revitalizing the Portland Harbor community.
 I'm a former chief of staff for the Metro Council, and so I've been in the planning space quite a bit. Planning decisions by cities and by the region make a difference on wages, the economy, and community prospects. With a low growth forecast, the draft comprehensive plan does a poor job of recognizing the economic impact and the capacity of the harbor. The assumptions are lacking focus in reality and will impact the farm communities well outside of our jurisdiction here.
 The port slowdown during this recent time really harmed the nursery and greenhouse industry. Almost 20% of the export containers shipped out of the Pacific Northwest carry agriculture products. The cost of a truck for a container to go to the city of Portland is $250. It's $800 additional to go to Tacoma, and it's $1,200 to go up to Seattle. So that already adds traffic to an I-5 corridor that's already a mess.
 Nurseries ship more than 80 million environmentally friendly trees and plants through the port system. So it's just not a Willamette Valley thing. Ontario is seeing economic downturns because of the container issue. And so I would recommend, because we have some of the best agricultural crops in the United States –
 And in my letter to you, I explain all the different reasons why we think that you should move the forecast from low back up to medium, and I thank you for your time today. Thank you. Just a couple of follow-up questions if I can. I don't want to sell off the pace of testimony because we've got a lot of people who want to speak, but I almost asked him his answer to this question, but you mentioned this in passing, and that is your members' products are leaving the –
 leaving this region and going worldwide by container, right? Yes. And so the port has lost its container port, and although the Port of Portland has our name in it, it's actually a state agency. So the state government has failed to negotiate a successful labor agreement by which we have a container port.
 what's happened to your members in the two years since we've had a container port? Have they lost volume? Are they still growing? Have they shouldered this additional cost of shipping freight beyond the region? I understand the traffic impacts, but I'm wondering about the business impacts. Are they growing or are they shrinking? Mr. Mayor, thank you very much for the question. It is loading cost into the cost of production to get the product now to a different port. And I'm with you that...
 the port of portland we need to work with the port of portland to try to get back the capacity that they once had with hangen leaving that really that really hurt a lot of agricultural products so for for my members what they're seeing is it's harder and more expensive to get that product out
 because they're having to load a truck, which they don't want to do. They want to go to the street. I understand logistical difference, but my question is what's happened to the business volume? Has it gone up? Has it gone down? I've heard economists argue, including one in a recent newspaper article, that this is not an issue. They're doing fine. Is that your impression? No.
 well because we grow some of the best stuff in the world we we do ship quite a bit but we're they're finding it that it's harder to make it pencil out by having the increased cost and so the differential between shipping a container to the port of portland and to seattle is quite a difference okay thank you very much thank you thank you all very much okay let's take the next three please our byron tenant
 Janet Labar and Patty Iverson-Summer, number 10, 11, and 12. And they'll be followed by Kate Ross, Mike Rosen, and Jeff Giesler, 13, 14, and 15. Welcome. Hi. I'm Byron Tennant speaking on behalf of the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, or NECN. NECN represents 12 inner-north and northeast neighborhoods and serves over 60,000 Portlanders. Its work focuses on making sure our communities are safe, livable, healthy, vibrant, and inclusive.
 NUCN would like to show support for the general approach taken in the Economic Opportunities Analysis, EOA, to meet industrial lands demand. We submitted comments on an earlier draft of the EOA in spring of this year. It appears many of our concerns were, in fact, considered in this updated version. We applaud the strategies laid out in the plan that focus on redevelopment and intensification of our current industrial land-based use.
 rather than looking to natural areas and open space to satisfy new industrial demand. Brownfields have long compromised our neighborhoods, and we look forward to the city prioritizing their cleanup and reestablishing these currently unused parcels of land as economic drivers for our communities. It only makes sense that we look towards these already developed parcels of land, in many cases located within our communities, to provide us with much-needed economic growth.
 We support strategies laid out in the plan that intensify and retain existing industrial lands and maintain and, in some cases, improve the economic benefits of the incurring industrial inventory.
 While we're generally supportive of the suite of strategies laid out in the EOA, we feel there is one major flaw. The current strategy to rezone and convert portions of several North Portland golf courses into industrial lands remains in this version. It is not consistent with the direction of most other policies within the EOA. Instead of focusing on putting the current built landscape into better use, it proposes to pave over some of the last remaining open space in the neighborhood that are already park deficient.
 These open spaces provide clean air, recreational opportunities, and wildlife habitat in a very developed portion of the city, the Columbia Corridor, and to lose them would be very unfortunate. We understand that there is need for industrial land, but it should not trump the health of the environmental needs of the community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak before you. My name is Janet Labar. I'm the president and CEO of Greater Portland, Inc. We are the regional economic development organization responsible for marketing Greater Portland to companies that are seeking to expand or relocate. We work with the public sector and private sector partners to bring these companies and the resulting jobs and investment to the region. I'm here today to express concern for the low forecast growth
 of the Portland Harbor and the economic opportunities analysis document for the draft City of Portland comprehensive plan. The harbor, which includes 4,000 acres, is a major impact employer and the services provided are a crucial part of the economic vitality of our region and our state. A low forecast signals doubt and sends a negative message about the value of Portland Harbor jobs.
 Jobs in key industrial sectors such as construction, manufacturing, warehousing, and transportation, as well as the opportunities that these industries bring to the entire region. As the regional economic development organization, GPI understands the keystone nature of a working harbor to a city, county, and region's economic vitality.
 Decisions regarding the working harbor impact not only Portland, but also the surrounding region that depend on the port for efficiency, transportation, and jobs. In the Greater Portland 2020 plan, the region's five-year comprehensive economic development strategy, stakeholders have prioritized making the region a top location for global trade and investment.
 Moving forward with a low growth forecast will not only challenge this 2020 priority, but also hinder the city and the region's position as a flourishing gateway to international markets.
 If you believe in the future of our state and the broader region and want to advance regional economic development, labeling the Portland Harbor with a low-growth forecast at a time when we're seeing significant expansion in the harbor sends the wrong message. I respectfully request that you return the Portland Harbor forecast to the most likely moderate growth as originally recommended by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff and support the future of our region. Thanks for your time. Let me pose that same question that I posed to Mr. Stone to you, and that is, at the end,
 the present time in the city's history, we are a commodity and car port and with some shipbuilding on the side. We're not a container port. Our manufacturers are not shipping
 through the city of Portland. They're shipping through other cities because we don't have a container port anymore. What do you think is the realistic prospect that the state will be able to restore container service to our city? I assume your organization is putting a lot of pressure on the governor and the Port of Portland to get that resolved. Well, we certainly tried. I think that that is a critical issue, and I do think that the possibility of retaining shipper service is possible.
 is within reach. I've heard estimates of sometime between one and two years, and we will continue to pressure the port and the state to make sure that that happens. That's a good day. Yes. Well, why do you think it's most likely that we'll have moderate growth? What gives you to believe that there will be moderate growth? Yes.
 Well, I haven't combed through the EOA in further detail, but I did look at the analysis that ECHO Northwest did do in there, and I do believe that there is still possibility for use of the industrial lands within the harbor. And as we, Greater Portland Inc., is studying large site strategies across the region, I do think that there is a steady supply of demand, a steady demand,
 that is healthy for further industrial growth. Now, there's a lot of work that needs to be done on those lands. I understand that remediation needs to take place, but it's important to make these investments to make sure that we can foresee additional job growth in the future. What I'm reading in the plan is that there is a commitment to intensifying in the harbor and cleaning up those lands, so I'm not understanding quite why having a realistic growth expectation is a problem. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. Thanks for your comment. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you for inviting me. My name is Patty Iverson-Summer. I'm the founder and president of Global Trading Resources. We are a customs broker, freight forwarder, NVOCC non-vessel common carrier, and an indirect air carrier as well. We are where the –
 tires meet the road, so to speak, or where the cargo meets the ship. We set up shipments overseas to come into and go out of this area, and
 We handle the customs clearance and clearances of all federal agencies that have jurisdiction over imported or exported goods. So we see day-to-day what happens to businesses that are involved in international trade. And I can say it is flourishing. The only sad thing for the Port of Portland is that we do not have a container service anymore.
 Having been involved with that, with the labor issue and the owner issues, the Pacific Maritime Association contract negotiations for multiple years, and the particular issues between the terminal operator and the ILWU Local 8, once that is resolved and it's in the courts, I
 would very, very positively say that we should have container service back into the Port of Portland. The configuration of the port is a gem on the West Coast. We have more potential to move more freight from Montana, from Idaho, down to the river, loaded up in containers, and
 and ship it all over the world. I travel the world. I meet agents from all over the world, from Africa, all over Asia, Indonesia,
 Europe. And I have sold the Port of Portland. I have taken Port of Portland literature and told them how advantageous it is to do direct discharges in the Port of Portland. All of my contracts were with Henjin and Hapag-Lloyd for that very reason, because we could clear cargo much faster, more efficiently, and more economically. All of the containers that were originally discharging in
 Portland are now discharging in Seattle, Tacoma. That's 5,000 containers a week put on the road. I just came back. This is why I don't have a written testimony. I just heard about this hearing yesterday.
 I was anxious to be able to discuss this with you. I was in Salem testifying with the Senate Interim Committees on Business and Transportation and Business and Transportation and Economic Development that were held Tuesday and Wednesday. I've been involved in the Oregon Trade Logistics Initiative for the past six months that was initiated by the governor. And I guess I'm
 I have two comments. One, I do believe that you need to upgrade the level of international trade through the port to at least a medium, because it's there.
 We just have to have the facilities to handle it. And secondly, I would ask that you coordinate with the state projects. They were very interested in what the proposals were for interim workarounds and incentives on how to enhance the overall transportation abilities of this region. The agricultural people are...
 crying. Yes, I know. Well, thank you. I appreciate you being here. I hope you, if you haven't already done so, that you give Susan or someone else on our planning staff your contact information, because I think you could be a great resource for us. So if you're not already in touch with them, we'd like to stay in touch. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 Okay, next three are Kate Ross Mike Rosen and Jeff Giesler That's 13 14 and 15 and they'll be followed by Joseph miles Kelly lightning watchdog PDX and Jim Landon Paul 1617 and 18 Good afternoon. My name is Kate Ross and I'm here today representing Willamette River keeper and our members Willamette River keeper is dedicated to protecting and restoring the health of the Willamette River and
 We are here to support the approach taken in the economic opportunities analysis regarding addressing industrial lands along the Willamette. The lower Willamette, as it passes through Portland, represents the most degraded stretch of the river. It has been channelized, deepened, and hardened, and as a result, very little habitat remains. Vast acres of what were once floodplains have been filled and eliminated.
 The final 10 miles before the confluence are, as you know, a Superfund site. This degraded state undermines the health of human and wildlife populations, as well as access to the river and the quality of our environment. Every salmon that uses the 187 mile long Main Stem River has to pass through Portland.
 Willamette Riverkeeper strongly supports the approach taken in the EOA to meeting industrial land demand. Rather than continuing to degrade our environment by converting what little habitat is left to industrial use, the EOA instead focuses on making better use of the industrial lands we already have. Specifically, it focuses on restoring contaminated brownfields to productive use...
 intensifying use of existing industrial lands, and preventing unnecessary conversion of industrial lands to other uses. We believe that this is the right approach for our environment and our community. The river is already severely degraded. We should not adopt policies that would exacerbate this situation.
 The EOA and Comp Plan offer an opportunity to chart a new, more sustainable, cleaner, and healthier future for our community, our environment, and our economy. It doesn't say that we won't create new blue-collar jobs. What it says is that we will create those jobs in ways that focus on maximizing the efficiency of existing industrial land base and which recover industrial lands that industry has already contaminated.
 In essence, we would be saying take better care of what you already have, and that is an approach that all of Portlanders should be able to support. Thank you for your time and careful consideration. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hi, I'm Jeff Geisler. I'm the current chair for Hayden Island, the High Noon. And for three different events, we have not supported industrial development of West Hayden Island, 826 acres.
 With the latest seismic information that's coming out, I mean, it's become more and more clear that we already know it is a floodplain. And it's not a 100-year floodplain. It's more like a 30-year floodplain. We've had three floods since the turn of the century. But on another note, we're hoping that you stick to the judgment that you've already made within the last year to withdraw it from the list of industrial lands.
 But there is a lot of economic growth on Hayden Island. We're having banner years at all three of our hotels, the Red Lion, the Oxford Suites. The Thunderbird is going to reopen in the spring. I just got that from Howard Dietrich, the owner of the Red Lion.
 If anything, East Hayden Island is an economic engine in itself. They might not be industrial jobs, but there are a lot of jobs. We've got 376 new apartments, and there's potential for maybe 1,000 more because Columbia Crossings, that owns a lot of land, wants to imitate Crossings.
 the harbor yachts or the yacht harbor apartments. So the other thing is, is that there's an obvious increase in economic interest and environmental interest in kayaking and stand-up paddle boarding. So our natural resource, which is the island, which is a great place to live, people love to come here and experience West Hayden Island. And they're not even walking on it. They're just liking to go around in boats and stand-up paddle boards and stuff.
 So I just want you to know that all the people on Hayden Island have always been against developing that 826 acres. Thank you. Thank you. Afternoon. Afternoon.
 Mayor Hales and Commissioners, I'm Mike Rosen. I've worked in natural resource cleanup protection and program management for the last 27 years, the most recent 13 as the watershed division manager for Portland. I currently run the Ecoliteracy Collaborative, a nonprofit dedicated to providing project-based K-12 sustainability education to underrepresented communities.
 I'm here to express my support of the Planning and Sustainability Commission's supporting documentation for the draft comprehensive plan. In short, I believe it accurately reflects the marine cargo projections for the region and therefore appropriately sets the stage for protection of Portland's limited natural habitat, such as West Hayden Island.
 Over the past 13 years, the city's watershed group created three powerful tools to accurately assess, protect, and restore Portland's critical environmental habitat and water quality.
 particularly for riverine environments, the Portland Watershed Management Plan, the Comprehensive Watershed Monitoring Strategy, and the Watershed Health Index and associated watershed report cards. Each of these tools, based on decades of science and local and national natural resource work, show that in order to protect and enhance local water quality, the natural environment and
 and environmental health, Portland must continue to take bold steps to protect our remaining natural resources in balance with sensible economic development. We know
 that for the continued restoration of endangered salmon runs, we must protect shallow water habitat, that the accurate cargo projections contained in the economic opportunities analysis shows that through the reclamation of brownfields and more effective use of existing port policy, Portland can meet the needed industrial land supply demand in order to support ongoing economic development and generation of middle-income jobs.
 And unfortunately, we know that even after millions of dollars spent over two decades to refute credible science that supports the protection of critical habitat, such as West Hayden Island, the port is intent on the industrial development of West Hayden Island and its habitat destruction.
 In the most recent process to determine the feasibility of industrial development of West Hayden Island, even given the opportunity to provide only the most minimal habitat protection and mitigation, the port walked away from the table claiming the cost was too high. The draft comprehensive plan does what it needs to. It sets a solid policy framework that will require the restoration and use of available industrial land
 while providing economic growth and adequate protection for critical habitat. I encourage the Council to adopt this plan and to continue to show the exemplary environmental leadership it has in the past several weeks. Thank you for considering this testimony. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Next three are Joseph Miles Kelly, Lightning Watchdog PDX, and Jim Labenthal. That's 16, 17, and 18. And they'll be followed by Megan Moyer, Jennifer Hudson, and Fred LaCapra, 2021 and 19, 2021. Go ahead, please.
 Hello, my name is Joseph Miles Kelly. Currently, I am a welder at Gundersen. I've been working at Gundersen since I graduated high school in 2014. I began in their welding program. It's about a month and a half or so long. When I finished there, I moved out into the Marine Division. Can you move the mic just a little closer so we can slide that whole box closer to you? Is this better? Yeah.
 When I finished the welding program, I moved out into the Marine Division. I worked on several of the barges before moving over to the Rail Division, where I am currently at as a repair welder. Currently, I make $19.05 an hour. I receive full medical benefits. I receive 401K benefits, and I occasionally get overtime.
 I'd like to point out that of my friends, I am the only one who is completely independent of their parents, who, again, I get all these benefits, and I am successful at such a young age. And none of this would have been possible without my position at Gundersen.
 In addition to the living wage jobs that Gundersen provides, I have also had an opportunity to develop my skills, be it through on-the-job training or through the classes that Gundersen provides, like blueprint reading or any of the other classes. As the city council considers the comprehensive plan, I would like them to consider the opportunities that companies like Gundersen provide youths like myself. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much for coming.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Pertaining to the economic opportunity analysis, one of the biggest concerns, obviously I want to see the brownfields cleaned up. And some of the problems I have on that is I think the city tends to land bank too many properties, hold on to them too long. I want to see them go back to the private sector, put back on the tax rolls. We need to have that income coming in and also these properties being developed.
 Issue number two is that I have a big concern on this plan not having any emphasis on the levy that runs up along the Portland International Airport. We're currently trying to get that certified accreditation on that by FEMA, by Army Corps of Engineers. In my opinion, we're going to need to rebuild that levy. In my opinion, our cost is going to be anywhere from $5 to $7.5 billion dollars.
 We need to put that at the top priority of this city over any of the bridges being brought up to seismic standards. We need to protect the Portland International Airport at any cost. We need to protect any and all businesses at any cost. We need to protect the people at any cost, too.
 Again, this levy will not meet the New Orleans standards. It needs to be rebuilt, and we need to begin looking at the federal funding options on this, and we need to phase this in. Phase one will be to protect the Portland International Airport.
 Again, when we're talking climate change and the problems we might have in the future, we all agree there's going to be excessive flooding, and we need to make sure that this levy has brought up today's New Orleans standards. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Jim. Good afternoon. My name is Jim Laubenthal. I live in northeast Portland. I'm a member of Riverside Golf Club, and I'm speaking for Riverside on the EOA.
 Two aspects of the EOA that I'd like to mention is the forecast and also the statements in the EOA that talk about our eventual demise at the end of the 20-year time frame. The economic forecast for the golf industry in the EOA, we believe, is a little bit too simplistic, too coarse, if you will.
 And if you take a little more nuanced look at kind of what's going on in the industry, you might reach some different conclusions, at least about some of the courses. A couple of aspects that I think come into play in this. We are operating on a very different kind of business model, a membership-based business model versus a pay-as-you-go model. And that creates a very different set of dynamics in the industry.
 The document cites the decline of golf at inner-city locations. We actually see that as a great plus for us because we're well-located to very vibrant neighborhoods, both in the Portland area and in Vancouver. And being sort of centrally located in the region, we have a selling point in terms of, especially with traffic these days, and all of us are concerned about travel times. And we find it's a factor people use when they're making choices about social and golf memberships.
 We also have a growing population base that I think also comes into play here in terms of what happens with the golf industry. Also, a number of national figures include resort courses, and we're not that. And so we have a relatively healthy situation going on.
 And lastly, the document talks about that in the timeframe of the planning horizon of 2035, that we could reasonably expect Riverside and Broadmoor to cease operations. And we're really bothered by that. And I think having that kind of call out of a specific operating entity in a policy plan like this is not a good precedent to set. And we plan on being around for a while.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. We at Portland Parks and Recreation are hoping to send lots of new golfers your way. I agree. I think that there is a new excitement about golf that we're seeing at Colwood and great potential for expanding the awareness and enjoyment of the game. Thank you. I like Colwood. I've been over there since then. Thank you very much. So we should probably take a few more. Is that right, Rachel, or should we switch? So take a few more of the folks that have signed up for this item.
 these are the last three okay oh these are the last three okay no i've got about 13 more i don't think we're going to manage 13 more so what do you recommend susan do we continue that what do we do um let's take these three and let you confer about that go ahead and take these the next three 19 20 and 21 are megan moyer jennifer hudson and fred lacapra welcome
 Thank you. For the record, I'm Megan Moyer. I'm the Director of Government Relations for Portland Community College. And I'm here to talk briefly about the importance of building a vibrant and diverse workforce in this area. Portland Community College does not have a position on any specific policy related to the working waterfront, but we are partners with many industries there around workforce development and have invested heavily in it.
 One with our partnership with Vigor Industries in which we actually locate a program on their facility training welders as well as the construction and expansion of our Swan Island facility.
 We are committed to creating meaningful paths for people to family wage jobs, and those paths are not always four-year degrees. We strongly support blue-collar work, the dignity of that work, the importance of that work, and its history here.
 in Portland and specifically in our commitment to Swan Island in trying to diversify that workforce and create opportunities to historically marginalized communities.
 PCC is proud of our work with our waterfront community and want to make sure as we seek a balanced approach to our growth as a city that we continue to value and recognize the importance of these type of projects.
 Growth and labor in ways that there are paths to economic stability and prosperity that are not simply high tech jobs. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Jennifer Hudson. For the record, I'm
 Assistant General Counsel at Schnitzer Steel. Thank you for the opportunity to testify on this topic of great importance to my company. Schnitzer has been actively engaged in the comp plan process for several years, and we appreciate the city's professionalism through the process. Our testimony today is limited to the EOA.
 Schnitzer employs nearly a thousand in Oregon. Many of these operations and manufacturing positions are union. They are good family, middle-wage jobs with a low barrier to entry. And by that I mean you don't need a college degree to apply. I'm here today to advocate for an accurate accounting in the EOA to ensure enough industrial land to maintain jobs like ours for the next 20 years and beyond.
 As a practical matter, the land and infrastructure needs of harbor businesses are unique. And to be accurate, the EOA cannot lump the analysis of harbor businesses in with other non-water dependent, non-water related businesses. A significant improvement in the proposed EOA before you today. Thank you.
 as compared with the one adopted in 2012 and appealed by Schnitzer, is that the harbor access lands are consistently evaluated as a distinct land area with particular site needs, and we thank you for that.
 Conversely, the proposed EOA today has taken a significant step backwards from the EOA the City adopted in 2012 regarding the growth forecast that you've already heard quite a bit about. The PSC recommended that you make the policy choice today that the City should plan for a low cargo forecast instead of a low cargo forecast.
 And in despite of the 50 years of data that support a medium forecast, the EOAU supported in 2012 and a supporting analysis by Metro. So as you can see, our concern is on the demand side. But on the supply side, we agree with the previously stated points in the importance of cleaning up the brownfields, increasing capacity and intensity of the uses on industrial lands. And we also would like to see no new conversion of industrial land to non-industrial uses.
 To be clear, Schnitzer's not here to ask for any change to the zoning or regulations that affect our property. We simply ask the planning effort be based on reliable data so we can have an accurate assessment of opportunity in the harbor for it to thrive. Thank you. Malcolm. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Fred LeCapron. I'm a Gunnarsson employee. Since 1919, Gunnarsson has been located on the west side of the Willamette River, across the river from Swan Island. Gunnarsson has a long manufacturing history in Portland, currently producing ocean-going vessels and two types of all-rail cars, intermodal double-stack containers, and refrigerator boxcars. I've been employed at Gunnarsson for 27 years, have raised my family of three children, and now enjoy my seven grandchildren.
 I started as an unpaid welder trainee and was told that Gundersen had 24 positions open if I could learn to weld in a week, which is exactly what I did. I advanced through the ranks of the company, eventually taking advantage of a tuition assistance program, and went to college at the age of 43 to further my education. Gundersen is a family-orientated operation that supports personal and professional growth. The same opportunities available to me 27 years ago are still available to individuals –
 Thank you.
 We currently hire for 34 job categories within the production process. This does not include white-collar positions. These positions include electricians, welders, carpenters, material handlers, and warehouse workers. Our wages range from $12.60 to $31 an hour, depending on skill level and tenure. Additionally, Gunnarsson has a welder training program. Our comprehensive weld training program can take most individuals that have the desire to learn and make them a successful welder in four to six weeks.
 I have discussed the above because I cannot emphasize enough the need to support a comprehensive plan document that addresses job creation and job retention and policies that protect the ability of harbor businesses to continue to grow and prosper. Our city needs to provide access to self-sufficient wage levels by maintaining an adequate and viable supply of industrial land to support and expand opportunities for middle and high-wage jobs that do not require a four-year college degree.
 Please recognize the importance of our harbored industrial lands in providing living wage job opportunities to citizens of Portland and the region. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. So unfortunately, we're going to have to move on to our second hearing this afternoon. So I believe the process is going to be that we're going to continue the hearing on these items. Susan, is that right? Walk us through that, please. Sure.
 We absolutely value the testimony of everyone who showed up today, so we want to make sure that they get an opportunity. We propose that we keep the hearing open until January 7th. There will be three hearings on the entire comprehensive plan.
 In addition to the one today, and we would welcome them to come and sign up again, unfortunately, at any one of those hearings. We're going to have the same issue at 6 o'clock today, I believe, that there potentially will be more people than actually get to sign up. But they ultimately need more hearings. Right. And so that is why we're adding an extra one on January 7th. Could people who signed up for today come to the next one before January 7th?
 Yes, they can come to any one of the three hearings. We'll leave the record open for both this item and the item that you're about to consider starting at 3 o'clock. So we'll read both titles at all of the times and –
 Thank you. So, yeah, I'm sorry, folks, for those that you signed up today that won't get to speak today. Our next hearing is on Thursday, December 3rd at 6 p.m. at the Middleman Jewish Community Center. So we'll continue this item until then, and then we'll open the hearing on Item 1210, which is the comp plan overall, and I'll let you read that item, please, Carla. Item 1210, adopt a new comprehensive plan for the city of Portland. Okay.
 Okay. And I think, Susan, is there any more introductory material you want to provide now before we start taking testimony? Sure. I just want to speak for two or three minutes. Sure.
 We did have five work sessions, so I don't need to do a long presentation. You've gotten all the information, but I did want to provide you with a few key themes to keep in mind before we get started. You're going to hear today everything from the big picture, looking at housing and transportation and land use and jobs and the environment, all the way down to specific neighborhoods and specific properties. Thank you.
 The details are absolutely important, but so is the big picture and the overall goals that we're trying to meet. So here's five themes to keep in mind. The first is to remember that what you are doing here today really does make a difference, that great places don't happen by accident. We are this great, wonderful, walkable, prosperous, beautiful place today.
 precisely because we did a comprehensive plan 35 years ago, and that plan led us in a very different direction than most American cities. So we have great bones to build on.
 My second point is that this plan is not just about zoning and setbacks and urban design. This plan is about people. It's about serving people and creating great neighborhoods, a great downtown, employment opportunities, housing types of all sorts, a great transportation system, and to protect the environment for us and for future generations.
 My third point is about meeting the demand for housing and jobs. You all know that the demand for housing currently is outstripped. The demand for housing has outstripped supply. We need more multifamily and more single-family housing, and this plan provides a way to meet that demand, though it absolutely does not in and of itself solve the affordable housing crisis.
 In terms of jobs, we forecast 140,000 more jobs in the next 20 years, and the plan provides adequate land for all employment needs. We understand that the low marine forecast may not be good for marketing or for branding for the port, but it is accurate and it is more realistic.
 My fourth point is that the plan will help us meet our infrastructure needs. It lays out a plan for streets and water, stormwater, sewer, parks. It does it efficiently by maximizing the use of existing infrastructure. That means that we encourage more development that's close to existing parks and schools and transit and public facilities. And then it also plans for additional infrastructure from sidewalks to parks in East Portland and other underserved neighborhoods.
 Finally, my last point for you to consider is this. The proposed plan will help us create a more efficient and low-carbon economy and prepare for climate change. One thing that we know for sure is that the federal government is not moving quickly on climate change. Cities have to take the lead, and that's just what they're doing all over the world.
 So in summary, the proposed plan builds on the past. It will help people thrive with more and better housing, jobs, and great neighborhoods. It will help us spend limited infrastructure dollars wisely, and it will help us impact and prepare for climate change. So again, the details you're going to hear about today are super important, but try to keep, as you're listening to some of the testifiers, the bigger picture also in mind.
 That's it. Can I ask you a question? Yeah. So I'm just a little confused because I thought somebody on the economic opportunity analysis, the growth forecast for the marine, I thought somebody said that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability had recommended the medium growth. That's not correct? No. No. We recommended the low forecast.
 Yes. And I know there's some discrepancy here, and I am absolutely sure that the best way to do this is to put the tables in front of you, either as a work session after all the testimony or, you know, individually to let you understand the data that we have.
 Susan, one of the challenges we're going to have as we start hearing testimony is balancing the desire of some folks in our community to put very clear policy directives in the comp plan and our need to keep the comp plan consistent with what state law provides. And at what point in this process will we have a conversation about where that line is and what our role is?
 so we're going to have work sessions after the after all of the different uh opportunities for hearing um and at that time i think we should bring that up and um there is some wiggle room in there there's there's not a direct line saying this is in and this is out i think it will be a little bit of your discretion in terms of what i what actual items in the comp plan do you see as land use actions and what ones aren't right
 What I would say, if we're going to do that in a work session, that makes sense. My expectation would be we get a briefing from you and from the city attorney's office about some of the applicable principles and some examples and then some definition of where the gray is, where do we have that wiggle room, and then some concrete examples that we can work through. We can do that. Thanks. Great. Susan, thank you very much. All right.
 All right, let's begin with testimony, please. I believe so far we have 70 people signed up. We will not get to them all today. The first three, please come on up, are one, two, and three, Robert McCullough, Terry Parker, and Rebecca Mode. And they'll be followed by Zev Nicholson, Nick Sovey, and Pam Phan, number four, five, and six. You get to be first instead of last this time. Hello, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. It's a pleasure to be back.
 I'll be very quick today. You have a long day ahead of you. I'm representing Southeast Uplift first, then I'm going to change hats. I didn't bring my hat, but I'll change it metaphorically and talk about Eastmoreland. On Thursday, we had a meeting of the seven coalitions, the ONI directors and chairs meeting, very extensively attended with people from all of the neighborhoods.
 The general sentiment was that the Goal 1, citizen involvement, had failed pretty miserably. Not so much for lack of meetings. We had all the meetings we could possibly attend. But where it failed was the second step of feedback and involvement. And so that sentiment was pretty much echoed by all seven coalitions.
 I don't have a written statement on it because you know how hard that is to organize. But you will get one. And Paul Lesner, the world's longest-winded writer, 900 pages in his dissertation, each one brilliant, is in charge of putting that together now. So let me move to Eastmoreland. Basically, you know, I grew up in Chicago. I lived on the wrong side of the tracks. And at the stockyard, they had a form of public involvement. It was called animal involvement.
 and as an animal you're invited to a nice party and eventually someone says why don't you walk through the door here and there'll be more good food as you walk through the door they cut off your head and you're thrown into a big pile to be devoured later that's a bit of our feeling we put in extensive testimony on an r7 application we received the rebuttal before the testimony was delivered that's new the rebuttal was slightly insulting that went over badly
 When we finally had the hearing, of course, we could not speak. Our testimony was misrepresented. There was extensive lobbying by the staff to make sure that our proposal was not accepted. Every other similar neighborhoods proposal was accepted. We were singled out. We still don't know why. That's because of that problem with public involvement. There was no feedback. There was no discussion.
 You'll hear in more detail from Rod Merrick, who is much smarter than I am, our land use chair. And he can actually walk through the bits and pieces, and I'll leave that to him. But I do want to note, we're mad as hell. And the fact is, if people are well-prepared, skilled...
 Amiable, helpful, attending, and we're still treated badly. You can imagine what many other people feel. Thank you very much. Thank you. Go ahead, please, Terry. Terry Parker, fourth-generation Portlander from northeast Portland, and I'm representing myself today.
 Over the next 20 years, the Portland metro area is estimated to grow by 400,000 people. Per figures gathered by the Portland Business Alliance, car trips are expected to increase 49 percent and truck trips are expected to increase by 76 percent regardless of how much transit service is added. Per the city's own study, 72 percent of the households in new multi-unit developments on the east side have one or more cars.
 Utilizing those figures along with infill, that equates to approximately 45,000 more cars by 2040.
 In Chapter 3, Urban Form, under Corridors 3.45 and 3.47, the comp plan addresses accommodating growth and mobility needs for people of all ages and abilities, accommodating moldy-mold uses, and balancing all modes of transportation. In Chapter 4, Design and Development, under Off-Site Impact 4.32 and 4.33, the plan addresses mitigation of off-site impacts to residential areas and storage areas adjacent to residential uses.
 In Chapter 9, parking management policies 9.54 through 9.57 that seek to encourage lower car ownership and limit adequate parking for car storage and new multi-unit residential development are contradictory to accommodating multimodal uses for all people and ages and abilities. Proposing more paid on-street permit parking
 areas is contradictory to mitigation of off-site impacts to residential areas. Additionally, Policy 9.57 places more of the financial burden for new development on existing residents and businesses when it should be paying for itself. Adequate off-street parking needs to be required when new development is adjacent to established residential neighborhoods. Policy 9.6, Transportation Strategy for
 movement for people movement is simply discriminatory and needs to be legally challenged. Given the privileges and immunities clause in the Oregon Constitution, equity requires that users of the vehicle modes near the top of the list should be paying higher taxes and fees for the privilege as opposed to extorting drivers at the bottom of the list.
 Policy 9.66, funding enhances this line of financial reasoning. Finally, the aforementioned policies are adopted without equitable changes, even though it may be an inconvenience.
 the city and city leaders must set the example and lead the way this must include lower car ownership by eliminating entire fleet of city automobiles many of which are primarily used for single occupancy vehicle tricks trips and take up two floors of car storage in the first in jefferson parking structure thank you thank you may i present a visual i'm sorry may i present a visual sure sure thank you you want us to pass it around thanks very much thanks
 Hi there, Rebecca Mood. I am opposed to my large lot in Elliott at 506 Northeast Thompson being downsized to R2.5. I'm sorry, what is it now? It's R2A. Okay.
 This zoning may be appropriate for single-family homes, but it's not appropriate for my 9,375-square-foot lot. What's your last name again? Mode, M-O-D-E. Thank you. This proposal is not equitable compared to the other properties on my block. I will be the only large open space not able to build to its best potential, which I believe to be a duplex to the side.
 My block is currently and has been for quite some time mixed with single family homes, apartments, and multi-dwelling properties. It is inequitable that my property is being proposed for down zoning, and the three lots at the end of my block are not. Other properties in district have been excluded from the proposal zone change, and I wish to be as well.
 This is my home where I've lived and raised my family for the last 16 years. I only ask for the right to build respectfully in the future on my lot with its current zoning in a city that needs more housing. I also have questions about if there will be compensation for people who have their land devalued with this zone proposal. Thank you.
 and if a measure 49 claim might apply for that okay do you know why your lot is proposed for down zoning i do it's um part of the elliott conservation district that was made 30 years ago so it's not all of elliott neighborhood it's just the parts that were made the conservation district 30 years ago and i think the goal is you know so people stop building these huge things amongst the little houses in the neighborhood
 And so people stop tearing down houses, which is not what I want to do. I have no desire to tear down my house. Is your house a historic house? It's from 1910 duplex. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Next three are Zev Nicholson, Nick Sovey, and Pam Phan. That's four, five, and six. And they'll be followed by Don Grotting, Frida Christopher, and Doug Klotz, seven, eight, and nine. Thank you.
 I understand you're going to have some supporters here. Yes, we'll do that if we can. I understand you're going to have a silent Greek chorus behind you here.
 Okay, Nick, are you on first or is someone else going to? Zev. Zev, all right. Hi, I'm Zev. I'm the organizing director for the Urban League of Portland. I'm here today representing ADPDX with my colleagues. We represent over 30 organizations from community to labor to faith to immigrant to people of color to middle class to lower economic status, houseless and so forth, etc.
 When we talk about displacement for the black community, the negative effects of displacement have been there for a very long time. The history cannot be untied from the realities we see today. You know, from destruction of our neighborhoods to bulldozing to just not repairing them when they get broken. These things compound over years. The black community is one-third of black...
 Oregonians are house owners versus to two-thirds of white Oregonians. And when we don't have a sense of community, a sense of safety, that affects every aspect of our life. For a mother,
 The womb is the incubator of the child. The community is the incubator of that mother. And when you don't have a sense of safety and community and support, you don't have child care, you're constantly stressed out, that leads to black women being almost twice as likely to have children of low birth weight.
 which then puts them behind in school, which puts them behind for graduation, which puts them in prison, and so forth. And we see this whole cyclical system of oppression that leads people down. So we think this is the wrong path for Portland. And by coming together, we can change these outcomes and pass the comp plan. The time is now.
 Just say yes. Thank you very much. I'm Nick Sovey, the director of Rose Community Development. You have important decisions to make that will shape the city for decades. We need you to just say yes and adopt the anti-displacement PDX policies into the new comprehensive plan.
 I grew up in Portland and I remember participating in workshops for the original comp plan. I'm a huge believer in Oregon's land use system. Smart land use planning has produced many of the things that we love about Portland, a healthy downtown, livable neighborhoods, and access to nature.
 The problem is we only got the original comp plan half right. We made the decisions that made many parts of Portland desirable, but we didn't make the decisions that make Portland livable for everyone. Low-income people and communities of color especially have been left out in the cold. This is what happened when we took the wrong path. Displacement of more than 10,000 people of color in North and Northeast in 10 years.
 Homelessness as bad as it's been in my lifetime. A city that is affordable exactly nowhere for the average black or Native American household.
 East Portland, long considered the city's housing cost safety valve, is experiencing annual rent increases of 10 to 15%. We are already seeing mass displacement in East Portland, which is why the East Portland Action Plan held its own anti-displacement summit and adopted an anti-displacement strategy.
 The nonprofit where I work, Rose, gets hundreds of calls from people desperate for housing, but our waiting lists have been closed for months. I hope that this council recognizes that permanently affordable, nonprofit-owned, and community-controlled housing is an important solution to Portland's housing emergency.
 Rose is proud to be a member of Anti-Displacement PDX. I encourage you all to adopt all 28 of its recommendations to the new comp plan. Don't repeat the mistakes of the 1980s. Don't get the comp plan half right. Just say yes. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you very much, Commissioners, for this opportunity to speak with you. My name is Pam Fahn. I'm with 1,000 Friends of Oregon, and I'm also a proud Oregonian who was born and raised in southeast Portland. And, you know, I reflect on my time here and see kind of a lot of the changes that have happened, especially in the last 10 to 15 years, that we see a lot of the shifts that both Sev and Nick have talked about. And I think they've shown this really urgent and historic reasons for why we're really in this affordability crisis right now.
 We must act now, lest we go down an even more disastrous path in a future where people of color, those of low incomes, and the houseless are really segregated out of Portland completely. Is this the legacy you want this council to have? The draft plan before you is to change this course. We're really optimistic about this.
 Race and income disparity do not have to be the way that we define our next generation. And you simply have to vote yes. So an essential policy in the draft plan, which we worked and advocated over the last 10 months to include, was Chapter 2, Community Involvement, Goal 2B, which is titled Social Justice and Equity. It states that the city will engage communities who have been
 who have experienced and been affected by these critical disparities as partners and ensuring that we don't go down this path towards segregation. So what I'm excited about these partnerships are that we can actually grow and fully invest in them to create empowered communities that are civically active in communities who have been underrepresented and haven't had a voice. But only if you say yes.
 Today we're here all together, united as Portlanders. We are houseless, we are renters, people of color, those of low incomes, those of middle incomes, homeowners, advocates, all here united to urge you that displacement and gentrification, displacement, you can end displacement and make gentrification a thing of the past. You have this opportunity to do what no one has ever done in Oregon.
 which is to tie our forward-thinking and progressive land use system to the values, true values of livability for all. Please, just say yes. Thank you. Thank you all very much. The next three are Don Grotting, Frida Christopher, and Doug Klotz. That's 7, 8, and 9. And they'll be followed by Bree Romago, Rodney Fliger, and Mary Vogel, 10, 11, and 12. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Why don't you go ahead, Doug, while they're getting set. All right. I'm Doug Klotz. I am the land use chair and the rich of neighborhood board member, but I'm not speaking on their behalf. I'm speaking for myself. I support the comp plan draft. I have some comments about it. As you know, most multifamily is being built in commercial zones right now. The mixed-use proposal will reduce the capacity of the commercial zones.
 but except when a developer takes advantage of the bonuses and gets additional FAR and a partial fifth floor by providing affordable housing, among others, but mostly it's affordable housing. Unfortunately, I've discovered that this bonus is only available in inner neighborhoods.
 In order to take advantage of that bonus, you have to have a D overlay on the site. And that's generally only available in the urban center comp plan designation, which I think
 extends at best to 50th, and on division it's to 44th, and Belmont's about the same. And it was taken off of Powell. So I would propose that the mixed-use urban center designation be extended along division beyond 44th to 51st. 50th and division has 400 units of housing being either built or planned. And then, of course,
 The bus line, there's a bus every four minutes during rush hour because there's two bus lines there. So extending that urban center designation would allow the de-overlay, which would allow that bonus to be taken advantage of on the housing in that corridor. Likewise, southeast Powell, now it was originally going to be urban center, but ODOT apparently is concerned that there would be people living there, and they wanted it downgraded to civic corridor, which doesn't have as much capacity there.
 it but I would say that we need to just say that ODOT is wrong on that and that we are developing high-capacity transit on Powell we're gonna have stops it you know 50th and Chavez and 26th and we need to we need to you know get the housing there and get that urban center so we can get design overlay and get those bonuses
 So that's very helpful. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. First, I'm here to thank the city council and your departments for engaging in conversations with the David Douglas School District, addressing our critical infrastructure needs relating to school capacity, housing and other services.
 uh needed in our district and our community don put your name in the record uh my name is don grotting uh david douglas school district superintendent thank you um
 We've been working with Parks and Recreation, talking about cohabiting land for needed school sites. In addition, we've been talking with PDC regarding urban renewal zones and planning and sustainability regarding affordable housing and student growth. As you know, David Douglas School District consists of 12 square miles in East Portland.
 We have nine elementary schools, three middle schools, the largest high school in the state, and we also serve all of the children birth to five that have special needs throughout Multnomah County. Our current enrollment is nearly 11,000 students with over 80 different languages spoken.
 Our school population and demographics have changed dramatically since 1996. The district's population grew from 7,000 to an estimated 11,000. This is about a 47% increase in student growth. The district went from having flexibility in our facilities to our schools now at or over capacity. Our free and reduced lunch went from 39% to now over 80%.
 And our ELL population has grown from 6% to 25%, with over 50% of our students having been in that program at one time or another.
 I provided you with an article talking about these things in the Portland Tribune, and we've just completed our facility draft plan. And Commissioner Fish, you noted, we are going with the lower estimate of an estimated growth of 3,000 students. That growth could be as high as 6,000 to 8,000 students. And, yeah.
 Our immediate needs are within the next five to ten years to build two elementary schools. After that, it's a middle school and definitely to add to our high school. Just a final note and once again a congratulations. I provided you with a magazine that outlined David Douglas and the early childhood program and our second language program being selected as one of five sites in the nation.
 for best programs, and that's due to your investment into early childhood. And I know the city's investment, and I know many of you up here made personal investments. So it's a kind of a silver lining, and we have more and more people wanting to come into our district. We simply don't have the capacity to house them.
 don i have two questions i know we have lots of people but yeah we're kind of carrying over our two minutes before she may answer some of your questions free to speak and then i think we're gonna have a number of questions for you because this is a pretty important coordination issue here okay uh my name is frida christopher i'm a member of the david o school board for 24 years so i've seen all this change over the years but today we especially would like to thank the bureau planning and sustainability and the commission
 for their cooperative approach and in recognizing how population growth can impact school capacity and our district's goals to provide the highest quality education opportunities for our students now and in the future, no matter whether they come from low-income or high-income.
 In the draft plan, you have goal number 8K, which is school facilities. It states public schools are honored places of learning as well as multifunction neighborhoods
 anchors serving Portlanders of all ages, ability, and cultures. Don mentioned our early childhood program, which is at Earl Boyle's. It has a community hub. We are a demonstration of how this goal works, and it's a very successful demonstration.
 With our capacity issues, there's two policies that the Commission and Planning Sustainability have put in. Policy 8.108, school district capacity, which is the consideration of overall enrollment capacity in a school district as a factor in land use decisions that increase capacity for residential development. And in Policy 5.23, the impact of housing on schools.
 It states, evaluate plans and investments for the effective housing development on school district to ensure plans are aligned with school facility plans. This is good policy, not for just David Douglas, but for all the schools in Portland.
 As representative of the David Douglas Administration and School Board, we would like the draft language in regard to the above-mentioned policies to remain a final part of this plan. It is important that schools are now considered. We are a service. We provide service to all the children within this city, and it's an important service, and we need to be considered where growth happens.
 so commissioner fish you've got some questions i do too okay so i really appreciate you being here and um appreciate the compliments for the process so far but i guess i have a couple of concerns uh and they sort of go in both directions one um i'm a little concerned that you're taking your low forecast for student growth uh enrollment growth um
 you know, I, I'm, I'm more comfortable with taking a low forecast to the need for industrial land because we can use industrial land more efficiently. And we're proving that in the central east side and elsewhere as we speak. Um,
 But I'm concerned about that, so I guess I'd like to hear you illuminate that a little further. And then this isn't directed in particular at David Douglas, but actually you're part of this pattern as well. And that is for a while we built schools as very compact, dense facilities like Washington High School and Grant.
 And then we built them starting when I was in elementary school in a 1950s and 60s industrial model where they're generally two stories tall and they occupy a great deal of land. An extreme example of that is we have a school of that model 10 blocks west of here at Lincoln High School and some of the most expensive land in the state.
 that's two stories tall and built in the industrial model. I visited a school in Taiwan, which is the most prestigious school in the city that you've visited. And last I checked, there were 4,000 students on about five acres. So where are we going with respect to school facility design?
 And it seems to me if we're still headed off on the 1960s vision of 10-acre sites and two-story buildings and you're wrong on your forecast, we're in big trouble. Yeah.
 So help me out there. So great comments, Mayor. Anything that David Douglas builds in the future will be in multiple stories, which simply there is not the land parcels out there. Just for your information, it takes about six to eight acres to build an elementary school and somewhere between 10 to 12 acres to build a middle school. And that's really not, depending on ball fields and parking, that's really going up.
 fairly high. The reason that we went
 actually went with the lower growth in order to build two elementary schools and just to address some general maintenance needs. We're talking about a $120 million bond, going out for a $120 million bond, and most of the residents of our district are either low income, we have an elderly on fixed income, and we're just trying to weigh what can our citizens support as far as a tax measure. And as you know, David Douglas is one of the –
 has the least ability to increase taxes per their constituents because of the low tax base. Basically, we have very little industrial, commercial entities within our district.
 I'd like to tag on to that because I was part in some of the facility meetings. David Douglas has a history of looking outside the box. That's why we have the Earl Boyle demonstration site. We were the leaders in Sim and Cam when it was going. And...
 We're not tied to the old model because we realize we have a lack of space. We're looking at multiple ways of how we might have to build, how we might have converted middle school to high school. We're just looking at any possibility. We may have to look at...
 try to figure out what is an urban school, a true, true urban school, because we are only 12 square miles and we don't have a lot of land available. Some of the things we've talked about is even maybe you don't need to have your fields or space there. Maybe is there something we can cohabit with the parks and recreation to maybe this is just the school and a very small space there for students and recreation.
 do our recreation somewhere else in a combined effort to make it work.
 so i have um done congratulations to both of you on the success of earl boils and um i have two requests for information following this this hearing we have lots of people waiting so i want to just get some requests out there the first is uh data on in the uh elementary school classes what what percentage of the kids who start on day one finish each year and i was at a
 school and centennial recently where in part because of unstable housing in the community, 50 percent of the children who started on day one did not finish that school year. So if we want to put the housing crisis in stark relief, that's about as compelling a statistic as I can think of. The second is we're about to go into our budget. We're going actually entering into our budget process.
 And one of the concerns that I have is that with land prices inflating very quickly, even in places like David Douglas with particularly out-of-state investment companies coming in, if we don't land bank now, we're going to lose opportunities. And, you know, you've got Habitat, you've got lots of other partners that have had some success in East Portland. I want to make sure that the tools that the city has, particularly through the Housing Bureau, are flexible enough
 to help Habitat and other trusted partners acquire dirt now and land bank if necessary so that we can be thinking about building quality housing that's adjacent to schools. And if we don't, then 5.23 is going to become just an aspiration on a piece of paper with the opportunity having eluded us. So if we could follow up on both. I will get you that information. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for what you do. You make me feel good every time I think I have problems. Yeah, well, I was in one of your middle schools lately, and I think being a middle school teacher is tougher than this. Thank you.
 The next three are 10, 11, and 12, Bree Romago, Rodney Fliger, and Mary Vogel, and they'll be followed by Mary Coolidge, Carol McCarthy, and Jan Mawson, 13, 14, and 15. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I am Bree Romago. Here on behalf of the Brummel family and our businesses, my grandparents started them approximately 50 years ago in the Selwood area.
 Thank you for the opportunity to provide our mixed-use and comprehensive plan comments. Today, we own and operate over 60 residential and commercial properties, primarily in the Selwood neighborhood. Our desire is to grow over the long term, but in a way that takes into consideration the needs of the community, while also understanding that Portland is a vibrant city with growing housing concerns.
 We are fortunate to have Rodney Fleger working with us to accomplish these goals. He is an employee of Brimel Enterprises and is active in both the Selwood-Moorland Improvement League, SMILE, and Selwood-Westmoreland Business Alliance, SWBA. He will complete our testimony on behalf of Brimel Enterprises. We recently provided written documents to the council, and I have copies of those with me if anyone's interested in having them today in front of you.
 The written testimony more completely outlines the properties where we are asking for updated designations and zoning and our reasons for making the requests. Thank you for your time. If you would leave those with our clerk, that would be helpful because I think we've gotten a lot of correspondence. It's nice to have it when the person's here. Okay. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Rodney Flager.
 During the past two years, we have participated and listened to the interests of the SMILE organization and the Selwood and Moreland community. I'm commencing my second year on the SWBA Selwood-Westmoreland Business Alliance as a board member, and I sit on the Land Use Committee.
 We've observed the SMILE interests and new developments in the area of concern to them in a recent survey that was conducted, as well as our monthly meetings expressed, affordable housing and affordable commercial space, common area plazas, building curb appeal and setbacks, as well as parking. We met with the SMILE recently, the Land Use Committee, and discussed the packet that Bree has turned in to the clerk,
 And we plan on having a second workshop with the Land Use Committee December 4th. We're in communication with the community, and we are reaching out to the Brooklyn community, which also we have two parcels in that community council area.
 Spending time this past year observing and participating with the comprehensive plan process, we see a rare opportunity for the Selwood-Moorland area, as well as us as property owners, to be more creative and flexible, developing amenities in our community.
 And we would like to thank the Bureau for their work and the personnel within the Bureau this past year during this process and output and intake from the community and think that they've done a good job with their public hearings. We realize that your efforts now commence and urge you to consider our comments in the packet that we've submitted. We appreciate the opportunity to be heard and thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. You're welcome.
 Yeah, I'm Mary Vogel. I'm a resident of the west end of the downtown neighborhood, and I'm also active in the Neighborhood Association, but I'm speaking for myself and my small business, Plan Green, planning consultancy today. First, I want to say I applaud the plan draft and its goals and policies, and I'm especially speaking to the following ones today that I particularly like.
 In Chapter 3, Urban Form, a climate and hazard resilient urban form, energy and resource efficiency, integrate nature, green infrastructure in centers. In Chapter 4, Design and Development, noise impacts and air quality impacts.
 Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that limit and or mitigate negative noise impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas near freeways, regional truckways, major cities, traffic streets, and other sources of noise and air pollution. Okay.
 and much of Chapter 7 on watershed health as well, but I'm not going to go there today. However, these points, the ones I mentioned above, got very little attention in the West Quadrant Plan.
 In light of the Ombudsman's report finding described in the Northwest Examiner here, I ask that the approval process for the West Quadrant Plan part of the comp plan be stopped until the document can be reviewed by a new, more balanced, conflict of interest-free Strategic Advisory Committee.
 As a downtown resident, I tried to get attention of the previous strategic advisory committee regarding the need for more street trees and other green infrastructure strategies in front of the residences and businesses that were closest to I-405 without success.
 I want to call out these investors, landlords, as needing to be involved in the early steps of your implementation timeline for downtown, by the way. John Niemeyer of Gladstone, Oregon, Stephen Blindheim of the West Hills, and James Major of Northeast Portland. They are property owners of buildings with no trees in blocks that are within land.
 A block of I-405 in the west end of downtown. Thank you for your testimony, Mary. I'm afraid we forgot to put the timer on, but I think you've had about two minutes. I'm sorry. I didn't understand that. The timer wasn't going, but I believe that you've had about two minutes. So just wrap up if you would, please. Okay. Yeah. So anyway, I just wanted to say that even when offered free street trees by the Bureau of Environmental Services, they...
 And, you know, that's about a $3,400 gift per tree because it will include concrete removal. These owners have apparently not been forthcoming even to accept free street trees at their property. So I'd like to see the...
 I know this is a 20-year plan aimed at shaping new development, but I want to see some teeth added to the comp plan that would affect current property owners and give them a greater push to help neighborhoods, including mine, fulfill some of the excellent goals and policies of the plan. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. And do you have copies, Carla, of the Rommel's?
 submittal for us next three are mary coolidge carol mccarthy and jan mawson 13 14 and 15 and they'll be followed by john claude paris simeon hyde and i believe it's javier maybe peters on loma boulevard that's 16 17 and 18. okay thank you welcome hi there
 My name is Mary Coolidge. I'm with Audubon Society of Portland as the BirdSafe Portland campaign coordinator. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to testify today. The incorporation of green infrastructure into the 2035 Comprehensive Plan demonstrates Portland's commitment to develop our built landscape in an ecologically thoughtful way over the next 20 years. Thank you.
 At a time when urban land areas are expanding rapidly, it's more important than ever that we maintain the ecological integrity of the built environment. The recent integration of bird safe building design, responsible lighting design, and eco roofs into the city's updated green building policy emphasizes the importance of both ecological and human health in a new phase of innovative green design. Thank you.
 We also need to be thinking broadly about what should be included as we define approaches to integrating nature into our built landscape. We recommend that policies related to integration of nature into the built environment in Chapter 7 of the Comp Plan and designing with nature in Chapter 4 provide specific direction about avoiding the proliferation of blue-rich white light in both public and private development.
 Blue rich white light LEDs like the ones we are currently installing on our city streets are overly bright, create significant glare, scatter more readily than long wavelength light sources, and emit harmful blue light into the nighttime environment. Light which has been demonstrated to impact circadian rhythms in humans, plants, fish, and wildlife.
 While we applaud the Climate Action Plan and City Council's efforts to increase energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to install fixtures that direct light only down, we encourage the City Council to direct Bureau efforts to research the best available science on the ecological and human health impacts of blue-rich white lighting. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. We'll get back to you on that. I and PBOT staff will talk to you about that. Okay, great. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Carol McCarthy, and I'm testifying today as the chair of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association. Our members have submitted over 400 letters to you requesting three changes that we think are critical to maintaining Multnomah as the vibrant place that it is. These three requests are consistent with positions adopted by the Neighborhood Association and endorsed by the Sweeney Board. The first request is that you designate Multnomah Village as a neighborhood corridor rather than as a neighborhood center. Thank you.
 We are requesting this to preserve our neighborhood's character. The sentiment that the village needs protection was expressed by people from all over Portland and the U.S. and in fact from around the world in the almost 700 written comments submitted as part of the attached online petition that was signed by over 1,800 people. The second and related request is that you limit building heights in the village to three stories. We would like you to zone the village CM1 with a 35-foot building height limit.
 Buildings higher than three stories will dwarf the existing historic buildings, most of which are one or two stories high. Capitol Highway through the village is a very narrow street. Four-story buildings would make it feel more like a canyon than the comfortable place it is now to take a stroll, look in the shops, get something to eat, watch the sunset, or just look at the sky. Please require that future development be in scale with this place that we love.
 Our third request is for truth in zoning. We would like the zoning map to define lot sizes so that, for example, if a person buys a house in an area zoned R5, their expectation that their neighbor's lots would not be divided into lots smaller than 5,000 square feet would be met. Specifically, we are requesting that the sentence in my handout be removed.
 As part of this request, the zoning code would need to be amended to require that cornered lot sizes be consistent with the maximum general density stated in the plan. Thank you. I'm not sure if I understand your last point well, which is the language being removed isn't talking about lot size. It's talking about the existing – I think it's talking about the existing allowance for duplexes on R5 corner lots –
 Right. And accessory dwelling units. So those are allowed uses, not smaller lots. So I'm not sure if I'm tracking your recommendation. Right. So it's our feeling that the general use and intensity expected with an area should be defined in the zone, so that if it's R5...
 It's a 5,000-square-foot lot. And we see this very specific language as support of the policy that's in the – I mean the code in the zoning code that allows the corner lot splitting. Okay. All right. I think I understand. But you're suggesting this be changed citywide, right?
 That's right. That's right. And also because it's so specific, and we think that as an example of something that would be allowed, it's too specific for the comp plan. We would rather that the general use and intensity be reflected in the zone, not in exceptions. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jan Mawson, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak here today. I was privileged to work at the Oregon Historical Society under Thomas Vaughn, who was a pioneer in historic preservation in Oregon. My concern is the lack of protections in the plan for Portland's older neighborhoods, many of which do not have official landmark status.
 i live in multnomah village which is classified as a neighborhood center as we've heard this designation fails to recognize the unique historic character of the village by encouraging the introduction of four to five story mixed-use buildings that are out of scale with the existing main street and surrounding residential area
 The end result will be the loss of Multnomah Village as it currently exists, including its vital sense of place and community. A more appropriate classification would be neighborhood corridor, which would result in less intense development and greater protections for thriving businesses and older, sought-after single-family homes, many of which combine aesthetic appeal with affordability.
 In a 1978 report prepared by the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission and the Portland Bureau of Planning, titled An Inventory of Historic Resources, Potential Historic Conservation Districts,
 The author Alfred Staley notes, Multnomah's unique history and architecture make it worthy of saving. I don't have time to read my summary paragraph now, but I have included his entire report about Multnomah Village in my packet.
 This opinion is shared by the Multnomah Neighborhood Association, representing a majority of residents who have spoken out in favor of integrating development without sacrificing the quaint appeal of the village in the heart of Portland, which is our claim to fame. And I heard your planner talk about building on the past, not destroying the past.
 I am asking that you change the designation of Multnomah Village in the plan before you from neighborhood center to neighborhood corridor with an absolute design overlay, excluding community design standards which have not worked and which exclude the voice of the neighborhood. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 the next three are john claude paris simeon hyde and the last name is peterson on multnomah boulevard that's 16 17 and 18 and they'll be followed by donna beswick alan kirkland and bernadine bond 1920 and 21. okay go ahead please mr mayor city council
 My name is Jean-Claude Paris, a resident of Monama Village. I'm a retired international banker, founder of the French American International School, and the Alliance Française in Portland, a former honorary French consul for the state of Oregon. I'm testifying today about historical neighborhoods within large cities.
 In Europe, in every city larger than Portland, politicians and city councils have retained small villages within or close to financial and business centers. These villages are protected by classifying them as historical treasures. Any extension in height, density are limited, restricting and protecting architectural design style. Example are Montmartre in Paris,
 the old city of Nice and Avignon, the city of Carcassonne, just to name a few. In America, a number of very large cities have well-known and unique villagers. Nearby, again, there are financial districts as well, such as North Beach in San Francisco, Greenwich Village in New York City, the French Quarter in New Orleans, and so on. When the city talks about density, about necessary density,
 This already exists and is going to continue growing. Within Monoma Village, many little bungalows are coming down and replaced by two, three or four new mega-size overpowering dwellings. It is going to be a nightmare to add more density in the core of the village where more density is happening every day. Let's keep and preserve our unique Portland neighborhood and keep Monoma the sole village in the heart of the city. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well done.
 Good afternoon. My name is Simeon Hyden. I own and live in a house in Multnomah Village,
 I appear before you today to talk about developmental impacts on our communities. Careful and thorough planning lies at the core of successful developments. An important part of the development process is the willingness of developers and neighbors to listen to each other and reach compromises. I propose the following impact studies be conducted and the results be the basis for development decisions reached.
 traffic parking public transit public infrastructure even though these four proposed study areas may already be required the question arises is how they as to how they were conducted and if their results were utilized in development process another area of concern for me and many others a question of building heights and massing the actual design of new buildings directly impacts neighborhood livability
 On North Mississippi Avenue, I've seen firsthand the negative impact of four-story buildings built immediately next to single-floor bungalow-style homes. While tending gardens or enjoying the play of their children in their backyards, these homeowners report an almost palpable sense of
 of being watched from the four floors of windows in the building just constructed right next door. I can only guess at the negative impact and the resale value of these homes. I propose the following areas receive priority when city planners consider the issue of building heights and massing. Visual privacy for neighboring homes and backyards, retaining existing sight lines and views for neighboring properties.
 solar orientation and access for neighbors, impact and neighboring property values,
 As regards a comprehensive plan as it is now written, I feel it is seriously flawed. The proposed draft is written and presented in such a way that it's difficult to understand. Many citizens feel there was inadequate citizen involvement throughout the planning and drafting process. Multnomah Village has a thriving business district along with neighboring homes, many of which show distinctive architectural features. In conclusion, the old phrase, if it ain't broke, don't fix it,
 Seems to apply here. We are the taxpayers in a very real sense custodians of our neighborhood It is only just that we get to have a strong voice in the future of our village. Thank you very much All right. My name is James Peterson and the land use terrible number neighborhood association I want to bring your attention to some process problems on how we were told in the beginning that
 that there was a neighborhood center, which was defined in the current plan with a misprint, half-mile radius, and 3,500 housing units. Then all of a sudden, in the staff report to the Planning Commission, provisional boundaries were then determined without any public input and no direct policies.
 And they then ended up showing on these current maps that are in your document. Now, I requested, which you've had copies the last six months, on where these policies and what testimony affected these decisions and where these boundaries came from. And I've had no direct information come forward. This is a major Goal 1 problem.
 This process to determine boundaries of neighborhood centers and centers should have gone through a public process. The second thing, the testimony that was submitted to the Planning Commission is not put into a database. I'm not sure what you're going to do with the testimony you've heard today. Is the staff really putting this into a database for you to know which policy needs to be changed?
 That's my question. What happens to our testimony today? We are doing that, actually. I specifically requested that, so the staff is preparing a matrix of testimony that we hear at the hearings. Okay. Then why didn't that exist for the Planning Commission? I don't know that it did or didn't, but it will here. Thank you. Thank you. Folks, just so you know, we ask that you do this or this, depending on whether you like the testimony or not. That way we can just keep hearing as many people as possible. Okay.
 It helps to not include a pause just because it takes time. Okay, speaking of time, let's hear the next three folks. Thank you very much.
 Next three are Donna Bestwick, Alan Kirkland, and Bernadine Vaughn. That's 19, 20, and 21. And they'll be followed by Stuart Rounds, Allison Reynolds, and Chris Eikamp, 22, 23, and 24. Okay, welcome. Hi, I'm Donna Bestwick, and I've lived in Multnomah Village for 30 years. I moved there because of the charm, quaintness, and character of the village within a city.
 Most importantly, the house was affordable. I live in a small 950-square-foot home, but on a moderate salary, I was able to afford my home. We here in the yellow shirts represent 3,600 homes with 7,900 people who have lived in the village for anywhere from 1 to 40-plus years. We're primarily moderate-income families living in these affordable homes, and we have dutifully paid our property taxes every year to the city.
 We now find ourselves in a position of having the future livability of our village threatened by upscaling and hungry developers, and we have very little influence in the process. In the early 60s, the Pinnock Mansion was almost, it was in a state of disrepair. It was almost torn down by developers. It was the community activism that saved it.
 Division Street is highly overdeveloped, and that oops by city planners and developers has irrevocably altered that neighborhood. There's no going back once these oops policies are enacted. We can't allow that to happen in the village. When is enough enough for big money developers?
 With current zoning, limited parking, traffic congestion, and proposed up-zoning, the very qualities of charm, quaintness, and character we all move to the village for will soon vanish. We're neither oblivious to nor opposed to the growth in the village. It looks like a few developers interested in making a large amount of money at the expensive neighborhoods have more influence at City Hall than we do.
 We believe that our request for a 35-foot height on buildings, neighborhood corridor designation, one-on-one parking, and land use language that prevents the demolition of affordable housing is reasonable and doable in Multnomah Village that we loved yesterday, today, and hopefully tomorrow. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Alan Kirkland and I'm here primarily just to lend support to my fellow yellow shirt people sorry Carla went out to check on something there she comes. Oh, okay the timer. Oh Go ahead. Okay. Well, I'm here to lend support to them and I I don't have a prepared statement but I did I have noticed that
 My work takes me all over the state, Washington and Oregon, and I visit a lot of the little towns, every single town practically in the last 30 years, up and down the corridor, the coast, all over. And what I notice in these little towns is you have a beautiful little – not all of them are beautiful. Some of them are ugly.
 But you do have little historic districts. And then you have the strip that bypasses it. And the strip is good to jiffy lube your car, go to Walmart, and get a burger. But if you want to enjoy the town, and people don't travel across the state to go to Ashland to visit the strip to jiffy lube their car. They go to Ashland to visit downtown. They go to Port Townsend to visit downtown. And while these are small towns...
 Portland is a group of small towns that has gotten big over the years, and places like Multnomah Village, Selwood, you know, half a dozen other places in this city. So in the comprehensive plan, I just encourage, since you are the people in power, to take that into consideration. I thought John Claude's point was very well taken, that they are protecting places in Europe, and I think we could take...
 way you know do it in their style so again thank you very much thank you thanks very much welcome thank you thank you for the opportunity to speak today my name is burning bond I live in Multnomah village and have lived there for the last 35 years I'd like to urge City Council to reconsider the designation of Multnomah village as a neighborhood center it is much more appropriate as a neighborhood corridor as defined by the proposed comp plan I'd like to point out some reasons for this
 First, drastically increasing the density in our neighborhood will create some serious traffic and safety problems. Many of the streets in our area are unimproved and they're not maintained by the city. Few side streets have sidewalks. When cars are parked on both sides of the street, the remainder is a single lane width that pedestrians share with traffic.
 Rather than encouraging the residents to walk, which is a goal of the comp plan, increased side street traffic and parking will actually discourage walking. Capitol Highway already has backups, and it's limited to two lanes with no realistic possibility for widening it. There are no bike greenways. TriMet service is limited.
 Hoping that the money to develop adequate infrastructure will just somehow materialize or that residents will not own cars can't be considered serious planning. Second, Multnomah Village is an iconic neighborhood that is beloved throughout the city. The scale of redevelopment that will inevitably occur in the village will destroy the charm and human scale. Part of the allure of the village is that its historic downtown evokes a simpler time.
 Certainly there is room in the city the size of Portland to keep such a historic neighborhood intact. Third, Multnomah Village has some of the more affordable housing available in the city, such as small rental homes and older apartment buildings. New rentals will almost certainly be market rates, which are unaffordable for many. Increasing rental rates in the neighborhood will push older rentals to remodel and increase their rents. We'll lose affordable housing stock. Thank you.
 Lastly, I would urge the council to take a pause in the comp plan overall. The plan is complex and seems to try to fit the neighborhood into the plan rather than the plan into the neighborhood. We celebrate Portland as a city of neighborhoods. It would be tragic to lose that because of inflexible planning. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Just a quick comment on the affordability issue. My wife and I bought our house in Wollomba Village for $375,000 three years ago, and I just checked on Zillow, and Zillow claims it's now worth $525,000. So that's not the result of evil developers doing anything. That's just a result of a hot housing market and a lot of people wanting to live there. So the affordability is going to be affected by supply and demand, not just what kind of development is allowed.
 I would agree, although what I would say is we still have rental property that's reasonable in Multnomah. And there still are $350,000 homes, which Portland says itself is the mean price for buying a home. And when you replace these $340,000 small homes with two $600,000 to $800,000 homes on what was the same lot,
 That's where some of the inflation, and yes, we understand it's all market-driven. That's a given. But not all of those houses are worth $500,000 now. There still are $340,000 homes, which Portland, you say that that's the main purchase price. Yeah, it is. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Three are Stuart Reynolds, Allison, or sorry, Stuart Rounds,
 Allison Reynolds and Chris I camp 22 23 and 24 and they'll be followed by Paul van Orden Ted Masico and Noah Kleinman 25 26 27 Thank You mayor hills commissioners, my name is Stuart rounds The 2035 comprehensive plan is critical for guiding and shaping development in the next 20 years Getting the plan and the accompanying zoning right? I
 should result in sensible development and redevelopment that allows Portland to accommodate growth, but do so in a way that improves upon some aspects of our beloved city and preserves those characteristics that are most dear to its population. Portland is a city of distinct neighborhoods, and I see that the Comprehensive Plan acknowledges that one size does not fit all, and that it is important to have policies and regulations that protect the qualities that people value about these neighborhoods. That's great.
 But have we really taken the time to identify what it is about Portland and its neighborhoods that make them special? Well, of course, given my yellow shirt, I live in Multnomah Village in southwest Portland, and I love the fact that the village is a distinct and historic neighborhood that feels like a small town. In fact, it's that quaint, charming, and small-town vibe with local small businesses that's so highly valued by village residents and visitors alike.
 And I have here the signatures of 1,809 people, as well as almost 700 individual comments testifying that these small town characteristics of Multnomah Village are worth preserving, and that allowing four-story or higher buildings in the village core, as allowed in the comprehensive plan, would destroy the character of the village. Indeed, one size does not fit all.
 So I'd encourage everyone to take the time to determine what is special about our neighborhoods, then craft policies and regulations that recognize, promote, and preserve those characteristics while still allowing for sensible development.
 And for Multnomah Village, improvements to the comprehensive plan might include the use of CM1 rather than CM2 zoning, designation of the village as a neighborhood corridor rather than a center, and the adoption of a planned district for the village. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hi. I'm Chris Eicamp. I'm the vice chair of the Hossford-Abernathy Neighborhood Association, and I'm wearing Hossford-Abernathy blue. Okay.
 Let's come to this. We have color. Okay. There are three sites in hand we would like to comment on. The first is People's Co-op on 21st along with the adjoining garage. There's Palio's Cafe on Southeast Ladd and the Northwest Naturopathic Clinic on Southeast Clinton. All of these sites are completely surrounded by residential properties and are themselves zoned residential. They have all been in longstanding commercial use and so enjoy a nonconforming status.
 Planning staff has recommended that these three properties be given a commercial designation in the comp plan. The handboard opposes this change. The nonconforming status of these sites provides protections to the surrounding residential properties, such as limiting the permissible hours of operation, providing a mechanism for review if there is a change of use. We have heard from residents...
 And these protections are important to maintaining existing character and livability of the neighborhood. Changing the comp plan designation and zoning to commercial would remove these protections. The businesses of these three sites are good neighbors, but each has had issues over the years, whether it was noise, odors, parking, or early morning deliveries. It was the conditional use status that brought the businesses to the table to resolve the conflict with neighbors.
 Our concern is that these sites, along with those similarly situated around the city, which are embedded in residential areas, represent a high potential for conflict, and with a commercial designation, a future business at one of these sites would lose the incentive to engage with its neighbors and resolve any issues that might arise.
 The other issue we wanted to raise was one of the process Interrupt you for a second. Oh, yeah, absolutely. You said they've been proposed as commercial. They've been proposed as mixed use or? CM1, I believe. Okay. So that's a mixed use designation. So it's a little different than the old commercial designation. Yes, yes. But the effect is the same, that it removes the mixed use. I mean, it removes the nonconforming, the protections of the nonconforming use currently
 offers to the surrounding residential areas. I guess I haven't understood that part. Thank you. Okay. Thanks for the clarification. I hadn't understood before. Okay. The other issue we wanted to raise was one of process. You're poised to make decisions that will have a profound effect on people's homes, businesses, and properties. By changing the zoning of a parcel, you affect those that surround it.
 Notice to the affected parties throughout this process has been too limited, too general, and too late. The neighbors of a parcel whose zoning is changing will never get any notice at all, even if their existing protections stand to be removed. We feel it is simply wrong to make these sorts of sweeping and far-reaching changes without a more robust effort to notify all affected parties early in the process so they can have a meaningful opportunity to provide input. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Allison Reynolds with Rodler White, Parks and Alexander, and I'm giving testimony today on behalf of Scanlon Kemper Barred Companies, LLC. We submitted written testimony on this issue as well on November 6th.
 SKB is under contract to purchase the former Pico Manufacturing Headquarters site located on Southeast 17th Street. The site is along the new Max Orange Line and near the Southeast 17th and Holgate Max Station. The property is zoned IG1 currently with a comprehensive plan designation of Industrial Sanctuary. We are requesting that you change its comprehensive plan designation to Mixed Employment, which is consistent with EG Employment Zoning.
 PECO abandoned the site as its manufacturing headquarters and moved its operations to Clackamas County because the property has outdated infrastructure and was not ideal for manufacturing operations. SKB wishes to redevelop the space with lighter industrial maker uses that do not fit well within the city's current definitions of industrial use because they require typically a lot of office space.
 An example of this is a 3D printing operation where the office space is larger than the actual manufacturing space, and so under the code currently it would not be considered industrial.
 Makerspace is allowed in the EG zones. EG zoning for the property would allow employment-focused uses that maximize the city's investment in the new Orange Line. One of the PICO buildings is also on the city's historic resources inventory, and SKB wants to preserve and rehabilitate that building. This will be possible with later maker uses, but not feasible with redevelopment as heavier industrial use. Thank you.
 So therefore, we request that the council change the property's comprehensive plan designation to mix employment to allow flexibility to develop the site with employment uses and maximize the city's investment in the new Orange Line. Refresh my memory, is this property on the east side of 17th? Yes, it is. And existing buildings there? Yes, it is. Close to McLaughlin? Yep, exactly. I've got it in my mind's eye. All right. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you all.
 Next three are 25, 26, and 27, Paul Van Orden, Ted Masico, and Noah Kleinman. And they'll be followed by 28, 30, and 31, Bob Wise, Allison Reynolds for Tim O'Leary, and David Redthunder. Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You want to start, Paul? You look like you're all fired up and ready there. Okay.
 Members of Council, my name is Paul Van Orden. I've been a resident at 52 NE Fremont, just east of North Williams for the last 19 years. In the summer of 2013, my involvement in my neighborhood changed radically as I found myself impacted by a land use decision made by City Council to upzone a series of lots for the two-term appointed City Design Commissioner, Ben Kaiser.
 The lots are along North Williams and are bounded on the south by Northeast Ivy and the north by Northeast Fremont. These lots went from R1 zoning to the downtown central city zoning of RX. The directly impacted neighbors were left out of that process at the key point to legally have full standing at the Land Use Board of Appeals. I'm here today to preserve any legal right to appeal any change made by city council to upzone this set of properties.
 Anything more than RH zoning, as recommended under the comp plan, at this late date in the game is not reasonable, is not based on the facts of the case, and is out of character with all the community involvement to date. I understand the complexity and intentions of crafting community balance in the comp plan from numerous hours of volunteering at the Northeast Coalition of Neighbors on their executive board and their land use committee, and also from sitting on the Elliott Neighborhoods Land Use Committee.
 I'm in support of the logical downzoning recommendation at these lots from RX to RH formed over a long duration in the comp plan process now before you today. I'm not in support of RX, CM2, or CM3 at this location, or EX zoning if it survives through the mixed-use zones process.
 I would respectfully ask our elected leaders to not support further upzoning momentum for a developer and his partners who sold Council a bill of goods that they were going to build a dense housing environment when we're getting 14 units at this particular location. Thank you.
 Is your testimony in relation to the lot that we had a hearing about at council? Yes. So those lots sold off other than the very corner that's going to go 85 to 95 feet, and they sold to a past planning commissioner, Rick Michelson, and he's working in collaboration with Ben Kaiser. And our understanding just from limited emails we've seen in the neighborhoods are that they're going to ask to –
 not have the RH zoning that we've all worked to have applied to these properties in the comp plan, but rather to have something like RX or EX or CM3. And so I will not know until they actually testify, so I'm doing my best to testify based on limited emails of what they might be asking for in this process. So you support RH, which is what the Planning Commission's proposal currently is? Yes, most definitely. Thank you for clarifying. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to comment. My name is Ted Maseko, and I own the property at 23 Northeast Ivy. I've owned it for about 10 or 11 years.
 23 northeast ivy is immediately adjacent to the southern half of the lot of land that mr van orden was just describing and my comments in large part generally echo what mr van orton just said our property is actually the uh we share a common boundary line so we're very similarly affected by what mr van orton was talking about
 In general, my understanding was that the city had recommended an RH zoning level, an exception or change was made to RX so that the northern half of this lot along Williams could be 80 feet high. My understanding is that that exception was made in large part with the promise of high density, a lot of housing units to accommodate the...
 living requirements of the city. I understand that in reality, this 85-foot-high, eight-story structure will only accommodate 14 high-end condominiums.
 So now that's occurring on the northern half of this lot, on the southern half of this lot, which for some time, my understanding, has been a parking lot that does not comply with local rules. That parking lot was recently closed, but that southern half, which has been a parking lot, is now immediately adjacent to my property, and I am asking –
 While this is a specific point about my property, about the neighborhood, I think it does relate to the larger picture of the culture and the character of the North Williams corridor. And I'm hoping that the city will continue with an RH zoning level and nothing higher than that, like an RX or some level of CM.
 All right, thank you. Go ahead, please. Hi. Thank you for having me out. I'm Noah Kleinman. I'm a nonprofit leader here in Portland. I started a nonprofit about two years ago called Secret Knowledge, which is about getting creative people in Portland, the people that make this place really great, the business skills that they need to thrive here, to succeed.
 just recently finished doing our first annual conference on Saturday. It's quite a thing to see. One of the topics that was brought up by attendees and by the people that I talk to every day in doing this work has certainly been second stage gentrification. A thing that I think we all are aware of is occurring in our city. And I think
 This particular example that the men to my left have articulated of, on the one hand, granting a variance in the height of a building, rightfully predicating it on there being high density housing taking place there. And then at what I would see as kind of a late stage,
 One could even describe that as being a takings at this stage.
 having that developer apply for a change in what the actual housing value of that, you know, in terms of how many units and who they're targeted towards. It seems to me that it's not... Proving that wouldn't be in keeping with what I know to be all of our goal to keep creative people living and thriving in this city. And so I'm asking you to...
 you know, keep this particular developer to their word and make sure that there's spaces for people to live at all the different levels of our housing stack. Yeah. Male Speaker 1 Sorry, what was I was trying to follow. What was the taking you were referring to? Male Speaker 2 Oh, well, you know, when a person, when a developer is granted a change to the height of a building, I'm not an expert in housing, but I have worked for housing agencies. Male Speaker 1 Oh, no, I'm following you so far. Male Speaker 2 Okay, cool.
 When they're granted that and it's predicated, I believe in this case, Commissioner Novick was particular about wanting that to have an environmental impact by having there be a lot of people living in that space rather than just a few. And then down the line, you know, time passes and a return to council requests that suddenly we change the content of how many people are living in there. Yeah.
 Approving that would mean that that particular group of people somehow have managed to create the building, I imagine, of their dreams financially, while somehow sidestepping the process that our officials have actually laid out for them, such that it's in keeping with the use of that part of the city. The takings in that someone is taking advantage of.
 What I would imagine to be a level of privilege, yeah. The example that sometimes comes up here is someone qualifies for a 10-year tax abatement, agrees to make 20 percent of the units affordable, and then at some point seeks to be relieved of that obligation. And one of the questions that we have to grapple with is under what circumstances would we allow that to happen? And do we go retroactively to re-examine?
 recapture the value that they got because they didn't provide the 10-year benefit that they committed to. Right. I know you guys are going to figure out what's the best way to go. You use taking in a slightly different way than sometimes we do, but after you explained it, I completely understand what you're saying. So thank you. Awesome. Thank you for asking. Thank you all very much.
 Next three are 28, 30, and 31, Bob Wise, Allison Reynolds, on behalf of Tim O'Leary, and David Red Thunder. And they'll be followed by 32, 33, 34, Jeff Geisler, Grant Williams, and Martha Johnston. Okay, Bob, you're on. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Wise, and I've been living here for about 25 years and was very pleased for about 10 years to chair and co-chair the Sustainable Development Commission.
 where we plan a lot of interesting stuff, including the Climate Action Plan. I see Susan is over here somewhere. There she is. Hi. Anyway, I'm speaking today as part of a group supporting the equity and inclusion provisions that were suggested earlier. And I...
 We came at this through a study group, a community practice study group associated with Kogan Owens. Kogan Owens Green now, a firm that's been doing city planning for about 40 years. So I want to make a few comments. First of all, we enthusiastically support these recommendations of the Planning and
 Basically to prevent and possibly reverse some of the discrimination and displacement that's taken place over the last hundred years. I want to say three things about this. First.
 This adds equity to the sustainability vision of Portland, which has been focused for the last two decades on the environment and the economy and sustainability, green enterprise, and maintaining the quality of the living environment.
 in Portland. And I think this really sets Portland ahead of many cities in terms of this integration of these three factors. Third, I'd like to – or second, I'd like to encourage you to think of equity in a little different way than most people do. Equity on Wall Street is thought of as ownership. And so think about the kinds of things that can be done through public policy to help create community and local ownership of assets.
 as a form of equity, not just access to the process of decision-making. And that comes through, I think, through thinking of my third point, that the city focused very closely on looking at their spending as investments that can be done in partnership with community-based and local organizations of all kinds, public, private, non-profit, philanthropic.
 You know you're working closely with the Native American Youth and Family Center. That's an example of the kind of investment that's going to have long-term benefits. Thank you very much, Bob. Bob, I have one question for you since you have a long history in this work. What if the council determines that some of the equity planks of the anti-displacement coalition are good, sound policy, but the comp plan is the wrong place to put it?
 because by putting in the comp plan, it puts it at jeopardy of being tied up in a land use proceeding since the comp plan is the guide for future land use decisions, not policy decisions of the Council. There's a symphony ringing in my ears. Do you have a thought on where that line is? Because we had a Portland plan that had very specific strategies and goals,
 And a good portion of our comp plan is written in general terms because we're required to balance competing. When we have a land use hearing, we're often required to balance competing or complementary policies. Where's the line for you in terms of going beyond a comprehensive plan and putting something in a comprehensive plan that then inadvertently becomes part of a land use process which we may not want to have certain policies subject to?
 I think the problem is serious enough. If you look at declining wages, overall displacement, overall century of displacement, I think it's worth having it in several places because I think otherwise it's the kind of thing that can be easily forgotten or run over in the process. I think thinking carefully about which ones might be appropriate elsewhere is a critical ingredient and I think the
 The Planning and Sustainable Development Commission did that by leaving out some things that they didn't recommend. Thank you very much.
 Hello again. Alison Reynolds, this time speaking on behalf of Tim O'Leary, who was unable to be here today, another one of my firm's clients. We previously provided testimony on this issue on November 18th. Mr. O'Leary recently purchased property at 1403 and 1421 Southeast Stark Street. The property has a main building and an addition that was added in 1945.
 Both parts of the building have been used for commercial use since that time. The property is zoned R1, and the current commercial operations are legal nonconforming uses. Mr. O'Leary is separately going through the nonconforming situation review for his planned redevelopment of the site with neighborhood-scale commercial use. The Buckman Neighborhood Association Land Use Committee voted unanimously to support Mr. O'Leary's redevelopment plan.
 The current comp plan proposal will legalize the commercial uses at the main building only by changing its comprehensive plan designation to mixed-use urban center and zoning to commercial mixed-use 1, the smallest scale mixed-use zone. The addition, which is part of the same structure, was not proposed for a comp plan change, and we are asking you to make that change today.
 Staff told us that this was initially a mistake and is supportive of a change for the whole building. The Buckman Neighborhood Association is supportive of commercial uses at the site, but we understand that they have concerns about changing the property's designation. Mr. O'Leary has no plans to change the small steel uses at the site, but wants to remove the onerous, non-conforming use restrictions that make financing and insurance difficult. Split zoning the building makes any subsequent development needlessly complicated and is against city policy.
 The proposed DM1 zone has similar low density to the current R1 zoning and will preserve the neighborhood's existing character. In conclusion, we ask the council to apply a comprehensive plan designation of mixed-use urban center to the entire property.
 thank you okay thank you i very much appreciate that you noted that the neighborhood has some concerns it's rare that an advocate will tell us the other side as well and it makes it much easier for me to understand thank you yeah and we've been doing a lot of work with the neighborhood association and i don't know if any of their representatives will speak to this issue but it's been an ongoing dialogue that i think will produce something good at least so thanks very much can i can i ask a protocol question sure because we're going to thank you very much we're going to be hearing a lot more testimony beyond today in the future
 So if someone signs up and is not here, what is our rule in terms of who can testify on their behalf? So we've had a number of examples where someone wasn't able to be here and they've had an attorney as a representative. Do we extend the same courtesy to someone's spouse or neighbor or designated person, advocate, because –
 Yeah, good question. I think the answer is yes because, again, we're talking about both big picture policy work here and site-specific zoning. So we're not extending the courtesy just to a lawyer. We're saying if someone can't testify and their name comes up, they can designate someone to testify on their behalf? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Equal level playing field. Yeah, yes, we want to make sure and obviously we we certainly hope that all hundred thousand Parcels in the city don't have someone that want to show up and speak at the council hearing But but for those that do we want to make sure that certainly people certainly willing to make the time try But people are bringing those in an obviously very organized way and it's very helpful to us and the staff is developing a matrix For us to be able to review. Okay, we got this request about that property. This is the particular
 I just want to make sure that I'm fine with it, just as long as we're extending the courtesy to everybody. If they don't have an attorney but have someone else who speaks for them, we're giving them the same opportunity. Exactly. The only challenge is that we've said that individuals have to speak up to speak. They can't have a single person signing up 10 people. Right.
 So I'm a little concerned that one individual could be representing several people. We might want to think as we move along that if you testified once during the hearing, that you don't get to testify again. We need to monitor that just so we can get to hear more people.
 Yeah. And just so that everybody knows, we'll be doing the next hearing the same way as this, with first come, first served, and not carrying on the list from today, so that you'll have to come and sign again. After that, I'm speaking because I'll be the president and the councilor and the mayor will be out of the country. And after that, we may change to a different system where we go more to a lottery and or maybe if you've shown up twice and you haven't been able to speak, that you get in first on the next time, something like that. We really do want to make sure that everybody...
 has an opportunity to speak and that we make it fair. If someone's already signed up, why don't they, our normal practice is they go to the top of the list, the next hearing. We have not yet done that in terms of rolling people over to the next hearing because we're moving around the city with those hearings in part to try to get closer to where people live. So we want to make sure that we don't subject them to a whole bunch of testimony about the end of society. Fair enough, because the next hearing is not here. Yeah. Okay.
 Next hearing is at the Middleman Jewish Community Center, as a matter of fact. Okay, so who's next? The next three are Jeff Giesler, Grant Williams, and Martha Johnston, 32, 33, and 34. And they'll be followed by Ann Surgeon, Rich Surgeon, and Ron Beck, 35, 36, 37. Okay, good.
 Three out of three. Okay. What's that? 100,000 parcels. That's 100,000 parcels. We hope we don't hear about it long. There's a little bit of trivia. Yeah. I have no idea. I am 2,500 people. Okay.
 Anyway, I'm Jeff Geisler again from Hayden Island High Noon neighborhood. I'm not going to talk about West Hayden Island because I trust you're going to do the right thing on that. But on East Hayden Island, we experienced a 2003 permit process that went into bankruptcy, which was known as Sal Perre Bay.
 came back without any neighborhood input whatsoever and was converted from condos to apartments. So now we have 376 or 378 apartments going up, and Columbia Crossings, who also owns a lot of land, would like to imitate that. We had no new infrastructure, no new streets. The CRC died. So on the mixed-use zone that I see,
 I think we would like to have the CM1, so we have a limitation on height if there's new apartments or condos being built, and or serious input from the neighborhood before any approval of a permit is granted. Because we only have one road that leads to the east end of the island. It's Tomahawk Drive. And in the summertime, it's really one lane.
 So, you know, I approve of the zoning that's going on. The mixed use, I think, is always a great use of property. But we have a very narrow street and area out there, and we were not served very well when South Bear Bay went up, and then consequently we have Yacht Harbor. So I'd like to just bring that to your attention. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Grant Williams, local resident, small business owner, and board member of the Humboldt Community Association. I'm representing myself and Ethan Knight today, who is my business owner. I'm killing it, y'all. Who's my local business partner? I came here recently and addressed Charlie as meerkat, so you're doing better than me. You are killing it. Thanks, Mr. Fish.
 I am testifying today in reference to two bordering properties at 650 North Alberta and 710 North Alberta, which border a CM2 zone on two sides. These properties are currently zoned R2.5A, and my proposal would extend the CM2 zone to include these properties. One of these properties houses my small business under conditional use. The use of both addresses will be consistent with the use allowances of the CM2 zone.
 The current R2.5A zone limits my small business to capital to maintain the existing historic buildings, which I have no intention of developing. I have also submitted online testimony, which includes letters of support from the Humboldt Community Association, five neighboring homeowners, and seven small business owners. One of those I'd like to quote here. It is in my experience that this business is operated with the utmost professionalism and respect for its neighbors.
 I would be delighted to see it get the opportunity to continue to grow in its mission. You may debate that, depending on my testimony, as I've debauched it. But that's it. Thank you for your service. What is your business? I didn't. I own a small bed and breakfast. So it really serves local travelers that are traveling on a budget. So it makes accommodation affordable in Portland. So room prices range around $35 a night.
 I think so. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello. Thank you, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. This is Phase 1 of East Columbia Neighborhood Association testimony. You'll see the two maps in front of you. One is the aerial picture with the lot lines of the problematic areas that we're having. And Map 2 is the wetlands that abound in our area. And that blue blob at the bottom of the wetlands here is a private mitigation for building the industrial area.
 I'll put your name on the record. I'm sorry. This is Martha Johnston with East Columbia Neighborhood Association. Considerations of the change in circumstances since enactment of the industrial sanctuary designation in 1981 comp plan has had no development in 35 years.
 In 2011, as part of the Middle Columbia Corridor Airport Natural Resources Inventory, this area received substantial coverage of the environmental overlay zoning of the P protection and the C conservation. See those maps. The map shows the P and C overlay zones covering approximately one-half of four of the properties, one-third of one property, two-thirds of one property, and all of one property.
 The extensive coverage of the P-overly zone is important for future development potential, as characterized in the Zoning Code website zone summaries. The Environmental Protection Zone provides the highest level of protection to the most important resources and functional values. Development will be approved in the Environmental Protection Zone only in rare and unusual circumstances.
 The environmental zoning appears to have taken the majority of this area out of potential development in the future. As such, any development, and particularly industrial development, with its large buildings and extensive paving associated with heavy truck traffic, would not be anticipated to be approved or occur in the majority of this area with the planned designation of IS, Industrial Sanctuary.
 The portion of the lots not covered by environmental zoning is where there are five houses with a total improvement value of $655,000. A reasonable expectation is that these homes outside the environmental zoning would be less likely to be developed for industrial uses due to the existing improvement values and relatively small acreage in the P&C zones available.
 We're out of land and out of time. Okay. You've made it clear. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Ann Surgeon, Rich Surgeon, and Ron Beck, 35, 36, and 37. And they'll be followed by Sally Beck, Dan Holland, and Eva Miller, 38, 39, and 40. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Okay. Yes, I'm Ann Surgeon, and I'm continuing the dialogue of the East Columbia Neighborhood Association position of Phase 1. Our 20 zoning would match and be compatible with the zoning to the immediate north.
 R-20 residential zoning would protect environmental resource values by not developing those areas and yet add a few additional new home sites concentrated in the area of Northeast Levee Road outside the P and C zones. In addition, there could also be the possibility of application by individual property owners for small plan development lots located outside the environmental zones.
 A planned development can result in a lot density closer to the development potential of their entire property. A buffer between industrial and residential use areas exists in the abutting industrial zone IG2H, property to the south. Along the industrial property's northern boundary is a 50-foot wide buffer strip zone IG2BH.
 The B buffer zone was a condition of approval of the industrial development and was enacted to serve as a buffer to reduce adverse effects between incompatible land use attributes such as noise, lights, and views.
 It is recognized that there is a need to maintain adequate planned land areas for future industrial growth. However, continuing to include this area in the inventory of acreage to fulfill future industrial need could be viewed as representing a false acreage number in that inventory.
 That is because the majority of the acreage is covered by undeveloped environmental zones, and except for one smaller lot, the remaining acreage is already developed with housing, significantly reducing the conversion to industrial land use. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. The map you have shows red and black dots and yellow dots. Those represent houses and barns.
 I'm Richard Surgeon. I brought these pictures to show you that the existing housing on Living Road and the development allowed recently within 400 feet of my property. The properties in question consist of beautiful homes, as you see. I bought my property 35 years ago. I've lived there 45 years on that property.
 with the intent to live there the rest of my life and to develop someday for my retirement. My property abuts my neighbor's R20 zoning. I love the families of deer that live in the area, have lived there for decades, not to mention coyotes, foxes, immigrating birds, etc. Industry would wipe them out of the area. The city is allowing for the tearing down of old Portland homes to...
 get more housing in the same space and try to meet their housing goals. Doesn't this make sense to allow us to improve our neighborhood livability, thus increasing housing for the Portland area while protecting the city's environmental zones? I paid your fees for a preliminary hearing in 2006 to see if I can build just two homes
 only to be shot down because of all the zone changes put on my property after I bought it without any financial compensation, I might add. It's not fair that the City Council restrict us homeowners because they want industrial land in their inventory, especially when it can never be used as such because of the wetlands, environmental overlays, animal habitat, and roads that prohibit industrial access. In conclusion, thank you.
 we the homeowners request this comprehensive plan change not to be approved and allow for future r20 zoning for the portland's needs for portland's needs for more housing it's time and long overdue to this change
 i'm sorry it's time and long overdue to change this small part of the current comp plan since it is already a residential neighborhood thank you for your consideration thank you thank you very much
 Welcome. Thank you for the opportunity. I'm having a back spasm, so I may talk a little weird. My name is Ron Beck, and my wife and I own a property on Levee Road. Northeast Levee Road is two blocks long. The north end of it touches Columbia-Edgewater Golf Course. It's kind of in the backwaters down there. We're surrounded by wetlands and single-family dwellings. And I'm only going to talk about one thing.
 In 2011, Gundersen versus the City of Portland decided that you can't have an environmental overlay on a property and at the same time have an industrial overlay on the same property
 And it was supported by the Oregon Supreme Court. Now, what they're proposing on our properties, the Levee Road gang, is to have not only wetlands and protected zones, but also industrial sanctuaries on the same properties. And down in that area makes no sense. It's all residences and wetlands.
 I'll read as far as I can here and then I'll get cut off and that's fine. The industrial property owners within the airport futures area demanded in hearing testimony that the proposed environmental zoning overlay zones be removed from their properties prior to the comprehensive plan and zoning map amendments being adopted. The airport futures plan and zoning changes were adopted soon after in April 2011 through
 The request by industrial landowners for the city to remove the environmental overlay zones was followed and complained with for all non-governmental industrial lands except the subject Northeast Levee Road properties. Within the airport futures area, the Northeast Levee Road industrial sanctuary properties were the only privately owned properties in the industrial lands inventory that had environmental restrictions placed on it.
 No analysis of the developable industrial acreage loss due to the environmental zoning was ever done in blatant disregard of the Gundersen v. City of Portland requirements. Since the City of Portland chose not to comply with the requirements to determine the amount of acreages lost and the resulting impact on the industrial lands inventories as a result of the environmental overlay zones mapped on the Abbey Road properties,
 then we must conclude that the city never intended to actually ensure that the properties were available for later industrial development. The city cannot have it both ways, count the properties in the industrial inventory and also apply environmental zoning on the same properties. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Very clear. The next three are Sally Beck, Dan Holland, and Eva Miller, 38, 39, and 40.
 And they'll be followed by Catherine Christensen, Keith Leiden, and Lightning, 41, 42, and 43. Okay. Whoever would like to be first, go ahead. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Sally Beck, and I've owned property in the East Columbia neighborhood for 25 years. I'm here to speak about the less than honest dealings that have taken place by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 The comp plan proposed has our property and that of our neighbors on Northeast Levee Road listed as both industrial sanctuary and having major environmental overlays of protection and conservation. How can this be?
 It would seem that both are mutually exclusive. No other privately owned industrial plan designated properties except these six parcels received environmental overlay zoning at the conclusion of the airport futures plan in 2011 because in doing so they would be in violation of Gundersen v. City of Portland and that decision. Thank you.
 As the Oregon Supreme Court required an environmental analysis of each property that was never done, the city of Portland is in noncompliance and puts small landowners like me in a bad situation.
 It is unfortunate with the resources available to the Planning and Sustainability Bureau that they cannot find a way to fulfill their obligations to Metro and the State of Oregon without subjecting small individual property owners to resort to litigation or suffer under unfair and unrealistic zoning overlays and unfounded suitability for future industrial growth.
 In conclusion, the industrial sanctuary comprehensive plan designation for the subject properties should be removed. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Dr. Daniel Holland. I'm representing the East Portland Eye Clinic as well as our patients. Thank you.
 The East Portland Eye Clinic was established in 1962 on the corner of Southeast 122nd and Gleason Streets, and we've currently moved to our location on 108th and Southeast Stark in 1989. We've grown from a two-doctor practice to now 10 doctors with adding another one next month, and we currently see over 200 patients a day at our Stark location.
 Our clientele range from the very young to the very old. I was the first pediatric ophthalmologist on the east side of Portland. We provide services from anything from custom cataracts to LASIK, as well as services for Care Oregon, Family Care, Medicare, and discounted services to the uninsured. Originally known as the East Portland Eye Clinic, we're now part of Eye Health Northwest, serving the Portland metro area.
 As we've grown, our parking has become a major problem. And with many of our patients having to park on the street, on the neighborhood side streets, as well as our employees, and we also have a shortage of disabled parking spaces. And just recently, the lot behind us became available again.
 And we made a purchase offer in hopes of adding additional parking. We believe this would not only alleviate the congestion in the neighborhood, but also provide safer access to the clinic for our patients, as well as safer exiting and entering from the side streets rather than the busy stark street. So in order to accomplish this, we...
 We're asking that the R2.5 zoning be changed on the lot at 412th and Southeast 108th and have that be included in the mixed-use civic corridor zoning in the Comprehensive Growth Plan. It's been a pleasure serving the people of East Portland, and we would like to continue to grow as our patient base ages and our population grows.
 Doctor, I have a question. First of all, it's been a pleasure being one of your patients. I've had services at your clinic. Have you submitted something in writing that documents what you've just told us? I plan to. I have it all written out and have photographs and written requests. Yeah, because this is your – I mean, we have staff taking notes, but this is a very – you have like a surgical ask. You're asking if we have something that backs it up, and I am –
 And when I visited, I don't remember having any difficulty with parking. So just remind me again, you're... We're with Dr. Kim over at 108th and Stark. We have various doctors coming in and out. Our busiest days are probably Mondays and Thursdays. We used to provide just general eye care, but now we have retina surgery. We have glaucoma. And there's a lot of different patients coming in. We're probably the biggest provider of eye care, I believe, currently.
 In Portland. My understanding is when OHSU wants to have a patient receive a glaucoma test, they send them to your clinic. We often exchange patients with OHSU. So if I understand the pattern that you're recommending, right now the recommended –
 Recommended zoning would be mixed use on Stark, but only one parcel deep. And you're saying your plans would be benefited by making it two parcels deep. And the parcel immediately to the east of you is already in that mixed use designation. Yes, sir. That's our parking lot. Yeah. Okay. And we'd just like to extend it behind the building there. Okay.
 Honestly, I think the corridor could be widened a bit as things continue to grow and commerce continues to develop along Stark Street there. Right. Yeah, you're right up the street from the community center and so on. There is a house on that lot. We'd be more than happy to move that house, donate it, whatever it takes to help the housing situation in our neighborhood. Okay.
 Have you talked with the Neighborhood Association and Business District? We have contacted a few of the neighbors, many of which are our actual patients. We've also talked to some of the local businesses, such as Sailors Country Kitchen and Elmer's, and they're all in support. And mostly we have the support from the nursing homes across the street with Adventist Healthcare, as they have to navigate our parking lot, dropping off.
 elderly patients in wheelchairs and whatnot, and it's a bit of a congested situation right now. You should probably contact the Hazelwood Neighborhood Association. Nalini Kimura is the chair, and they probably would be very supportive, but I always like to know that the Neighborhood Association has been contacted. Okay, thank you. Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity. I'm Eva Miller. I have some slides. I'm not really sure how to make that work. Carla will help you. Thanks, Carla. Carla's helped me already today. Okay.
 All right. I'm Eva Miller, and I live with my husband, Daniel Peterson, at 4018 Southeast 37th Avenue in the Creston-Kennelworth neighborhood on the Kennelworth side. We bought our small house in 2003, not as an alternative to the stock market, just to live in. And our home is zoned R5. But this conflicts with the proposed R1 zoning in the comprehensive plan.
 Facing rezoning made me look more closely at what sense there may be in the plan, and I discovered that Kenilworth already has many of the qualities city planners want throughout our city. Portland could learn lessons from us. We have income diversity. People are not wealthy in Kenilworth. We have a high percentage of renters here.
 There are older apartments, condos, multiplexes, and rental houses on nearly every block alongside modest homes like ours. On our street, there are also new condos and apartments plus an eco-village. It's really cool that evolved from existing apartments. So in Kenilworth, we already have high density. We are doing our part, but other residential areas are not.
 I don't see many zoning changes in Alameda, Irvington, Laurelhurst, Mount Tabor, or East Moreland, for example, wealthy neighborhoods. Consciously or not, Portland's planning looks like economic discrimination. Density goals should be equitable. Normally, my husband and I take our civic duty to heart. We defend the greater good. When we painted our house, we paid thousands more for lead abatement. People said we were suckers for obeying the law.
 When I met my husband, he owned a house in the Brooklyn neighborhood that we now rent for a fair price, about $1,000 a month to a couple who bike to their jobs at a grocery store. Again, people say we're suckers for not illegally listing the place on Airbnb. We give to local causes, we rescue stray cats, we vote our conscience.
 But I haven't felt like a sucker until now. If you extract even more density from Kenilworth, the few houses near us will soon sell, given market conditions. Rezoning raises our taxes and surrounds us with a solid canyon of multi-tenant construction. We'll be forced to sell, too, not to a person, but to a developer who will put our home in a landfill.
 Please reconsider the proposed zoning area review changes for Crest and Kenilworth until more neighborhoods in Portland offer the housing density and options that we do right now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are Catherine Christensen, Keith Leiden, and Mr. Lightning, 41, 42, and 43. And they'll be followed by Jim Leiden.
 Landbenthal, John Loft, and Terry Dillonskin-Milton, Dublinski-Milton, sorry, 45, 6, and 7.
 Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity. My name is Catherine Christensen, and I live in the Multnomah neighborhood. In reading the 2035 comp plan, I see some issues that affect our already congested southwest Portland streets. I'm a bike commuter and find Portland roads dangerous, and adding more cars and buses, that will make them only worse. The increased density planning for our neighborhood and the lack of infrastructure to support it is concerning.
 Last spring, I helped write our neighborhood's recommendations to improve Capitol Highway. Sadly, the funding disappeared. Our Capitol Highway is misunderstood. Along the one-mile stretch from Barber to Multnomah Village, it is one lane in each direction with no shoulder and large ditches to handle the water runoff.
 It's a nightmare for pedestrians and bikers. As Capitol Highway enters Multnomah Village, it remains one lane and becomes one way going north with angled parked cars using the one lane to enter and exit parking spots. During the many high traffic hours, the throughput can easily be less than 10 cars a minute with busy cross streets and many pedestrian crosswalks resulting in large line of traffic back-ups.
 TriMet buses bring our traffic to a stop. Multnomah Village is a vibrant downtown community along Capitol Highway. However, there are few jobs and no grocery stores. Most everyone is forced to use a car to get to work and run most errands due to poor bicycling conditions and limited bus service.
 Building high-rise apartment complexes with little off-street parking along Capitol Highway or anywhere within our neighborhood is not sustainable for apartment dwellers, those who frequent the downtown businesses, or our neighboring homes. Increasing the housing density in Multnomah Villas will only increase the congestion in our small town. Many roads aren't even paved in the area. There are no high-volume alternate routes.
 I signed the three letters that Multnomah Neighborhood prepared and submitted for record. I support what was stated in those letters. Thank you. Thank you very much. Catherine, can I just jump in? On that stretch of Capitol Highway, I want you to know that we're going to be proposing a 10-centigallon gas tax go to the ballot in May. At least I hope we are. And in sort of our straw man plan for how to spend that money,
 P-BOT included $3 million towards building a sidewalk along that stretch of Capitol Highway. That wouldn't be quite enough, but I've actually talked to legislators representing that area about making up the difference. So I am hopeful that we get a sidewalk along that stretch sometime in the next few years. Hopefully that budget will stay with the project. Welcome. Hello. I'm Keith Lydon. I'm a Southwest resident. I have a number of questions.
 about the Comprehensive Plan, primarily about the TSP. First, on the Comprehensive Plan, I think the overall policy direction looks really good to me. There's one item that just isn't very clear, and that is how the Portland Bicycle Plan for 2030 is actually incorporated into the Comprehensive Plan and TSP. I don't think anybody's really quite clear on where those elements have wound up.
 So I would recommend that the staff provide some kind of a brief memo just indicating where the key elements from the bike plan actually are translated into the TSP comp plan. For the TSP funding assumptions, they're supposedly reasonably aggressive, but I think they're aggressively optimistic. It really seems to assume that there are a lot of planets at the start that are going to line up with funding coming from all different sources, resulting in 65% more funding than we have today for transportation projects.
 I don't really think that's going to be possible, given what you read in the news and everywhere else. And I think it misleads the public in believing that a lot of the projects that show up on the constrained list will actually have a chance of getting built in the next 20 years. I would recommend basing a project scenario on existing funding levels and then have a second tier of priority projects that would come into play once we get additional funding, such as maybe a gas tax or something. I think that this needs to be a realistic plan. Okay.
 Also, the constrained project list was based on the most expensive projects, not the most beneficial or the ones that were the highest planned priority. And again, you could look to the bike plan to see that the bike plan in southwest Portland, a lot of times we went by the higher priority projects to focus on the more expensive ones.
 The project evaluation criteria, I think, are on the right track, but need some refinement, particularly because they don't –
 try to fit one size to all kinds of situations. And I think that you can see that Southwest really hasn't come out very well on the constrained list. If you look at the map, there's a heavy concentration of projects on the east side, very light on the west side. And I think if you looked at the comprehensive plan policies and asked yourself, does the project list really support Southwest, the answer would be sort of. And I think that the city can do better than that. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Mr. Leiden, just on that, the investment per capita in Southwest and the transportation projects in the TSP would actually be higher than in any other neighborhood. That's largely, of course, because of the increased cost necessary because of the topography. But I just wanted to be sure you're aware of that fact. I am aware of that. I think this is the one big irony that we had a number of big projects in Southwest that may or may not happen, and then when the project list was being developed,
 I, along with some others, are saying, well, don't keep looking at the most expensive project you can find and try and rate those in Southwest. Let's look at the ones that are less expensive. What's the matter with a project that's $300,000? Why do we only have to look at the ones that are over $500,000? And then when those expensive projects didn't make the cut into the constrained list, then there was nothing put in.
 So, for example, Humphrey Boulevard, I'll be quiet in just a second, but Humphrey Boulevard was on the list to be evaluated. It didn't make the cut because it's god-awful expensive. But then there's no substitute. Well, what about having Hewitt as a neighborhood greenway for a lot less money to make the same connection? That kind of thinking was lacking in the development of the project list. So it's not about the amount of money, it's how you spend it, and are we really getting the most out of it. That's helpful. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. The concerns I have on the plan are really pertaining to the population growth in the housing supply. I'm not going to throw out the numbers on projections out 20 years because, I mean, let's face it, that can change drastically. What my biggest concern on is the housing supply, obviously, is coming up with the resources and the funding necessary
 to basically build the housing. And one of the things I suggested to Commissioner Salzman is that I still want to have a bond placed on the ballot. And I'd like to have the bond somewhere around $100 million. And the reason why I say that is that we know that the gas prices have dropped considerably. We know that consumers are basically saving money with that.
 We also know by studies that they're actually spending a lot of that money at retail department stores, and that's at the highest list. And our average is there from probably, say, $500 to $1,500 in savings over time. And now is the time to go for the bond. People know that we need affordable housing. People know we need the resources. And why not try to do it?
 Why not at least try to do it? Another thing I want to focus on is the employers offering assisted housing. I want more of the corporations to begin to understand that we need you to start funding development projects for affordable housing. It is imperative that you do. If you want the skilled labor force to come into Portland, you also have to fund affordable housing.
 And it's just on a voluntary basis and see if they can work with certain developers and fund them money on certain projects that are proposed to the larger corporation. It needs to be set up in that understanding if we want to have that skilled labor force involved.
 the family wage jobs, and the affordable housing, they have to step up also and offer that type of funding to these developers, which will be loans paid back to them, but the benefits throughout the community and to their corporations will be tremendous. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Next three are Jim Labenthal, John Loff, and Terry Doblinsky-Milton.
 That's 45, 46, and 47. And they'll be followed by Kate Kuth, Al Sheldon, and Gabe Hendrick, 48, 49, 50. Okay. I'd like to be first. Go ahead, Jim. Good evening. Jim Lobenthal, and I'm representing the Riverside Golf Course. And we had submitted a letter earlier. And I wanted to just kind of amplify a few points that we made in the letter from the president of our board and our general manager.
 as an overall perspective we're operating quite healthily right now and quite successfully we've been around for 90 years we plan to be around for another 90 years we have over 500 members close to close to 100 employees a third of which are youth and summer jobs and after school jobs helping out at the course so we do not want to we don't want to up zone our property we actually want to maintain open space on the site um
 We've had quite a discussion with our board about this. What is our core mission? Is it to operate a golf course or is it to convert to industrial? And our core mission is really to continue to operate a golf course. Our concern is that this designation makes it harder for us to operate by making the question about whether we're going to be around come up to play. So we're recruiting new members. We're competing with other clubs. We're competing with other clubs.
 We're also hosting weddings, golf tournaments, and other social functions. People plan far ahead for this. So already we've heard a few rumors from even some of our own members, oh, here we're converting to industrial. And I have to explain, well, no, not exactly. So we really would encourage you to not count us in the industrial inventory because I don't think it's a realistic goal for the plan. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is John Loff, and I'm here representing the employees of Riverside Golf and Country Club. I'm here today to express our concern over the proposed changes to the comprehensive plan and how this could have a negative impact on Riverside's future success and our jobs that we rely on. The staff at Riverside has worked very hard the last seven years to make it through some rather tough economic times, and we see a real bright future in our business.
 ahead of us. So we all want to work real hard towards that success. We have a healthy membership. We have a great group of employees who don't ever see Riverside turning into an industrial park, and we're going to work hard to make sure that doesn't happen. We ask that you reconsider any changes to our current designation as open space. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello. I'm Terry Dublinski-Milton. I am the Transportation Land Use Chair for the North Tabor Neighborhood Association, and I am speaking for the Neighborhood Association. I first would like to thank Council for all the work you've done on the comprehensive plan and your recent votes on Vision Zero, fossil fuels, oil trains, and
 and the Greenway report, all which symbolically represent votes that we have taken. Very good. One issue on the Greenways and transportation, we're worried about the silo effect. We are the only neighborhood without a built park or we don't even have a playground. All the schools are in other neighborhoods. And so when we ask for diversion on our Greenways, it's because we want to turn it into a linear park system over time. The diversion is the first step. It's not just about numbers.
 Okay. And next concept, I'd like to thank the Pointland Sustainability Commission for giving us our neighborhood town center. We requested an upzoning for a town center because of the providence, because of the MAX station, because of our bus lines and bike access. We have excellent access for workforce housing. We have been an affordable workforce node for the working class for 100 years. We want to keep that.
 On that subject, when we get inclusionary zoning, and we would like you to continue to lobby for that, there are five blocks between 53rd and 58th on Gleason between Providence and the off-ramp that we would like zoned to CM3. We could go up to as tall as 100 feet. This plan was developed over a consensus model over multiple meetings.
 So you can read through it in more detail. We're talking about ADUs, opening up flexibility, building onto existing structures. Specifically on ADUs, we talked for a very long time about building it in the setbacks, on the corners, because we have properties that have driveways that butt up. And so we would really hope that you pull your amendment, because we have hundreds of properties we could put ADUs up in the corners, in the back driveway that are visible from the street.
 We are more worried about displacement than we are density. So we would like you to vote yes on all the displacement measures, and please read our report. Thank you. Thank you very much. You will. The next three are 48, 49, and 50, Kate Kuth, Elle Sheldon, and Gabe Hedrick, and they'll be followed by Annette Stanhope, Linda Peel, and Heather Flint-Chateau, 61, 62, and 63. Thank you.
 Okay, why don't you go ahead while he's getting settled. I'd be happy to. Thank you very much. My name is Elle Sheldon. I've lived in Portland for over 40 years, and I've lived in my home in northeast Portland, which was built in 1911, for almost 32 years. In my professional marketing career in Portland, I've worked for several organizations, and my work has had long-term economic impacts on this community that we relish today.
 In the 1990s, I was appointed to the Oregon Film and Video Foundation as a volunteer and served as its president for 10 years. This is the organization that purchased and preserved a one-of-a-kind community asset, the Hollywood Theater, which will celebrate its 90th anniversary this July. I've been a member of Riverside Golf and Country Club since 1993. This community asset is also celebrating its 90th anniversary this year.
 Riverside has survived fires, depressions and recessions, a foreclosure, World War II, the Great Flood of 1948 when it was under 10 feet of water, and the Columbus Day Storm. Its dedicated members have kept this club alive for 90 years.
 We have developed and created a nationally renowned golf course and environment which has hosted local, regional, and national golf tournaments and events for nine decades. The proposed change of designation of Riverside will severely impact the club's ability to market Riverside to potential members and to others wishing to use the club as a site for their events.
 Since Riverside was founded, it has proffered Portland and a golfing and social community that is unique and unsurpassed. Riverside is a very valuable, relevant, and irreplaceable asset to Northeast Portland and the entire region. I strongly oppose the designation change. Thank you very much. Thank you. You're welcome.
 hi my name is Gabe Hedrick and I live in the Reed neighborhood I was a former president of the Reed neighborhood Association for two years and I was the land use chair for another three years I'm not currently on the board but I'm here on their behalf I just got a vote of speaking for them last week um I'm actually happy to be here to provide and submit testimony of our support of the uh
 proposed zoning changes that the planning department has put forth in their new report, which involves maintaining the R7 zone in the Reedwood portion of the neighborhood and expanding it as well as maintaining the R7 zone in the Reed College Heights neighborhood as well. We started in – both myself personally, I've also been on the policy expert group for the comprehensive plan –
 As a neighborhood, and personally, we've been very active in this process and really pleased to see the results thus far and really hope that you can approve those results as well that the planning has put forth. We started in 2010. The Reed Neighborhood Association started in 2010 working with...
 planning department to advocate for some changes we submitted a 2011 letter from a vote that we had in the rna the reneighborhood association in favor of those changes again in 2013 we submitted a petition that had 137 signatures from homeowners in the area
 and I've also got a letter, again, from the current board supporting the changes still. So I really appreciate the planning department's work, particularly Matt Wickstrom and Maurice Stockton. They've been really great to work with, and I really hope that you'll approve their recommendations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. The next three are Annette Stanhope, Linda Peel, and Heather Flint-Chateau.
 and they'll be followed by 64, 65, and 66, Robin McIntosh, Deborah Hockhalter, and Barry Smith. Dear Mayor and City Council members, thank you so much for all of your hard work, and also to staff, particularly Barry Manning, Bill Cunningham, and Marty Stockton, our Southeast Neighborhood liaison.
 I'm here representing – what's that? Put your name in the record, Heather. Oh, yes. My name is Heather Flinchato. I'm an urban planner and urban designer, and I'm also a Richmond board member and on the Division Design Committee. I'm here on behalf of the Division Design Initiative, and we're here submitting our top ten recommendations for the City of Portland. I've given your assistance some of our copies so that you can take a look at those as well. And this represents –
 more than 18 months of work engaging neighborhoods around issues of design. And so I wanted to let you know that these top ten policy recommendations are in response to issues and concerns we've heard, both from the division neighborhood as well as issues we've heard citywide over the last two years. Thank you.
 These top ten policy recommendations have been endorsed by the Division Clinton Business Association, by the Richmond Neighborhood Association, Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, and the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association as well.
 And they are really in response to extensive community outreach, research, and stakeholder engagement during this time to create proactive approaches to engage neighborhood members in the planning and design of their own neighborhoods rather than feeling kind of disenfranchised in the processes which we've kind of seen happening.
 The redevelopment of Southeast Division can be viewed as a pilot effort or a prototype of what's being proposed in the comprehensive plan. Although the changes have brought benefits, our experience during the past three years of growth and change has led us to some significant concerns that feel unaddressed currently. These include a reduction in safety on adjacent neighborhood streets due to increased traffic, speeds and volumes, and increased congestion on Division and Powell, new development that creates...
 Discontinuity with existing neighborhood patterns, style, materials, and building form. Dramatic neighborhood socioeconomic changes, gentrification, and increasing lack of affordability of housing and loss, or lack of neighborhood-serving businesses. Lack of adequate design standards and planning design review criteria to ensure compatibility. Lack of information, notification, meaningful ability to participate in the planning and design review process.
 We would ask that you not accept the growth scenarios report without further analysis of some other alternatives for increasing infill density with fewer development impacts, such as higher density on wider streets, north-south corridors where you have less shading impacts on major arterials, as well as high density at major intersection nodes to balance reductions for
 narrower streets and older streetcar-era main streets with special character that could actually have a little bit more preservation. We'd also ask that you evaluate a more comprehensive missing middle neighborhood infill scenario. Your time is actually up. Oh, okay. It's counting up now. Thank you. And I just want to say the last key issue that is our top recommendation from our planning consultant, who was a former planning commissioner,
 is to close the residential floor area ratio code loophole. That is the most important issue that you could do right now instead of waiting until 2017 to fix incompatible development with our neighborhood. Thank you so much. I would welcome an opportunity to tell you more about our project. We appreciate you putting this really detailed set of recommendations together. So that's very helpful to us. Yes, absolutely. And those are overarching recommendations, which we'd be happy to share more detailed recommendations as well.
 Oh, yeah. Please keep it coming. Absolutely. This is very helpful. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. Welcome. Thank you for having me. I am especially excited that you made it to number 62. Okay.
 Good job. I'm a physician. I canceled my 15 patients this afternoon to come at 2 o'clock, and I was so, so hoping to speak. I'll be short and try to be brief. My name is Linda Peel, and I live on 14th and Clinton in southeast Portland. And I'm representing a large group of 50 neighbors that this testimony is due to.
 to support of the current comp plan recommendations to keep the property at 2717 Southeast 15th Street at Clinton Residential. I represent a large group of neighbors living in this community, and we understand that the property owner has come to you to ask for a change in the zoning of his property, which is currently listed in the current draft of the comprehensive plan as residential. After hearing...
 The requests and testimony of neighbors back in 2014, the decision was made to keep his property residential. We agree and support this decision at this exact moment it is listed as residential. We strongly urge you to stay with the same and oppose his personal request for the rezoning of his property.
 Currently have a stable, healthy residential area with plenty of mixed-use and commercial properties. Actually, there are more than 25 businesses within a half-mile of this location and new businesses opening daily. Rezoning 2717 Southeast 15th from residential to commercial will add additional businesses, noise, and chaos to inner Southeast Clinton Street. It is simply not needed.
 It will increase noise, traffic, parking difficulties, exposure to violent mental hazards. It's the second largest bike pathway in the city and just three blocks from our local elementary school, so there could be some concerns for families on bicycles and people walking by. Okay.
 our property owner or developer will spend a lot of has spent a lot of time and effort and money to promise everyone that none of this will happen uh he has met with our hand neighborhood board five times over the past year thankfully the hand board did ask him to notify the neighbors that this was happening and that's how we were made aware of this in september of 2015 um and the
 The handboard has written a general letter in oppose of any property going from residential to commercial if it hasn't always been residential in the past. So...
 And finally, I just want you to listen kindly to his request, but base your decision on the zoning and not on the property owner. I want to be clear that we're not attacking his character in any way or his attempt to make money on his property. We are supportive of small business. He may be Mother Teresa himself with the best of intentions, but we are not attacking his character in any way.
 But once a zone change is made, it's permanent, and anything can happen for years and years to come with this property owner or future owners. As neighbors with long-term investments in our homes and our families and our visions for this great community, we cannot take this chance. So we agree with the current zoning and oppose any change to this particular property. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next three are Robin McIntosh, Deborah Hockhalter, and Barry Smith.
 50 64 65 and 66 and they'll be followed by john rush joshua kingsley and chris durr 67 68 and 69. those folks over here come on up go ahead please whoever would like to be first hi my name is robin mcintosh i live at 30 3605 southeast carruthers uh today i offer testimony about plans for two blocks of southeast carruthers between 35th place and 38th
 This is a small residential street one block north of Division, filled mostly with single-family homes, but also with one large mixed-use apartment building, one parking lot, and plans underway for one more apartment building with retail space on the ground floor. Carruthers is the wrong place for commercial development. The comp plan proposes commercial development on the entire south side of one block of this narrow street,
 Sorry, I'm really nervous. As well as on 38th and part of my block of Carothers, which is a dead end. Increased density and development on division has brought more delivery trucks, more moving trucks, garbage trucks, maintenance vehicles, and cars to Carothers 37th and 38th, adding to the congestion in this already congested area. Okay.
 Delivery vehicles parked on Division decrease visibility for drivers and bikers turning onto Division from 37th and for pedestrians crossing the street. This dangerous bottleneck will become even worse if Carruthers becomes a street with businesses on it that will need to be serviced by more large, loud vehicles, which will all need to turn onto Division after parking or double parking on Carruthers.
 Carruthers currently serves as a buffer between the business district on Division and the surrounding neighborhood, but this function will be lost if the commercial development is also built on Carruthers. Carruthers, Division, and the other streets in the surrounding neighborhood cannot get wider to support the increased traffic and congestion.
 Further development on Carothers will create a terrible mess that will negatively affect everyone. Please prevent this from happening by changing the comp plan zoning to residential zoning. Is it currently residential? Most of it is. But is the zoning currently residential? The comp plan, yes. Yeah. It's mostly R5. And is it proposed for commercial on both sides of Carothers?
 No, it's proposed. Well, there's some grandfathered-in commercial already, okay, that's storefront commercial. It's proposed to be R2.5 on the north side. Mixed use on the south side. Mixed use, yeah. And we will have some commercial in there because of the grandfathered-in. I mean, we already have Richmond flats there.
 and that developer is going to put another apartment building there across the street, which will be 30 units so he doesn't have to build parking. And the parking lot that we have is also subject to become an apartment building, but right now it's kind of a nice valve there because of all the added cars. At least there's a parking lot there. So, yeah, I've seen Richmond Flats as kind of the poster child of –
 the development that we all hate in the neighborhood. So I don't want to see the same thing happen on the rest of Carruthers. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Hi, my name is Debbie Hochhalter, and I'm a member of the Division Design Initiative Committee, elected as a representative of the Richmond Neighborhood Association, but I'm just here as a resident. I've lived in the Division Hawthorne neighborhood, Richmond neighborhood technically, for almost 22 years in a single-family home built in 1910. I would begin by requesting that you endorse the 10 policy recommendations proposed by the DDI. Okay.
 Second, I would encourage you to analyze the many ways Portland is displacing the working class or missing middle, if you will, in the name of increased density. As Heather Flint Chado and I wrote in a letter to you in 2012,
 We're at this for a long time. We appreciate and understand the need for density to protect the urban growth boundary. However, not all density is good quality density. Without thought to compatibility with surrounding structures, impact on infrastructure, and, yes, parking, a lack of sensitivity to the unique identity and quality of neighbors and neighborhoods, I fear that we are losing the many attributes that make a great city a livable city.
 We can do better than building square boxes which do not exist in nature, tearing down mature, healthy trees and mature, healthy houses, all in the name of increased density. I ask that you work toward diversifying development and endorse the policy recommendations set forth by the Division Design Initiative. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next three are John Rush, Joshua Kingsley, and Chris Durth.
 And they'll be followed by Alistair Roxburgh, Deb Delman, and Rob Mathers. That's 70, 71, and 72 will be next.
 Good evening. My name is John Rush. I'm a resident in the Sylvan Highlands neighborhood, and I'm here kind of under unusual circumstances. We've heard that there would be a proposal put before you about rezoning a nearby property. I'm here to provide my opposition, and as the Sylvan Highlands board member also encourage and let you know that we support the findings of the comprehensive plan which keep this property zoned R20 the way it is currently.
 So the property we're talking about is 6141 Southwest Canyon Court. We believe that the owner intends to make a proposal to change the zoning from R20 to R2 multifamily and develop 24 condominium units there. The reasons that I personally, not just the board, but me personally, believe this is not a good idea. One, it's inconsistent with the recommended comprehensive plan.
 The owner of this property actually went through the comprehensive planning process, went with this very specific proposal, and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability denied it for the following reasons. This is not a site in a proposed corridor or center, and transit options are limited. Okay.
 Although there are some commercial services within a quarter mile, the transportation infrastructure is congested. Any changes merit consider of a broader or cohesive area. So this is consistent with feedback from the neighbors around the impact of this development on neighborhood infrastructure. We have very limited street infrastructure. Southwest Canyon Court is a two-lane road that serves about 800 residents to the west in Washington County.
 Further to that, there's a significant development that's going to impact that very same spot. A 244-unit apartment complex has been approved by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability a quarter mile to the west that will impact exactly that same intersection. The main area that allows ingress and egress from the neighborhood goes past East Sylvan School, which is going to come back into service as a school this year. The...
 300 more cars going up and down that road during every day and if you add on another 25 apartment units or condominium units it's going to make it even worse you're content with the the map as it's now proposed we support we support the comprehensive plan
 Broadly and specifically. In summary, we strongly oppose the request to rezone the property located at 6141 Southwest Canyon Court because the proposal was thoughtfully considered during the comprehensive planning process and was denied. The increased density proposed would worsen an already challenging traffic situation, negatively impact neighborhood safety and livability, and provide no offsetting benefits to the impacted neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Mayor and commissioners, good evening. My name is Chris Durth, and I've lived in the Multnomah neighborhood for almost 25 years now. And first, Mayor, I'd like to thank you for opening the armory in Multnomah to a homeless shelter. We really welcome your political courage in doing that.
 On the comp plan, I'd like to talk about my views, which differ from many of those who you heard earlier this evening. I'm sorry you had to hear so much negativity and nimbyism from our neighborhood association. But in contrast, I'd like to bring some positive support for the progressive comp plan draft that you have before you tonight.
 When we moved to Multnomah in the early 90s, the village was in poor condition with many storefronts vacant, run down, and underutilized. Over the years, we've seen a steady increase in commercial vitality, which I attribute to a steady increase in density in the neighborhood, bringing more customers to the area and, in turn, supporting more small businesses and the restaurants that we love.
 We love Multnomah because it's a thriving urban neighborhood center with increasing density supporting more urban services. In fact, it's always been a neighborhood center from the early days as a small rural town to today when it remains one of the few commercial centers in Southwest.
 It's ironic to me that the very density which has made our neighborhood more vital, more walkable, and more livable has been opposed by a small number of people who seem to dominate the Multnomah Neighborhood Association. It's also ironic that while we all want less car dependency and greater walkability, many still oppose the density necessary to make that a reality.
 We also say that we want better transit service, but some still oppose the density necessary to support it. And we all say that we want to retain the urban growth boundary, yet some don't even want to absorb our small share of Portland's growth. And we all say that we want more restaurants, a grocery store, and more small businesses all within a short walk, yet many oppose the additional customers necessary to support those businesses.
 so in conclusion i respectfully request that the council approve the draft comp plan retaining multnomah village as a neighborhood center as it is and retain the cm2 designation to avoid downsizing in the center please allow multnomah to grow and thrive by not moving us backward and not down zoning and uh and moving to less density so thank you thank you thanks very much chris mr dearth i want you to know that rachel and i recognize that we still owe you a pie
 I'll collect on that anytime. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Next three are Alistair Roxburgh, Deb Delman, and Rob Mathers, 70, 71, and 72. Let's go with Laura Campos, Colin Rowan, and Ellen Gentry. Maybe we should just find out who's here and testify. Yes, come on down. Joe Rossi. You want to testify? Yeah.
 Oh, he just listened. All right. Anyone else that wants to testify tonight? I would like to. Come on up. Come on down. We'll get you in. I'll be quick. Ready? My name's Thomas Hermack, and I'm appearing before you today to oppose the comprehensive plan zone change proposed for my home at 10901 Southwest Boones Ferry Road. It's been zoned R10 since I purchased it on April 2, 1992. Okay.
 The proposed change would be to R20, which I find rather incredulous. I think it's obvious that 20,000 square foot lots are excessively large and should only be mandated in extreme circumstances. Any related health and safety issues would obviously apply to either zoning designation. Here's a quote from the proposed change, single dwelling 20,000. This designation is intended for areas that are generally far from centers and corridors where urban public services are extremely limited or absent.
 And future investments in urban public services will be limited. Areas within the designation generally have multiple significant development constraints that may pose health and safety risks if the land were more densely developed. Very low density single dwelling residential and agriculture will be the primary uses. The maximum density is generally 2.2 units per acre. Corresponding zone is R20. This in no way describes my situation.
 10,000 square foot lots are very large lots. Lowering the allowable density would not only be unjustified, but would directly violate the goal of directing future growth inside the urban growth boundary. I support the goal of directing new growth inside the urban growth boundary, and I urge you to resist any proposals that run counter to that goal. While I appreciate very much the semi-rural nature of my neighborhood, I do not subscribe to the not-in-my-backyard policy.
 Way of thinking there's a lot of development opportunity in my neighborhood that can be utilized without destroying the character and resources Of the neighborhood mine is the only property singled out on the west side of Boone's Ferry Road That's included that in the proposed change number 177 none of the adjoining properties are affected I've tried to find out what factors specific to my property caused it to be flagged for the change But have been given only general guidelines None specific to my lot
 and who inspected my property and came up with a recommendation that it be included and why. I haven't found an answer to that. We'll find out. We appreciate you flagging it. Could you give us the address again, please? 10901 Southwest Boones Ferry Road. I also own an adjoining lot and have an order of counsel allowing me to apply the comp plan R10 overlay to it, which would make the entire plot that I own R10.
 It was the result of a Measure 37 and then Measure 49 claim back in 2008, I think.
 Thank you very much. I appreciate you flagging this. You've got that clearly on the record. We can look into it. Okay. The proposed change would result in a split zoning situation. I'm 67 years old, and the value of my home represents the vast majority of my net worth. There's no doubt that the proposed change... Excuse me. If you could submit the rest in writing so that we can get everybody else in. Thank you very much for your time. You've got it clearly in front of us. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hello. Thank you. My name is Ken Diener.
 We have at 536 Southeast 17th Avenue in the Buckman neighborhood. I'm here to talk about proposed change number 348. It is the only spot zone proposed in the corridor study in the comp plan here, at least within the Buckman neighborhood and along the corridors of the southeast side. For some reason –
 The planners have identified a five-and-a-half block area adjacent to Buckman School on Stark that is over a block away from the corridor of the Belmont-Morrison corridor. It's existing now at R5, and they're proposing to change it to R2.5. Where are the cross streets again? Between 16th and 19th and between Stark and Alder.
 It's a little yellow rectangle that you see there, very weird little lines that sort of go back and forth. One was to avoid the neighborhood chairman who lives in the block just outside of this new proposed line, and she very specifically was against this proposal and has spoken with the planner and requested this proposed density increase not to happen.
 My house is right there in the corner being rezoned without any input from me at all. And my position is that the most sustainable, the least gentrifiable position is the existing housing stock, the existing historic homes are the most sustainable. This is energy. This is material. This is building construction that happened. My house was built in 1902. Okay.
 If you put development pressure by whatever you want to call it, upzoning, downzoning the density, increasing the density on these houses, you're putting pressure for these homeowners to sell. You're adding value to the sale of these existing homes, which means new townhouses, more parking on the street, and a much less sustainable neighborhood. So...
 I'm definitely going to be in contact with Marty Stockton. My neighbors, I've heard or are against it, have not been heard. And so I'm here to talk to you now about it and put a stop to the change from R5 to R2.5. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Okay, do we have any others who want to speak tonight? Come on up. We'll try to get everybody in before we close down.
 If you want to speak, come up and sit in the front chair so we know. Anybody else that wants to speak, just sit on the on-deck row there.
 Okay, Susan, welcome. Hi, I'm Susan Pierce. I'm chair of Hossford Abernathy Neighborhood District Association, or HAND, and I'm speaking for the HAND Board. I'd like to advocate for two issues. The HAND Board advocates for comp plan and city code changes that would address certain older residential buildings because the surrounding area has been rezoned over the years
 Those buildings now have a non-conforming status. You've heard me on this before. And it piggybacks on what the gentleman just before me said. This affects their owner's – the non-conforming status affects their owner's ability to obtain funding for any major improvements or repairs. Our concerns apply to several homes shared by HAN and the Central Eastside Industrial District.
 as well as some that are just outside the CEID east of 12th, south of Clinton. They are among Han's most affordable homes. Our valuable historic stock are at risk of falling into disrepair, and as the gentleman before me just said, that is the most sustainable form of housing.
 maintaining buildings and we don't want to lose them so we're hoping for some support for protection from them we also wish to express new subject
 Our strong support for policies related to the identification and preservation of scenic resources or view corridors, both Chapter 4, Design and Development, and Chapter 9, Transportation, include policies that encourage the recognition, enhancement, and protection of public views and significant scenic resources as designated in the scenic resources inventory. We understand that it is the inventory of public view corridors hasn't been updated since
 the late 1980s and currently includes only one scenic resource on the east side that is east of southeast 12 given the rapid pace of development currently occurring along inner east side corridors opportunities to preserve such views are likely to be lost if action isn't taken in the near future shall i stop finish my paragraph
 None of the important policies, there's a list, and I wasn't planning to, it will be part of a letter that will encompass all we're saying. Okay.
 None can be implemented if the city does not take action to update the scenic resources inventory in the near future. We assume when such an update is carried out, it will attempt to engage a diverse representation, we like that, of community members to assist in identifying views and features of importance. However, the comp plan does not explicitly refer to the multicultural nature of our history and history.
 Nature of our city and its history in this instance. Yeah, no to get us that as a letter as well Susan, please Yeah, and that will be coming We we have more to tell you and okay bring it on. Thank you And we support the division design initiative, by the way My name is Phil Brown I'm here representing myself and my wife who are owners of two properties on a
 southwest Main Street, and there are two other properties, two other houses on that street as well facing south, and the proposal under the comp plan is to change that to R2. Southwest Main and what? Southwest Main between St. Clair and King. And we bought these houses 43 years ago at a time when,
 some of these old houses were being torn down or were in very serious disrepair. And everybody on our side of the block there, the south side of the block, was able to get a revocable permit from the city so that we could rent those houses out for professional office use. And that, in fact, is...
 What saved those houses? I'm convinced from the wrecking ball There were other houses that I recall in that neighborhood that are no longer there that were beautiful fine houses And it's too bad. They couldn't have been couldn't have been saved with these were but now under Our to I'm not clear on how the zoning law works in this particular matter or in many ways but I'm understanding that I
 the revocable use or the revocable use permit will disappear. And so if that's true, it'll be, and if it goes to R2 or if it stays at R5, we'll wind up with four empty houses on that street because we'll no longer have the permit to,
 rent them to professional, to professionals. We have abided by all the rules. There are no commercial signs. You can't tell when you drive by. It's a beautiful neighborhood and street. It's the western entrance to the Goose Hollow Neighborhood Association. And we, I, for example, in the CPA, I have
 a firm that occupies all of one of our houses. That's 2177 Southwest Main. Our other house here, 2187 West,
 It is rented to other professionals. There are two houses, 2153, I think it is, and 2165 to the east of us, and they're totally occupied by professionals, I think accountants and others. Thank you for flagging this, and we'll, one, find out what happens to the property
 non-conforming use situation there but to appreciate you flagging those particular properties you're right those are great old buildings thank you very much okay we very much would like to see them preserved that's it but we can't do it unless we can get revenue from the building we get it thank you all right
 Hi. I'm Jennifer Gomer-Sall, and I'm talking about the same exact properties. I, too, would like the zoning to stay the same at R5, not to be zoned to R2. I think that's...
 Also, the Neighborhood Association, I think you've received a letter and are going to receive another letter that they're strongly opposed to the zoning change. And learning from the Montnomah Group, I think we're going to get a big petition going, too. So it's real clear. You don't need to do that. You don't need to do that. Okay. Fair enough. If you're in touch with the Neighborhood Association and you're in support of them, that's important. And I –
 believe that if you truly consider what was the opening of this meeting, you all would be opposed to this as well. These four houses, I had something written, I'm not as succinct because I realize as hearing what everyone else has wanted, these four houses give you a bonanza of benefits. You could pretty much hit what everyone asked for with these four houses. They provide the employment, they're walkable, they're beautiful, they're historic, they
 And one thing, talking with the underrepresented folks out there, we realized they also represent that because those houses, because of the old style of houses, they have small rooms, and they lend themselves really well to renting rooms because they're not these open-plan houses. And in that neighborhood, the 20-somethings that cannot afford to live downtown right now
 are living either with their parents or their friends' parents. And if you start to really look at the density of some of those houses, you'll find that there's three, four, five, 20-somethings living there. There might be some lower income people maybe in the basement or something temporary until they can get on. So it kind of hits that notch as well as all the other notches. So I wanted you to consider that as well as the green space people. The only thing we don't hit is
 the streetlights because we have the other streetlights, so I can't make her happy. But pretty much every single one I was ticking off. But I think the biggest thing and the thing that will make you guys happy is if you leave it R5...
 not switch it R2 you get rid of the planning staff vexation problem when they have to be can they do this can't they do this the fact is if it's r5 and it is what the property owners want it all that goes away the minute it's R2 and then they want to put up the skinny houses and then can they do it and then the scenic zone then the overlay then then you get in all this mess if it's left as is
 We're all happy. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, I think we have three people left that are patient. Maybe four if we count Susan, and we will. So come on up. Good evening. Good evening. Please. My name is Bob Folio, and I'm here to talk about the new comprehensive plan map change to the institutional campus.
 And nobody's brought that up. I assume you're all familiar with it. Which area are you particularly concerned? This one's near Concordia College. And I read through the amendment, and all in all, it's a fabulous, brilliant plan. It takes most of the density, transfers it to the middle, so you have more compatible neighborhoods. But the one oversight, and I do believe it's an oversight, is there are several of us that own small parcels.
 that are zoned commercial, CN1, CN2, zero, and it takes away our ability to develop those parcels, be it floor area ratio, landscape setbacks, et cetera. So I've gone through the 15 sites, and it appears there's a handful of properties, not a bunch, that have incorporated in their overlays residences and small commercial. That are not owned by the colleges? They're not owned by the colleges.
 So therein lies the problem. The problem isn't the plan. I mean, I believe they need to be expedited, jobs, education, income. That's priority one to make this world go round. And I'm not saying I'm opposed to it. I just think there's been a couple things overlooked. I would have brought it up sooner. Yeah. However. If you could, you can do it later. Just email us the specific addresses that you're concerned about.
 Certainly. If you would, that would be great, because get that into the record, and that gives us the chance to go back and check. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hello, my name is Mark Jordan, and I live at 1125 Southwest St. Clair, and I'm talking about the Main Street issue that the two prior people talked about. And to put that in context, it's this small one little half, rezoning one half of one block in the middle of the historic district.
 And in talking with the Planning Commission, ostensibly the reason for this is because of the conditional use waiver that they have. They want to simplify that. To me, the solution of taking it to R2 seems like an odd way to do that, because that conditional use permits, they've been there for 40 years in order to preserve those nice old homes and that beautiful scenic entryway to the park. That is the primary way to go to the park.
 And those houses are set back farther than even the R5 designation requires, which adds that sort of stately entrance to the park. The neighborhood has done its bit and continues to do its bit to support density. As you know, there's some massive apartment complexes on Kings Hill. So it's not like we're scofflaws on trying to support density. But to change these to R2 from R5...
 If the conditional waiver is not reissued under the R2 designation, then the development pressure, those houses are worth more to developers to put in skinny houses there than they are to the people who own them. And the irony is right after they've been saved for this long, conceivably, for some reason, the city, and I have to say the entire community, is in favor of allowing the offices to continue because they're very good neighbors. And it's completely, you cannot tell that they're not residences the way they're beautifully managed today.
 But if they were changed to R2 and developers come in, it's hard for them to resist that because of the economics. So now let's say that the reason that people are doing this because of the reason they're choosing to go to R2 is to add a little bit more density. All you're allowing is to add four additional million-dollar-plus homes, which is not the crying need for the city. Right.
 In a way that's going to make those fit, they're going to have to be closer. And you're undoing what is the reason for adding density, which is to maximize transit. Right now, there are numerous offices in there, people coming and going, using transit to get there. You're going to replace 20 or 30 people
 Who are using transit to get there with four people. All right. Thank you very much. You're making sense. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mike Connors, and I'm here on behalf of Hayden Island Enterprises, who own and operate the Hayden Island Manufactured Home Community. As you may know, it's the largest manufactured home park in the city of Portland. It's a vital affordable housing resource, which is,
 You've heard plenty of not only in this hearing and others is an important issue before the city. We're here with along with our written comments to make two comments or requests. The first one is we request that you postpone making a decision on the comprehensive plan amendments until you have mixed use zoning project amendments before you. We believe that the two are so interrelated that you should be considering and deciding them concurrently rather than separately.
 The second issue is we're requesting that you incorporate as policy language in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment some previously recognized nonconforming use protections that the city has determined informally apply to our park. The park was built before the current development standards were in place. It's a nonconforming development. And as you know, whenever there's an alteration, it triggers a question as to whether you're required to come into conformance with
 the current standards in a typical development situation that makes more sense but in a manufactured home park when you can have homes you could have rvs we have 440 manufactured home spaces 169 rv site spaces when there's a change in ownership there it raises a question as to whether that triggers a requirement which if that were the case would devastate the park it would make it very difficult we've included with our comments
 A 1999 determination, which my client requested of Bureau of Development Services, and it was a letter from the city attorney recognizing our interpretation of the nonconforming use provisions and how they apply in our unique situation. In 2009, when the city was going through its Hayden Island plan and actually proposed to downzone my client's property for commercial residential, my client agreed to go along with that decision.
 But we're requesting that some of these protections or exceptions to the typical standards be recognized. And so we're asking that you implement that as part of this update because we think that this is an appropriate process in which to incorporate that kind of language. Yeah, perhaps we could just add language specifically on manufactured home parks.
 That would be great. It doesn't have to be specific to us. And the only thing we would request is that we raise this issue at the Planning and Sustainability Commission level. And understandably, there's so many issues out there, it sort of got overlooked. If you could direct staff to have some further conversations, we can work on specific language, at least our proposal, and have something more specific for you to consider. I'm very interested in that. Thank you. Good point. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
 We're going to give Susan Lindsay the last word on this hearing, unless there's anybody else covering. No, I've got to go. What an honor. Susan and one friend. OK.
 It's kind of hard to do standing, but I guess I can do it. Why are you sitting down? Well, that's a HIPAA regulation. Hi, I'm Susan Lindsay, 625 Southeast 17th Avenue, co-chair of the Buckman Community Association. I'll be speaking briefly as co-chair of the Buckman Community Association and then briefly as myself. Okay.
 So two issues, one that I did submit a letter to all of you about and that we did to the Planning Commission that the Board unanimously raised a big red flag concern about the proposed upzoning of the area on southeast...
 Belmont and southeast Morrison between 15th and 19th. That's an area that's a mix of turn-of-the-century homes, many of which are used for affordable housing, as well as some nonconforming use, which are underlining zoning of R1.
 We absolutely do not object to the R1. The problem we've had with the redevelopment of many of the places on Belmont already has what's going in place of where there were homes or something is going in place is this multifamily housing, which basically means studios and a few one-bedrooms. And they're not affordable. So what we have found in the two places in Buckman where there has been one,
 R1 housing built, we found townhouses that have more than one bedroom where we're allowed to have families, including children. So it's always been a goal of the Buckman Community Association to continue to support and advocate for housing options that include opportunities for children to be here, to be able to go to wonderful Buckman School, to be able to
 be here in the parks and to be part of our community and so that we're not to just have one single demographic of single persons or young couples. So that was issue number one. The second one is the one that Ken Diener brought up, which has to do with the spot zoning on 348, which I am very much opposed to.
 The history of the neighborhood was, as many of you probably do remember, was that back in the 70s there was just wholesale demolitions taking place over there. It was the A2's apartment zone. And a group of wonderful activists came forward and said, whoa, you know, we're just going to end up with one of these kind of – I hate to use the name, but Joe Weston type apartments –
 And so what was put into place was R5 in the interior and R1 on the edges. And this moves, this one-two punch of this moves completely away from this and threatens the existing housing stock we have. In that 348 section, there are 38 turn-of-the-century historic homes in there. There's also 14 multifamily dwellings that are already in there. I mean, I live next to, the house that was next to me was originally owned by a
 a Japanese American who ended up in the internment camp. The house was ultimately demolished, and a 20-story apartment building is right next to me. And so what I'm trying to say is I oppose that very strongly, and I hope you re-look at it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Gretchen Hollins. I'm chair of the Sylvan Highlands Neighborhood Association. We've enjoyed interacting with the online tools and found the Bureau of Sustainability, Planning and Sustainability staff knowledgeable and very responsive, so thank you for that. We as a neighborhood support the draft comprehensive plan and the proposed changes for our neighborhood. That's all. Thank you for saying that.
 what do i do very nice way to end well thank you all for a very good hearing uh we will have next hearing will be december 3rd at 6 p.m at the middleman jewish community center thank you all very much and we are adjourned made it at least through that part