Your advocacy. Okay, let's hear for the next citizen who signed up, 1181. Request of Wayne Wignans to address council regarding homeless people's rights and departitioned housing. Good morning. Good morning. I'd like to share with the council the idea of packing a warehouse full of bunk beds and renting them as an alternative to a new mission. Maybe even, you know, encapsulate the bunk beds.
 with plywood for added security and or privacy, charged two, three hundred bucks a month, something even homeless people can afford.
 Physically, this is similar to a mission, but fundamentally it differs from a mission in the sense that people have the autonomy to come and go as they please, the ability to access back, take a shower when needed, no 5, 6, or 7 p.m. curfews for full-grown adults. Some myths I would like to address are that people don't get along in situations like this. It's like I said last time I was here, when you allow a large body of homeless people to commute.
 congregate, it quickly becomes apparent that the peaceful outnumber the unpeaceful. This changes the dynamics and the way people get along. Some other things that come into play are, is there enough room for everybody to fit? Are they subject to time limits? Is their autonomy intact? Naturally, what I'm proposing would address all of the above, as it would abolish time limits. You're going to have enough room for everybody to fit, assuming you're not renting more beds than are available. And it would restore people's autonomy. Secondly,
 Not everybody needs their privacy, not at all points or times in their lives, especially homeless people who have become accustomed to this. But even if on a transitional scale, many people would go for this for a temporary amount of time. Some benefits for the city or the middle class are that it would pull rental prices down for the surrounding area. You've got to figure if you run it with no strings attached, you're going to attract that struggling college student, students,
 the person in between jobs, and if they're going for this rather than the costly alternative, you're going to pull rental prices down for the surrounding area. That's something nothing on the market can currently do. It would clear out room for an already developed affordable housing unit. So rather than paying or subsidizing for every single homeless person to have their own place, you could put something that's truly affordable on the market and make money off of the problem rather than throwing more and more money at it. Play around with the numbers. You've got 200 to 500 beds that...
 $200 to $300 a month, that's $60,000 to $150,000 per month. Now, missions get by with nothing more than one or two staff on board just to keep an eye out in the hallway at night. They're probably half asleep. So that's all you need in terms of staffing costs. So I think something like this would prove, at the very least, sustainable, if not profitable for the city.
 I'll close saying we need to try something new. This whole gentrification and homeless thing, it's not going to work out any differently than it did in any other town if we don't try something new. And missions, I'll say they work for many, but for many they're like prisons. You know, that's not living. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Okay, item 1182. Request of Mike Summers to address council regarding houseless issues. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm not sure how I'm going to follow that, but I'm going to give it my best shot. I'm Mike Summers, for the record. I reside at Right to Survive, or Right to Dream 2. I came here today to kind of discuss business improvement districts, basically say what they are and what the purpose of them is.
 Business improvement districts are special legal subdivisions of cities in which certain functions like policing, security, or maintenance are usually performed by city governments, are instead transferred to property owners. In these districts, property taxes paid to the city are reduced and replaced by assessments.
 by the business improvement district agencies, which use the money to promote business interests. Municipalities also have to pay into the bids for assessments done on municipal properties that fall within the bid zones. And I will use bid instead of the full business improvement district. This situates the bids somewhere between public and private spaces, while they are funded by local tax revenue
 They avoid the standards of transparency and accountability usually applied to local governments. That's what I have issue with, is the accountability and the transparency. There is none within the business improvement districts. The purpose of the bids have historically been created to promote interests of businesses in particular areas of our city.
 As money began to move out of the cities and into the suburbs in the 70s and 80s, property owners argued that in order to keep their businesses competitive, they needed to revitalize and clean up the business districts. This often involved pushing poor and homeless people out and raising property values, putting pressure on homeowners and residents.
 Many bids higher security and maintenance personnel to enforce these directives. They often wear distinctive uniforms or vests identifying them as ambassadors. I would say that 99.9% of the homeless community would not call these people ambassadors. Just for the simple fact they are told to move along, move along, move along, move along.
 The reason why I say this as far as bids are concerned is with the city now saying that they are not going to sweep or criminalize homeless, the homeless people. With the accountability and the non-transparency, the bid districts are able, are going to continue to criminalize the homeless people for their own interests. I don't see how that...
 can be explained to the federal government when we have to, you know, go in and get grant money from them when they're asking, what are we going to do about criminalization? Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Appreciate you coming. Thank you. Okay. The next one is 1183. Request of Crystal Elinsky to address council regarding emergency resilience and investment in future generations. Crystal, are you here? Yes.
 We'll have to have her sign up another day 1184 request of Shane Rosen to address counsel regarding grace and peril Good morning commissioners first off. I want to apologize to you. Mr Mayor because the last time I was in here you you were gracious enough to give me an extra minute And and I wasn't satisfied with that. I
 Appreciate you coming back. Can't do that today because we've got a question. I understand. I'm going to try to make it less than three minutes today. So I've started this series with State of the City in which I declared the city in peril. And I think that the answer to all of our problems is the application of grace in its many forms. By peril, what I mean is when I came back to town, Aaron Campbell was murdered by Ronald Frashour.
 And the mayor and the police chief judged that the officer should be fired, and he's still on the force. And so he's not the only one. There's other officers, and I don't know what's going on there. I don't know where the grace comes in there, but we really need to hold the officers' association to the fire. But grace is the answer there. I know it is. Forgiveness has to have a way or there's no future. Thank you.
 So with the transportation thing, last time I presented, I read a poem that I had read to Mayor Katz. And that was a poem that demanded bicycle streets and threatened extradition of car drivers to Antarctica. And ended with the caveat that we could all stick together and share the streets. And that's the grace in that piece, and that's why I read that poem. We're experiencing some grace in the homeless issue you've heard.
 commentary this morning and relentlessly over the last few years and things are happening and it's really great to see. So I gave you a handout last week and in that handout was information about a woman named Karen Holtz who was a marine biologist and a very enthusiastic really beautiful person who was murdered or killed accidentally by a drunk driver but her organs went into six different people
 She gave life to six different people. And in that handout, there was also an excerpt from a book where she inspired people after her death in making life choices, profound life choices. And I talked about the grace that the bicycle community exhibited to the drunk driver's family who had lost their breadwinner. That's the kind of grace that we need. So the handout that I have today is pictures of diverters. This first one is on 16th and Tillamook, the residence.
 put that in without the city's permission, but because it's a hoity-toity neighborhood, they got away with it. And recently, Rodney has a diverter set up just off of Fremont, and that has curtailed the traffic there and made the streets safe. You see that?
 And then historically, one of the only dividers that used to be around, I'll finish up. There's only one more picture. Just 30 seconds, please. This is Ankeny and 20th. That's been there for years. And cars, I've seen cars drive over it, but 99% of them don't.
 This is the answer to the transportation problem that we have. It's very affordable. We could crowdfund this and that the citizens would do the labor and the cars could still be on the streets and the bikes would feel safe because the cars would be diverted every three or four blocks instead of these bumps, which feel better if you go over them faster. So thank you for your time. I'm sorry I couldn't keep it to two. That's okay. Thank you very much.
 Okay, thank you all. Now we're going to move on and deal with the consent calendar minus the two items that have been pulled off. So let's take a roll call vote, please, on the balance of consent. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Schultzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now we'll move to time certain item 1185. Okay.
 We can do the awards. Oh, sorry. Yes, we should do the awards, if that's all right, Commissioner Fish. We'll do the awards first because I think those folks are here. Is that right? Is everyone here? Okay. So we will move to Item 1194, please. Thank you.
 award eight contractors with business equity performance awards for their efforts in supporting equity in workforce and contracting. Okay, well, welcome. I know we have most, if not all, the honorees here. This is a program that recognizes socially responsible businesses in our city. We'll be honoring eight outstanding contractors for their efforts in supporting equity in workforce and contracting for the city.
 For the Housing Bureau and for PDC projects, as well as other bureaus, these contractors have been doing great work. It's for contractors who meet our apprenticeship requirements, who meet our goals for minority and women workforce, and who meet our requirements for minority women and emerging small business subcontractors. So we're very pleased to recognize these contractors this morning.
 I'll read off the name of each award recipient, and I think Rachel has their award. She's going to play Vanna here, if you don't mind that comparison, Rachel. And we have them in different categories. The first is for small projects, that is, projects of $200,000 to $1 million.
 The first of those firms is Titan Utilities, who completed a BES project at Southeast Salmon Street and 23rd. It was a sewer replacement project. So congratulations, Titan Utilities. Do you want the commissioner in charge to be in the picture? I would love the commissioner in charge in each case to be up there with Rachel to present this award. So is there someone here this morning from Titan Utilities? Acceptingly.
 accepting the award is the commissioner in charge of sorry certainly you bet come on up thank you very much great work
 Thank you. And you might as well stay there, Commissioner Fish, because the next one is also a BES project, Baseline Industrial Construction for the Alder Creek Fish Passage. I'll say that properly. Is Baseline here? Good morning. Thank you. Congratulations. Good work. Thank you very much.
 The third of our smaller contracts is a contractor for our transportation bureau for PBOT. They did three different PBOT projects, the Curry closure at Southwest McAdam and Curry Street, Southeast 136th Avenue from Holgate to Powell, a sidewalk infill project, and North Vancouver Avenue from North Russell Street to North Monroe Street, and the firm is Dirt and Aggregate.
 interchange mr. nagra get here this morning thank you very much thank you thank you very much
 Excellent. And then, Commissioner Novick, we had the next one in the lineup is also a PBOT contractor, and that's for our large contractor category above $10 million. It's for the Southwest Moody Avenue roadway and streetcar track relocation. It was a construction management general contractor project, and the firm is Stacy & Woodpeck. Is Stacy & Woodpeck here this morning? Yes, you are. Good morning. Good morning.
 Some of you that follow this kind of work know that a lot of these firms, Dirt and Aggregate, Stacey and Whitbeck, have done a lot of work for the city over the years, and we appreciate you very much as partners. Thank you. Good work. Thank you.
 And now we have three housing projects, Commissioner Saltzman, for the Housing Bureau. The first was two projects, the Otesha Apartments and the Greenview Apartments, and the firm was LMC. Are you here this morning, LMC Construction here? Good morning. Thank you. Well done. And then the next firm in the housing group is R&H Construction for Kahila Housing Project. Thank you very much. It's here at R&H.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. And then the third one in the housing group is, again, another firm like a lot of these that have been working for the city frequently over the years, the O'Neill Walsh Community Builders for Beach Street Apartments. Someone here from O'Neill or Walsh? Both staged there. Thank you. Thank you.
 And then the final one, I'll present the award if someone from Bremec is here because it's a Portland Development Commission project. Thank you, Bremec Construction, for being a great partner for PDC. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 We really appreciate these contractors. I know other members of the council might have some comments about this because these are shared goals about making sure that our values are matched in how we do business with the construction industry, but we obviously have to have reciprocal understanding with the construction industry about getting this work done the right way, and we really appreciate you all for being good partners for us.
 Other members of the council want to reflect on this? So, again, we want to thank all the honorees and appreciate your ability to move our city forward in a way that's both building a great city, but also getting other people the opportunity to get into the construction industry and get work who might not have been in the past. So let's hear it for all these honorees for great work. Thank you all very much.
 Okay, so we'll move on now to our first time certain item which we will read and have Commissioner Fish and the Bureau introduce 1185 and Environmental Services commemorates the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant citizen advisory committees 20 years of service Providing a community perspective on plant projects and odor issues. Mr. Fish. Thank you mayor. I
 Portland's Columbia Wastewater Treatment Plant serves our community by cleaning an average of 70 million gallons of wastewater daily. And to put that in context, a few weeks ago we had essentially monsoon rains in our community. And the treatment plant at one point was cleaning up to 450 million gallons of wastewater, just to tell you about how unrivaled that storm was.
 And I'm proud to say the systems, the backup systems work quite efficiently. The plant frequently plans and constructs new projects to meet the city's obligations and to serve a growing population. Since 1994, the treatment plant's citizen advisory committee has worked together with the city reviewing projects and advising city staff.
 Today, we'd like to acknowledge the committee's good work and to thank committee members for their service. Here with more information are Mike Jordan, who is the Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Steve Barrett, who is the BES Wastewater Group Manager. Mike, take it away. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, thanks for giving us some time on your agenda this morning. I just want to say a couple brief things to put what we're going to talk about today in a bit of a broader context, at least for the Bureau.
 commissioner fish mentioned that the wastewater treatment plant is an amazing facility we we tend to like to think of it as a resource recovery facility we recover clean water we recover methane and we recover solids which are converted into fertilizers for crops east of the mountains and it is a it is an amazing facility is also the largest facility in oregon um
 And being as large as it is and doing what it does on occasionally, it could be seen as not the best neighbor in the world on occasion. And we're here today really to honor a partnership between the city, the staff at the treatment plant, and the citizens from neighborhoods surrounding the plant in working together over the last 20 years to really mature a relationship which now...
 works seamlessly really to keep the treatment plant a really good neighbor out in that part of Portland. The thing that provides context for us is that 20 years ago, it was extremely unusual for an infrastructure bureau to engage with citizens about its business.
 Today, the Bureau now has a very robust citizen engagement process that is built into the way we do business. Often when we do our work, we are disrupting many neighborhoods across the city when we are tearing up streets, quite frankly, or replacing pump stations or doing the work that we do.
 And out of the kind of genesis of the relationship at the plant, we've now built a citizen engagement and information process that really is rivaled by no one else that we're aware of in engaging citizens about what is sometimes very disruptive work. And so I just want to pass this on to Steve. He's going to go through just a little bit of information about the plant, and we'll have a couple of members come up and speak to you about their experience. So, Steve? Sure.
 Thanks Mike and Commissioner Fish and members of council Again I'm Steve Barron I'm the wastewater group manager and before I start just showing a few slides maybe I could ask Pam Arden and Mark Kennedy to come up and sit with me So a little bit of context just with a few slides
 The Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant is the triangle in the center of this photograph. It's an asset worth, with a replacement value, well over a billion dollars. So it's one of the city's most valuable assets. Where we're located, you can see from the slide, is there's Heron Lakes, beautiful West Delta Park, and Heron Lakes Golf Course on the right, and Smith-Bybee Lakes on the left,
 And just to the south of the treatment plant is the Portsmouth neighborhood. And you can see a bit of New Columbia in the photograph. So that's where we're located in North Portland. So the plant serves 614,000 residential and commercial customers. And we treat an average of about 70 million gallons a day every day. That adds up to be about $1.
 between 25 and 30 billion gallons a year at this wastewater treatment plant. And we have staff there 24 hours a day, seven days a week throughout the year. It's the only location in the Bureau that actually has staff on duty every day of the year and every hour during the day. So the plant was dedicated in 1952.
 And before the plant was dedicated, Portland didn't have wastewater treatment. So this was the start of wastewater treatment in Portland, and as recently as 1952. It seems amazing. I think this is Mayor Dorothy McCullough-Lee in the photograph. Very high-tech stage, too. Yeah, yeah.
 Here's what the original treatment plant looked like in 1952. And since then, obviously, we've gone through, as you can see from the first photograph, many iterations of development and expansion over the years. But it was a pretty simple process from the beginning. And since that time, we've...
 done many things and of late. The last 20 years we've installed a CSO control system and you see that reflected in the upper right with one of the big pipes there.
 and some other facilities like in the bottom left that actually help take some of the additional flow from the combined sewer system. But the projects going on at the plant, even over the last 20 years, but over really the 63-year life, have been extensive.
 Most notable and relevant for today's presentation is since 1995, we've installed odor control in any major expansion at the treatment plant with the guidance of the Citizen Advisory Committee. We've also got into resource recovery, as Mike alluded to. And the bottom right photograph shows one of the engines in our cogeneration facility, which
 generates electricity from digester gas and reuses the waste heat off of the engines to defer some of the costs that we would have had to pay for electricity. Steve, when you say digester gas, we're referring to methane? Methane, yeah. Methane is the major component of digester gas. The methane that's generated at this plant is used both...
 to generate electricity, but also is sold to a company to make roofing supplies. That's true. And we use some of the methane on site to fire boilers to heat the digester process that creates the methane in the first place. So we have three current uses for methane. Thank you for that. Thank you.
 But above all, and why we're really here today is to recognize that the citizen advisory committee has helped us over the past 20 plus years to be a good neighbor in the community.
 We wouldn't have been able to achieve all of what we've been able to achieve without this guidance from the committee. Before we had the CAC, plant managers worked with a group called the North Portland Odor Abatement Committee, and that committee helped us develop something like an odor monitoring process system
 And that monitoring process included some training where we were looking for a few good noses. We actually did training on how to sniff out odors and identify the areas where we could make improvements.
 Then the CAC started in 1992 when an overlapping group of citizens came together to advise us on the design of the wastewater treatment plant's new headworks process that was just about to get into a design phase.
 And the CAC worked with the Bureau for 18 months on that process, including coming up with a vision and guiding principles for the treatment plant, what we were, what we wanted, what the citizens hoped we wanted to be in the future. So during that process, that was the first major process where odor control was included as a key element to the process. Okay.
 so following that 1994 uh i think the the citizens and the city were interested in continuing that relationship for an ongoing period of time and we formed a follow-up citizen advisory committee and so when the facility plan was uh uh
 was completed, we actually did that process to establish that citizen advisory committee. And council actually in 1995 approved in some kind of official form an ordinance to establish the CAC as a bureau CAC. And that's why 20 years later we are recognizing that 20 year commitment now to public engagement in the citizen advisory committee.
 One of the things that we were able to do very soon after that, 1999, the council passed an odor resolution that established a commitment by the Bureau that we will be a good neighbor with regard to odor monitoring, mitigation, and reporting.
 We also established an innovative notification process, whereas we can notify our neighbors if the treatment plant has a maintenance activity or an operational activity that has the potential to generate odors, we can actually send out a notification and provide some warning of that event.
 So today, CAC members represent neighborhoods and businesses and industry and environmental concerns, recreational, educational interests.
 Uh, we, they work and guide us on any number over the years of, uh, new projects and programs that we're engaged in. Uh, members at time also assist us in public outreach, attending meetings or us attending, uh, their neighborhood meetings and so forth. Uh, and we, uh...
 have created and give us feedback on the odor reporting and notification processes that are available through the Bureau's website. So the members today, the current members, some of who are here today are Pam Arden, who is a member since 1994, seated to my far left,
 Pam is a resident of Kenton neighborhood and actively involved in the 40 Mile Loop projects. And as I said, she was an original CAC member. Pam and I have worked together since before there was a CAC. Jim Robeson, who I don't think Jim is here today, but if he is, please stand up, is a member also since 1994 who has particular interest in odor abatement projects.
 in the North Portland area and was an original CAC member. Gordon Bussey, who lives in a floating home on the Columbia River, has been a CAC member since 1998, and there's Gordon. Mark Kennedy is seated to my left, is the Associate Dean at the University of Portland College of Engineering and has served on the CAC since 1998, relative newbie.
 Matthew Denton is here, and he's from the Portswood neighborhood and has served on the CAC since 2008, Matthew. And a few members who I don't think are here are Charles Robertson, is a resident of New Columbia and joined the CAC in 2011. Charles, if you're here, please stand up.
 And Jerry Fadden is with the St. John's neighborhood and joined the committee in 2014. So that's our current CAC, a great group of people to work with, and I would recommend
 I'd like to thank them and recognize them for the very long and valuable service. We've met probably 150 times over that period of time on all the things going on at the plant. So that's been a huge commitment for these engaged citizens. And with that, I would like to invite Pam and Mark to say a few words. Good morning. Thank you.
 I am Pam Martin, and I started this endeavor because I was the chair of the Kenton Neighborhood Association, and the plant is actually in the Kenton neighborhood. The way the map goes, we encompass the wastewater treatment plant. So when I was invited by Lee Poe, the chair of the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association, to help form the North Portland Odor Abatement Committee.
 And this was a group that just was kind of fed up with what was going on in North Portland. Lee had actually set up a tour of the odor sites, and she would take anybody who was interested on a tour of the odorous sites of North Portland. And unfortunately, the plant was one of them, and it was...
 members of this committee who helped to point out some of the flaws that were happening at the plant that were affecting the livability of North Portland. And we were lucky in that we were invited to come and meet at the plant, have our meetings with staff. And we were able to go on tours around the plant, and some of our members, one of which was an engineer, actually stood there and said, OSHA asked you to use some venting of the Headworks building.
 And that is what's causing some of the odors into our neighborhood. So they were making the plant better for the workers, but were shipping everything else out to us. And other people had come out at 5 o'clock in the morning to watch a tank truck come in and offload their load. And it turned out that they were from Lake Oswego. And that was another odor thing that came into the neighborhood every morning at 5 o'clock.
 And so it was the neighbors and the citizens who actually came in and pointed out some of the flaws. And we were lucky enough to be able to have a responsive staff. Things at the plant at that time were not, you know, plant members were not saying, well, I think there's a problem over here.
 That has changed. That has changed dramatically to where now the staff is actually saying, we have a problem over in this section, and they figure out a way to solve it. And so that is a giant sea change from what started out in 1992.
 And so, you know, things are not perfect in North Portland, that's for sure. We've gotten rid of our landfill. We've gotten, you know, odor abatement at the plant. And those two things are enormous when you start thinking about the livability of our area. Now, when you're talking about odor control, that was one of the first things when we talked about the headworks. How do you control some of this stuff? Is there a way to do it?
 And they have figured out on every single project through all these years how to do odor abatement. And it's a very important process, and it's very important that they recognize what that does to the neighborhood. They're sitting down below the neighborhood, so every whiff of anything comes up the hill, just like the noise from PIR comes up the hill. And so that's our problem, the location that we have. I've also always joked.
 Whatever happens up on Mount Hood, somebody in there flushing a toilet, eventually it will end up down at Columbia Boulevard. Mm-hmm.
 And so to that extent, I would always have hoped that we had had some kind of enhancement funds, somewhat like Metro with the transfer stations, to recognize that North Portland had lived with this for many, many years. That fund would have been able to help out a lot of different communities. Never have managed to get that past just the talking stage. Hopefully some year. But they have spent many, many dollars on odor abatement, and we really, really appreciate that.
 One of the things that happened with the Headworks project, and this is kind of an interesting little extra thing, is that they were responsible for building a segment of the 40-mile loop trail on the north side of the sloop. And it was like, oh, really? And so how are we going to get there? You have the plant on the south side, a little bit of trail on the north side, and how do we get there?
 We ended up having a meeting at the plant, and they redirected our view with the Portsmouth neighborhood to say, well, there's a lot of problems over here on a street that was never built. And that became the Peninsula Crossing Trail, which is now part of the 40-mile loop. They built a bridge across the slough that had sewer pipes in it.
 That was a unique item because it was like, well, why should we do that? Well, it would be a really helpful thing for the plant because they can get their trucks across easier, but also it helps for the trail. And they built a trail around the plant, and they now have a wonderful connection to the 40-mile loop, and we're very, very happy about that. It seems a little weird to be going to the plant for 20 years for something like this, but I really have appreciated the opportunity
 attitude that has changed at the plant and the attitude of BES for this. It's really, really something that other bureaus should look at, so how they treat citizens and how they accept our suggestions and work with us on it. Thank you. Thank you, Pam. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. I arrived a few years later than Pam on the committee. I moved to Portland and started my teaching career at the University of
 and was invited to join the committee. And I thought this would be, I thought, a great opportunity for me to learn more about infrastructure. I happen to teach in environmental engineering at the University of Portland. So I thought it was a great opportunity. I had never really done any kind of citizen advisory or advocacy, but I thought this would be a great chance. And I remember my...
 I can remember that first meeting being amazed and almost intimidated by the amount of citizen input. I have worked in other metro areas, Akron, Ohio, and Sioux Falls, South Dakota, with their utilities and their wastewater treatment, and there was nothing to compare. And so it was quite an eye-opening experience. And I realized that this was going to be a good 17-year run.
 I just think it's wonderful that we have a committee that is proactive rather than reactive. I should say really the BES being proactive rather than reactive with the help of the committee because taking that approach makes it a much smoother process with the citizenry that are involved, the neighborhoods.
 Mike mentioned that it's a resource recovery operation in terms of methane and
 clean water and fertilizer. And I'll also say that in my unique participation, it's been a great resource for students as well. I've tried to get as many of my engineering students to meetings as possible so that they can see that important part of the engineering profession, which is interaction with the public and learning.
 involving citizens and realizing that in civil engineering the public is your customers and you need to listen to them. So I've tried as much as possible to have my students involved in meetings as much as possible. And so summing up,
 It's been great experience for me, and I hope that I have contributed to the efforts of BES and to make the treatment plant a good neighbor for North Portland. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you both very much. Mayor, that's our report. All right. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you all. Appreciate both the good work at the Bureau and the great partnership with volunteers that have put in a lot of time. So thank you very much, Commissioner.
 Here, I move the report. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, then, to accept the report. Nobody signed up to testify. Oh, sorry. Don't blow past that after we've been talking about citizen involvement. So unless there's anyone that does want to speak, we'll take action to accept the report. Roll call, please. Novick?
 I really appreciated the testimony. I appreciated everybody's work over the last 20 years. Pam, can you stick around for one sec? Pam, this is our chance to actually thank you. Don't leave yet. We want to embarrass you. Greats.
 well thank you very much for all of your work i'd have to say that serving on the odor control committee is one of the less glamorous titles that one could aspire to and one of the most necessary so thank you for all of your diligence and it is an issue that requires ongoing dedication it's not something you can just step into so thank you very much for your report thank you commissioner for bringing this to us i yes pam and mark and all the committee members thank you for your service steve
 Steve has one of those jobs where on a good day you don't hear much about what he's doing. And I just want to acknowledge one thing. You change a lot when you get one of these elected jobs, and I have a completely different reaction to snowstorms and rainstorms now because I have a better understanding of how they impact people and systems. So when we have a big snowstorm, we worry about all the people sleeping outside and how do we get them inside, and it takes an army to make that happen.
 When we have lots of rainwater and flooding, it puts enormous strain on our combined sewer overflow system, and it puts enormous strains on our Columbia wastewater facility. What we have come to take for granted is that those systems work very well, and we don't have many discharges into the river, and we don't often hear about the systems being inundated and overwhelmed.
 But I can tell you that it takes an awful lot of hard work behind the scenes to make that happen. So today I just want to acknowledge the tremendous support we've had from the community and the volunteers who help us get it right. And I love what you said about being proactive and not reactive. The bane of our existence is always being reactive.
 But when we engage our partners upstream, we can be proactive, and that's where the magic happens. So thank you so much. And to Steve and all the professionals who work for the Bureau, please know how proud we are of your service. Aye. Oh, Debbie Castleton. Excuse me, Debbie. I have to acknowledge Debbie. And, Debbie, thanks for all your great work with the community, too. Aye. Well, thank you to our Citizen Advisory Committee. Pam, I've worked with you on these issues for many years and on many other issues in North Portland.
 so i appreciate your service and and the staff for the well-run facility and it really is remarkable when you think that we've only had a sewage treatment plant for a little over 50 years i mean it's really incredible when you think about where all that wastewater went before which was our rivers and the columbia slough so it's it's a remarkable achievement of civilization to have things like sewage treatment plants good work hi
 great partnership great results thank you all hi thank you okay we're now moving to the next time certain item which is 1186 please
 I don't think they may not be here. They weren't we're not okay We can we can return to that when they come back then let's move to 1187, please Oh, we're a little ahead of ourselves. Sorry. We were gonna take some of those items take the second reading items starting with 1195, please
 1195, amend loan agreement with Oregon Infrastructure Finance Authority for the levy-ready Columbia effort to extend project completion deadline. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 1196. Amend intergovernmental agreement with Metro, Port of Portland, Multnomah County Drainage District No. 1, Peninsula Drainage District No. 1 and No. 2,
 for the Levy Ready Columbia effort to accommodate certain changes to the arrangement among the parties. Roll call vote, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. 1197. Of authorized cost-sharing intergovernmental agreements with jurisdictions participating in
 in the levy ready columbia effort for expenses not covered by the phase one loan and for repayment of phase two loans roll call vote please novick aye fritz aye fish aye salzman aye hails aye 1198 let's skip that one oh sorry yes right 1199.
 Authorize $45 million of financing for the cost of carrying out the urban renewal plan for the River District Urban Renewal Area and authorize refunding of any interim financing. We'll call vote. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. 1,200? 1,200?
 Authorize $90 million of interim financing for the cost of carrying out the urban renewal plan for the River District Urban Renewal Area and long-term bonds to repay the interim financing. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Stoltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And then let's take 1205. Okay.
 amend contract with burger abeam inc for additional work and compensation for the tryon creek trunk sewer upgrade project number e10251 for 325 000 and 25.25 roll call vote please novick fish salt
 Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. It's 12.06. Okay, then let's do 12.06, please. Oh, yeah.
 12.06, authorize a subrecipient contract with Portland Housing Center for $123,000 for homeownership, counseling, and education. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This authorizes more resources for one of our best partners, the Portland Housing Center, which provides homeownership, counseling, and education for low- to moderate-income Portland families. Thank you.
 These funds will provide those families with the support needed to navigate the home buying process through financial fitness courses and home buyer education courses and also one-on-one counseling. The funding contained in the ordinance is included in the approved Housing Bureau budget. Okay. Is there anyone who wants to speak on this item? If not, then thank you very much, and it passes to second reading next week. Thank you.
 and I think we are do we have the auditor here yet no okay how about we go to 1198 Commissioner Fritz is that all right now let's see what else we can hang on a minute folks we're losing a couple of council members in an hour so we're trying to deal with things like second meetings that
 can be addressed. Do the parks items? Let's do the parks items. Also, Mayor, I have my Did someone pull 1193? Yes, someone did. I could do that in two minutes. Let's do the items that were pulled from consent. That's a good idea. Let's do 1189 and 1193, which were pulled from the consent calendar for discussion. So let's take 1189 first.
 1189, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $138,112 from the State of Oregon, Oregon Military Department, Office of Emergency Management, for the fiscal year 2015 State Homeland Security Grant Program Phase 5 to fund joint state bomb teams, equipment, and training. Okay. Good morning, Sergeant Collins. How are you? Good.
 Great, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Steve Collins. I'm a sergeant with the Portland Bomb Squad. I actually run the Bomb Squad. And we're here today asking you to accept a 2015 interoperability grant. And so this funds both equipment and training for the heroes to be prepared for a bomb incident? Yes, it does. Okay. Okay.
 Important work, obviously. Questions for either Officer Ostenkopf or Sergeant Collins? Who pulled it? Who pulled this to speak? Mr. Lightning did. Oh, okay. Thank you both. Please stand by, and we'll see if you have any other questions for you after testimony. Thank you. Come on up if you'd like to speak on this item. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I guess I had on the overall agreement was,
 As I wanted to ask if on the – it's kind of a simple change, but I think it is an important change to me. On your commercial general liability, you have $500,000 per occurrence. I'd like that possibly pushed up to $1 million if this agreement could be amended, number one, on the agreement. And a couple other issues I had on this is that I noticed that the Homeland Security Grant Program, they had an amount –
 It's on Exhibit D of $6,837,000. I wasn't quite sure what that amount actually meant because I noticed that you've applied for a grant of about $138,000. Does that mean that you could possibly apply for a higher number and you decided not to do that? If so, I'd kind of possibly like an explanation on that if there were additional funds that you could apply for and why you did not.
 And basically, that's where I was on my position. I wanted to have a clear understanding of what these funds were for and, again, maybe make an adjustment on the insurance from the $500,000 commercial liability up to $1 million, if at all possible. I think that could be done easily with an amendment today.
 and also have it passed. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. I think the answer on the grant amount, unless Sergeant Collins wants to correct me, I think the answer is we applied for everything they would give us, right? That's right.
 so so and that's almost always the case with grant applications so we rarely hold back from applying for the full amount lightning legitimate question about the insurance but I think that's better taken up in the question of our overall liability coverage for the city rather just for this particular function so okay any other questions from council anyone else want to speak then it's an emergency ordinance please let's take a roll call vote no thank you
 Riggs. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Appreciate your good work. Aye. Hills. Thank you. Aye. Okay. And then we also pulled 1193. Aye.
 Authorize a contract with ALS Group USA Corp. Doing business as ALS Environmental for laboratory services as needed in an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 over five years. Mr. Fish. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services operates the Portland's Water Pollution Control Laboratory in St. John's. The lab analyzes thousands of water and sediment samples every year to make sure our treatment plant operates in compliance with our permits. Thank you.
 and to monitor water quality in our rivers and our streams. This ordinance would authorize a contract to provide laboratory services that the Water Pollution Control Lab cannot provide, either because it lacks the necessary equipment or expertise or because of the staff's current workload. And Dwayne Linnertz from Environmental Services is here to answer any of your questions. Good morning. Good morning. So any questions for Dwayne about this item?
 So, yeah, it's over our threshold amount for consent calendar, so I appreciate you pulling it off so that we can discuss it. Any questions? Any concerns? Thank you. Unless you have anything you want to add. No. All right. Thank you. Good answer. That's right. Don't snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's please take a vote. Thank you.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Thanks very much for your good work. Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, now let's move back to our time-certain items, 1186. Are they here? They were not expecting this to come up until 11. Okay, then we'll wait. Let's move to 1187. 1187.
 1187, require activation of closed captioning on televisions in public areas. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. As everyone recalls, we held a public hearing on this issue in July. Council asked us to do additional outreach and more discussions with particularly the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association. We have done that. We are comfortable with the ordinance as originally proposed, and I'd like to proceed to the vote.
 Mr. Fritz, I have just a question on procedure. A gentleman grabbed me when I was outside for a second, saying that they had been here at the last hearing and didn't have an opportunity to testify. So I guess the question is, is there any new issue? Are there any group of people that have not had a chance to testify on this based on the procedure we're following?
 No, Commissioner. There was no time limitation on the previous hearing. There was a lot of – you were the person who raised the question of additional outreach. So since July, my staff and I have talked with Venture Portland, the Portland Business Alliance. Carol Studeman, one of the advocates, has worked with Steve McCoy, former president and CEO of the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association. My staff met with him as well. I held a town hall on September 30th and met with community members at PCC today.
 and had some robust discussion there. And we've looked at various different options and conclude that this is the one that works the best. And is the policy that we will be voting on today, is that the policy that the FAA is currently implementing in airports across the country? Yes, which is that captions have to be turned off. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 So, yeah, I don't see any particular reason to reopen the hearing. I know we may have gotten some correspondence on the subject, but the ordinance in front of us is the same one that we held the hearing on, so we should proceed to vote. No, thank you.
 I think this is an important step in civil rights in the city. I want to note that I did consider offering a couple of amendments. There was a suggestion that, well, shouldn't the captions only be required when the sound is on? Because if the sound is off, then everybody's in the same boat.
 and my friend Carol Studentman observed to me that, well, how are people without hearing going to know if the sound is on or off in order to know whether they should complain? And I thought that was kind of an insuperable obstacle to that idea. There was also a suggestion that I considered that we could have that requirement of sound on, sound off only for athletic events because some sports fans are concerned that the captions might obscure some of the action.
 And for one thing, Carol informed me that there is caption technology available that is much less obscuring than we might have seen in the past. And also the city attorney said that that kind of content discrimination would be illegal. So I passed on that as well. So having thoroughly considered various possible amendments, I am not proposing any, and I am pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 Well, thanks very much to everybody who gathered here today on all sides. Thanks particularly to Carol Studenmund, David Viers, Stephen Brown, and Jim House for your work with my staff to get this done. Thanks to Steve McCoy for meeting with my staff and his efforts to work with us. Thank you to the community organizations for your support, the Oregon Association of the Deaf, Hearing Loss Association of America, Oregon State Association.
 Oregon Communications Access Project, which is a local grassroots advocacy group that is credited with implementing captioning at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, University of Oregon, Oregon State University, Portland Trailblazers, and many others. Thanks to Jasmine Wadworth on my staff, who's done a great job on this one. I do need to note, I had a note. What did I do with my note? Okay.
 I've lost my notes, so I'm going to have to do it from memory. It's always dangerous.
 This ordinance applies to all public places, which are defined as even if you have to pay to get in, that's a public place. So it applies to gyms and other facilities as well as to restaurants, bars, and other places. It doesn't apply to federal and state buildings, but that's federal and state law, so we don't need to state that in the ordinance. Okay.
 And this ordinance benefits everyone. It promotes access for everyone. And I am not concerned that it's going to impact business in Portland's public places. In fact, I think it will rapidly become the standard for the nation, that people will flock to be able to, like I do, monitor the sports game at the same time that I'm pretending to be interested in what the person I'm having dinner with might have to say. Okay.
 Well, I usually am interested, but I like to watch the sports at the same time. As a pretty rabid sports fan, I am convinced that this is not a problem for sports fans. So I'm really proud to be sponsoring this. I very much appreciate all the work that was done. Commissioner Fish, I do appreciate your asking us to take more time and to get more input. The more input I get, the more convinced I am that this is the right thing to do.
 Well, first of all, for anyone who doubts that Commissioner Fritz is a rabid sports fan, I encourage them to send her an email at 1230 on Saturday and see if you get the customary prompt response. You won't, of course, because she'll be in Austin Stadium cheering on her beloved Ducks. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your leadership on this issue. I think through this process, the council has learned a number of very important things.
 And for me, one of the most important things was learning that one in five Americans have some kind of hearing loss or impairment. That's 20 percent of the people in this country are immediately impacted by the action we're prepared to take today. I think collectively the people in this council share a core value, which is that one of government's primary responsibilities is to remove barriers that get in the way of people exercising the full rights of citizenship.
 And I think access to information is, in fact, a basic civil right. I appreciate the outreach you've done, and I note that we've – particularly from the Portland Business Alliance and Venture Portland, we've received no negative comments.
 And in terms of sports bars, as someone who also enjoys going out and watching sports and having a beer, I think this is something that we can all adjust to. And I have a feeling technology will catch up with this resolution so that it will have no negative impact on anyone. In fact, it will simply make it easier for all to enjoy sports in public venues.
 So, Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your leadership on this, and today I'm proud to vote aye. Dr. Saltzman? Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Aye. Ailes? Well, good work, and I think this is another case where Portland has thoughtfully tried to make this a city that's hospitable for everybody. So I appreciate your good work, Commissioner Fritz, and the advocates. As long as this doesn't have the unintended side effect of having the Portland Airport actually install more televisions,
 then I'll be a happy guy as someone who traveled frequently in my previous career. One of the things I love about the Portland Airport is that we don't have televisions blaring at us at each and every gate, and I certainly hope we never become that airport. But I digress, and this is good work, and I'm proud to support it. Aye. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Before we move on, Mayor, I remember the other point that was written down for me by my staff, and that is that the city attorney's office has been absolutely fantastic. Ben Walters, unfortunately, had to leave, but we very much appreciate him working with us, and also that they are offering to provide support to any business who wants to know what the regulations are and how they can best implement them. This is not an emergency ordinance. This is a second reading, so it will be 30 days before it goes into effect.
 so folks can contact my office or the city attorney's office if you'd like assistance and implementation. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you all. Okay, then let's move to, I think we should go ahead and move to item 1198. I'll be, let's see, that way, sorry. Right? Because we still are going to wait for the- 1186, the 1015 are here. Oh, sorry, they are here? Okay, then let's do the- Let's do 98. Do 98 first? I think it's T-Hub, isn't it?
 Well, 1186, I don't think it's going to take very long. It shouldn't. So if they're here, let's do 1186. Okay, let's do 1186 and then move on to that one. 1186, appoint Michael Luna to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Anika Bentalbert. I'm the Assistant Director for the Independent Police Review.
 And I'm here with Irene Konev, our outreach coordinator, and Michael Luna, who is a volunteer to be with the Citizens Review Committee. So we are here this morning. We're seeking city council approval to appoint Michael Luna to the Citizens Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review. At this point, I will now present his biography to the council. Thank you.
 Mr. Michael Luna received his Bachelor's of Science degree in social sciences from Seattle Pacific University and Master's of Special Education working with emotionally disturbed students from Portland State University. He has worked in the mental health and substance abuse field for 24 years. He is currently a full-time high school teacher at David Douglas High School and a part-time teacher in the criminal justice program at Clackamas Community College.
 He has also worked in the juvenile probation and corrections. He has lived in Multnomah County for 26 years. Great. Any questions for us? Michael, welcome. Thank you. So we appreciate your willingness to serve, and this is a really critical function of city government. So the fact that you're willing to take this on is much appreciated here. I don't know if any council members have any questions for Mr. Luna. No.
 Well, thank you very much. We'll see if there's anyone else that wants to speak on this item or opine about your appointment. But, again, we really appreciate your willingness to serve. Thank you. Thank you all very much. All right. Anyone else want to speak on this item? We have two people signed up, Charles Johnson and Dan Hendelman. Okay. Come on up, please. All right, Mr. Johnson, I think you're on first. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And, well, I want to thank Mr. Luna for his willingness to take on this meeting.
 task that really addresses some of the most contentious issues that are among some of our Portland citizens. I want to encourage this council to work closely with the auditor's office to make sure that the council has a good feeling for public sentiment about the independent police review
 When we look at our situation under the legal case of the United States of America versus the city of Portland, for Portland police problems against people appearing to have mental illness or actually suffering from mental illness, we know that there's still...
 to be gained in community confidence in the police and just general satisfaction. So I hope that to help make Mr. Luna's job easier, there'll be frequent and candid conversation between the citizens, the IPR, and you commissioners and the auditor's office. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And reading through Mr. Luna's biography or application, which I'm sure you all did since it's part of the public record, it's interesting to see that he was part of the Corrections Division in Clackamas County for a while.
 And we've had former law enforcement officers on the CRC before and sometimes actually were harsher on the Portland Police than their colleagues. So we're not making a judgment at this time. We see that he's involved in mental health and addictions work, which is, of course, a key element of the settlement agreement. So we'll look forward to seeing Mr. Luna work on this board.
 It's a concern, though, that there are many people now on the CRC who are professionals, who are still working. Even though it's good to see more diversity in the age range of who's on there, there seems to be less time for them to do work outside of their monthly meetings. The work groups haven't been meeting as much as they used to.
 You received a report in January about crowd control. That was the last official report from any work groups from the CRC that came out, and we're hoping that that balance will maybe swing back a little bit the other way towards people who are maybe retired and have more time to invest, because it's very important work. It's an interesting time that this came up, because I'm in the middle of reading the annual report from the IPR, which just came out last week. There's really no mention of the CRC's crowd control report,
 If they're really valued, I'm hoping that maybe the council will ask the auditor to consider the existing report as the summary, the executive summary, and ask for a full report that has more information in it. Because you'll be seeing our analysis later this week of how much information is actually missing from this annual report. Last.
 Two weeks ago today, there was a hearing at CRC where there was a case being considered where an officer admitted pushing a flashlight in somebody's hand during a protest action, and the captain, Kelly Sheffer of the traffic division, declared that it wasn't a use of force because use of force is defined as mechanical intervention against resistance, and by that logic, if a cop went up and punched somebody in the face,
 with no resistance, that's not a use of force. So we're very concerned about that the police made this analysis and that at least the IPR and Internal Affairs signed off on this analysis, and we're hoping that that's going to change in the future. And finally, I guess we learned at Judge Simon's courtroom that there's a series of meetings going on to overhaul the Byzantine oversight system that
 Portland Copwatch, which has been involved in this oversight system for our entire existence since 1992, was not aware of until then. And we've made numerous recommendations. We sat on the mayor's work group to change PIAC into what's now the IPR. And we have sat on the stakeholders committee in 2010. And we're hoping that at least our group and other community stakeholders are going to be involved in this process now and not after the city council has already decided what they want to do.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you both. I just want to say Black Lives Matter so that we can be surveilled by the State Department of Justice. Okay. Anyone else want to speak? All right. Then let's take a vote, please, on the resolution to appoint Mr. Luna. Novick? Thanks to Mr. Luna and to all the existing, and past, for that matter, members of the committee. Aye.
 Thank you for stepping up to perform this very valuable service. What I'm hearing from my liaisons from this Citizens Review Committee is that it's becoming ever more functional, and I view it as a huge component of our response to the Department of Justice.
 Justice Settlement. So thank you for being willing to do that. Thanks to Irene Conner for your ongoing amazingness in finding great people and particularly pleased having read your application because I knew that Dan Handelman was going to ask me if I had read it or not.
 I'm very pleased that we have your experience from East Portland coming in on the committee and also your past experience as a drug and alcohol counselor and the things that you wrote in your application were very compelling to me thank you very much thanks for your willingness to serve also thanks to Irene for her great work and recruitment for the citizen review committee and Mr. Luna if you can teach high school with David Douglas this should be a piece of cake thank you thank you
 fails. Well, I want to echo those sentiments. Thank you, Michael, for doing this. The fact that you are part of the David Douglas team is important. I think it's great that we're getting more staff and faculty, I'm sorry, staff and parents from David Douglas involved in civic life is great. So your willingness to try to squeeze this in with your other responsibilities is great. And I was particularly heartened looking at your background that you'd,
 had some involvement with so-called street kids as well, because in addition to dealing with the sensitivities of mental illness or race or any of the other issues that have troubled the police bureau, our ability to work humanely with our homeless community is pretty important. So the fact that you've had that background, I think, is going to serve the community well. So thank you for all you bring to this and your willingness to make it happen in terms of your own life. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you.
 Okay, let us now move on to 1198, please. Improve land use regulations through the Accessory Structure Zoning Code Update Project. Okay, so we had a hearing on this. There were some proposed amendments. I wanted to get those on the table and then get staff a chance to confer with us and see if there's anyone who wants to speak on the amendments. Okay.
 Okay, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. And what I'd like to propose is that we put my amendment on the table and then perhaps defer to another hearing on it since it's fairly last minute. It was worked out in conjunction with your staff. I know that there's a lot more people who are going to be interested in this issue, both pro and con, than are able to be here today. And so I'm passing out my amendment, which is to not allow accessory dwelling units to
 in the five-foot setback in single-family zones. And I'd like to speak to the amendment. I'll second it. Thank you very much. Forgot that small detail. I also handed to you the definition of the purpose of setbacks, which is in 33.110.220. This is for single-family zones.
 The setback regulations for buildings and garage entrances serve several purposes. They maintain light, air, separation for fire protection, and access for firefighting. They reflect the general building scale and placement of houses in the city's neighborhood. And they promote reasonable physical relationship between residences. So those are the first three. There are several other bullets that...
 In all of when I'm making decisions on the council and elsewhere, I think about would I like this if it was going to happen to me? And so when I think about what was proposed in allowing accessory dwelling units, the wall could be 10 foot high, 24 feet long, right on the property line on the sides of my property,
 It would be particularly challenging in my situation because the lots behind me, the lot line, is in the center of my back property line. So, in fact, although it says that each property can only have a 24-foot limitation, I could have two of them sat right next to each other for 48 feet each.
 of a 10-foot blank wall right on my property line. Since I live on a slope, it would actually be higher than 10 feet because the properties behind me are at least 5 foot higher than mine. I could then have another one on the other sideline of my property that would be kitty-corner with the 48-foot wall and have another 24 foot
 again, five foot higher than my backyard. And that would significantly impede on the light, air, and separation of my property, of my home, and my ability to enjoy my property. Not to mention the fact that the owners of the accessible dwelling units would have to access my property to paint the blank walls and otherwise maintain them. So that's one of the reasons that I'm proposing this amendment.
 We've heard already from advocates that one of the reasons for allowing smaller accessory dwelling units in setbacks is to encourage new accessory dwelling units to be smaller.
 My contention is if we want accessory dwelling units to be smaller, we should require them to be smaller in all situations. Commissioner Novick has brought up the issue that since we first did the accessory dwelling unit regulations back when I was on the planning commission, we have changed the regulations for and allowed Airbnbs and other short-term rentals to be in accessory dwelling units. So there's a big incentive for homeowners to build
 build accessory dwelling units not as rentals or low cost living for relatives but for commercial enterprises. And so this...
 proposed amendment allowing them to be right on the neighbor's property line, I think severely impinges on the property rights of the adjacent neighbors. And while we've heard a lot of support from those who want to do accessory dwelling units, I haven't heard any concerns or support from those who are just fine with having these structures right on their property line. So that's the reason for my amendment. Okay. Thank you. So further discussion about that and then we – Yeah, I would like to –
 And I appreciate Commissioner Fritz coming by and visiting with me about this amendment yesterday, and certainly contemplated it, but I was also struck this morning by an email I think we all received from two members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, Mike Houck and Chris Smith, who spoke against this amendment because they really feel that, you know, and I think we all feel this, there is an affordable housing crisis in this city right now.
 And we are sort of slowly putting the nail in the coffin of accessory drilling units. We, the city and the county, we plan to have our SDC waivers expire next year.
 The county has an interpretation on reassessments of property values when somebody builds an ADU that significantly increases people's property taxes. And I think this amendment is only going to make, by requiring going through an adjustment committee, one more, as I said, nail in the coffin of a viable option that's not being used for all Airbnb purposes only. These are people living, you know, older relatives, you know, housing relatives.
 Housing aging parents, housing siblings who haven't made it on their own yet. So I think there's a lot of valid uses for ADU, and we're slowly killing them off. So I respectfully will oppose this amendment when I vote on it. I want to get the staff up to react to it as well, and I know there's some folks that want to testify. I was initially pretty favorable to this, but listening to what I've heard from members of the
 of the advisory committee and from planning commission members. I think our staff and the task force that worked on this might have gotten it right in the first place. So it's always good for us to listen carefully to what our professional staff say. So I want to invite Phil and... Mayor, can I just ask a process question? Because we are a little pressed for time.
 Was it the sponsor's request that we vote on the underlying matter and continue this to another hearing? Let's see. We have a few people here that want to speak. We might want to have a conversation, I would, with our professional staff, Sandra and Phil in particular, and see what our thoughts are about this one discrete issue. I think my sense of the council was we were pretty much ready to move forward on the rest of this.
 except for this issue. We've got to resolve this issue in one way or the other, but I didn't hear a lot of other issues within this package that needed further discussion. So, again, I'd like to hear from Sandra and Phil, their response to the suggested amendment. And then I know there's some people here that would like to testify on the amendment, and that shouldn't actually, looking at the size of the group here today, probably take that long. Okay.
 The issue that's been raised by those opposing my amendment is that the proposal, as is, incents the smaller accessory dwelling units. And so it raises the underlying concern as we're amending all covered and unstructured structures, have we in fact allowed accessory dwelling units to be too large on the rest of the lot?
 Well, they've thought about this, so come on up, please. We'll put them on the hot seat.
 Yeah, I thought about this from a personal standpoint as somebody who has a garage on my property line. And that garage is within about a foot of the property line. It was a long time ago. Someone, probably my neighbor, planted a hedge next to it. So it's not terribly visible. I understand the side effect of this is that if someone were to build an ADU right on the property line, it would –
 create the potential visual problem for the neighbor. So how did you address that issue as you talked about it with the task force? So Phil Naboney with the City of Portland Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And just for the folks in the audience, too, I want to –
 reiterate that commissioner fritz's amendment is only four words so it's it's putting from a code standpoint it's a fairly simple fix but it does have some implications uh and as we were talking to our focus group and as we've taken this out to the public and continued to receive calls and and emails i would say the idea of using this provision for adus is probably the most anticipated um
 or provision that is being most anticipated by folks out there, property owners and architects and so on. I think there is possibly a pent-up demand to potentially build smaller units and take advantage of the provision to put them in the setbacks. I think from a focus group standpoint, you know, this was discussed quite a bit. We did start at the very beginning with the idea of,
 Do we decide to not allow any structures in the setback, or do we decide to swing the pendulum the other way, or do we go ahead and look at creating a lot more flexibility? The concern with swinging it the other way was that potentially would result in a greater policy shift in the way our code has been developed.
 heading over the last 30 years. And especially since about 10, 12 years ago, we did allow the ability for somebody to convert a garage into another type of accessory structure. The issue with that is, of course, oftentimes older garages from a building standpoint can't really be converted. But there's a desire to maybe use those same kind of footprints to be able to build a different type of accessory structure. The one thing I want to
 mentioned with Commissioner Fritz's concern is I think it may bring up the bigger issue because if the issue is too many blank walls along the property line, there could be three garages. If Commissioner Fritz lives in an R7, R5, or R25 neighborhood, there could be three garages on those property lines, and it'd be the same issue with the blank wall. Our thought was that with some of these provisions to
 require potentially screening of if the structure is a covered patio and require screening from a visual standpoint and or to limit the amount of windows or openings that that would help with some of the privacy issues. The homes already have garages so they're not there's no financial incentive to put a another garage in the backyard there is a financial incentive to have an accessory dwelling unit.
 That's why they're different. Well, if the house doesn't have a garage, there might be an incentive to have a garage. Or if it burns down. Well, that's why I was originally saying if we want to unify the code, then let's not have the garages there either. I was persuaded by staff who helped craft this amendment that making it more narrow to accessory dwelling units, which are defined as having a sleeping area, uh,
 bathroom and a kitchen that that would be that would still allow people to have in limited situations to do the garage and plus it wouldn't make the garages non-conforming that are there now so i i have a couple concerns one is that um
 This is a very complicated issue, and the issue that Commissioner Fritz is raising I think is important. I'm not sure I'm comfortable jamming it in the context of the work that's already been done, which is why I thought her original proposal to move forward with the adoption and continue her amendment. For example, I haven't had the benefit of an extensive briefing the way Dan has. I'd like to understand the issue better. And also, I have an interest in having a deeper understanding of –
 of what we know about accessory dwelling units generally. I know that when we, as a council, waived the systems development charges, we did so because they were being built
 largely outside of our review and our code. And so the thought was waive the SDCs and people will come in and actually file for permits. They'll be regulated. We'll have a chance to make sure they're safer and they are built to code. I have my own anecdotal sense about what's happening with ADUs, and it's along the lines of the unintended consequences that we unleashed when we welcomed short-term rentals into our community.
 We've monetized spaces that actually, Dan, used to be available for affordable housing, and we have greatly contributed to the crisis in our community by giving people financial incentive to do short-term rentals over long-term rentals, and it isn't as if we had a lot of capacity to begin with. So to me it's a complicated question that goes beyond the issue of the placement of the structure and the noise and impact, although I'm acutely sensitive to that issue.
 is a larger policy question. And Mayor, you know, we can have a vote on this today, but I think the offer to continue the amendment and adopt the underlying ordinance actually made sense, so that if the council so chooses, we can go deeper into this issue. That's one option. Mayor, I would say I agree with that. My initial off-the-cuff need
 knee-jerk response commissioner fritz's amendment was to support it and normally i can rely on my knees my cuffs but not always and given that we've had communications from people whose views i generally respect about this issue um
 I would like further time to think about it. So I would concur. You're comfortable with adopting the proposal now and then further addressing Commissioner Fritz's proposal later? That doesn't make any sense to me. Well, that's what Commissioner Fritz just articulated, I think.
 that you would like to act on the proposal in front of us? Is that right? I'm asking to amend the proposal, but what my request at the beginning of this session was that we would just put the amendment on the table, perhaps take testimony, but not even act on the amendment until we've had more input to hold the record open.
 Well, right, but that's different from... How does that leave the underlying ordinance? It doesn't have to be adopted today. There's no urgency to adopt the underlying ordinance. Maybe I misunderstood. What's the harm in adopting the ordinance and continuing the amendment and then deciding whether we subsequently want to amend the ordinance?
 Procedurally, if there's no controversy on the bulk of what we have, why don't we – There is a bit of an issue with the idea of opening a floodgate. So the idea is adopting the amendment would allow the ADUs to be built right up to the property line. Right.
 My sense is then we'd be having to scale back with – Right. If you adopt the underlying ordinance, you're basically rejecting my amendment. So then everybody and their brother puts in their applications tomorrow, and all those are allowed. Because you are a leader in guiding us through these kinds of issues –
 typically, my sense is the council might reject your amendment because they either don't understand it or don't understand its consequences. And so if you would like to proceed to a vote, my guess is it's voted down for that reason. If there's some way to decouple –
 it seems to me we can have a broader discussion about it. I don't understand why folks are wanting to vote on the underlying ordinance. Whenever we have code changes coming to us and there's some question about one piece of it, we just continue the hearing until we can vote on the whole thing. I've never been asked to vote on the underlying ordinance without having a robust discussion of the amendment. Is there any harm to our process to continue this, to have further discussions on the amendment?
 Are we up against the lot line? Are we up against a deadline that requires us to act? No, we didn't propose that this be an emergency ordinance. We fully understood that there would be a 30-day period before it was effective. The only pressure that sort of gets applied is the fact that
 There's a window of opportunity between when this becomes effective and when potentially the system development charges get reapplied. But that is not a week window. It's seven months. So, I mean, it's –
 There really isn't an issue with delaying this a week or two weeks. Mayor, what if we took testimony and then continued it at least a week for the purpose of Commissioner Fritz's colleagues having further discussion? At the very least, we ought to hear testimony today. I'm sorry, I misunderstood the motion. Yeah.
 Okay. So other questions for staff, and then we will take testimony. Just remind us again, so we had a task force that looked at this package, and it also went through the Planning and Sustainability Commission? Correct. Yeah, the task force met from January until about April, and then we also had some outreach with the district coalitions and went through, there was a residential infill design commission,
 The expo that happened in northeast Portland that was attended by probably several hundred folks that we had a booth at. And then once we released the discussion draft, we had the standard public process of notification and going to hearing. Thank you. All right. Other questions for either planning or BDS staff?
 Thank you. So one clarification that I'd like to make is after you take testimony today, if you could clarify if testimony is closed at the end of testimony or if you're holding it open for another week. All right. Thank you. We'll get that clear. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. So let's see who'd like to testify on the amendment. So come on up. And if you haven't already signed up, that's fine. But if you'd like to speak on the proposed amendment, come on up.
 And as they're coming up, colleagues, I'll note that we've got three emergency ordinances for parks that really need to get done today, and another two we have to leave. Okay. We'll get to those. We might have to get to them in the afternoon, but we'll get to them.
 okay good afternoon good morning hello is there i give a some handouts there i think we i have oh you have them in front of you wonderful okay my name is eli spivak and i was part of the focus group and the first adu i developed in portland was in the sabre neighborhood it was a corner garage that was um had been so for about a decade and i converted it to a livable accessory dwelling unit sold for 117 000 in a neighborhood where everything else was about three times that um
 With the proposed amendment, you couldn't do that anymore. It provided a form of affordable housing in the Saban neighborhood, and even seven years have passed, that unit has turned over once or twice, and it continues to be half to a third the cost of any other home in that neighborhood. For rentals, it's a little bit different scheme, but it's very similar. They provide affordable housing options in neighborhoods that have very few choices. We really do have a housing crisis, and
 We need to have little houses have to be part of the toolbox for that. And I want to share that Oregon DEQ, and that's why I have this little handout for you, there's not much data out there about how ADUs are used. But they did a study two years ago, it's not ancient history, showing, because they wanted to know if they're going to support ADUs, how are they actually used? Are they really used to house people? You know, that makes a difference. And they found that nearly 80% of them are used as long-term residences.
 and 4.5% short-term housing. Now, I know two years have passed. You know, short-term housing has grown. ADUs have grown. But it's a fallacy to think that just because those have both grown, that therefore ADUs are all being used at Airbnb. People have a reason to advertise that they have an Airbnb facility
 if they want people to rent them. But most ADUs are almost certainly used for long-term housing options. And we need those choices in a housing crisis. Eli, in fairness, we actually don't know the answer to that question. And we have two problems here. One is that you are not the typical developer.
 So we have to put an asterisk every time you testify. You are not typical. The kinds of co-housing things you advocate for, the kinds of affordable housing options, all the things that you come before us are not typical of your peer group. And I say that as a compliment. And second, two years ago, short-term rentals were not legal in our community. And there are thousands of units listed now online, the bulk of them illegal rentals.
 And we have no way of knowing. We cannot document it. So I appreciate from a philosophical point of view your conviction around this, but we simply don't know. And furthermore, in my neighborhood, little houses are not being fixed up to be made affordable. They're being demolished and replaced with big houses that no one can afford. So respectfully, I don't think we have the data to make the judgment that you've just made about the impact on these little houses.
 I agree we don't have the data. I wish we had the data. I mean, I totally agree. We could get more of you. But, again, you are not typical of the people that we're dealing with in this market. So this was a DEQ report that's two years old? Right, and Jordan Balmeri, who did the report, would have been here if he could have been. He was in Salem. And that two years ago, 4.5%.
 of the ADUs were used for short-term rentals. And the other data on it is... Even if it quadrupled in the last two years, we're still talking about less than 20% of ADUs being used for short-term rentals.
 I think Fish is right. We don't know the information, what's happened in those two years. Obviously things have changed, but I think it's a jump to conclusion to assume that they're mostly short-term rental. We also had another problem that Dan is well aware of, which is most of the ADUs were illegal. I don't know how we can do a survey of ADUs when the bulk of them
 were built without people actually bothering to get a permit. So I don't know what the universe we looked at. I'm not sure that's true. Well, two years ago was four years after the SDC waiver was first put in place. And they were surveyed based on legal ADUs. So I don't know what- Legal ADUs. And at the time we waived the SDCs, we were told it was rampant not- we had basically the bulk of the ADUs were not legal. That is, they did not go through our code process, which is the reason we went.
 It's a rather extraordinary step of waiving STCs. Can I say one more? On the second page of this, I just want to share one more tidbit, is that a lot of ADUs are rented for nothing. And this is a study, and this rings true, I think, for the experiences I've heard of where people are letting ADUs be used by friends, relatives, someone else who will be paying rent in another situation. Almost 20% of them are rented for zero or like 500 bucks a month.
 And we need stuff like that. That's affordable housing, unsubsidized in any ongoing way by government, for small units where household sizes tend to be small. And one other, I mean, we're going for, we're sharing some anecdotes. I probably have nothing involved with a good friend. I mean, she housed her.
 80-year-old for her last years of life in a converted garage right next to a property line across from New Seasons in northeast Portland. I know it was close to the property line. I don't know if it was legally made as an ADU, but there's an accessible small unit for someone can live in. That's the type of
 We just don't have much in our single-family apartment. We have neighborhoods that are at risk of becoming only affordable to millionaires, and these are sort of the kinds of housing we need more of in a housing crisis. Eli, we're not going to be taking up the SDC issue today, but at some point I would love to have your thoughts about, as we're considering sunsetting the SDC waiver, as to whether you think we should only sunset it on those units where the owner is willing to make the unit affordable.
 and is there some way to to to link those two well the other option there might be to have the sdc waiver uh you know we we've had trouble and sandra and phil were explaining we had trouble in the past with regulations that were incenting people to do a workaround this is just an office it's not really a housing unit and and they were even carrying out sync agreements about whether or not you're installing a sink you know it got crazy and convoluted but
 But there maybe is a simple tool, like you've just described, that could focus the waiver on what we want and not on what we don't want. And then we can have a mechanism for tracking it. One way we could do that would be to say it's only waived for units that are not short-term rentals.
 And then it's obvious if you check the websites whether a unit is a short-term rental or not, and the owner might be liable for paying that STC in the first five or ten years or whatever we want to do. So I think we have options. I was just trying to riff off your suggestion. There are a couple of different ways to do that. I'd be happy to be part of a discussion on it. I think we should incentivize the kind of housing he's talking about. Yeah. And providing some predictability around the waiver, whatever it is, I think would help a lot because there's a lot of unpredictability in the world of small homes right now. Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
 So thank you. I think I'll – well, one of the things in that certificate I'm bringing up is that the biggest obstacles to ADU development were cost and design compatibility requirements. And I think this code update does some things elsewhere in the update to provide uniform requirements on compatibility. So tall accessory structures would have to be compatible also, not just if there's an accessory dwelling unit.
 And in terms of cost, the least expensive aid used to do are internal conversions and small one-story structures. And I think this opens the door to some of those that are allowed already if you're going to be housing a car. But we have more people on the streets, and we need to provide housing for people, too. Thanks. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks. My name is Cole Peterson. I...
 Do a lot of advocacy, education policy work around ADUs, run the citywide ADU tour, teach classes for homeowners. I've taught 600-plus homeowners full-day classes in ADU development, teach realtor classes for ADUs. I'm really passionate about ADUs for a lot of the reasons that I'm passionate about the housing in better, more affordable, more efficient, greener housing options in Portland.
 Commissioner Fritz's amendment effectively puts a damper on the ability for there to be an incentive to develop small 576 square foot 80s or less. The concept that you mentioned regarding...
 Downsizing ADUs could be another consideration, I suppose. But I think what's really nifty about the proposal as it stands is economically every additional square foot you add to an ADU is a very small cost. This is why when people demo a house and rebuild something, they build the maximum possible size. There's a minimum fixed cost for any unit of development, roughly $60,000 to $70,000.
 So every additional square foot you add is a relatively low marginal cost. Therefore, people are incentivized economically to build the largest possible ADU they can. What this regulation does is says, we are going to give you basically a regulatory incentive if you build a small one story, which happens to be the form of ADU that would be most accessible to people with disabilities, which is a form of house that we need more of.
 It happens to incentivize also waiving the design code matching requirements if you build them small. Therefore, there's more flexibility in terms of being able to build ADUs that are cheaper because you don't have to do custom design for each and every unit. So the amendment is – the unintentional consequences are that it incentivizes 800 square foot ADUs, which means that –
 more ADUs will cost more and will have to be used more for income-generating properties, whereas right now greater, 20 percent, potentially greater, are used for no-cost rental for family members, for friends. It's a form of organic affordable housing that doesn't require government subsidy other than the SDC waiver, which I would love to see extended.
 as Eli alluded to, the only data we really have about the Airbnb thing is 5% of them are being used for Airbnb or short-term rental as of three years ago. That number probably has increased. And I think I'm totally with the council in terms of thinking about being more
 diligent about enforcing the policy. I think it's a great policy that the city could pass. I just think it needs to be enforced more. But I think coupling the Airbnb issue with ADUs isn't really a fair coupling to make. I don't think there's any stats that really back up what these
 hypotheses are there's media and stories that have conflated adus and airbnb but the reality is a lot more being used for affordable housing and there's a lot of anecdotes to support that you just have to go digging for them and i and i as somebody who speaks with and deals with
 Probably more AD owners than anybody else. I can tell you, you know, Airbnb is used in some cases, but it's definitely not the majority. It's by far the minority. So I'll leave it at that. Thanks. Thank you very much. Good morning, Crystal. Hello. Good morning. My name is Crystal Elinsky. I represent 10,000.
 I'm very privileged to be here. It is a pity to use up this precious time if it's not urgent, if you're not voting on it. And I should start with a couple questions. I don't really understand who's being affected here right now. Are there applications for building that are being put on hold because of this revamping of the zoning? There might be.
 So it's not there might be so it's not urgent You don't know people that are right now struggling trying to go forth with their applications to the city to build I think we'll hear from people today that can help answer that question, but go ahead, please So that I guess that confirms to me that it seems like you still have a lot of I Feel like Dan Salton has a lot of homework to do and and since he's in charge of this zoning in the city is
 It's a debacle. It's a catastrophe. Every time I turn around, and even in Parks and Recreation, to give away a former golf course where we had a biosphere, an entire green space in North Portland where I lived...
 And allow it to be used for industrial use. I understand the Portland Business Alliance says there's not enough industrial space in North Portland, but I know there's hordes of it. We need to put the money into the EPA. We need to fix our zoning so we can't just...
 give it away give away golf courses as industrial land in exchange for a small little park along the columbia slough that was a lot i know in the past that dan slossman has expressed concern with zoning rules being through
 thrown haphazardly and he even said so to the colleague of yours Randy Leonard who within a week had a Neon rose up on a historical beautiful historical building on the river and they made exceptions for him So it seems to me this is an important. This is all very important But I don't trust your zoning rules in general and I'm saying this is quaint to hear you all talk like oh my house My house. I'm coming from the perspective of
 of somebody who has traversed the city due to displacement thanks to the housing authority mostly but before that i was a slumlord recipient victim and i've been all over the city when i see people
 building haphazardly and not protecting their environment, not asking their neighbors. That's what we should do is get neighborhoods involved, think this thing clearly through to add amendments like this are very logical, but I think there's a lot more here. And having been at, for example, your housing meeting, Mayor Hales, on MLK, to give $10 million or $20 million.
 for low-income housing and it ends up going into a big four-story Tyvek particle board condom complex that no one can afford and everybody in that room stood up and said we want small houses we want these we want to be able to rent to our family we want to be able to stay in our neighborhood and rent to others it's huge and it's coming from the perspective of people that don't own their own quaint little land
 Thank you very much. Thank you all. Let's hear from some more folks who are here to speak this morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Annie Rose Shapiro. I'm a realtor with Urban Nest Realty and also a homeowner and the owner of a rental property. I've been in Portland for 13 years. I want to...
 And I have a lot of clients who are interested in buying ADUs and building ADUs. So anecdotally, I can speak to the interest. People want to take care of their families. And I think we need to do everything we can to support ADUs. And the proposal, as is, does support the build of more ADUs. Smaller ADUs are more environmental. That's the bottom line. The smaller you go...
 the greener you are. And we need to do everything we can to support that. But also, ADUs of all sizes provide a safety net for our community that can be provided by our community. No owner of an apartment building, no property manager is ever going to let your brother...
 stay in an apartment because he lost his job. They're going to say, hey, have fun in your Toyota Corolla on Burnside. And I think we need to do everything we can to empower our community to provide the safety net. Now, somebody uses it for Airbnb sometimes. That doesn't mean when their brother falls on hard luck, they're not going to open their doors to them. And we need to make use of this resource and trust our community to do the right thing. And it's also about putting...
 Who do we want to have control of our rental market? Who do we want to benefit from rentals? Do we want it to be large corporations? They have a role in our community, but by incentivizing ADUs in every way possible, we put this money and this income and these choices into the hands of little people, the residents of Portland, Oregon, who live here, who contribute to this economy. Thank you.
 And if they're using their rental for Airbnb, they're turning that money and putting it right back into our local economy.
 And I don't think that's what usually happens. And I think most of the time, or often what it can be, is it's a mix. If people are using Airbnb, they're also reserving it for when their mother gets old and she needs to have somewhere to live. It's a short term. It's a combination. And we need to empower the people of Portland to have control of our rental market because it's getting out of hand. I think that's it.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. Liz Getty. I'm also a local realtor, and I work for Urban Nest. I really have three quick points. The first one I want to point out is I believe it was Mr. Fish that complimented Eli on being a unique developer. I think one of the reasons that Eli is a unique developer is that the city makes it impossible for individuals to do their developments.
 ADUs are short-term rentals. They are also long-term rentals. They are solutions for people for income generation. They are solutions for affordable housing. If we open up this model, we can create actually infill, not upfill, communities, people that walk by each other, engage, and actually engage with their neighbors. And I'm shaking because Fritz actually brought up the most important point by saying a wall against her neighbor.
 That's what we are creating when we build these buildings up and these hallways and this unaffordable city. The people that are coming here are actually coming on the past belief that Portland is better than that, and we are.
 When you say that you don't want a wall next to you, I think, well, if your zoning doesn't allow for it, then purchase that property. Have an R5 with one ADU available within the setbacks built as needed. Know what you bought next to when you bought it so that you are buying something that you can use to your use. But we buy and purchase land, and many of us, it is...
 the only thing we have to call home. And if you have to stay at your home by allowing others to come in and support you by creating a basement unit, or you use the $40,000 on a Goodyear to help convert the garage into something that helps generate income for the city and affordable housing, the reason Eli is unique is because development of anything is difficult.
 And the ADU has been the option for the individual to create somewhat affordable development in Portland. And by taking away that, you take away opportunity that makes us what we are and why people are coming. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you very much. Just to clarify, I'm not saying – I love ADUs. I think they're great. For the last 30 years, we have had certainty that there's a five-foot setback.
 So what we're proposing to do is to change the rules. Big step back for a city that's growing at this size, considering that San Francisco, Seattle, I mean, we watch other cities that have less step backs, and they are still having growth issues. We do not have a solution for it. There is no opportunity for affordable right now for most people, and the developers have not gotten on board.
 The issue is whether the affordable housing is placed within the setback. There's certainly still the opportunity for the homeowner to have a smaller unit in their space rather than impinging on the neighbor's space. You're telling my clients that just recently bought in the last two years a garage on their property line that's larger than 500 square feet can no longer be converted? No, they can apply for an adjustment, which is good. They can apply for an adjustment. Yeah.
 We heard testimony last week about a woman who went through the adjustment process. It cost less than $2,000. She had a very good experience talking with her neighbors, came to a good conclusion. That would still be allowed under my amendment, just to clarify. All right. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I absolutely agree with Commissioner Fritz's amendment.
 one of the concerns i have is obviously uh when you get within these setbacks too close wall to wall it's i i'm looking at more from a safety concern also a noise concern i think that we still have enough room that we can develop a lot of adus i think we still need that waiver on the sdcs to be extended pertaining to airbnb
 I don't think Airbnb is taking that much inventory out of the market currently. I know there's going to be more studies. I think a lot of the inventory that was out in the market was being rented illegally. I think that's being brought to the surface now. It's being taxed properly. I think more safety requirements.
 measures are being put into place. So, again, I do agree with Commissioner Fritz's position on this. And I'm looking at it more from a safety issue. And I think that if we extend this out a year and we monitor this, I think there's going to still be a lot of ADUs built, right?
 And, again, if we extend that waiver out farther, I think that will continue. And then to look at it again maybe two years, three years out, maybe make that change to allow within the setback. But at this time, I agree with the amendment that has been proposed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up. Thank you.
 Good morning. For the record, Charles Johnson. Obviously, given the number of people I've seen sleeping on Fifth Avenue, sleeping here on Southwest Fifth Avenue, just like on New York's Fifth Avenue, there is a need to get ADUs that are taking in low-income people.
 However, I do not have much pity for people who may have bought a house in the past two years with the idea that they could put an Airbnb unit within one inch of the lot line. These are two completely different situations. So I would encourage the delay on this delay of income for people. These units are not going to quickly materialize to be available.
 a massive assistance for the number of people sleeping on the streets. So I think that although there has been a report and a hearing committee, I think that there needs to be more public involvement to digest this idea of every homeowner in Portland now knowing that if you pass this today, any of their neighbors could die.
 build any size ADU right on the lot line, which if you pass it and then you change it, as Commissioner Fritz has pointed in, we have the question of will people be grandfathered, will there be litigation, land use hearings? So please perhaps more due diligence. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else?
 So what I would recommend that we do is I'm going to close the public hearing. Could we leave it open, please? Leave it open for close the public hearing and leave the record open for people to submit testimony. I would suggest, Mayor, that there may be others who after this debate becomes public today might want to testify next time.
 Well, we've had two public hearings, and we had a rather extensive process. I mean, there was a question about public process here. So just written? That's what you'd like? I'm sorry? You'd hold the record open just for written testimony? That's what I was thinking we would do, is let people – if people want to write in about this issue between now and next week, we'll give them the opportunity to do that. Okay.
 Could we compromise? I have a town hall coming up on the 30th, which is two weeks from here. If we could hold it over till after Thanksgiving, that way I can ask folks at the public hearing, I mean at the town hall, which is on November 30th at the southeast Portland Community College,
 If I'm told everybody's fine with it, then I will be happy to support the proposal as proposed. I would just like a little more time to have my own scoping of whether people agree with me or not. So the morning of the 2nd is possibility. We have the parental leave policy. But if we're not taking testimony, it doesn't need to be a time-certained.
 It could be a time certain for a vote. Actually, if I may, I would recommend that this be set for a time certain. Yeah. I want to set it for a time certain for a vote, among other reasons, because I'm going to be leaving the Council at 1130 myself that day. So my recommendation is we try to set it for 915 on the second 945. Sorry. I should start early. Oh, it should start early. We know. What's wrong with that? No. Let's set it for 945.
 on the 2nd. So close the public hearing for testimony. Let people that want to correspond with us we've gotten great letters and emails about this already. That will give people the chance to do more. We'll take a vote on Commissioner Fritz's amendment and then we'll take a vote on the proposal and see where we stand. Thank you. Okay. So 945 on December 2nd. Please feel free to keep the cards and letters coming on the subject in the meantime and talk about it further at your forum.
 Okay. Thanks, everybody. Now, let's see. We have a few items remaining that the three of us can accomplish, I think. Fortunately, we can't do the three emergency ordinances from parks. I very much apologize to my staff. Can we come back this afternoon? We can indeed put those up first thing at 2 p.m. Is there anything else left? I don't think so, Carla. Is that right? We've bounced around on this agenda enough. Did we do 1201, the repeal the ordinance for the transportation item? I don't think we did that. Yes. Yes.
 We need to do that. No, we didn't do 1201. No, we didn't do it. We did not do 1201. It is not an emergency ordinance, so let's take 1201. A repeal ordinance which vacated a certain portion of Northeast Emerson Street between Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Northeast 6th Avenue under certain conditions. Commissioner Novick.
 I'll turn this over to Lance Lindahl. Thank you, Commissioner. Lance Lindahl, Right-of-Way Acquisition, Bureau of Transportation. Today's street vacation item is a bit different than the other ones you've seen recently. Council approved Ordinance 169325 back in September of 1995, and that approved the vacation of Northeast Emerson Street between Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Northeast 6th Avenue.
 Conditions of approval required the construction of additional sidewalks and pedestrian amenities, and these conditions were not met. Due to the length of time that has passed, and since the vacation ordinance was never recorded, this vacation now needs to be repealed so that the project file can be closed. The Bureau of Transportation, the Office of Management Finance, and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Portland no longer wishes to pursue this vacation and supports this action. Boys and Girls Club recently donated a public access easement,
 to allow the existing parking and sidewalk facilities to remain on their property and for it to remain open for public use. No physical changes to the rights of way are planned at this time and there's no anticipated cost to Boys and Girls Club.
 And I'm happy to answer any questions if you have them. All right. I know that street well. It's right next door to North Precinct, so I spent a lot of time up there. Any questions from us? Anyone want to speak on this? Yeah. What do you think the term should be for a de-vacation? Is it a de-vacation or is it just a cation? I mean, I would like to know.
 I'm going to hold out on an opinion on that one because the term vacation is confusing enough to most folks. Yes, it has nothing to do with time off or beaches, right? Unfortunately. All right. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes the second reading. Any other items that have been left undone here other than the parks, the three parks items? If not, then we will recess until 2 p.m., at which point we'll take up 1202, 1203, 1204, and our afternoon agenda.
 Thank you very much. I'm surprised you didn't get more blowback on the captioning thing. I'm glad you did. I'm surprised. Mm-hmm.
 Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to the November 18th meeting of the City Council. Would you please call the roll? No thank you. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everyone. We have three items left over from our morning calendar, which we're going to take up first, and then we'll get to what you came for, or at least what most of you came for.
 So let's take up, do you want those read together, Commissioner? 1202, 1203, and 1204, please. 1202, authorize a grant agreement with Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership to support subcontractors by providing technical assistance on the beach and gateway parks projects for a not-to-exceed grant amount of $27,500. Okay.
 12-03, authorizing grant agreement with Oregon Tradeswomen, Inc., to support outreach, workforce training, and hiring efforts
 in East Portland neighborhoods that surround the Beach and Gateway Park project sites for a not-to-exceed grant amount of $41,250. And 1204, authorize a grant agreement with Portland Youth Builders to support outreach, workforce training, and hiring efforts in East Portland neighborhoods that surround the Beach and Gateway Park project sites
 for a not to exceed grant amount of $41,250. Okay. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. These three ordinances are grant agreements with our community partners.
 to implement the community benefits plan for construction of Beach Park and Gateway Plaza and Park in East Portland. Here to explain is Parks Planning and Development Manager Kia Selle. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Kia Selle. I'm the Planning, Development, and Asset Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation.
 I am very pleased to be here this afternoon to request City Council approval of three grant agreements that will support technical business assistance for subcontractors and workforce outreach, training, and hiring for the construction of the Beach and Gateway Park projects. The community benefits plans for each of these projects have made this funding possible, specifically allocating 0.25% of the total construction cost for technical assistance,
 focusing on supporting disadvantaged minority and women subcontractors and 0.75% of the total construction cost to support workforce outreach training and hiring. PARCC staff work collaboratively with procurement staff on a competitive process to select these grant recipients.
 The first grant recipient is with MCIP, Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership, for $27,500. The intent is to maximize participation of disadvantaged minority and women subcontractors in construction and provide them with really practical technical business experience and support to make their businesses successful both during the construction project as well as after the construction project.
 The other two grant agreements will support workforce outreach, training, and hiring focused on East Portland. Oregon Tradeswomen, Inc. will receive $41,250 to deliver these programs in partnership with Constructing Hope and Human Solutions. And also, Portland Youth Builders will similarly receive $41,250.
 Portland Parks and Recreation is really pleased to have this opportunity to demonstrate the city's commitment to East Portland. I'm really pleased to report that we already have production
 productive conversations between oregon trades women and portland youth builders as well as mcip and our general contractors for the beach and gateway park projects they're already finding ways to really make subcontractors more successful and think about how they're going to use those newly trained people on the projects i had earlier anticipated that a lot of our work would be paying it forward
 would be training folks for the future, particularly with the outreach workforce training and hiring. But we're actually making some great strides in getting some of those newly trained workers out into the field for these very two-part projects. So that's very exciting. Great. Thank you. Questions for Kia? Thanks very much. Are there other folks that are here to speak on these items? Support team in place, but not necessarily to speak? Okay. Thank you very much.
 All right, then if there's no one wants to testify on these items, we can take them up in turn and their emergency ordinances and we can vote on today. So roll call in 1202, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz?
 I want to note that we're not required to do this by city policy because it's under the threshold for our community benefits policy. We're doing it because it's the right thing to do, and I'm particularly grateful to Kia Selle and her team for working on this and putting such good heart into it and getting such great outcomes already. Also to Christine Moody and Procurement Services for their significant assistance in developing this community benefits plan. Our community partners were instrumental in helping it –
 get defined. Also, City Attorney Lisa Gramp, who has worked on the community benefits agreements, has been extremely helpful to us. Thank you very much. Aye. Fish. Aye. Zaltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1203? Novick. Aye. Riggs.
 The other unique thing about this community benefits plan is it looks at providing work for residents and businesses in East Portland. So it is very locationally specific and beyond a traditional community benefits agreement, which is more focused on union and wage policies and skilled training. So I'm very pleased about that, too. Aye. Bish. Aye. Stoltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1204. Novick. Aye. Ritz.
 I'm trying to think what else I've forgotten in my previous two votes. Thanks very much to my staff, Patty Howard and Tim Crail, for working on this. Aye. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Well, aside from the workforce piece, it's just nice to see more progress in East Portland. Aye. Thank you all very much. Okay. Let's move on then to the afternoon agenda, which starts with 1207.
 accept the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission State of the City Preservation Report? Mr. Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. It's a pleasure to bring forward the 2015 Historic Landmark Commission's State of the City Preservation Report. But the first item of business is to thank the dedicated volunteers who serve on the Landmarks Commission. This commission meets a minimum of twice a month,
 and often for many hours as they review land use cases and provide advice. They are a very hardworking group, and I'd like to call out their names, and if they're here, if they could please stand. We have Brian Emmerich, the chair. Yes. Jessica Ingerman, vice chair. Karen Carlson. Okay. Kirk Ranzetta. Great. Paul Solomano. And Carolyn Dow. Okay. Well, we thank you all for your hard work, and...
 this is the commission's seventh annual report before council but the historic landmarks commission has been operating in the city since 1975 providing leadership and expertise expertise on preservation enhancing portland's historical and architectural heritage this report comes to council at an important time for the city and its historic overlay districts with our pending adoption of the comprehensive plan
 and the amount of construction and growth our region is seeing there's no better time than now to hear from this distinguished group of experts senior planner paul heron will start off and then he'll be joined by commission chair brian emmerich and uh who will take the helm so tim brian take it away thanks um tim heron senior planner i am just simply gonna speak for director paul scarlett and just acknowledge um
 the Commission and introduce just this one item. The Commission not only reviews land use cases, but they also do a variety of advocacy work in terms of inviting different bureaus or other jurisdictions to present before the Landmarks Commission on a variety of issues. So the Commission's been working very hard on developing new design guidelines for Skidmore Old Town. They've been working hard on the Ankeny Alley expansion with PBOT.
 the comprehensive plan update, and more recently had a survey LA team that's recently completed a historic resource inventory in LA up to present their efforts and how to spearhead that. So without further ado, I'd like to hand it off to Brian Emmerich and Kirk Ranzetta. Hey, come on up, gentlemen. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Thank you for having us. I'm Brian Emmerich, chair of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission, and to my left is Kirk Rinzetta, and we're really honored to be in front of you.
 this is my final address to city council i'm in my eighth year of service so that ends uh in december but it's been a real honor and pleasure to contribute uh at the landmarks commission and be a responsible steward of our past there um final presentation on this volunteer job correct who knows what we'll tap you for next right there'll be more on that later uh just got your email commissioner fritz uh the other day so i'll be responding on that um
 So over my tenure, I've had at the Grid Fortune Review a wide array of significant projects, including Mercy Corps, Washington High School, Waterfront Park, the White Stag sign, most recently the Mount Tabor and Washington Park reservoirs, and the Grove Hotel in Chinatown. And I've also presided over the first four Type 4 demolition review proposals, including three in the last year alone. And I'm happy to report that the process really is working well.
 Finally, I've been able to contribute at a number of high-level policy panels representing the Landmarks Commission, including most recently the West Quadrant Plan and the Unreinforced Masonry Seismic Task Force. I can honestly say these experiences have given me the confidence to believe we're headed in the right direction as a city when it comes to preservation policy.
 However, I think we can and should do more, and we need your help for that. In a report that follows, we're going to outline our strategic objectives that we can achieve collectively, given the right investment of energy. We have an incredible, dedicated body of professionals that make up the Landmarks Commission, who volunteer countless hours to help us carry out our city's mission and preservation. We share a passion for working toward the collective good and leaving this place better than we found it, which I think we're all trying to do as a city. We continue to ask for the city's support in making the most of this effort.
 for current and future generations of this beloved place we call home. So I'm assuming you guys all had a chance to read the report. I'm not going to go through all the details. If you guys have questions in there, certainly inquire us on that. We've got a PowerPoint presentation where we're just going to hit some of the high points and have just a little bit more of a free-flowing dialogue, I guess, see if this works.
 Wow, that really stretches us out there. So there's a non-flattering picture of the commission, and you can kind of see who we're made up of. We've got a historian, historical architect, real estate, historic development professional. We've got a vacancy right now, Commissioner Matarazzo, our attorney, archaeologist, neighborhood advocate, and myself, who's a trained architect. Okay.
 This next slide shows really what our purview is in terms of designated landmark districts. Those are the gold-shaded areas, as well as nationally listed and locally listed historic landmarks, which are the red dots. So all of that's really the purview of the commission when it comes to case hearings.
 And some of the highlights that we accomplished last year, we'll talk a little bit more toward the end of this, but one is Skidmore Old Town design guidelines. That's also, ironically, one of our priorities. We got those forwarded to staff to be sent to you guys for approval at your direction in last year's preservation address.
 and they're ready to go. They're just getting some final tuning. They've just got kind of waylaid with staff resource issues, but we're expecting those are going to come to you guys in January at this point of 2016. That was my goal to get that done while I was on the commission, so we're not missing by too much, but I want to see that followed through.
 And then the Unreinforced Masonry Seismic Upgrade Committee. So, Commissioner Novick, thank you for spearheading this. I served on the Technical Advisory Committee. Vice Chair Jessica Ingman served on the Feasibility Committee. And then I recently just got your invite to serve on the Policy Committee. So, I'm looking forward to helping with that and seeing that through. Thank you. Yes, it's a huge important issue on both sides, public safety, but also our cultural resources and how to get that best balance there. So.
 And then, of course, the demolition, that was a big deal when we came here last year. And we've definitely made progress, I think, as a city on this with the DRAC and, you know, kind of getting some of those loopholes closed. Commissioner Dow served on the DRAC advisory committee. So that's been great. I think now we really need to start thinking about what's that next level of policy, though, to think about in terms of,
 density and balancing livability and solving for that more of the broader planning spectrum, which Commissioner Renzetta is going to talk a little more about. So we've got five priorities outlined in the report. The first one is the preservation planning position. We wanted to thank the council for –
 creating this opportunity for a planner position within BPS. And here the interviewing process is currently underway for a candidate within this program. And what that position will do will help to, I think,
 create a historic preservation program within the city that will put it on par with a lot of the other cities of similar size on the West Coast, if not in the United States. And I think that is certainly one of the priorities that we felt as a commission should come to the fore. And just demonstrating that commitment to creating a program is a significant step in the right direction.
 Yeah, I'd say one of our key charges really is policy-based. Everybody thinks about the Landmarks Commission when it comes to case-based, which is really the BDS side of things, where we're looking at potential additions or new projects within a historic district. But we're also responsible for writing design guidelines and thinking about those bigger planning areas, and that's where we really need support from the BPS side. So this would be a planning position in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And it would allow us to be able to continue that good
 good energy going forward. Since we're a volunteer-based commission, you know, we lose commissioners like myself periodically. So having that institutional memory housed within the city is really important to be able to maintain momentum on long-range preservation and planning ideas. Priority two is the design guidelines. So I kind of touched on that with Skidmore Old Town. This has been on the list really since I've been on the commission. We're really excited to be getting Skidmore Old Town done and before you guys.
 The next up, really all of our design guidelines are pretty outdated citywide. In some areas, we do not have design guidelines. And of that, most important is Chinatown Historic District. A lot of people aren't aware of that, but there's really no design guidelines there. And we're at this wonderful crossroads right now where finally things are happening in Chinatown. There's some great projects. One our firm's working on, the Grove Hotel, just went through –
 And yet there's really no design guidelines to kind of shape that discussion about what we want to have as a community there. And so we're really pushing PDC. I understand it's got some funding assigned to be able to go to a consulting position and help us develop these. The target was 2017, but we're really wanting to push that up to 2016 if possible because there's just a lot of activity going on there. This next slide shows kind of the value of design guidelines. So, yeah.
 This is block 8L where the University of Oregon's campus extension is going and Gertie Edelman's developer. It's a three-quarter block project that came to the Landmarks Commission this last year.
 And to the applicant's credit, they did a great job of understanding we don't have these Skidmore Old Town design guidelines in place. So they actually looked at the new draft ones and responded to the commission on that basis as well as what we had in place. And so we were able to move from this first kind of iteration you see on the top, which –
 really looks like it's a fine building. It looks like something more like that you would see in the brewery blocks to something that's a little bit more context-specific, you know, and really reflects kind of the Italianate and the older scale of what's in the adjacent resources. So that's kind of the purpose of the guidelines. Allows us to kind of have those kind of discussions on a more finite level, essentially. Okay.
 The next priority was the implementation of a new HRI. And that's been a topic of conversation, I think, for several years before council. And I think that the primary obstacle is just identifying a funding source in order to implement it. But one of the things that's really difficult to do is to make sound planning decisions in regards to your historic resources when you're dealing with information that's about 35 to 40 years old.
 During that period, other billings have kind of come into the next round of significance that maybe are mid-century modern resources, but also when you look at the 500 demolitions that have occurred in the city over the past year, I don't know if we could truly say whether or not any of those resources were significant or not.
 principally because they are either uninventoried or just not considered within this kind of larger planning realm. And a revision to the HRI would help the city to make more sound planning decisions, both at the comprehensive level and on the permit level in regards to resources situated within the city.
 As Staff Member Tim Herron mentioned, that was why the purpose of meeting with SurveyLA was really to understand what other jurisdictions are doing, and they're quite advanced in being able to do GIS kind of mapping with this, so it's all integrated into the whole process.
 basically the Bureau of Development Services type system. So that's something that we were hoping the city can explore, and we're working again with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability on how to identify that, how much would it cost, and, you know, really get our arms around what that would look like. Okay.
 And just to add one more thing, I think it would certainly help with the predictability of development. It would allow developers, property owners, as well as citizens, better understand the decisions behind a development project. Because I think if folks knew how significant the resources were to the community up front, then we wouldn't be confronted with situations down the line that come to the fore at the last minute and become contentious, perhaps unnecessarily. Yeah.
 That slide just kind of shows. Anything before, I think it's 1950 is red, correct? And then gold is 1950-ish. So, kind of see, there's a lot of resources, really, and all of East Portland really hasn't been surveyed, so that kind of predated the survey. And then I think as what's happening
 what's happened in other jurisdictions too. You can focus, you know, you can obviously phase an HRI over several years and you can focus the HRI in areas that may experience the most intense nude redevelopment and basically try to do blocks of the city in that manner so that over time you eventually get coverage, but you address coverage in the areas that are most likely to experience change in the very near future. So priority four is, not surprising, unreinforced masonry resources. Yes.
 So obviously this is a really important public safety item as well as a cultural resource protection item. We want to see these buildings survive the next big event and also make sure that they're not going to, you know, be torn down because it's too cost prohibitive to upgrade them to. So. Can I ask you something? Yeah. I believe that's the old Leach Pharmacy in Foster. Yeah. Yep. And it keeps being signs of life there. What, what, is there something planned for that location?
 That's a good question. I can tell you a little more insight because I actually worked for the owner, which is Buck of Buck's Stove Palace. He's quite the character. But we did quite a bit of work on that, and it does need a seismic upgrade, and that's part of the challenge in that particular area is they're just on the edge of development. So they've tried several things, and it just quite hasn't gone off the ground yet is my latest understanding, but I'm not sure. Because that was the place where the Leach family of Leach Botanical Garden had their business, does this have some historical designation to it?
 It's not actually officially listed as a National Historic Landmark, but it would easily be listable. We actually did research on that, and because of the Leach Botanical Connection and the unique architecture with the clinker brick and the radius facade, it's a pretty significant, iconic resource there. And it's also kind of your typical challenge of what we're up against with a lot of these historic masonry resources. They're historic with a lowercase h. They aren't.
 A lot of them aren't listed yet, so they don't have any real protection. And as we're seeing development pressure increase, especially moving to the east side, that's where a lot of these are, it's interesting.
 It doesn't necessarily pencil, like I might say, the Pearl District to rehab that building and do a seismic upgrade. So if it's only based on the pro forma, then a lot of times the historic resource is going to lose, you know. But it's in everybody's interest really to upgrade that both on the cultural side going forward but also on the public safety side. So trying to identify, like, what is that strategy going to be? And I know that's really the point of this commission that we're talking about, too, on the task force.
 Yeah, and I think that, I mean, we have to anticipate there may be some tough choices because we will try to identify whatever resources we can to assist in retrofitting buildings rather than tearing them down. But I wouldn't, I have to say, I wouldn't rule out the possibility there might be some cases where it appears prohibitively expensive to do the retrofits and the building is really dangerous. And so in some cases, demolition might be the only practical option.
 Yeah, we would probably agree with that, I think. And back to Kirk's point, just getting a better understanding of what we even have so we can start to rank those resources. And we just don't want to lose things that we don't even know about, you know, so that's...
 It's definitely going to be a challenge. I mean, I work with a lot of private development on adaptive reuse and the seismic. And, you know, it's one thing to rehab a project that's part of, without getting too deep in the weeds, that's part of an overall project upgrade. Like, say, if this one were to be given new life and you're going to gut it out and redo it. It's another thing if it's fully occupied, then, you know, how does that part work, you know? And so that's been what we've been talking about is how to phase that in and be realistic about that without causing too much turmoil, essentially, with what's going on there. Yeah.
 The fifth priority is balancing preservation and density. And you may hear this a little bit later with some of the folks who will be testifying about this issue. But one of the things to keep in mind is the demolition of homes is not necessarily linked to density. I think only about 10 percent of the demolitions that have occurred in the city are related to multifamily housing as opposed to just –
 a change like for like so you're swapping out a single family residential for a single family residential so it's not necessarily a preservation versus density battle it's more of a sustainability and a conservation of resource issue and i think that um
 It's also a neighborhood livability issue as well, especially when you have new dwellings being constructed that are of disproportionate scale and massing. There's a fundamental change to the character of a neighborhood. And again, without an HRI, we don't know kind of what the impact is from a historic district standpoint because there's several areas of the city that are ideal potential historic districts. Right.
 Their integrity is harmed every time there's a demolition that occurs within that neighborhood.
 Okay, so back again is our Portland Preservation Watch List, which we kind of tracked this ongoing in the last, I think, seven addresses, actually. So kind of a quick snapshot of buildings on there. The one in the center right is the Portland Gas and Coke building, which was on there last year and has been demolished since. So really kind of Chinatown is where a lot of the pressure lies on there. Is that the post office?
 Yes, I think that is. Do you want to talk about that a little bit? Yeah, I mean, just in terms of that area, it will be ripe for redevelopment. But it was actually determined eligible by the Keeper of the National Register, which means it's not a listed landmark again, but it's just a federal characterization. There was a memorandum of agreement signed and a mitigation package proposed, and that mitigation package has almost been completed. How does that –
 The city just took up, you know, the first stage of a deal to acquire that site down the road with the explicit intent of developing it. So how does that impact what the city's been thinking about? Great question. Yeah, I mean, it doesn't really because it's not a landmark and it's not National Register listed. It's just eligible.
 Could it be listed since it's a public resource? That's a great question, Commissioner Fish, because that's kind of what happened with Memorial Coliseum and what we've seen with some of these properties that we don't associate necessarily as being historic on the common sense because they're mid-century, and it's kind of that next frontier of things that are coming forward. And once it's a publicly owned property, it could be listed, I would think, by public process. One big difference is a property
 A sturdy majority of the council has consistently said they want to save Memorial Coliseum. We have explicitly said we're going to redevelop the site with the post offices if we acquire that site, so they are different. That's why it's good that it's not listed. Yeah, right. I'm only bringing this up just because I think that –
 You know, that's what the HRI helps understand. Like, maybe if it's listable, then you kind of know going in that, okay, this is something we need to strategize around. I don't think we have a position one way or the other on that. I'm just bringing that up because Memorial Coliseum was kind of slated for redevelopment at one point, and then it was listed, and this kind of bigger conversation ended up happening around that, which changed course, essentially. I mean, that was going to be the ballpark. Yeah.
 Some of the key projects we reviewed, you guys know this one as well as we do probably, the Washington Park and Mount Tabor Reservoirs. By the way, thank you for the work that was done on that. I mean, the idea that we would have a soft landing on both and considerable community support for the plans going forward and ones that were very thoughtfully constructed. In fact, Commissioner Fritz was so moved, she gave out a Spirit of Portland award last night on one of them. But...
 A few years ago, I'm not sure I would have anticipated a soft landing on both, and now we have something where, with the help of landmarks, I think we probably got it right. Yeah, and I think there was a lot of careful conversation around both of these and productive, and I think in the end, I think the community process was well served there, so...
 These are some of the bigger kind of infill development type projects we're looking at. Both of these are in the alphabet district. One's a half block and the other is basically a quarter block.
 So, a lot of times people think, oh, we're just reviewing historic resources. But actually, right now, one of the key things we're reviewing are infill development projects because there's so much pressure for development. And that's where the design guidelines become really key because that's the dialogue you're going to have with that developer. And the developer wants to have certainty also going in because developers don't like risk, of course. And so, knowing, you know, what to expect really helps define what they can do and they appreciate that. Yeah.
 These are more historic resources that are being remodeled or adaptively reused that we reviewed last year. Chinatown and downtown. Downtown and then Chinatown, the Grove project, we're really excited about this one. That one passed with just a pretty narrow margin. It was a 3-2 split vote.
 I think that it's going to be a huge catalyst for the district and it's at the same time saving the historic resource of the Grove building so we're really excited about it but I would also say that this was a challenging discussion that we had at the Landmarks Commission because again there's absolutely no guidelines for Chinatown just defaults to River District which is not specific at all to and so you know it created your basically what happens is you're kind of
 kind of having a reactionary discussion, both with the public, the developer, and the commission on, you know, what size is appropriate here? What kind of development is appropriate? And, you know, the nine-story building in the background was pretty controversial.
 and then we're facing this right now and um the example on the top is a recent design advice request it's not an actual hearing yet but you know we're looking at grand avenue historic district now it's kind of another frontier and all the buildings are really two and three stories with the exception of the weatherly building um it's kind of a classic commercial little main street when it was its own east portland and now we've got this proposal on the top you see which is
 this humongous resource coming in there, and how is that going to impact this traditional Main Street feel, and is that appropriate? So that's really a dialogue that's happening right now at the Landmarks Commission. And then this is an unfortunate one, but the Historic Resource Inventory Index,
 It's great, but it doesn't really allow any protections right now. And, in fact, right now we've got a little bit of a snafu in the code. At least we think it's a snafu. And I think it's at the city's attorney's office right now to discuss about whether there's a reason that the 120-day demolition stay has been somehow removed out of the code. I think the code speaks in two different ways. I know Restore Oregon is going to talk more intelligently than I can here on the legal parts of that. But, yeah.
 But this project, the Workman Temple building on the bottom, and then the Lotus building, which is less historically significant, but still was on the historic resource inventory, both were removed at the owner's request from the historic resource inventory, and essentially can proceed with demolition immediately. And the Workman Temples building, if you were to list, like, top 15 coolest architecture buildings downtown, that one's probably on the list, and it's...
 It's going to be shocking, I think, and not reflect well on the city's values of cultural integrity and preservation if that building goes away. It's cited right now for a full-block hotel development, which would remove both of those assets, and the design commission is hearing a design advice request from the applicant, I believe Thursday. Landmarks Commission has forwarded a letter strongly advising that they find –
 in the plan guidelines that, you know, removing historic assets and stuff don't better meet the comp plan goals. But really, that's our only avenue to try to protect these resources at this point. So, it's kind of alarming. Male Speaker 2 Yeah. Thank you. Male Speaker 1 I think that's all we have. Male Speaker 2 Great. Thank you both. Questions?
 We really appreciate your work. This is a lot of work as volunteers. If you've been on the commission for eight years or less, it's still a lot of work, and it's really important. And as you said, it's probably never been more important given the pace of change that we're dealing with now and will be dealing with for as far as we can see. So it's pretty important that we get it right. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, guys. We appreciate your time.
 I think we probably have a sign-up sheet for others that want to speak to this report. Yes, we have 13 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Peggy Moretti, Brandon Spencer-Hardell, and Carrie Richter. Good afternoon. Hello. Good afternoon. All right. She'll probably need a little help from Carla with our arcane system for our points. And that will come up in the last testimony, so we have a few minutes on that. Go ahead then, Peggy, please. Thank you.
 Well, good afternoon. My name is Peggy Moretti. I'm the Executive Director of Restore Oregon. We're a nonprofit that works statewide to preserve and pass forward Oregon's historic resources and promote livable communities.
 So, I'm here on behalf of my organization to endorse the report given by the Landmarks Commission and reiterate the need for an updated historic resources inventory because you certainly cannot manage assets, and these are assets, if you don't know what you have and where it is. So, see you.
 I also have some additional comments and observations and recommendations just to share today. I think it's really important we note some of the positive things that have gone on, and some really good projects have taken place that enrich our city both culturally and economically. They include the restoration of the 511 building as the new headquarters for PNCA.
 the transformation of Washington High School as creative office space and an events venue, and the revival of the Erickson Saloon and Fritz Hotel as much-needed mixed-income housing in Old Town. All of these projects illustrate preservation at its best, and they received the 2015 Demuro Award from Restore Oregon just this last Friday.
 Other projects in the Skidmore District that we're very heartened by are the Society Hotel and the proposed infill project next to the New Markets Theater, which I know they're looking at reincorporating some of the historic cast iron. That is all really, really good news. And you may recall we had listed the Skidmore District as an endangered place a few years ago, and I think we have some really good indicators that that district is on the rise, and we're really, really glad for that.
 However, on the negative side, we do remain, as Brian said, in the midst of a demolition epidemic, and our phones are ringing off the hook about that. It's really chewing away at the character of many older Portland neighborhoods. You may know that Restore Oregon reviews copies of all the residential demolition requests themselves.
 We know we're on pace to lose at least 400 single-family homes this year, and only 9% of them are having any impact on increasing density.
 So there's stuff going on that isn't necessarily achieving bigger goals. We do think some small steps of progress have been made in that arena, such as defining demolition, establishing a minimum delay period, but we really do need a lot more. The market has created financial incentives for demolition, so we need to balance that out a bit with some disincentives.
 And the demolition epidemic is, as we were seeing in the closing slides there from the Landmarks Commission, it is now spreading to downtown. The pending application to demolish the Lotus Cafe building and the Workman's Temple. And I just have to say, it's just...
 patently absurd i'm not going to mince words it's absurd that these buildings could come down without so much as one one bit of public comment or conversation about that um my colleague brandon spencer hartle here is going to speak to some more detail on the contradictory loophole in our code that is allowing that to happen
 But what a loss this would be to the historic fabric of our city. And we should not be rewarding property owners who have let their buildings sit there and disintegrate for decades, and then they claim it can't be saved. This is, I think, a case of demolition by neglect. And I don't think people should be profiting from that. I think we would be in a better position to see buildings like the Workman's Temple restored and repurposed.
 and districts like Japantown, Chinatown revived if a few more things were in place. In the area of carrots and sticks...
 We do need financial incentives for seismic retrofitting and the flexibility to do upgrades in phases. This is the cost when you put that on top of rehabilitation that often keeps historic buildings sitting there in a fallow state. You probably remember that we had been proposing a state historic rehab incentive, and Restore Oregon brought forth legislation in the last session that received the city's support. Thank you very much for that.
 although we couldn't find funding for it there in the capital. And I'm hoping you will join with us in keeping the pressure on for that. That still needs to happen. And as proposed, and I assume would be similar to what would come forward in the future, it would be a 20% rebate for historic rehabilitation. And that's particularly important for the smaller historic buildings that don't attract
 deep-pocketed developers to do the work. I'll get you to wrap up because we're running out of time. Sorry. I think some other ideas that we need to consider is an ordinance that prohibits demolition by neglect. There are a lot of cities that have that. I think that's an idea we should explore. I do appreciate the idea about a tax on demolition. We need to make sure that we do in –
 Enforce meaningful demolition delay periods that allow conversations about alternatives to demolition. And we definitely need those design guidelines, both in the residential infill arena, in the Skidmore District, Japantown, Chinatown. That kind of clarity helps make it easier for these historic projects to happen and the compatible infill to happen later.
 So we thank you very much for inviting our input in so many of the different commissions and task force that have been going on over the past year. And we look forward to contributing more good ideas to preserve our historic assets as we also build for the future. Thank you. Please keep those coming. Actually, Ms. Moretti, can I ask a question? Yes. On the term demolition epidemic,
 I'd like to get a sense of what you think is sort of like a normal and acceptable amount of demolition. I mean, you don't expect the average house to last for a thousand years. So if one-tenth of 1% of all houses are coming down every year, that to me at least would seem kind of normal. You expect houses to last for more than 10 years. So if 10% of all houses are being torn down every year, then obviously that would be an epidemic. Where do you think it – what do you think is like a normal level? What's a demolition disease and what rises to an epidemic in terms of percentages of houses?
 Well, we clearly have a very rapidly increased number of demolitions, and so many of those demolitions are on houses and structures that have a lot of good life left in them. It's one thing if it's something that's just, like you say, has run its course and it doesn't have much value left in it. And there are some of those. I mean, certainly not every one of these houses that's come down should have been kept.
 But there's an awful lot of very good, lots of good use left in it, places that are being demolished. And to me, that's what's out of whack here, out of balance. But what's a lot? I mean, what percentage of the housing stock would you think of as a lot? Or does it not matter? I mean, if 10 good houses are being torn down, is that an epidemic, even though it's a small number?
 I don't know what the right percentage should be. To me, I think there is something of a value judgment in that. But the acceleration that we have seen I don't think is average at all. And I think it's probably tripled is what we've seen. I mean, every single day we receive demolition applications in our mail, two to four every single day. That seems like a lot. That does seem like a lot to me.
 Yeah, I mean, one way to look at it, I mean, it's a fair question, Steve. If you believe that a well-constructed wood frame house can last 300 years, and since my parents-in-law live in a 250-year-old wood frame house in New Hampshire that looks like it's going to be around for at least another 100 years,
 then maybe 400 houses a year statistically is the right rate. But, of course, we don't have any 250-year-old houses in Portland. So we're tearing down houses that are 100 years old and are at the first third of their useful life, even if you just look at that on a statistical basis. So we're at that...
 replacement rate 200 years early. Yeah. The average age, I believe, of the demolished house, if I'm not mistaken, is about 1920, circa 1920. So it's both historic. It's got some really good materials in it. And I would say in many of the cases, it had a lot more life to it.
 Brandon, welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I'm here today to talk about what it means to be a historic resource, but I wanted to start by saying that Portland is fortunate to have a Landmarks Commission as talented and as dedicated as we have. I work around the state with the 70-some communities that have Landmarks Commissions, and what we have here is a treasure.
 The City of Portland recognizes four categories of historic resources, national register properties, local landmark properties, conservation properties, and historic resource inventory properties. The inventory was adopted by the Landmarks Commission in 1984. It includes approximately 5,000 properties. Unfortunately, since 2002, properties on the historic resource inventory have been able to be demolished without any protection or any delay period as prescribed by the zoning code.
 This provision of the code, Title 33-445-510, Subsection B, was inserted in 2002 as part of a larger package of amendments altering the zoning code. This provision allows owners of historic resource inventory properties, like the one on the screen we'll show in a second, to be removed on the same day that their owners request removal.
 While historic resource inventory properties are included in the zoning code as a type of historic resource and subject to a 120-day demolition delay, this code loophole allows those property owners to come off the inventory.
 Since 2002, over 170 properties have come off of the inventory in this way. Most of those properties are smaller single-family houses, commercial stores, the kinds of things that historic preservationists don't notice until after they're gone. On November 5th, two properties that you can see from the front door of City Hall were removed from the inventory with an expectation of demolition.
 Unfortunately, once they're off of the inventory, because of our state's unique owner consent law, there is no opportunity to designate the resources or protect them with the type of expertise that the Landmarks Commission can offer. More to the point, once a property is off of the inventory, it's no longer subject to some of the documentation and salvage requirements that would otherwise be expected for a demolition proposal for a property on the inventory. Thank you.
 In our estimation, allowing properties to come off of the inventory without any notice, hearing, or delay cripples the ability of the historic preservation community to meaningfully engage with property owners and with the development community to find alternatives to demolition. The removal of the ancient order of United Workmen's Temple and the Lotus Cafe on November 5th represents maybe the most egregious use of this loophole since 2002.
 The memo in front of you describes how this commission can easily close the loophole in the short term while we consider how we would update the inventory in the long term. And I'll stop there. So does state law not require us to take a property off if the owner asks? Yes.
 So the state owner consent law requires for local designations the owner to provide their consent for that local designation. But the law goes on to explain that any owner who refuses consent is required to wait 120 days before modifying or demolishing that structure. That's to put it on, though. What's the rules for taking a designation off? Yes.
 So that is an item that we've been engaging with at the State Supreme Court, and actually this commission has included the city attorney here in that discussion, because there is still a legal question as to which owners can request removal from historic designation. In the past, it was assumed that only that owner who had the designation imposed on them could request removal, though a case out of Lake Oswego broadened that interpretation to potentially any owner.
 who can request removal. So that actually just a week ago yesterday was at oral arguments in state Supreme Court to determine that question of who can come off. So I'll be interested from our city attorneys later to know, is there something in the interim while this court case is pending that we could do to protect those two resources that you've noted? And I'll say one more thing. 120 delay though should still apply, even if they pull it.
 That 120 days for an organization like ours, while it might not save every building, does have the opportunity to provide a feasibility study or to understand the true seismic risk of a building and the relative tradeoffs that could be accomplished with a community dialogue. So even at a bare minimum, if the code allowed for that 120 days, we could right now be engaging in discussions rather than here reacting to something that we can't control. So the proposed – you have on the back of your testimony a proposed council action
 And you proposed that we strike sub B of 33.445.510. Would that have the effect of then providing a 120-day clock before it can be taken off? It would. And that would be, in our estimation, the right response to both state law and the remainder of the zoning code, which does specifically say historic resource inventory properties are subject to a 120-day delay. Okay.
 This is not directly before us right now, but if the council was persuaded to do that, we could not apply it retroactively to any property that has been delisted, correct? I wouldn't imagine so in a legislative action, but Kerry Richter will follow my testimony up and might have more insights. Just guessing. That sounds like something we can't do, but we could certainly entertain whether we want to make this change going forward and perhaps even have a hearing on it. That would be great. Please. Thank you.
 You said it was part of a package that we adopted in 2002. My memory isn't that good. I wasn't actually on the council then. That's okay. It's worse than I thought. Was this an issue in the package that was clearly framed for council? Was this a considered action or is this part of an omnibus action?
 that did not get the attention you think it deserved? That's a good question. And I probably have less reference because I had my learner's permit at the time. So it was a long time ago. But my understanding from the records from those deliberations is that there's no, in the official records from the Stakeholder Advisory Committee and the
 Discussions around the broader package of code changes, I can't find any language explaining why that subsection was added, other than to assume it was a response to the 1995 owner consent law that maybe only read part of that law. But it's interesting because the rest of those code changes are full of track change notes from commission members and city staff.
 And it certainly is contradictory. It's contradicting the clear intent there of putting in the 120-day delay. Why would you have that if you could instantly remove it? So it doesn't make sense. Thank you. You've called this to our attention in a very useful way. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commission. My name is Carrie Richter. I am an attorney at the law firm Garvey, Schubert, Baer. But before...
 But I was also the chair of the Portland Landmarks Commission and served an eight-year term. And I want to myself congratulate Chair Emmerich for leading the commission in a masterful way upon my retirement. And I am so grateful to them for all the work they have done in taking on the policy charges and
 in a lot of ways that I think as a commission we were not able to do in terms of being involved proactively in the new comprehensive plan, the quadrant planning, and this unreinforced masonry work I think is wonderful.
 that's sort of my first point. My second point is I was the attorney representing Restore Oregon and representing the city of Portland on the Carmen House case, the Lake Oswego case that has to do with the owner consent case.
 Oral argument did happen last week, and I think we are all encouraged that that is going to turn out to be something that the Supreme Court understands that the owner consent law was only intended to apply to the owner at the time the designation was imposed and was not intended to carry forward. We've identified about 1,700 cases.
 designated resources in Portland that are at risk of delisting by subsequent owners if the Supreme Court rules the way the Court of Appeals does.
 Third point I want to just follow up on the demolition code revision issue that Restore Oregon has raised. I want to point out that there is ambiguity within your code already. Commissioner Fish pointed out the provision that Restore Oregon wants removed.
 There is another provision a little further down in the code, that 33.445.520A2, that says issuance of a demolition permit after demolition review, this is for HRI resources, requires 120-day delay. And in the case of the Ancient Order United Workmen Temple and the Hotel Albion, both of those...
 Design review advice has happened to take down these buildings already. City staff knew the intent was to demolish the buildings. If we know the intent is to demolish the buildings, it seems to me that the appropriate review standard would have been this one I just read to you that would have subjected this resource to a 120-day delay.
 It is not as though the city didn't know that these buildings were going to come down. And I think that that's a real problem, that first of all, necessitates amending the code, and second of all, being more rigorous until we get the code amended when these applications come in, because it is not as though these folks are just wanting to come off. Thank you. Thank you very much, Carrie. Thank you all. Okay, let's take the next three folks, please. Next are Kathy Galbraith.
 And she'll be coming with Denise McGriff and Mary Helen Kincaid. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm going to let you go ahead and get started, Millie, while Kathy and Denise are getting ready. Okay. Last time I was here, Commissioner Novick had a great quote, and George Brett said, go Royals, and they went, and now they're world champions. So I hope I score a World Series win here. I wanted to comment that I am here as Mary Helen Kincaid's citizen.
 And a common issue though, I sit on DRAC, and a common issue that DRAC, the Demolition Task Force, Council Testimony, Neighborhood Meetings, and Information shared with City Council and their staff is that there are houses in neighborhoods that are significant. Not necessarily historic, but significant. And some have the potential to be saved, but neighborhoods don't have a capacity to deal with the process that's in place. There are currently no tools to do that, and the tools we've been trying to use are not adequate.
 Neighborhoods are frustrated. We don't have the right tools to identify what people believe are significant and how do we get to that desired future outcome of saving those significant houses? My last testimony I said I had a plan and I've discovered a tool that assists neighborhoods and saves some houses from demolitions. It identifies houses that are significant and possible targets for demolition because of their lot configuration, their historic nature.
 nature, or just significance. It uses a variety of data resources, one of which is the HRI, and we all have heard and know that the HRIs need a great revision. The Historic Landmarks Commission report mentions that the work of the Demolition Task Force and how it addressed the issues of demolition, notification, and appeals process, and urges for continuing funding to support the compliance. While compliance is good, it's not going to stop demolitions.
 Six appeals have been filed, three were granted the extension, and no houses have been saved.
 A group of concerned neighborhood land use activists involved with those six appeal cases, including Brandon from Restore Oregon, who headed the effort, has created a toolkit of best practices for filing an appeal and extending the delay period for a total of 95 days. To appeal at this stage when the developer has already invested a considerable amount of money and contracts are in place is not the best way to save a house. The appeal process frustrates everyone and even the hearings officer.
 The HRI is currently the only reference point for neighborhoods to determine significance, and by all accounts, it is outdated and some of those are not so good tools. I agree that the HRI needs to have the start over button hit, and I believe the project we are proposing would save houses, is ready to go now, and would enhance the work of any future efforts of the HRI.
 Quoting the Landmark Commission report, a revised historic resource inventory would bring the city's interest to maintaining neighborhood livability to the forefront and would allow neighborhoods to explore their historical identities through a grassroots and well-planned inventory effort. We are there now. We just need to help the neighborhoods in their efforts. Thank you.
 We've presented this project to Paul Scarlett, director of BDS, Commissioner Saltzman's staff, and we're scheduled to present it to the staff from the mayor's office and Commissioner Novick's office, and Susan Anderson and Joe Zender of BPS. We think it would augment the work being proposed by the Historic Landsmarts Commission for the new position of historic preservation planner, but that project will focus solely on historic land.
 And while this hearing is about the HLC and HRI, our project can enhance those efforts by having a broader look at neighborhood deliverability and significance. The project will give neighborhoods, developers, and landowners the tool to start the conversation before the demolition permit is filed. It'll be non-regulatory, and it won't create a fine, a tax, or a charge. It'll be preemptive and help preserve neighborhood character in those houses deemed significant.
 It's a positive approach to saving houses by laying groundwork for future work to preserve historic residential structures we don't even know about. This is an opportunity to do what Paul Hawkins says in his quote, good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them. You'll hear a little testimony a little later from Mike Molinaro, who created this project, but I just think it's an excellent opportunity. Thank you. We look forward to hearing your proposal. That's great.
 Denise, welcome. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Denise McGriff, and I have the privilege of representing the state of Oregon on the Board of Advisors for the National Trust for Historic Preservation. But today I'm here representing the Advice Key Committee for the Bosco Milligan Foundation. And I won't go into a great deal of detail, but the committee strongly supports the recommendation that the Historic Landmarks Commission and Restore Oregon have recommended to you regarding removal of the zoning code section that allows property owners to remove their HRI designation.
 I'd like to briefly depart from that testimony and give you a little personal observation. Last year I attended the Historic Preservation Program's McMath Awards, and you all know about George McMath and his history here with the city in starting our Historic Preservation Program. Leo G. Williams was the recipient of the award. During Leo's presentation and discussion about all the work he and George did together to start that program,
 I was disturbingly reminded of how far we have not gone in the city of Portland to do all the work that I think George envisioned, Leo envisioned, and our late friend Art DeMuro envisioned. I really urge you to seriously implement all of the recommendations that I have.
 that the landmarks commission has re has proposed to you because they are the foundation of this city's program and we have so much to be thankful for in terms of the resources of this city as you recall in 2005 the national trust was hosted in the city of portland and when i go to conferences which i just came back from dc they're still talking about the portland conference which is great because that says something real good about what we did
 I really urge you to not only talk the talk about our preservation program here in the City of Portland, but to walk the walk and implement these changes. Thank you. Thank you. Kathy, welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Kathy Galbraith and I'm the Executive Director of the Bosco Milligan Foundation and we own and operate the Architectural Heritage Center at 701 Southeast Grand Avenue. It's the oldest building in the Grand Avenue East Portland Historic District and we're well aware of all of the threatened developments in our immediate environment.
 In addition to providing, commenting on support for the Historic Landmarks Commission's seventh annual report, I'm here to focus on the emergency that is happening where our vintage buildings are disappearing, being deliberately erased at a rate never before seen in the city of Portland, probably since the Lewis and Clark Exposition all of that time. We were building new buildings and not demolishing what was old.
 We, of course, support the recommendations and the comments of Landmarks Commission's report about design guidelines for Skidmore Old Town and seismic upgrades for vintage and historic buildings. But the epidemic of demolitions that continues to rage through the city is, unfortunately, the conclusion that's reached by BDS in the Landmarks Commission's report is that the city is balancing the concerns of the various stakeholders. Okay.
 And we disagree with that because only demolitions in low-density residential zones are subject to the review, and we receive all of those notices, so we know what the magnitude of those are. But we're also paying attention to all of the demolition applications. There are at least as many demolitions happening of buildings that are not in low-density residential zones, and we're losing a tremendous number of vintage and historic buildings without demolitions.
 any delay or review. We all, you've heard a lot of discussion about the status of Portland's historic resources inventory and all the flawed issues around its lack of
 formal evaluation and adoption when it was finished, and I don't need to go into that. But we have a process that's essentially voluntary and for a city of the caliber of Portland to be the single city with this weak and ineffective process, it's really a national embarrassment when I deal with my colleagues around the country who just cannot believe that our program is as weak and ineffective as it is given Portland's reputation on a number of other fronts.
 There's a particular concern I want to bring to your attention today, and that is in 2010, BPS engaged my organization to update our continuing Cornerstones African American Buildings History Documentation Project, which we started in 1993. Okay.
 It was to be used in the work on the North Northeast Quadrant Plan to protect and identify African American historic resources, but nothing was done after we provided the update. We found that 10 of the original 1,284 standing buildings –
 that we had identified had been demolished between 1998 and 2010. That was over a 12-year period. More recently, we've been looking at all of the demolition applications and the impacts those are having on our Cornerstones inventory. And we've done a very preliminary review, which shows that at least 12 of the African American historic resources have been demolished between 2010
 and August of 2015 with a startling acceleration in 2015. And, of course, none of these buildings are subject to any delay, and there's no protection from them. So...
 We have our work cut out for us, and I know all of you, you have incredible tolerance to sit here and listen to us go on and on and on about our favorite subject. And this is one of thousands of issues that you're obligated to deal with, and you have tremendous tolerance. I try to come down here as little as possible to bother you about things, but Portland's beloved restaurants.
 reputation, its character, its quality of life, its place that everybody wants to be is in large part based on what the city feels like and the way that it feels like is based on what it looks like and what it looks like is based in large part on its natural character and its building character and we just can't afford to risk wandering that building character by not paying enough attention to the resources that my profession cares about and I know you do too. Kathy, first of all, we never tire of hearing from you.
 Second, I've lived in cities that committed egregious acts of civic vandalism, and they continually to this day look back and regret that they've either allowed historic structures to be demolished or demolished to neglect or whatever. One thing I will say, though, is that because we have so much coming at us,
 It does strike me that when we identify one or two or three distinct, discrete things that we're asked to do, it's more likely they will do it. So like earlier, we heard a particular statutory problem about the 120-day clock, and we have a proposed remedy.
 Well, we could tackle that very quickly and put something in place. And there's some other things here that seem very targeted. So I just – my sense is that the more we identify a specific problem and outcome and we're clear, the more likely that we'll be able to address it in an expeditious manner.
 You're here. Thank you very much. Thank you all. I'm going to take a few more folks that want to testify on this. I know there are a lot of people here for the next item, so bear with us. I think we have five or six more people signed up to speak. Let's hear them, and then we'll move on. I hope you all get a good night's sleep for tomorrow. That's right. We have a comp plan hearing tomorrow. William Willingham, Mike Molinaro, and Allison Clare. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Bill Willingham. I'm a consulting historian, and I'd like to speak to you today about the need to update the historic resources inventory. And I bring to that some special knowledge in that I was the historian, along with Al Stahler, the architect, who did the research that created the very first inventory back in the early 80s. What you all know, but we probably need to think about it again, is the fact that
 Portland is blessed with a built environment that reflects 150 years of virtually every architectural style as buildings reflect those. They're important not only for architecture, but also for their association with culture, with commerce, with ethnic diversity. So what is really key is that we build...
 our knowledge base so that we know what out of that 150 years' worth of built environment we need to preserve. And so the inventory is only the first step of that. Then you have to evaluate those properties according to appropriate standards so that you can rank or determine significance. So when you come to these issues of demolition that present a building in –
 a microcosm that you know where it fits in that larger universe so that you can make rational decisions.
 So I just encourage that you, as quickly as possible, find the resources to update that inventory. Because as others have pointed out, the city of Portland has grown, and we've marched 30 years ahead, so we're now able to evaluate buildings from the 50s and 60s, according to the 50-year standard as the cutoff date. And...
 If we don't get that inventory updated, then we can't appropriately deal with these new resources that need to be affected. So I won't take any more time to repeat what others have said, but I think the focus needs to be on updating that inventory. And I'd like to see my work carried on. Thank you. Thank you very much. We would, too. Good afternoon, Mike. Good afternoon. I'm Michael Molinaro, and I want to thank Mary Helen for...
 her introduction and referring to me as a tool. I think it's the first time that's ever happened. She didn't mean it that way. Yeah. One of the reasons Jan and I moved to Portland three years ago was my interest in historic architecture. Having renovated and restored over 500,000 square feet of local and national landmark buildings, I was attracted not only to the major landmarks we all know, but to the historic character of Portland's neighborhoods. Thank you.
 Neighborhoods here are named after a mountain, a creek, or even a waterfall, but we moved into one named for an idea, Sunnyside. I soon discovered a gap in the recognition of historic Sunnyside structures since the HRI was completed in the 80s. I could not find an updated accounting of these 133 properties, so I set off to examine them myself.
 In addition, by looking at every single residential property, I documented not only the HRIs, but over 300 additional residences that I feel could be considered as an asset to that historic resource. Dropped into a database, I can now search and group them using over 50 different categories. In my opinion, these are the properties that make up the residential fabric of Sunnyside.
 Many of these are also the properties that are most vulnerable to demolition. No tax, fee, or appeal process can ever bring them back once they are gone. And so, in addition to my own historical survey, I have added to this database underlying lot line information. Now, by combining the two and with current data on market values, I can predict which of these properties is most likely to be demolished.
 This study, called Inventory of Significant Residential Properties, has been presented to city staff with two more presentations scheduled. If our pilot project is funded, it will be expanded to four other neighborhoods and can be utilized by all parties, owners, neighborhood associations, and developers to potentially chart a course other than demolition and help maintain the affordability of housing. Thank you. Thank you.
 good afternoon good afternoon mayor council my name is alice and claire i'm a small clothing maker in town and i'm also an apparel consultant i'm a native oregonian that lived in portland for the last 15 years and i'm really here on behalf of the ancient order of the united workmen temple it's my favorite building in all of portland i grew up in newburgh and i used to beg someone's mom to drive us to sherwood to ride the 12 bus for over an hour to come walk around the city in my teens it's near and ditter me and i'd always come and visit it when i was walking just kind of silly
 But I was crushed when I saw that this happened with the Hotel Beyond and this building potentially slated for demolition. It may be the straw that breaks my camel's back for staying in the city and keeping my businesses here. The character of the city is what draws me and it draws people and everyone that comes here loves it.
 So I'm just here on sort of a plea to keep these extremely historic buildings. It's beautiful and breathtaking, and I was almost in tears when I saw the plans for rousing it. They don't actually match the notice of public hearing that's currently posted on the building, which shows the current structure with the building around it, and the plans have been updated. So I'm just here to voice my concern, and thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 The last three who signed up are Teresa Kennedy DuPay, Don DuPay, and Sarah Stevenson. Come on up. My husband's not going to speak today. Okay. Welcome. You can go ahead.
 My name is Teresa Kennedy-Dupay, and I am a local writer here in Portland. I'm currently publishing two books, one of which is a crime history book on early crime, police corruption, organized crime here in Portland. And I am co-authoring that book with writer J.D. Chandler. And it's a history book, and it's my love of history that brings me here today. Basically, I'm just a regular Portlander. I was born and raised here. I've lived here my whole life.
 And I have two favorite buildings in downtown Portland, the Lotus Hotel, formerly the Albion Hotel, and also the Ancient Order of the Workman Temple.
 ancient order of the United Workmen Temple. About two years ago, I was fortunate enough to do a tour through the upper portion of the Lotus Hotel. I took over 100 photographs. I did a five-minute video. I then wrote about an eight-page paper that I was going to submit to some local places in town, and I could never get my head around how to do that. Um,
 Basically, the paper details the significance of the Lotus Hotel, the 1978 murder that happened in the bar of the Lotus Hotel, the ghosts that live in the basement and the upper portion of the Lotus Hotel, and all the history that goes with it. It was a wonderful experience, and as a writer, I benefited greatly because I learned about the history of Portland in a way that I hadn't really known before. Okay.
 I always wondered about the possibility that the Lotus might be demolished. And it's very distressing to me because...
 The appeal of Portland, Oregon is so tied to our architectural history, and the character of downtown Portland is suffering with these consistent demolitions of old buildings. And I want to state that it's not impossible to restore these old buildings. The Cornelius suffered a catastrophic fire in 1988. It's being restored today.
 The Harlow Block 82 on Northwest Gleason Street is being restored. There's no reason why the Lotus Hotel cannot also be restored. But I also just want to state, much like the woman who spoke before, I was baffled when I saw that the ancient order of the United Workman Temple was,
 was designated for demolition. I'm shocked. I'm horrified. I'm outraged that this could even be considered. It is so priceless a building. We have to do what we can to save the ancient order of the United Workman Temple and the Lotus Hotel.
 And that's my statement. Well, I have one more nugget of information for your history, which I think I should disclose. Now that Commissioner Novick is in charge of the Transportation Bureau, he knows that the Lotus has been the after-hours hangout for transportation for many years. Yes. And I can now reveal that the wonderfully named city engineer at the time, Vic Rhodes, and I drew the street plan for what we now call the South Waterfront on a bar napkin at the Lotus one night.
 so unfortunately we didn't keep the bar napkin but we do have the street plan The Lotus Hotel is a very popular place the business is booming Thank you very much
 Good afternoon. Hi, good afternoon. I'm Sarah Stevenson, and I'm here today as co-chair of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association's Land Use and Design Review Committee. Primarily, we'll first thank the members of the Landmarks Commission for their work on behalf of our city, and also to testify in support of their 2016 priorities and goals, specifically the development of historic design guidelines.
 I'd like to speak about two districts that sit within Old Town Chinatown, the Skidmore Old Town Historic District and New Chinatown Japan Town Historic District. As you've heard, the Skidmore guidelines need to be updated. That is in process. It sounds like they're done and they're going to get in front of you very soon. We'd just like to thank planning and Landmarks for that work and encourage you to approve them as soon as you can.
 New Chinatown, Japantown is a little different. We've never had design guidelines in that historic district. But with the increased focus on revitalization there, the district is facing development pressures and desperately needs those design guidelines. They're important not only to preserve our historic fabric, but also to give developers certainty about what they can do in the neighborhood and how they should proceed.
 We understand that PDC has allocated funds so planning can hire a consultant to expedite the process. We thank the city for listening to our earlier requests and taking steps to move these guidelines forward. We urge all parties involved to continue to prioritize their development, as we'd very much like to see guidelines for new Chinatown-Japantown in place by the end of 2016. We think 2017 is a little bit late.
 Preserving physical buildings, ensuring their compatibility with new development, and preserving the aesthetics of our historic districts is important work. Sometimes people ask why. It's just an old building. Sometimes it's not even a very pretty old building. But these physical spaces preserve a place for us to tell stories about the people who built our communities. Sometimes the stories are inspiring. Sometimes they are ugly.
 but it's important for us to know and remember our own history so that we can continue creating the community that we want Portland to be. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay, Commissioner Saltzman, I think a motion may be in order. I would move to accept the report. Further discussion? Let's take a roll call vote on that, please. No thank you.
 I'm continually amazed at the dedication and hard work of the members of our volunteer commissions, and I thank you very, very much for your work. Aye. Great. I second that and particularly thank Chair Brian Emmerich and Harris Matarazzo, who are both volunteers.
 term limits it out after eight years of dedicated service. I want to echo Commissioner Fish's kudos for your handling of the Mount Tabor Reservoir and also the Washington Park Reservoir historic reviews. It's a fascinating commission. You get to look at all kinds of different issues.
 I look forward I smiled when somebody said that the Skidmore design guidelines will be coming to council soon, I've been hearing that every year for the last seven, so I'm really looking forward Mayor to you bringing it home right after the new year and that'll be great and also I'm very interested in New Chinatown, Japantown design guidelines I'm
 shocked about the two buildings that are slated for demolition and just horrified to think that they could be replaced by some out-of-the-box hotel that some out-of-town developer thinks is in keeping with our city. When you look around downtown Portland, there are so many beautiful buildings that make me proud to be a Portlander and just contribute to the character of our city in a way that it does.
 standard box hotel is not going to. So, Mayor, I hope that you'll be able to intervene in that. I need to tell my own Lotus Hotel story, or at least the restaurant story. I go there at least once a month whenever I want to have a private conversation. The acoustics in that beautiful wood bar are such that if you go at noon,
 It's very noisy. You can perfectly hear your companion talking. Even if you try, you can't eavesdrop on the next table. So it's the perfect place to go and have a secret conversation right in the public eye. Try it sometime. It's really quite fun. Now we know. So thank you very much for the report and for all the work that you do. Bye. The reporter's here, so you probably had your cover blown. They still won't be able to hear. Try it. It's not possible. Peace.
 Yes, thanks very much for this report. Each year when we get this presentation, I find it inspiring and sobering. There's a number of things on your action list which I think we should prioritize, quite frankly. One is taking a quick look at Title 33 and seeing if we can make a discrete change, and I think that's something we'll be discussing with Dan and BPS next.
 excuse me a bds the second is is having a full-time preservation person in the bureau a senior person senior planning position this is a tough budget cycle the mayor has given guidance that every bureau's got to at least identify a five percent cut package as a fallback
 but I'd like to know more about the staffing around this, and it seems like a reasonable request. I, too, am looking forward to the Skidmore Old Town stuff coming back to us. The last time we took it up was Commissioner Fritz four years ago. Something stalled on some controversial issues, but it needs to come back. And as to the general sentiment about the kind of soul of our city as reflected in historic structures, I could not agree more.
 And, in fact, cities that have been farsighted about this have protected buildings and districts, and they've turned out to be high-rent areas also, as people choose to live in areas that have historical roots and soul. So thank you for your good work. I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Thank you, Commission members, for your hard work and past and present members as well. And I also want to acknowledge the role of staff, Tim, Aaron, and who staffs this commission well. And I think the testimony as well as the commission members have raised some good issues that we need to take a close look at, like this 120-day, lifting of the 120-day delay. That's something I will, as Commissioner Fish just indicated, take a look at and look at.
 see if we can't bring something back to remedy that. So thank you very much. Hi. Well, some of you who are maybe here today and not here often may
 May not know this, but we get these reports every year from both the Design Commission and Landmarks Commission. And they're an excellent way for us to check in on what's working. And you've shown us some things that are, like how much better the Block 8L development was after your review than it started out before. So it's good to hear about what's working. But frankly, I don't think there's ever been a report at a time more important than right now that calls out what's not working.
 and you have really given us a call to action just in time to save some buildings that are otherwise going to be lost. And I really appreciate, as has been said by other members of the council, the clarity of both your call to action and you've given us some very specific ways we can make it better.
 So you've certainly got my commitment, and I think you've heard others here on the council as well, that are committed to moving swiftly to make improvements that will avoid the losses that you have flagged. And we really don't have an excuse not to act.
 if you've given us this much clarity and we all can look around and see the rate of change that's underway. So we have a short time, both in the work we begin tomorrow afternoon in our first public hearing on the comprehensive plan and in the specific issues you've called out here today. We have a little bit of time to keep Portland, Portland.
 when we're forecast to accommodate 250,000 more people and 140,000 more jobs over the next 20 years. It's really important work. Thank you very much for what you brought us here today, and we look forward to having you back in the council chambers very soon for changes in our code. Aye. Thank you all very much. Okay, let's move on to our second item this afternoon, which is item 1208. Okay.
 Add code removing barriers to employment to establish procedures for the use of criminal history information by employers within the city. Thank you. Well, let me set this discussion up, and then we have some invited testimony and staff presentations on this proposal this afternoon. The best way to break the cycle of imprisonment is a job. We hear that often.
 again and again from people that do this work, from people who've been in the criminal justice system. In fact, the City Club heard it last week when Arthur Davis so poignantly talked about how his future was determined by his father's gang involvement and his own choices. And then right there at the City Club pointed out that he could use a job.
 We hear that story way too often. And, in fact, we formed this amazing effort in Portland, along with other cities around the country, called the Black Male Achievement Initiative. And there are people in this room who work on that wonderful effort. And I got to know a couple of young men who...
 visited with us as we did the work, Stephan Fowler and Robert White, both of whom at the time I met them were both in the criminal justice system serving time in an Oregon prison. Robert has since been released and is doing well. Stephan is still in the system.
 And if you have ever had the chance to be inspired by a young person, I can tell you what that was like because I was so inspired by them. And I wanted to hire both of these young men on the spot, but I know how difficult it will be for them to get through the interview process and get a job. And that's why we're here. Meanwhile, I'm the police commissioner.
 And we're having the worst year ever for gang violence. We've had 171 gang violence incidents in our city. We've had 163 shootings. 65 people hit. Nearly 1,000 shell casings recovered. And 12 people killed.
 in this terrible wave of gang violence. Now, some of those people that have been perpetrators of that violence are going to go into the system. Some of them are going to make amends and change their lives. And when they come out of prison, the best thing that can happen is for them to get a job.
 And so that's what this ordinance is about. It is both an economic issue, a public safety issue, and a racial justice issue. It's the best way for us to make sure as a community that we give people a chance and that we get great employees considered when they're out looking for work.
 What we're proposing here is an intentional and persistent breaking down of barriers. It's very consistent with what we've done in other ways to do that.
 The original policy proposal went through both work groups and then also through my mayor's business roundtable. They've made some improvements in the proposal that you'll hear about today. Those include having the State Bureau of Labor and Industries, rather than the city, serve as the enforcement entity. And then also having the state bureau of labor and industries, rather than the city, serve as the enforcement entity.
 provides some tuning for particular situations like early background checks in public safety-related businesses and for staffing companies. So, and a clear understanding that there are situations where out of business necessity, an employer needs to know this information early. But remember, what we're changing here is when the question is asked. That's all we're changing.
 It's when the question is asked in the employment process. It used to be that we could inquire as employers about someone's religion or their sexual orientation. No longer legal. It's still going to be legal in Portland to inquire about someone's criminal history. But there's a right time to do that, and there's a wrong time to do that, and that's what this ordinance is about. So I want to ask City Attorney Judy Prosper...
 to come up and walk us through the code changes between, again, the proposal that was in front of the council earlier this year and the one that's here today. Josh Alpert and Rachel Wiggins on my staff have worked hard on this, and they're available as well. And then we have some invited testimony. Judy, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am Judy Prosper, a Deputy City Attorney who helped your office draft the code changes. So the first thing I'd like to say is to acknowledge that the state earlier this year passed a version of Ban the Box, HB 3025. It was signed by the governor on June 26th.
 I'm going to review some of the code changes, as you mentioned, Mayor, and just highlight the differences. So I'm not going to go verbatim through the whole proposed code change. I'll bring your attention to 23-10-030, which talks precisely about the timing that you mentioned, making it an unlawful... 030? I'm sorry, 23.10.030. 030. Okay. Okay.
 And I believe before you, you have a comparison that I may have distributed earlier. It's a comparison between man-in-the-box, state law, and proposed code changes. She's handing us that now. Okay. This thing? Yes. Thank you. So, again, I'm at 2310-030.
 The code proposes it is an unlawful practice for an employer to exclude an applicant from consideration solely because of the applicant's criminal history. B talks about the timing that that should happen after a conditional offer of employment.
 And D talks about the test in making a determination of whether an applicant's criminal history is job-related for the position in question and consistent with business necessity, an employer must conduct an individualized assessment of the nature and gravity of the offense, the time that has elapsed since the criminal offense took place, and the nature of the employment held or sought. Thank you.
 Again, as you mentioned, Mayor Hales, he talks about that this is not, again, something that prevents employers from checking criminal history. It merely delays the time when they can do so. Things that cannot be considered that are mentioned in Section E, an arrest not leading to a conviction, convictions that have been judicially voided or expunged, and charges that have been resolved through the completion of a diversion or deferral of judgment program.
 I'm going to move down to Section 23-10-040, Exceptions. This chapter would not apply where federal, state, or local law require the consideration of an applicant's criminal history to law enforcement, employees in the criminal justice system, and volunteer employees. B is there's another handout that you may or may not have received yet, and it is
 what's colloquially known as the matrix. I'll talk a little bit about that, but maybe Rachel can get that up to you so that we... So 23.10.040 exceptions, part B. For the following positions, an employer may consider an applicant's criminal history at any point in the hiring process and may use the city criminal history matrix provided by the administrative rule to screen applicants, but must nonetheless comply with all other requirements of this chapter.
 An individualized assessment shall be required for any conviction not contained in the criminal matrix. So, again, it speaks to the administrative rules which have yet to be drafted. And what's before you now is what the state uses, the Department of Human Services, for employees that will be coming in contact with older folks and people with disabilities or developmental disabilities.
 And what it is is a chart of convictions that will allow an employer at the Department of Human Services who's dealing with this population to either have a five-year ban, a 10-year ban, or a permanent ban.
 So as it says, and the city has, of course, yet to adopt this, it will most likely, if the ordinance is adopted, look like this. And I'm just going to set an example because this is another question that has come up often, so maybe I'll head it off a little bit. The non-underlying ones are your most egregious crimes, aggravated murder, murder, it goes through, rape, sexual abuse, violence.
 crimes against children, et cetera. The 10-year crime ban are drug crimes. So those are indicated. Actually, not indicated on this list. So any selling of drugs would be a 10-year bar. So the underlying ones on this list would be five-year bars, and that includes public indecency, invasion of personal privacy, and computer crime if charged as a felony.
 So I can go back to that if you have questions, but I'm going to continue down the highlights of the ordinance. I have to confess, I'm still trying to figure out how this list of crimes you just handed us, the DHS uses, where does that fit into what we're talking about right now? I don't get it. Okay. So we're at the exceptions. We're at .040 exceptions to what was stated earlier, which is that the –
 Inquiry into a criminal conviction has to come at the conditional offer phase. What this would be proposing is an exception to that for the crimes listed on that matrix. So the ones that are not underlined... How would you know unless somebody voluntarily discloses to you? It's related to certain positions. Exactly. Thank you. It's related to certain positions, as Commissioner Fish said, that have to do with vulnerable populations. If you continue to look...
 If you look at 1, if the subsection is under B, positions involving direct access to or provision of services to children, the elderly, persons with disabilities, persons with mental illness, or individuals with alcohol or drug dependence or substance abuse disorders.
 positions that have been determined by administrative rules to present heightened public safety concerns or business necessity, and positions designated by the employer as part of a federal, state, or local government program designed to encourage the employment of those with criminal histories. So if you're soliciting employees for jobs that fit in any of these categories, you would be able to use the matrix ahead of time, which means you would be able to ask before the conditional offer phase,
 whether a person has a criminal history and match that criminal history up against the matrix is that clearer yeah that's clear judy i think it would be helpful uh between now and next week if you gave us um some uh illustrative examples of of positions covered by these categories so i think we can all we can all sort of pick the the poster child for each of these but be nice to have some um some additional examples of what's covered by one two and three categorically
 What we're saying is we're trying to create – you're proposing an exception that's clear enough that the person hiring for that position knows that they have more latitude. And it's because it's a sensitive job involving public safety or a vulnerable population or whatever. And we're making a judgment that the rules don't apply in the same way to those positions.
 And by administrative rule, we'll flush that out. But to the extent these are taken from other code and are sort of meant to be shorthand for a child care provider, domestic violence shelter, or whatever it is, I think it would be helpful for us to see those. Will do, sir. Are there particular points you want to raise, Judy, or questions? About the exceptions. Okay, I'm just going to move on.
 Down to 23.060, enforcement. The last time we proposed some code changes, we had proposed a perhaps enforcement by the city attorney's office, and that is a change that's made, and the enforcement is proposed to be with the Bureau of Labor and Industries, and that is in line with what's happening or what will happen with the state law. So, Judy, the state law is very clear that enforcement is,
 is to be done by Bureau of Labor and Industries. Why have we chosen the word may, city may contract? Why doesn't it say shall? Maybe I can help with that. We can't force the Bureau of Labor and Industries to do anything. So they would have to be willing to do it, and then we would be able to negotiate a contract. My understanding is that, in fact, they are willing to do it. Our concern at the beginning was whether they would be willing to do it or not.
 So that's why you use the conditional may not a directive shall but it's still our intent to have Foley do the administrative enforcement It is and they've indicated that they're prepared to do that Can we say the city's intent is to contract with Foley rather than the city may contract with given this discussion? We just had sure Contract with the Bureau of Labor and Industries this was a horse this was a big discussion previously about whether we were going to create our own enforcement and
 wing of the city attorney's office or access the established professional services of the Bureau of Labor and Industries. I think we've all been persuaded bully is the better way to go. I understand that the mayor has a proposed amendment that will direct us to negotiate with bully, and I think that will capture your intent. I'll run through those amendments in a minute. So, Judy, since we're talking about enforcement, will you also...
 As you walk us through the enforcement section, would you explain how it dovetails with the 23.10.100, an application? Because the last sentence –
 says that enforcement shall commence July 1, 2016. I just want to make sure I understand how those two fit together. Can you point me to where you were, 23.10. 100. 100. Last paragraph. And the last sentence says enforcement of this chapter under subsections, blah, blah, blah, shall commence July 1, 2016. So I want to make sure I understand enforcement and then the trigger date.
 I'm going to confess that my copy has a line there for the date. So thank you for letting me know that it's intended to be July 1st, 2016. Polite. So I think the intention with putting that date in is that between if the time the ordinance and code changes were to be passed by counsel, the city attorney would commence negotiations with Boley to contract for them to do the enforcement. Okay.
 And that is contemplated to be done by July 1st. I've got some amendment language that might clear this up when we get to that. Okay. So maybe I should go ahead and put those amendments before the council now so that they just have that. We have these here before we even call up the invited testimony when we do that. That sounds, do you want me to finish? Sure, I'm sorry, go ahead. Okay. I think I've got all the amendments, so.
 i think i was finished no go ahead no i am done that's um uh enforcement mechanisms uh through boley and uh an amendment to that from commissioner salzman saying that it is the city's intent
 to contract with Boley to enforce the provision. Let's take your amendments so it's all on the table. I think we have some more questions just to make sure we understand that. Rachel, I believe, has got copies of the amendments maybe in front of everyone. I'm not sure I have them in the same order that everyone else does. One is a Scrivener's error. The
 23.10.060 enforcement that merely is a numerical change from 8 to 6 under Sub B. Second. So there's that one. Wait a second. I'm trying to find it. Scrivener's error? Yeah. Scrivener's error is the first one. Then there's an amendment to the criminal history in employment decisions section that
 that adds the words orally or so what the effect of this is it says if after consideration of an applicant's criminal history an employer rescinds the conditional offer of employment the employer shall notify the applicant orally or in writing of its decision so mayor i'm going to second this but i i oppose this amendment which for reasons i'll explain okay and i might need other staff up with judy to walk through these amendments as we deal with them so those that one second then um
 Then we have this one about BOLI. The Directive C is amended to read as follows. The city may contract with the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries BOLI for enforcement of City Code Chapter 2310. The city attorney is directed to negotiate an intergovernmental agreement with BOLI for enforcement of Chapter 2310 and to return to council for authorization of such agreement upon completion of the negotiations. Thank you.
 I don't know. Where does this fit? That is a revision of Directive C. The ordinance. So the first few pages. Sorry to interrupt you. I just wanted to. I'm not sure where it fits in. In the ordinance at the now after now therefore. So it's the third page of the ordinance. I'm looking at the proposed code. So before that is the ordinance and the third page of the ordinance after number one.
 13 says now therefore the council directs. And what the mayor is attempting to amend is C. So again, the effect of it is that requiring the city attorney to prepare an intergovernmental agreement, bring it back to council for approval that does indeed have a bully conducting the enforcement. And then what's the, if we make that change, which I support, Mayor, enforcement of the chapter would start when?
 Right now within the language we have at July 1, 2016. Okay. So there's a phase-in period of public education, blah, blah, blah, but that's when the hammer comes down in terms of the damages and penalties that both can afford. That is my understanding, yes. Right. Mayor? Okay. So is there a second to that? Second to that. Okay. Then...
 What am I missing, Rachel? The final one is adding a directive D that the city attorney provides council with a one-year report on claims. Okay. So then this is a new directive, right? Correct. This says the council directs D that the city attorney provide council with a one-year report on claims by individuals or action by the attorney general for both the state and the city. Second. Okay. Why is it the attorney general? Yeah. Why the attorney general? Isn't the labor commissioner in?
 Yeah, the Attorney General will be enforcing the state statute on behalf of Boley and then...
 I don't know if – I have something. Well, there's three – In fact, always, the Attorney General always enforces state agency. No, I know, but the data that I think we want is data of claims filed with Boley. So that tells us statistically how many people are filing claims because some of those claims are determined administratively before – without the necessity of the AG taking action. So I think what we mean is claims filed with Boley, enforcement action taken by the Attorney General –
 And then I think, Mayor, since the state law contemplates setting up an oversight body, we ought to have something in here about at least engaging the oversight body that the governor is establishing to get whatever data they have for part of our report. And that's an oversight body at Boley? No, there's a provision in the state law that sets up a group that has oversight of the law, and their job is to collect data and monitor compliance. It's made up of legislators, I believe.
 Can I correct one thing you said, Commissioner Fish? Claims filed by Boley, enforcement taken by... Filed with Boley. With Boley, thank you. Sorry, with Boley. I wrote with. Enforcement taken by the commissioner of Boley. The AG may bring an action, but the enforcement is taken by the commissioner of Boley.
 Not by the AG. The Attorney General may have some. But the Attorney General can bring a claim as well. Yeah, so I think the intent of the Mayor's amendment is that there be a report with all the available data on how this is working. And I'm not an expert on this, and state law hasn't kicked in yet, but I'm guessing it's claims with Boli, enforcement actions taken by Boli, and any actions taken by the State Attorney General. Is that right? Correct. Okay. Very succinct, Josh. Okay.
 Okay, and then I believe we have one more amendment, which is yours, Commissioner Novick. Is that right? That's right. Okay. It would be an amendment to 23.10.030, use of criminal history in employment decisions, and it would be an amendment to paragraph 3, which says that charges that have been –
 This, again, is a list of things that an employer shall not consider, such as an arrest not leading to a conviction, convictions that have been judicially voided or expunged, and item three is charges that have been resolved through the completion of diversion or deferral of judgment program, and the original draft ended there.
 I want to add the language for offenses not involving physical harm or attempted physical harm to a person. I actually don't know if there are any such things as diversion or deferral programs for crimes involving physical or attempted physical harm. But just in case there should be or might be in the future, I think it's worth adding that caveat. I think it's legitimate. I think assault charges are sometimes resolved through diversion. So somebody can clarify that for me, but I think that's true.
 Okay. So before we move on to questions, any other amendments to put on the table? So all those amendments have been made. I'll second Commissioner Novick's amendment. Yes. Well, I have some questions, and they may lead to an amendment. Okay. Sure. While we've got the team here, do you want to wait until after we take testimony? Well, I have questions on the amendments. Okay. So let me start with that. I have some mixed feelings about the Mayor's amendment inserting in 2310.030,
 the option of notifying the applicant orally or in writing. And let me just explain the concern that I have. We're creating a new system that for some employers, and I know we've exempted, we're proposing to exempt employers of less than six, but for some employers is going to require some time to get it right, understand the nuance. And because it's a pretty sensitive thing we're regulating, there's going to be at least...
 It seems to me, as someone who used to bring these kinds of cases, a ripe opportunity for people to misunderstand each other. There's going to be plenty of opportunity for people to have different impressions of how the interaction went and what happened. What that means is that there's a likelihood that if these things get to an enforcement phase, you have a lot of the he said, she said, I think this happened –
 in which case those cases end up in the civil rights context being very, very unsatisfactory because the burden of proof is substantial evidence. And if there's a contest between people's recollections or what they think happened and whatever, typically that case doesn't get to a finding. The virtue, and I'm torn on this because I understand, I'm guessing the mayor doesn't want to make this so formal and bureaucratic that it's too prescribed.
 But I will just raise a caution flag. The virtue of something in writing is it controls for all purposes going forward. It's a statement, and it has to follow a certain form. And that document cannot be challenged on an enforcement action. It either complies or it doesn't. The challenge of allowing an exception for oral communication is that one or both of the parties could have a completely different understanding of what happened.
 in which case you're asking an administrative body to reconcile that. And I would tell you, historically, that works to the disadvantage of the complainant because it's a contest. Now, again, I think the point you're making, I believe, in making this, and it may be that we want to keep it, adopt your approach, and then test it. But he said, she said usually doesn't end up very well for a complaining party.
 Something in writing does tend to be more solid evidence, and I'm torn on this one. Yeah, we might get testimony on this point because this came out of the business roundtable discussion, and I think it is an effort on our part to try to make this more practicable for employers. In that case, I'm torn. Yeah, I am too. The other question I wanted to ask our panel is there's still one piece of this process which we're not addressing, which for many –
 prospective employees is fatal to the process, which is the gap in their resume. And the reality is that for most people who have done time, there is a gap in their resume that at the front end of the process an employer is going to take notice of. And to my knowledge, there's virtually no way to address that. But let's be clear. The resume comes in with a cover letter. The last 10 or 15 years has no employment history.
 We can prescribe that you can't ask certain questions, but how likely is that person going to get to a conditional offer? And worse, worse, because I'm not sure we can regulate that, are we, and this is the worst-case scenario, are we encouraging a certain kind of profiling at the front end where that combined with something else is used to just take someone out of the pipeline
 so that the person doesn't get to the conditional offer because the entire enforcement system for this proposal is all triggered off of a conditional offer. Any thoughts on that? That's a good question. Go ahead, Josh. Yeah, and that was also debated at the mayor's roundtable. And I think Commissioner, I mean, it's one thing for me to say,
 for me to give my opinion, but it's probably better to have the folks that are on the invited panel and then folks testifying to answer that, because they have lived experience actually in those situations, whereas I don't. But I will tell you that one thing that we heard, because we've asked that question too, is how is that situation different than a parent, either a mother or a father, staying home, being a stay-at-home parent? Big reason. Big difference.
 Well, and perhaps. Nothing in the current law prohibits you from saying to someone, I see a 20-year gap. And the person saying, yeah, I raised a family, I traveled the world, whatever. That same question in this context triggers a response that then has an administrative consequence.
 and then gets us into an area that this particular proposal cautions us against. So that's a big difference. And I'm just telling you, since I spent a long time being an employment lawyer, that is the first place people look is to the resume. And if there's a big gap, that's a red flag. Yeah. And that I agree. Yeah.
 We will avail ourselves of having someone from the National Employment Law Project Skyping in as testimony, and I would encourage you to ask her that question as well. It also will lead into a discussion, I have no doubt, over the bigger issue of voluntary disclosure because, as you may remember from the last time we were at Council, that was a particularly big issue and a pretty controversial one.
 would imagine that through the course of this evening's hearing, you'll hear the pros and cons of addressing that issue, which your issue is wrapped up in, I think. Judy, final question. Under the state law that kicks in January 1, what is the remedy for a violation, first violation? And under our proposal, what is the remedy for a first violation? Okay.
 So the answer is going to be the same for both. We are mirroring the state remedies. And I'm going to bring you to Oregon law statute number 659A-850.
 The proposed the state law and our proposed code use 659 a the remedies and complaint process starting with 820 and going only until 865. That's part of the Scribner's error that was that was mentioned earlier. So we're starting with 820, which talks about the complaint process, and it moves through 865, which is retaliation. So in terms of remedies, again,
 They can, and I will also direct look at sort of the bullies shortcut on how the process happens. So remedies can include up to cease and desist orders, acts and series of acts designated in the order that are reasonably calculated to carry out the purpose of the chapter or in our case code, eliminate the effects of the unlawful practice, and then, of course,
 including but not limited to paying an award of actual damages suffered by the complainant and complying with injunctive and other equitable relief. It goes on to talk about submitting reports to BOLI on complying with a cease and desist order, for example, like how many folks. So this is what exists in the state law, and we would be mirroring these remedies. And all of these are pegged to a withdrawal of a conditional offer?
 In the code, yes. So in our system, if a conditional offer is made and then withdrawn...
 That's the triggering event that could allow you to go to Boley and say it was withdrawn for an improper reason? Yes, but you would have to meet the threshold of substantial evidence, as you mentioned earlier. There are investigators at Boley who would accept the complaint and review it for a substantial evidence threshold. And if you jump the gun under our proposal and ask the question and it's determined you solely rejected,
 denied employment to that person on that basis, then that's an unlawful employment practice. It is, sir. So that's the risk of someone jumping the gun and having that be the only reason that they did not move forward with that person's application. Yes. Okay. Any other quick questions before we call on our panel? I'm going to get the staff back up to – I have some questions. I don't know if they're going to be quick, but I have some questions that I'd like to ask now. So I guess my overriding question to you, Mayor, really is –
 So when we first had this hearing, I don't remember when it was. March. March, okay. We all talked about the Holy Grail being, God, if we could just really ban the box. And we were told we couldn't do that because employers have First Amendment rights to do that. Well, so the legislators stepped up and actually banned the box. So I'm trying to understand why are we here today looking at doing a city ordinance when the state doesn't?
 I think what we consider all to be the holy grail. I think the people you're going to hear from next are going to do a better job, even than I will, of explaining that. So I want to try to be respectful of the people we've invited here. And, again, I think I'll answer that question, but let's let them answer it first. Okay. So there's no private right of action in this city ordinance? No, there's not a private right of action. 659A-865 is the –
 statutory provision where it ends, and that's retaliation. The next 870 is election of remedies which include private right of action. So the ordinance proposal, the code change proposal, and the state law stop at 865, retaliation. They don't go to private right of action. So if an employer, you're prohibited under our ordinance to access somebody's criminal history prior to a conditional offer,
 So what if somebody Googles somebody's name, which everybody does this. I mean, everybody Googles everybody else these days. Everybody's nosy. So what happens if an employer does that? I think that's something that I think we'll discuss if the code changes are enacted under the administrative rules, because certainly that is a possibility. I mean, isn't Googling a First Amendment right, too? I mean, I have the right to Google anybody at any time, don't I?
 Google or other form of social media. I shouldn't brand it exclusively. Yeah, well, Commissioner, I would have to imagine, although I don't know, but I would have to imagine that the vast majority of ex-offenders wouldn't show up on a Google search as being an ex-offender. Those records, you would have to actually conduct online a private background check to do that. I know...
 Several. Quite a few ex-offenders who I know if I went to Google them, I would have no idea that they were ex-offenders. What if it's a sensational offense? Yeah, you're probably going to know that generally anyway. I mean, we can't. By Googling. Or just by reading the paper. So I guess, and I know there's going to be rules that will deal with this, but do we want to say that an employer is prohibited from intentionally accessing
 somebody's social media background or background via social media we should consider that okay so I guess I would put that out there as a potential amendment and then I just have a couple more questions so I was curious so if somebody it's a position that involves a landlord you know or maybe somebody having access to master keys to apartments and things like that
 Is there a prior screening short of the conditional offer that an employer is able to do when the position is sensitive or if the crime involves, I don't know, embezzlement or sexual offenses, something like that?
 Commissioner, to answer your question, if you look to the exceptions under 2310.040, I'm proposing that that might fall under B2 positions, which have been determined by administrative rule to present heightened public safety concerns or business necessity. So if you're a remodeling company and you send crews into people's houses, that's a business necessity? Yes.
 Okay, but you're saying it may be considered in the rules. I guess I'm saying it seems like it should be. I mean, is there any doubt that a position like a remodeler or a landlord's on-site management or off-site management who has keys should be subject to some higher level of screening? Exactly. Yeah, and I think that's – We're not going to see these administrative rules, are we? They're not –
 Yes, they have to be publicly vetted. But do they come back to counsel? They don't come back to counsel. They're written by the city attorney's office, but there is public comment. Public comment, okay.
 And there was, you know, Commissioner, we had a work group that met after the March hearing, and it was always, I think, the mayor's intention to convene that work group. Initially, actually, it was the intention to convene that work group to craft the administrative rules after council were to pass the ordinance were it to be passed.
 and to do it with the attorneys and give advice on what should be considered business necessity or not. And I think that's still the intent is to bring the group back to actually then fill out the details. One thing we did address during the work group was employment agencies being kind of a strange creature when it comes into employment law. And you won't see that spelled out in the draft ordinance because we decided it goes in under the business amendment.
 necessity. We have a fix for it, but that would come in the administrative rules. So my last question is the issue I think we just touched on briefly, and that is the voluntary disclosure. You know, if I had a big gap in my resume, I might want to tell the employer at the
 So what happens if somebody voluntarily discloses that thinking they're doing the right thing? Yeah. And, you know, truthfully, Commissioner, this was an issue that I wrestled with from the very beginning as well because practically it seemed to me difficult if you're an employer and someone is doing that for you to ignore it. And I couldn't quite understand.
 well, I understand the intent of not having that in there, but how then practically do we allow that? And someone who will be coming up in the invited testimony, I think, made a really good case, at least to me, convincing me that there are ways around that of actually saying when that happens because ex-offenders currently are involved
 being told when they are still in prison that they're supposed to disclose those things. But then when that does happen for the employer to have, I know Judy will get irritated if I say this, but a safe harbor provision of saying we will discuss that at the conditional offer phase. Right now we are only discussing your qualifications for this job.
 To me, that made sense. I think there are ways that we can actually finesse that in the ordinance or in the administrative rules so that employers know what they're supposed to do in those situations and during the education period of this work with the social agencies that actually do train offenders who are about to become ex-offenders on no longer offering your voluntary disclosure at the very beginning.
 And you'll hear, I know, from National Employment Law Project that for them this is a massive issue. And I'm sure Michelle will do a much better job of explaining it than I have. But I went through my own evolution on that issue, too, because it's a difficult one. And just one last question. Or did you want to say something? I just wanted to help Josh a little bit. We all do. Thank you.
 So employers are very sophisticated in their hiring. If a person of color or a person in a protected class walks in, they know immediately that they cannot discriminate. They cannot use their characteristic to discriminate. If a person who is pregnant, very noticeably pregnant, comes in for an interview, the employer knows immediately.
 and is already sophisticated enough to understand that they can't not hire that person for that reason. Someone wheels in a wheelchair, et cetera. So this is a similar thing. Sometimes we know things that we're not allowed to use in our decision-making process. So my just last question is, is a conditional offer, I know there's a definition of it, but I guess my question is, is a conditional offer exclusive to one person, one offer to one person?
 Or can there be, I don't know, can you have multiple conditional offers out? I think this is about one transaction, which is an employer and a prospective employee, so they're one at a time. So a conditional, an easy example is on your resume it says you type 70 words a minute. You can have the job.
 On the condition that you take this typing test and you can actually type 70 words a minute. So it's you have the job, and here's the condition that has to be met in order for you to really have the job. I mean, I think nothing would prohibit an employer from making several conditional offers for the same position, but that would probably be a disaster because then you could have five people accepting one job. So it's probably unlikely.
 All right. Well, thank you all. Stand by. We'll no doubt have more questions. I just want to underscore one of Commissioner Saltzman's concerns. I mean, we know there are employers looking at the language that it's not an unlawful practice if an employer determines in good faith that a specific offense or conduct is job-related with the position in question and consistent with business necessity. And some employers are asking, well, we'll be litigating endlessly over what that means. So I do think it's important that we're going to try to refine that
 refine that a little bit and give people some guidance in administrative rules. All right. Thank you all. We'll have you obviously back here a little later, I suspect. Let me call the first of our invited panels, which is McKinney Harmon Johnson from the Urban League, Emanuel Price, and Representative Lou Frederick. So if the three of you would please come up, we can get this discussion furthered along. Thank you.
 somebody left there Judy I think that's yours thank you afternoon I think you're on first again gang unless you want to defer to the elected official to your right he's deferring to you he said I couldn't the spirit of poor
 So, good afternoon. I am Nikenge Harmon-Johnson, and I'm pleased to be before you on behalf of the Urban League of Portland, of which I am the president and CEO. You will see around the room supporters of the Urban League of Portland and also members of my staff. I thank all of you for being here on this important day. Thank you.
 So we heard a little bit earlier about the fact that our state has recently passed a ban the box law. So why then does Portland need a ban the box law? That's the question that seems that some commissioners and other folks have been asking. What makes our city so different from other places in Oregon that means that this law would be a good thing to have in Portland? Why is it urgent that we pass the law now rather than waiting to see what happens with the state version?
 Those are some questions that have been tumbling around, I imagine, in some of your minds, but also for others outside this room. So here are some facts that help lead us to an answer. First, there have been some recent studies, one in 2015 that I read and another that occurred in 2014 by the Council of State Governments Justice Center. It's a nonprofit organization that helps to advise policymakers at a local and state municipal level.
 And that center found a few things. Both black and Hispanic men were less likely to receive a positive response from employers, including a callback or email for an interview or job interview or job offer compared to white men. And this is after they did a study with similar resumes, just different names. Instead of Bob Jones, it was Roberto Jimenez. Instead of Roberto Jimenez, it was Kwame Johnson.
 But other than that, these resumes were on par. And they found that white men were more likely to get a callback. Men with criminal records were more likely than women with criminal records to receive a negative response from employers. Hmm. White men with a criminal record had more positive responses than black men with no criminal record. Let me say that again. White men with a criminal record had more positive responses from employers than black men with no criminal record.
 80% of Oregon's black population lives in Portland. Black Oregonians are six times more likely to be incarcerated than white Oregonians. I won't presently discuss the reasons behind some of the systemic injustices that happen in our criminal justice system, but African Americans in this state are six times more likely to be incarcerated than white Oregonians. While Oregon's statewide unemployment rate continues to decline, the economic recovery for African Americans is far slower than,
 The Urban League of Portland recently released the State of Black Oregon report, with which some of you are familiar with. In that report, we talked about the fact that the unemployment rate for African Americans in Portland is 21%. When the overall unemployment rate in Oregon was 11%, we considered that to be a crisis. And yet, black folks in Portland are dealing with far higher numbers, and we're not treating it with the response that it deserves. Portland is indeed the hub of Oregon's communities of color.
 And as such, you as elected officials representing Portlanders have the greatest responsibility to address those unemployment rates and to do what you can to change those numbers for black Portlanders and for others. So why do we need this ordinance? Because we know the playing field is not level for people of color. We know what the data tells us, and I'd be happy to provide citations for your offices if you'd like to follow up on those facts and figures. Folks who look like me already start from behind.
 If you then add a conviction to their history for whatever reason at whatever time, for which they have served their time, done everything that we have asked them to do and come out with training, prepared to work, to take care of themselves and their families, they are still then saddled with this additional burden that makes it hard for them to do so.
 And there's someone far more learned on these issues than I from NELP who will speak to you later, so I won't go too deeply into this. But the idea of talking about a gap in employment, certainly there are different ways to talk about that. And we know that parents, for example, don't have to say, I was at home taking care of kids. Because there are some studies that say if parents do reveal that information to a potential employer, they too will be dinged. There's sort of the mommy tax that happens. I don't want to hire this lady because she's got kids at home and that means she might be out more often from work.
 So even moms don't necessarily have the, aren't in the best situation when it comes to addressing an employment gap in their initial letter to employers. So imagine what that means for people who have convictions in their past. But there are ways to deal with it. And the ordinance that we're discussing now is one step along the path. So we've been working on this issue in Portland for more than a year and a half now.
 It started in Portland, and then the state was smart enough to pick it up and run with it. And then it fizzled out a little bit on the state level. That's okay, because we know that we here in Portland can pick it back up and do what needs to be done and show the kind of leadership necessary for the people who live here, even if folks in the legislature couldn't quite make it happen. The next step after we pass this ordinance, which I hope you will each support, is
 is for the Urban League and other organizations like the AFL-CIO and other partners of the Fair Shot Coalition to then go out into the community to educate folks who this ordinance will most help. That means employers. It also means potential applicants, folks who have given up looking for work because time and time again they found their application in the circular file before they even got a chance. Before I close, let me say one more thing. When we think about the kinds of jobs that are most often impacted by a rule like this,
 It can sometimes be hard for middle class folk like me to get a real good picture of that. I imagine the same can be true for you on the council, even though you deal with these issues at least as often as I do at the Urban League. We're not necessarily talking about the candidates for the Urban League of Portland presidency. We're not necessarily talking about those who would be a partner at a law firm and what ban the box might mean to them. I, as an employer at the Urban League, certainly hire folks to work with youth,
 to visit senior citizens in their homes, to deal with vulnerable populations on a regular basis. That is the work that we do. So I understand the employer position of wanting to have the right people in the right jobs to keep the folks they serve safe. It makes all the difference in the world, and I get it. I also know, however, that there are plenty of positions that I do hire for that it doesn't make as much difference as you might think what someone's history of arrest or conviction is.
 And even though I, my little nonprofit, I don't have an HR officer, not a coordinator, not an HR assistant. I can figure out how to make this work, and we already have at the Urban League. Because of that, I am confident that other companies in our city, as progressive as we are, as right-minded, as smart, and as many resources that we have at our disposal, can find a way to make this work, too, for the benefit of all of us. And it's one way for us, for this council, for this city, to tackle...
 the racial disparities we see with unemployment in this town. Finally, I'm prepared to work with folks who've had some challenges around this ordinance. The Port and Business Alliance and the Urban League have considered whether we can work together to help educate employers, or whether we can work together on the things that we do agree on when it comes to Ban the Box and creating additional opportunity for folks to get jobs.
 We don't see eye to eye on all of these details, but we too are prepared to do the best we can to make this work because we do agree that it's better for folks to be working. It's better for folks to have jobs than it is for us to spend our tax dollars locking them up. And if they're not working, we know the recidivism rate is far, far, far too high.
 thank you for your time i look forward to your questions thank you good afternoon representative good afternoon i'm lou frederick the state representative from district 43 that's north and northeast portland hello mayor and council good to see you uh as you all know um the legislative process is really one of compromise and those that come in with a position that they will settle for nothing less than all of what they ask for those who basically say all or nothing usually end up with nothing
 It was something, it was important in crafting this law to get something. When enacting a law such as this one, it's not just compromise between positions, it's also compromise among different Oregon communities with different needs. This law needed to work for the whole state. So the something we got should be seen as a base on which local jurisdictions can craft policies that fit their communities.
 I don't need to rehash the evidence about how black and brown folks' experience of the criminal justice system is different from that of white folks. I don't need to rehash the evidence, either anecdotal or statistical, that in every step in the process, from the possibility of a stop to the finality of a sentence tends to be more harsh for certain members of our community, particularly those who are identified by some measure as other people.
 And the reality is that every felony conviction carries a lifetime sentence, a sentence to facing an additional steep hurdle on the path to housing, employment, or education. Incidentally, that lifetime sentence is rarely understood during the plea bargaining process. Now, whenever someone completes his or her sentence and reenters society, all of us have a stake in his or her success.
 Lawful economic opportunity is the foundation for building a life as a net contributor to a community, and that usually means employment. Barriers to employment are also barriers to family stability and to neighborhood peace.
 I'll be proud of my city for taking this additional step, building on the base set of the legislature, to delay asking that question about prior convictions until the potential employer has a good look at an applicant's qualifications. The chance to convince an employer of his or her worth based on knowledge, skills, ability, and enthusiasm may be the most important thing we can do for an ex-felon seeking to get on the right track.
 I urge you to move the timing of disclosure to the conditional offer phase of the application process. And I also want to say something else. We are, I hope, starting to turn the corner on how we address what's happening in terms of criminal justice to a point where we're no longer deciding that the primary role of criminal justice is punishment for the life of the person.
 but in fact is in fact trying to find a way that we are going to try to make sure that people are reintegrated into our community and are getting along well so that we are all getting along. That's the approach that I think this begins, and I hope that we begin to do that. I want to thank you for giving me the time to talk with you about this and, frankly, for taking up this ordinance. Luke, can I ask you a question that you're uniquely suited to answer? Okay. Because you're our representative from the legislature.
 The House passed one version of Ban the Box. The Senate passed another version. And ultimately, my understanding is the Senate version prevailed. And that's why we've heard that the legislature may not have, quote, made it happen as the Urban League would have wished because I think the House version was the Urban League version. The Senate was a different version. We're used to being preempted from acting in certain areas. Right.
 The reason it shows up on our legislative agenda every year to lift these preemptions because the legislature in its wisdom keeps handcuffing us on things we can't do. My understanding is that Senator Winters and others could have insisted on a preemption when the state statute was passed, which would have precluded us from having this conversation. Since this is a slightly unusual situation for us of acting ahead of the state law even taking effect,
 What guidance can you give us as to what the legislative intent was in not preempting local jurisdictions from regulating in this area? You are putting me in a very awkward situation here for a couple of reasons. One is, first of all, just very simply, I was not involved in those discussions.
 I was involved in caucus discussions. I was involved. Oh, wait. Lou, you're my friend. I'm not trying to put you in an awkward position. No, no, no. I'm just your resource. There's another awkward position you're putting me in. I hope to be moving over to the Senate, so I have to be careful. Wait a second. I have to be careful about that. Strike that for the record. No. The fact is there were some significant differences between how the Senate was approaching this and the way that the House was approaching it.
 Fair enough. And you see that. And the discussions within the Senate chambers and the Senate committees were something that I was not privy to. And why one path was followed by Senator Winters or others is just simply unknown to me. I know that there were lots of discussions. I know that they were heated discussions. But in terms of the approach, I think we're going to see –
 by way of how well this ordinance works or how well this ordinance is put into place and works a question on whether we're going to whether it might be able to move along in other places and frankly the city of Portland as I said you you as a council you make me proud that we are to bringing this up because it begins to focus the attention on this issue statewide
 And that's an important factor. How you decide to handle it and the rules and regulations that you come up with by way of your administrative rules is going to be important as well because other people are going to try to follow that or at least see if it works. And so you're going to be seen as not just a model, but it's going to be how well do they do this? How well does Portland handle this situation?
 And passing that along to the House and to the Senate is going to be a different issue for you, but it's also going to be something that's going to be very important for how we work on it at the state level.
 And in terms of preemption, you know that I've ended up talking a lot about the preemption issues both for the city and the county in Salem because we have some real problems down there in terms of how they understand how to deal with it.
 And that's part of the compromise and the discussion that takes place. So this is an ongoing process, and I don't expect that we're going to have a final say on this, but I'm really looking forward to see how well the City of Portland handles it. Thank you very much. I don't think that answer is going to get you in trouble. Oh, yeah, it will.
 Future Senator Frederick, to the extent that you can engage in this process without offending your future colleagues, I ask you to help in explaining the kind of conduct that we're afraid might still be allowed under the legislative bill, but it wouldn't under this ordinance. And I'll just throw out what my understanding is one of the major concerns is. The legislature simply banned the box in the initial written application, right?
 It's my understanding that the legislative action wouldn't prevent an employer from asking as the first question out of the box, no pun intended, in the interview, do you have any criminal history? That part of the discussion was something that was part of the discussion in the legislature and how you handle that.
 I think that your ordinance will take the next step, and I think it's appropriate to take that next step and see if we can, in fact, get that accomplished so that we can see what really happens rather than the hypotheticals that get thrown out rather constantly. I think you have hit upon an approach that says...
 let's wait until you can see what the skill set is, what the talent, what the enthusiasm is for a candidate before you start to try to eliminate them. And I know that there's a desire to, just in terms of time, I don't want to have to deal with this number of people. Well, okay, I understand that. But at a certain point, we've already seen what that does. It really doesn't matter now.
 I, in my past, applying for jobs in Oregon and Portland, I recall my application being thrown out and then going back to the same institution and finding out that they had lost it.
 and then they lost it and they lost it and they lost it before I even got a chance to talk with anyone. I think that this allows us to begin the process of changing that level playing field. That's really getting to that. So that's how I look at that. I'm sorry, I really can't see a problem with waiting until you make that decision.
 Ms. Harmon-Johnson, since you don't have to worry about offending your fellow legislators, am I outlining one of your concerns about the legislative language in saying that it would still allow an employer, as the first question in your interview, to ask about criminal history? Sure.
 It means that nothing much has changed. As an employer, I am looking for ways to exclude candidates at the initial and even at the second phase. Often when I post a position, there are far more candidates than I have the time or interest to interview. So I'm looking for reasons to not interview people. I'm looking for reasons to not schedule folks to come in the door, whether it's typos in their resume or something else.
 So when I do get folks in the door, if I've had to, whatever it is, I'm still looking for ways to figure out who's not the right candidate. So then I can zero in and really spend some quality time with those who are the right candidate. So thank you very much, Mr. Novick, for your application. So have you ever, you know, been convicted of a crime? That's great. Thank you very much for coming in. You have a nice day.
 Amanda Fritz, thank you very much for coming in today, and so on and so forth. That will certainly save me some time, but it doesn't do much in terms of changing the game for the candidates who have served their time, who are ready and willing and able to work, and who should have at least the opportunity, the opportunity to tell employers who they are, to show their skills and their talents, as Representative Frederick just mentioned.
 That's what this ordinance does that the state legislature failed to do in its work. Thank you very much. Mr. Price, welcome back to the council chambers. Thank you for having us. So my name is Emmanuel Price. I'm the founder of SCAPE, Second Chances Are for Everyone. It is a nonprofit to help men and women after they get out of incarceration. It may sound a little jargony, but I just want to read and make sure I hit every point. So while state law...
 While state law to ban the box was important, it simply removes the box from job applications. People with histories are often encouraged to honestly disclose their histories. We need an ordinance in the city of Portland that can actually connect people with past convictions to jobs that will build better families, stronger communities.
 These entry-level positions are the jobs that are most desirable and accessible for those with felony backgrounds. And when we, because I am a convicted felon as well, when we voluntarily and honestly disclose our background on applications, the opportunity for interview is decreased by 100%. The opportunity to gain employment is also decreased by 100%.
 This I know to be accurate because I serve the population of people that I'm speaking on behalf of. And we all have the same scenario when it comes to looking for jobs, employment, housing, health care, even education sometimes. Not only is this true for me as a person with a felony background, my conviction is 19 years old. And as a 38-year-old single father, it creates unnecessary barriers for me.
 Over the years, it has hurt me and hindered me when I haven't been able to provide for my family due to the barriers that have prevented my consideration for jobs that I've experienced and the skill set to do. This is an opportunity for the City of Portland to help increase employment opportunities for those who have past convictions that apply for entry-level positions. With this ordinance and support, unstable communities become more fragile, people become more dependent on social services, while less likely to be employed.
 Lastly, this may sound a little snarky, but with all due respect, seriously, people are able to vote immediately when they are released from prison. So the same people that we're talking about can vote each and every one of you into office and have actually put their ballot and voted you into office. So we trust when we put our ballot and when we vote and when we sign our signature, when we vote for you, you, you or you, that you will have our best interest at heart.
 And when we cast those ballots and we vote and we see people in office, and then we come and we make this case for a simple living, we don't even get that. This is an extremely large population of people that anybody can have access to that should be paid more attention to because it's a growing population. And when they get out, they can vote for you. They can vote for me. They can vote for the next young African-American Latino person who wants to run for office. So, yeah.
 not only pass this ordinance, but also look at it from kind of a selfish standpoint, like, oh, I could do another four years because these people will vote. These people want to vote. We want to get out and work and take care of ourselves and our families. And lastly, I appreciate the time that you guys are taking to show attention to this. And this is a serious matter. I'm 38. My conviction is 19 years old, but I still have the same barrier when I apply for any job,
 When I was 24, I applied for a job at Arby's. I thought I was above food service and I didn't want to be working in that environment, but they didn't even hire me because of my past conviction. And I had been out maybe four years at the time. So it's not like people don't want to work. We want to work. Nobody wants to go to jail and sit there and rot and do nothing, but at least afford that opportunity for people to come out and be able to have an interview. Like Michael Alexander said, I
 Let us show our work history and showcase our talents rather than be judged on, oh, yeah, Mr. Price, you have a conviction. Let's just push that application aside. I live this every day. I'm not just up here speaking from no experience. I work with these people every day. And I hear the same story over and over and over because I live it. So thank you for your time. Thank you. Any other questions for this panel?
 Thank you all very much. Appreciate you being here. Thank you. Our next panel is Bill Dickey, Tom Chamberlain, and London Elliott. I think you're on first, Bill. My name is Bill Dickey. I am a business owner in northeast Portland. I have between 25 and 40 employees, depending on the season of the year. It's interesting. I went back and picked out an application for an employee that I hired in 2004 and
 And I didn't have the box on my application then, so apparently I self-banned in this situation. And I do have employees involved in the company who have criminal backgrounds. I think that we, in general...
 Life's about second chances and just continually getting second chances when you make mistakes. But this ordinance that I'm in favor of takes it a step further than the state law and sort of educates us to move the employers –
 and teaches the employers to do the thing that isn't obvious. In other words, right now it's obvious, and it was a great example. I'm not sure of the woman's name, the city lawyer who was here, who said it's obvious when a woman walks in and she's pregnant, you're not going to ask her questions about whether her pregnancy or her family are going to be deterrents to her job. Right.
 This rule of asking this question after you make the decision is just sort of a way for us to move ourselves a little further along and help change a societal problem that we have that is something that we're addressing now, which is great. Other things got addressed earlier. This one is just another...
 thing that we need to do to make our situation better. And it is great the city of Portland is taking the opportunity to lead the way on this because we have the ability to do that. And, you know, currently right now, I mean, this is completely aside from this, but
 There's stuff going on on social media right now that is just crazy ever since the Paris attacks. And that kind of prejudice that's going on really bothers me greatly. And it's embarrassing. I mean, and I honestly sit at red lights on occasion and think, why do these people think differently than I do?
 in just in general because I live here and I love this place. And, you know, so anyway, I just think that this is a great opportunity and I'm definitely in favor of it. And I'm also a member of the Portland Business Alliance, in case anybody wanted to know about that. So I guess that's all from me. Thank you. Thank you, Bill. London, would you like to be next? Welcome back to the council chambers. Thank you so much. Nice seeing you all again.
 As you said, my name is London. I'm 18 years old and I'm a third generation born and raised Portlander. My father, my brother and several other family members have records to me that has been a life of unemployment resulting in instability for all of us. Not having access to employment changes how society, your community and your family sees you. Most importantly, how you see yourself resulting in a lack of confidence, opportunity and hope.
 This despair affects every relationship in that person's life, such as relationship between parent and child, taking away one of the most fundamental relationships in life, and far too often setting the stage for that child to repeat the path of the parent. Growing up, I experienced what it was like not having access to employment. I had the fear of coming home from school to see eviction notices and pass due bills. Have you guys ever eaten sleep for dinner? You guys know what that means, right?
 That makes you feel powerless, especially since you see your family trying so hard. Mass incarceration and subsequent joblessness is a problem all across Oregon. But if I'm being honest, it's reached epidemic levels for my community here in Portland. In a city like Portland, where far too often I see people who look like me treated as if they are guilty until proven innocent, many of my peers and friends are already on a lifelong journey towards recidivism and chronic unemployment.
 This is something that the city of Portland has the opportunity to fix. Oregon already took the first step, but Portland can lay down a path towards success for people like me and my community. I urge you to pass this ordinance without delay and help thousands of families like mine in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chamberlain, welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Katz, commissioners. I was thinking about that.
 Whoa, wow. Tom? I've been at this job way too long. That's high praise, but. Mayor Hales, glad to be here too. Stop right there. I'm here today on behalf of the 300,000 men and women of the Oregon AFL-CIO.
 and encourage you to take swift action on this ordinance. We represent a broad coalition of groups that have come together to advocate to ban the box. In previous testimony, you heard that the state of Oregon has taken an initial step, a critical step, an important step, but a step that doesn't go far enough. It may be a good policy, but it's not an excellent policy. We're the city of Portland. We believe in second chances.
 We're the city of Portland. We're a national leader. We're the city of Portland. We just don't go along to get along. I expect great things from the city. And moving forward with a policy that just mimics what the state did isn't enough. We need a policy that really does something, that really gives ex-felons a second chance for a better life.
 And while this may be more than other cities have done, other states have done, it's important that Portland does more than they do.
 we encourage fast action on this we support this thank you thank you thanks very much for your help thank you all questions thank you all very much we have one more uh invited um speaker and we'll see if the technology supports her arrival and that's michelle nadividad rodriguez from the national employment law project so i believe we have her set up to skype in we'll see if that actually works carla is attempting to
 make that connection. PCM is doing that. Okay, give us a moment folks to, there she is. Good afternoon, Michelle. Hi everyone, can you hear me okay? Yes, we can. Great, I am having trouble hearing you, but I can go ahead and share some thoughts. Thank you so much for having me and
 using the technology to get me in here. Just a little bit of background about myself. I'm a senior staff attorney with the National Employment Law Project, and we've worked for the last several years with jurisdictions across the country, policymakers and advocates on fair chance laws and ban-the-box laws, and we've worked with the National Employment Law Project
 And I myself personally was involved in the San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance, and I worked three years on that. I worked two years on the California legislation personally as well. That was just a straightforward ban the box and have been involved in –
 a variety of the movements that have happened, including recently with President Obama's announcement that did apply to federal agencies as well. So that's my background and what we tried to do in situations that,
 policymakers like yourselves are facing is to gather the information about what's working, what's not working, and to help you in ensuring that you are doing what you can with the goals that you want to achieve, which is, I think, what we can all agree on. We have a broken criminal justice system. We have seen the impact on our community. We have heard the heartbreak and pain
 just even in today of what that's caused. And so we are committed to doing all we can. And that means getting people jobs. That means taking away the unnecessary barriers. And so we all have that shared goal. And then the question becomes, how do we do that well?
 How do we make sure that the laws that we can put in place will actually accomplish that goal? And I just want to evoke a little bit of what Bill shared from his perspective as a business person that I thought hit it right on the head.
 What this law does, what it has the opportunity to do, is really educate employers and teach them how to take the bias
 out of the hiring process. It starts to address how can we make a cultural shift because really what we're dealing with, as you heard from Mr. Price and others, is a deeply stigmatized population. And because of that deep stigma, we have to take very seriously having the laws in place that are going to make an impact.
 So that's our starting point. And what I want to do is just cover a couple of details that have been raised. And I have been listening in, and there were a few questions that were directed my way. So I will try to address them as well. One point that I did want to share that I noticed, which I think is a very common misunderstanding, and it comes into your question of thinking about exemptions, I...
 I've heard references to when there are these heightened public safety concerns, we need to ensure that we have enough exemptions. Now, I just want to point out to everyone, and I think that this is a very natural misunderstanding, is that your process, the laws that you laid out here, even without the exemptions,
 makes your hiring process and your public safety concerns addressing those no less rigorous. Alameda County is an example of a jurisdiction that has had this in place since 2007 when their HR person came before the California legislature about their experiences with a more comprehensive fair hiring law that included the conditional offer threshold. They made it very clear
 This did not change how rigorous their process was, even in heightened safety positions. And when I think about as well the example of some of the most safety sensitive positions in our country, which is under national security.
 I will just also point to the fact that the Office of Personnel Management, who is in charge of those national security jobs, also recommends waiting to the conditional offer stage before a background check is given. Now, why is that? It's because it does not change the fact that you can still do the analysis that's needed. The benefit of that, just period, is what we've seen is that
 For most of these jobs, what you're going to find is most convictions that people have are not going to be job related. And I point to the experiences in San Francisco. They recently released a report saying,
 under their current analysis of how their jobs are considered. And they found of the amount of people that had conviction records, when they did their own job analysis and looked at job relatedness, in the end, they only found that 2% total should be disqualified.
 So it's all to say you have a very low percentage, if you're actually looking at job relatedness, of individuals that should be disqualified from a job position, period. So those are some of the broad points that I just wanted to cover. And then drilling into a couple of questions that were raised.
 There was a question about voluntary disclosure, and I actually thought that Judy and Josh did a great job of addressing that. The concern with a voluntary disclosure and having that included in the law is that you're not really going to see the kind of cultural shift that the law is intended to create, which is that you want this conversation to happen after the conditional offer phase.
 The reason for that is because you're trying to minimize the bias in the process. And the way that other jurisdictions have handled this is as much as the way that Josh and Judy described. You can do it with a notice at the beginning to indicate that any discussion of a conviction record will happen after the conditional offer. That's the path that San Francisco has taken and some others have.
 You can also say during the job interview phase right at the beginning as an employer, we're going to talk about the background check, not at this time. So there are very simple ways to deal with that. And the benefit of it, of course, is that you're really aiming at the kind of cultural shift.
 and the de-biasing that the hope of these laws are trying to make happen, you're getting closer to that. I also just want to hearken back to a point that one of the commissioners made, which I think is a very important one around enforcement. We found with jurisdictions across the country that really the difficulty is not
 with employers facing a gotcha situation. Employers are finding that they can meet the standards, such as conditional offer and job relatedness, just fine.
 The problem has been enforcement. We are not seeing as many people coming forward. There's a lot of reasons for that. One of them being that already job applicants, people with records, are in vulnerable situations. You're already dealing with individuals that are not going to be as willing to come forward.
 So keeping that in mind, we want to make sure that we're not getting into a situation of he said, she said, as the commissioner indicated. We want to ensure that enforcement can be as solid as possible. And just generally, that's something to keep in mind. You don't want to be in the position that some jurisdictions are in now, which is trying to go back.
 to their prior law to make improvements so that it's not a law in name only, but it's actually working on the ground. I'm happy to drill down into any further questions that you may have or any particulars. We do have a lot of materials and experience with other jurisdictions that I'm happy to share. Michelle, thank you very much. I think there are a couple of questions from members of the council, so I hope you can hear us.
 Ms. Rodriguez, can you hear us? Yes, sounds like she can. We can't hear her now. Well, we'll see if we can make this work. Can you hear us? Yes. Okay, there we go. So it's Nick Fish, and I appreciated what you said, just your most recent comment about the he said, she said. And I'll just give you an example. I, in a prior life, represented someone who had a claim of –
 discrimination based on retaliation for opposing HIV discrimination, retaliation claim. And the key evidence in the case was the employer putting in writing the reasons for the termination. And because the reasons were legally insufficient, it was the key piece of evidence to show that they didn't have a good faith basis. And so that's what is in the back of my mind. And
 Is it unduly burdensome to require, in your judgment, to require that the withdrawal of the conditional offer, the explanation for that withdrawal be in writing? I don't believe it is so. For the very reason that you mentioned, if this is going to be something that you have working in practice, we have to think of the mechanisms to ensure that it does.
 And certainly to be able to say in writing, this is the reason for the denial,
 helps ensure that the employer is going through an analysis. And as well, it can help the applicant see what the issue is, and it will help enforcement. In the end, by having that clarity, I think that everybody in the process will not have to go through the back and forth of the he said, she said, which would just take the enforcement agency's time to try to figure that out.
 You get the benefit of clarity with writing, and I think that that's what your point is trying to say. And I assume that it doesn't matter what form the writing takes, whether it's a document, an email, or whatever. It's something in writing.
 Exactly. I think that the point being that we have some kind of documentation that indicates what the rationale is, even if it's very simple. There are some jurisdictions that have even provided a copy of the background check and literally highlighted what the issue was. It can be as simple as that. One last question. When you look around the country, what's an example of a city that has gotten this right? And how do you measure success?
 it's a very good question um thank you for that you know part of the larger issue here is that we're not seeing a lot of uh cities and counties um and i and i sympathize but we're not seeing a lot of them collect the data um and so we are not seeing uh what the problems are as clearly what we'll see is the number of complaints that are filed and how those are resolved
 But I do encourage you for what you can for your contractors or for the city itself to actually look at the number of people that are being hired who have records so that at least you can identify yourself. Is our law working? Maybe that's not as practical for the employers themselves, but it is something we're trying to explore. So that's.
 Kind of a side note. This larger question of what I've seen working from jurisdictions are a couple of points. One, the District of Columbia in their ordinance, which became effective in December 2014, which does have the conditional offer threshold, has stated in a letter, I think that you may have that letter in fact,
 that the conditional offer threshold has been very helpful for their enforcement. As well, they've had an amount of penalties go to complainants. Now, the reason that they had a certain amount of penalty go to complainant is for the very reason that I alluded to earlier. Workers that are low income, that have records, are not going to have as much time, period, to come forward and make a complaint.
 especially if they don't see how that's going to get them that particular job immediately. So you're asking individuals who don't have a lot of time, who need to take care of their family, to come forward to a government agency that they probably don't trust to make it better for the next people after them, which is a wonderful, altruistic thing to do, but it's not something that a lot of people have the luxury for.
 And so in the District of Columbia, they found that by having that small amount of the penalty go to the complainant, they're actually compensating people a little bit for their time that they are giving to help ensure that the law is being enforced properly.
 I will also say that I have been impressed with the outreach and education efforts and the dedication of resources for that for Seattle, for the District of Columbia, and for San Francisco as well. One of the things that hasn't worked as well for San Francisco is that they have very low penalties. And it's not to say that they aren't working with employers, and most employers don't
 don't mean the best and won't try to follow the letter of the law. It's just very difficult for them to have employers who are not taking the law seriously pay any attention to them when their penalties are so low. So their hands are tied as an enforcement agency in that regard because of their low penalty structure. And it's probably going to have to be something that we go back and try to change in the law, which is going to be a difficult process. Yes.
 So I would recommend that you don't take those steps and you try to get it right at the first. Thank you very much. Well, thank you very much. Other questions from Ms. Rodriguez? Thank you so much for being part of this process today. And you've added a lot of value and clarity to our deliberation. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move now to folks that have signed up to speak in addition to the ones that we've already heard from that were invited. I know that we probably still have a few of you here who would like to speak, so let's go to the sign-up sheet and see who remains. We have a total of nine people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Mikhail Shabazz, Christina Gage, and Crystal Elinsky. Let's go with Kasia Rutledge. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 I am Mikael Shabazz, Mr. Mayor and Council. Thank you very much for this opportunity. I am the director of OICO, the Oregon Islamic Chaplains Organization. We are a part of Mercy Corps Northwest Reentry Coalition, which is a faith-based coalition. We've been in place for about 15 years. We provide in-reach services in most of Oregon's prisons, as well as training
 reentry services for those who are post-incarcerated. And I'm here today to support, not only to support this change in code, but to promote it. I think it's a big step in the right direction for those who are facing the obstacles that we've all discussed today. The long list of
 Difficulties that people face, men and women coming out of these prisons, are endless. And I think it is very important that the education process that's being spoken of here extends itself to the intended recipients, i.e. it's one thing to inform the community outside of
 But we have to do the in-reach on the inside with the individuals who are incarcerated and will be coming out so that they know and understand that this is now a new opportunity or a renewed opportunity for them to find employment. And that there is some teeth in the code that will allow them to, God willing, find employment.
 obtain the employment that they're seeking to obtain. So I think it's very important that we go both ways with what's being projected. And I would like to also suggest, after listening to all this wonderful testimony, that the city regularly encourages inclusion, participation,
 diversity, inclusion, etc., etc., and it somewhat rewards those contractors who comply and who show good faith efforts in this manner. And perhaps somewhere along the line, as you're drafting all these rules and regulations and codes, etc., that could be considered as well, that when looking at particularly those who are contracting to the city, if they have the capacity
 the means of being vetted to see if they are actually offering employment to those who are applying that have criminal backgrounds and if they're offering employment to them and they're doing the outreach and they're making it known that they are open to do business
 with people and that they are not checking them off at the door, that they also be given some measure of recognition for doing so, and that would perhaps encourage them to be more forthcoming. The organizations that I work with, Miracles, for instance, HARP, which is another organization, Phoenix Rising,
 women of purpose. There are many organizations that are in the reentry community that can utilize this law in our arsenal when it comes to assisting people that are transitioning out of prison and into community life. So to wind it up,
 I'm here to support it. I think that this is a great move. I understand the dynamics that are taking place in the city of Portland. I think not only have the opportunity, you as the mayor and council have the opportunity to set the bar, but also to set the example. I've worked for the city of Portland for 20 years.
 outreach, recruitment, etc., programs through Commissioner Leonard, understanding how to bring people into the workforce that did not traditionally have access through skills, etc. So I think if the city itself
 bans the box and then sets the example then others will be more likely to follow so I just want to again thank you all for what you're doing it's very important what you're doing it's meaningful, it's very meaningful to people to know that they have a chance. Some of the individuals that I deal with and that my organization deal with we see them go in prison, we started our organization 15 years ago and some of them are still there on their way out
 And we see people that go in with many years ahead of them, and we see the life change. But when the life takes a change, it also needs to have hope that those changes can be executed. And bread and butter, bread and butter are core values and core issues. People have to be able to maintain themselves. We either work with them, let them know that they can work for us, or they have no other alternative than to work against us.
 And I'm a businessman also. I have a plumbing company, and it is my protocol also to bring into my shop those who have criminal backgrounds. And in today's society, I think most of us will find we have a little criminal in us and just haven't gotten accounted for. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. Hi, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Christina Gage. I work for a company called Higher Image, which is a background screening firm.
 I'm also a member of the National Association of Professional Background Screeners, and I'm here today on behalf of the NAPBS. NAPBS represents more than 825 companies nationwide, many of whom work with businesses within the city of Portland, providing the public with safe places to live and work. Our member companies are defined as consumer reporting agencies, and we're regulated by both the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
 We appreciate the opportunity to offer our professional insight on whether or not Portland should impose increased restrictions on criminal background checks above and beyond what's already regulated by the FTC under the FCRA as well as what's impending with HB 3025. And for the following reasons, we are going to say we oppose this change, of course, but...
 The biggest issue we're seeing is that this legislation is imposing itself on top of what's already in existence. We wholeheartedly support, NABPS wholeheartedly supports providing all consumers with safe places to live and work and any efforts at helping individuals find gainful employment and avoiding recidivism.
 And we believe that the ban the box in its purest form, as HB 3025 is presenting in the state of Oregon, will do just that. It's going to go a long way in helping to avoid the situation where employers are just tossing out applications. But we really need to consider what the imposition of additional changes to law would have as it relates to things that already exist on the books. So, for example...
 Portland's ordinance goes beyond Oregon's because it's requiring that we state the specific reason or specific criminal issue in the criminal history that's a problem for the employer. We already covered that under the FCRA. We're required, our employers are required, any employer that uses a CRA like ours,
 is required to go through a two-step process before they can either rescind an offer or decline employment. If they're using that, criminal history is a basis for that decision. So they have to go through the pre-adverse process, which requires that they already send the report in its entirety to the applicant. On top of that, then, they have to give a five-day waiting period for that applicant to come back with information that would clear up
 the history if there was a problem on it. It also gives a time period for the employer to consider whether or not that's relevant to the job.
 After that, then they can take action and do the final, what's called final adverse action, and go ahead and rescind the offer. Does that have to be in writing or can it be oral? It's in writing, and it's all actually regulated. Wording in terms of the whole process is regulated. Just to start with, with respect to the federal law you're talking about, has your experience been that there's a virtue in having it in writing, so there's no misunderstanding of the reasons? Correct, yes, absolutely. That's the exchange we have with the lawyer and the attorney.
 Trying to bring clarity to this. Absolutely. I mean, the whole process is governed by, you know, very specific rules. So, for instance, we have to provide also the, or the employer provides the FCRA summary of rights before a background check is even done. It's provided, again, at the point that the report is given to the applicant.
 I just want to, you've raised an important question, so let me just jump to the chase. Do you believe that our requirement is redundant in light of federal law? I'm getting, yeah, I'm getting there. Okay. Try to get there soon because we're running out of time. Yeah, so in addition to the FCRA. We're running out of time, so I wanted to give you a lifeline. So in addition to FCRA, the EEOC already provided guidance around individual assessment in 2012. Okay.
 And they provided that in the form of the publication called Consideration of Arrest and Conviction Records in Employment Decisions under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. And in that, they provide the same sort of criteria that you're suggesting, is that you look at the actual crime or crimes...
 the age of the person at the time, what's its relevance to the job being applied for. So all of that's already in place. But, again, the big difference is about timing.
 and the EEOC traditionally did not address the question of timing. They have another stick, by the way, if they think that employers are wholesale borrowing people at the front door. But it's about timing. Sure. And admittedly, the proposal on the table has a different timing than your industry enforces nationally. Have you found any particular challenges enforcing the Washington, D.C., law
 or any other, or Baltimore or any other city that has taken the approach that we're evaluating? Well, I think ban the box again in its purest form, which is saying we can't ask for, we can't ask on the application. And even the laws that go as far as to say you can't ask until an interview, like 3025 is doing, or if no interview, until a conditional offer of employment, right?
 I think that those, in our experience, have been wonderful, not a problem. But it's when you start implementing rules around kind of the subjectivity of me evaluating somebody's criminal record and what is it going to look like, how do I put it in writing in the right way, and we've already talked about it with the EEOC and how that should happen. So I think that's been our issue. So if the council ends up disagreeing with you on the policy matter, what I hear you saying is that there's a –
 There's a body of law, particularly at the EEOC, that you want us to review as guidance as we do our regulations. Is that correct? Correct. I hope you'd be willing to be involved in those regulations as well. That's very helpful. Good. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. And as we call the next group, let's include, please, Sonia Skvarla from Social Ignition, because I neglected to call her earlier. So why don't you call two more, Carla? Okay. Rod Sutch and Casey Jama. Hello.
 Not very long. I think we've only got six more. Good afternoon or good evening. Sonia, why don't you go ahead. Thank you. And if you did call my name earlier, I apologize. I was with a client who started a business. I failed to call your name earlier. Right. Okay. Perfect. All the better. So my name is Sonia Skavarla, and I run a social ignition. You've met me before. I was here at the last hearing at the Band the Box. I work with men who are incarcerated at Columbia River. We talk about entrepreneurial ventures and personal development.
 So I was there this morning, and through a conversation unrelated to this topic, I was meeting with a gentleman, Jamal, whom you know, and he's getting out in a couple weeks. And he said to me today, I'm going to read it from my note, My biggest fear is to be judged for the person I was at a point in time 10 years ago versus the person I am now. We talk about timing, about the ban the box, when are we going to ask?
 And I know that's what this hearing is about, and we all make a decision based on really wonderful evidence. But what I'm concerned about is what this comes down to is the intersection between public safety and discrimination. And regardless of when you ask the question, companies are able to automatically disqualify someone on the mere existence of a criminal record. Social Ignition and my work is about getting to the root issue. What are we scared of?
 What are we nervous will happen if we invite someone into our business that we have built? And I would like to see more conversations around that whenever you work out the details on the timing before or after any of those is to really sit down with business owners and say, what are you scared of?
 What are you nervous about? How can we address those things specifically? Whether it's more education, more programs inside, as the gentleman was saying earlier, more opportunities for people to meet and get to trust each other, that's what this is about at its core, and that's what I would like to see more of as you all decide on timing, when to ask the question, when is it okay for me to discriminate against you and the work that you've done before?
 Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. My name is Rod Sutch, and I'm reading this statement today on behalf of the Portland chapter of Jewish Voice for Peace. The Portland chapter of Jewish Voice for Peace strongly endorses the mayor's proposed ordinance to remove a barrier that stands in the way of many people seeking an opportunity for a second chance.
 This proposed ordinance is a significant improvement on recently enacted state legislation and will clarify for many Portland employers the importance that the city attaches to this initiative. Everyone deserves a second chance in life.
 This is especially true for people of color who face institutional barriers of discrimination and who have been disproportionately affected by our draconian drug sentencing laws in an era of mass incarceration. If you have not yet read Michelle Alexander's groundbreaking study, The New Jim Crow, we strongly urge you to do so.
 In it, you will learn not only about the racist and political motivations behind many of the get-tough-on-crime laws of the 1970s and 1980s, but also you will become more aware of the lasting impact that felony convictions have on people's lives. These include not only their ability to obtain work, but also to obtain housing and other social services.
 not to mention disenfranchisement in many states. Why should a Jewish organization weigh in on this issue? JVP is a human rights organization, and equalizing opportunities and employment application is one of the civil rights issues of our day. The civil rights movement of the 1960s lifted all boats.
 Civil rights legislation made it more difficult for Jewish people to be subjected to restrictive housing governance and tokenism in hiring and college admissions. At the same time, Jews in this country enjoy white privileges denied to communities of color. It is therefore incumbent on us to align ourselves with those still fighting discrimination and with those still seeking a second chance.
 Ban the box. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Jama. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and thank you for commissioners to allow me to speak in front of you. First of all, Mayor Hulse, I want to thank you sincerely for you putting out a statement in support of welcoming refugees and city of Portland.
 As a refugee, it meant to me a lot, and it meant to a lot of other folks. And I will encourage all of you other commissioners to do the same thing. We are facing a very difficult and challenging time. And again, my name is Casey Chama. I'm the executive director of the Center for Intercultural Organizing. CIO stands shoulder-to-shoulder with Urban League of Portland, AFL-CIO, and the Fair Short Coalition in support of Man in the Box. Thank you.
 We believe qualified applicants who have served their time deserve a second chance, a fair chance at finding employment. Borden has an opportunity to lead this issue. We support the ordinance to ban the box, and I encourage you to pass strong ordinance that includes a conditional offer requirement and does not include a loophole. For years, CIO members and supporters,
 Supporters have been waiting for progress here in Portland. We were heartened to see that the state bill passed, but know that it was only the first step to addressing this issue. Barriers to end living only perpetuates inequities. It challenges people and denies people to have fair chances to move forward. Personally, I can do a parallel comparison to my own personal experience.
 Fifteen years ago, I came to this country and this great city of Portland as a refugee. My resume was as blank as this piece of paper. All I want is someone to give me a chance, a chance to work, a chance to earn a living. When I applied and got my first job at the Double Trilogy Lawyer Center, you have no clue how I felt when I got that offer.
 It made a whole difference to me personally because I didn't know anybody. I didn't have any backup plan. I didn't know anybody in the city of Portland. I was alone by myself. And that first step, the opportunity that I was given, is all the folks here today are asking. Nobody's asking anything else. We want to give an opportunity for people. For that reason, I encourage you to ban the box. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Okay. Let's take the next group on the list. The last three people I show signed up are Marion Haynes, Jerry Jimenez, and James Taylor. Jimenez, sorry. Come on up. Hey, Marion, I think you're first. Okay. Good evening, Mayor Hales, council members. My name is Marion Haynes, and I'm with the Portland Business Alliance. Okay.
 I frankly feel like I'm in a very awkward role here before you today. As we have said from the very beginning when this conversation started, we support the goal of banning the box. We supported the bill in Salem to ban the box.
 So much so that when I was here testifying last time, I remember sitting next to Michael Alexander talking about how the Urban League and the Portland Business Alliance were in violent agreement about the goals that we were trying to accomplish here. And that's absolutely true. It's hard to disagree with a lot of what has been said about the impact that people have when they have a criminal conviction, what that history has been, how that impacts communities of colors.
 We don't disagree with that, and that is why we support the goal. It's why we understand the value of a job. That being said, our strong preference is to let the state bill work. We've heard a lot today about how it doesn't go far enough, and my question is, how do we know?
 The state bill hasn't been implemented yet. There's been no data gathered. We haven't seen whether there's a number of claims. We haven't seen whether more people are getting into jobs. That data hasn't been collected. The state employment department is in a position to do that. We just don't know. I think there's been a lot of good questions raised about how jobs will be determined, whether that job –
 fits into the matrix or not, whether a particular job fits into the public safety and business necessity requirement. That will be left up to rules. You know, I know some examples of ones that could fit into those rules, but we don't know the examples of all the jobs out there. Employers are in the best position to know whether that job has a public safety or a business necessity element that a certain criminal conviction, not every criminal conviction, but a certain one may be relevant to.
 you know, we heard from the Law Center that Alameda County found that that wasn't a problem with them. That was for their own positions. They banned their own box, not making a judgment for other private employers. So, again, I think there's been a lot of –
 A lot of good questions raised. We strongly believe with the goal. We think that what the state has done was a good step forward, and we ought to let that work be implemented. It's only going to be another month and a half from now, and understand whether that makes the kind of progress that we all would like to see on this issue. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening, Mayor Hales, commissioners.
 I kind of hesitated to come up, but first of all, my name is James Taylor. I've been a homeowner and resident of the city of Portland since 1981, and I've been a banker in the community since 1980. As I said, I hesitated to come up, but after hearing the testimony, and I do applaud the work that's gone into this code, and I applaud the Urban League for taking the steps that they've taken. However, I don't believe that it goes far enough.
 You know, when I hear that the Senate and the House had two versions, and I guess the watered one won out, and then I hear the city of Portland tackling the same issue, and I applaud you for tackling the issue, but I don't think it's gone far enough. If people that are incarcerated serve their time, they paid their debt to society. I think we can all agree upon that. So banning the box is the correct thing, but I think it should end there.
 People have paid their dues. Let's ban the box. There should be no additional steps that the individual has to go through to prove their worthiness as a citizen. I understand the business community is pushing for certain concessions, and I can understand why. And that's why you guys have proposed compromises to appease the business community.
 But individuals have paid their debts to society. There should be no conditional letter. And then let's find out what crime you did. What's the purpose? I mean, the deputy city attorney testified earlier, and she gave the example of a pregnant woman. If a pregnant woman came into an employer where she appeared to be pregnant, the employer is prohibited by law from asking her certain questions.
 Now, if that employer wanted to offer her a job and tendered a conditional letter of employment, can that employer then ask her how many kids does she plan on having? How much time does she plan on spending with her kids at home? It's against the law. We have laws. We have civil rights laws. We have employment laws on the books presently to protect discrimination in the workplace. But for some reason, when it comes to people of color,
 whenever there are laws, there has to be conditions put upon it. Sir, can I just correct you on one point? Yes. You're making a very compelling case, but currently people who have served time and are released to society are not a protected class. And the big difference in the area that you've described are race, gender, status, marital status, those are all protected classes. So a judgment has been made.
 that they're protected. And so one of the challenges we and everyone else has is how do you structure a system to provide some protections for someone who hasn't been determined to be a protected class? Your point about race is important because disproportionately the people we're talking about happen to be African American. Correct. So there's a disparate impact. But just to be clear, the difference between the pregnant woman and the person who is released from prison is,
 technically has to do with the fact that one is a protected class and the other one isn't. Point well taken. I agree with you. My point is that if you get to the point of a conditional offer, the employer has made a decision to hire that person based on their interview and their skills. So why does there need to be a question of their background? My premise is that if the person has paid their debts to society, why can't we let it end there? Right.
 That's my point, and I'm asking you to make the tough decision. It's a compromise to do what you've done, and I applaud you for doing that, but I'm asking you to make the tough decision and ban the box and let that be it. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Jerry Jimenez. I work for the City of Portland. I'm off the clock. It's past 5 o'clock.
 I am a survivor of domestic violence, childhood sexual abuse, being trafficked. When I first came back to Portland in 1989, I was trafficked by a gang full of people. I got charges on me because I was with that gang full of people, even though I was locked in a room every day and only let out at night to walk up and down the street.
 I then got involved with someone who did some drug stuff, and I was affiliated with that even though I wasn't doing it. I was going to Portland Community College to become an alcohol and drug counselor and got a felony conviction on drugs. That has been with me for 22 years.
 It means that whenever I apply for a place to live, like this summer when the investment firms bought my affordable housing and kicked us out and I had to go get a much more expensive place, wherever I go to move, I have to write a letter. What I found was interesting in that, I want to do more research, was it seems as though the inner ring of Portland, actually all of those management companies have come together and said, we're not going to take...
 felons no matter what. And then you go out further and further. By the time you get to Gresham, you can live, your felons can live out there. Luckily, I found a company in North Portland where I wanted to stay who said, we only check seven years back, so if you haven't done anything in seven years, you're good. But it was very disconcerting to see that folks are organized in that way because that's economic redlining.
 This is what we're doing, not we, the city of Portland, but the folks who work with us on this. Those are some of the issues that need to be addressed. I came to the city of Portland after going through those hard times, living in a shelter for 14 months, becoming a community organizer, a labor organizer, becoming the chair of Jobs with Justice, raising the minimum wage, which we're going to do again, yes, and –
 And working for the Environmental Justice Action Group, which defeated the expansion of the I-5 freeway through north and northeast Portland to protect people's loans. Organizing saved and changed my life. And now I'm here at the City of Portland as the program coordinator for the Diversity and Civic Leadership Partners, which many of them were here earlier and last night. Very proud of the program, and I want to thank you so much for supporting the program today.
 But what happened when I came here, I had three interviews, and I was afraid. I'm going to get through one interview, I'm going to have hope. I got to the second interview, I want to have hope. But I'm putting it in God's hands because I don't know. What if I get to the third interview and they say, what about this background check? But when I got there, my director, Amalia Alarcandamora, said,
 No, we know who you are. We know you're a great organizer. We know you know a lot of people, and that's what we want you for. What you did in the past didn't have anything to do with that. And so that type of looking and having redemption for people
 is what we're talking about when we're talking about redemption. Because when I signed up for class or signed up for someplace to live, I've always had to write a letter explaining that's who I was, this is who I am, and leave it in the hands of people that I don't know whether or not people are hopeful and believe in redemption. But if we don't believe in redemption and we don't believe jails reform people, then we need to stop putting so much energy into the jailing system and do something different. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And, Jerry, how long have you now been an employee of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement? Nine years this month. Thank you very much for your service. Thank you. Well, that's a great note for us to end our testimony on, Jerry. Thank you. We appreciate you. So I think we have some questions for staff, and I also have some suggestions about amendments. I have a question.
 Okay, well, what I'm going to suggest, I'm going to suggest two things about amendments. Based on what we've heard today, if my seconder will agree, I'm going to withdraw the amendment about oral notice, because I think written notice makes sense and it's not so great a burden.
 based on what we've heard here this evening. So I think you seconded that. I'm not sure who seconded that. I withdraw my second. Okay. And then I want to recommend that we add an amendment that requires that the proposed administrative rules come back to council for review. Seconded.
 So if the council, if it pleases the council, what I would suggest is because of the complexity of the multiple amendments that we ask staff to come back with a consolidated version of those amendments at our next hearing. That would be good. Can I make another request, Mayor? Yes. There was one.
 There was the lady who testified about the current state of federal law on background checks and the sequencing and the requirements. What got my attention, Judy, about that is that since that's already a heavily regulated area, I think the council would benefit from just getting a one-pager on what that current legal framework is and does it or does it not.
 help us in fashioning administrative rules. Can I just say a little bit of what I know now? The Fair Credit Reporting Act is for financial credit. There's still a question as to whether criminal history, my understanding is there's still a question as to whether criminal history is included in this rigorous test. So I will do exactly as you ask. If you just give us a one-pager. If there's a legal question, you'll let us know. If there's a scheme that's already been established, the –
 Obviously, if there was a federal rule that already applied that was a first cousin of what we're considering, we'd want to track it as much as possible so there was alignment. But I'd still be interested in knowing what the architecture of that is and to whom it applies. Commissioner, I want to –
 reinforce that it may be instructive, but it probably is not going to be entirely determinative because your ordinance is going to apply to a slightly wider class of employers than Title VII does. Harry, I have great confidence you'll make that clear in a memo. But even if it's, quote-unquote, instructive, it's instructive.
 And I'd just like to know what those requirements are so we understand soup to nuts what we're potentially asking someone to do. Good point. Other requests of staff. So were you intending to vote on the amendments then at the next hearing and have essentially a third reading of the thing? My suggestion is we close the public hearing at this point.
 that we ask staff to enroll the amendments that we've discussed and moved and seconded, minus the one that we just withdrew and plus the one that I just added verbally. But rather than asking people to vote on a package that's that complicated without having it literally in front of us redlined, I think it would be, again, on the measure twice, cut once theory.
 I'd like to close the public hearing and schedule this for adoption of those amendments and second reading at the same time. I believe we can do that, right? No, you can't amend a non-emergency ordinance within five days of its passage. So we can adopt the amendments next week and have second reading the week after that. So, right? Josh, you want to help us out here? Sure.
 calendar issues? I'm prepared to vote on the amendments. I thought they were pretty clearly laid out. Well, okay, we can vote on the amendments if you're comfortable with that. And then again, the council will have a chance to review the ordinance as amended when it comes back for second reading. Mayor, if the purpose of voting on the amendments now...
 is to give us a chance at a second reading to vote on it. Yes. That's the option. The council can always come back in a second reading and say that we want further action on amendments. But let's take a vote on the amendments just so we have something before us. All right. So then I'll accept a motion, or we'll take a vote on the amendments as moved and seconded, all of them.
 and again with an understanding that the ordinance will come back to us with those clarified and highlighted for adoption at second reading, or if the council does not please to adopt it at the second reading, we can continue after that. Let me just be clear because it's getting late.
 You've proposed a series of amendments, one you've withdrawn and one you've added as an oral amendment. That's correct. Do you still have an amendment? Yes, and it is also moved and seconded. Why don't we take up Steve's? Why don't we take up your package, Mayor? Okay. And then let's take up the oral amendment that you just made so we're clear. That's a good idea. So my amendments are the Scrivener's error to Section B, which merely changed the number 8 to the number 6.
 Um, the direct ordinance amendment number two, which changes directive C and requires that the city attorney negotiate an intergovernmental agreement with bully. Um,
 The change to the addition of a directive D that the city attorney provide counsel with a one-year report on claims by individuals or action by the attorney general. As amended in our discussion. As amended by our discussion, exactly. Those, and I've withdrawn the amendment about oral notice to the prospective employees. So those are my amendments. Yes.
 So moved. So let's take the Hales back. You had a number four about when your report on claims from the Attorney General. I got that one. Okay. I just mentioned that one. So those are my original amendments. That's right. I second, and I move those. Okay. So let's take a vote, please, on those amendments to incorporate those. Novick?
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And I also want to move that we add an amendment that will require that the proposed administrative rules be brought to council for approval. Second. Second. Any further discussion about that one? Straightforward enough. The staff will prepare administrative rules and they'll come to council for approval. Okay. Roll call on that. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 fish hi salzman hi hales hi and then we have commissioner novick's amendment that added for offenses not involving physical harm or attempted physical harm to a person uh to subsection oh three years would you explain that amendment again
 What this – this is 23-10-030E, which says that nothing in this section prevents an employer from considering an applicant's criminal history after making additional offer of employment except that an employer shall not consider an arrest not leading to an eviction, convictions that have been judicially awarded or expunged, or charges that have been resolved through the completion of a diversion or deferral of judgment program. Okay.
 And I wanted to add to that for offenses not involving physical harm or attempted physical harm to a person. In other words, if there's a diversion of judgment program for offenses involving physical harm or attempted physical harm, then I'm suggesting that it might be possible for an employer to consider that.
 Yeah, and that's fairly routine, that there be diversion for a drug offense or for drunk driving that doesn't involve an injury, that people are given the opportunity at plea to go through diversion instead. So your intent is that if it's that kind of criminal conviction, that that would not be worthy of consideration. Thank you.
 What about, sorry. So this sounds like you're drawing a distinction between violent and nonviolent? Yes. And your amendment actually expands the safe harbor?
 Yes. In effect, it allows an employer to consider charges that have been resolved through completion of a diversion or deferral if the offense involved physical harm or attempted physical harm. So it narrows the safe harbor. Right. It narrows the safe harbor. Otherwise, at least in theory, you could have a diversion. I don't know if this actually happens, but you have a diversion for simple assault. You get in a bar fight, you get convicted of assault, you go through diversion.
 And I don't know if this actually happens or not, but theoretically, at least, that could happen. And you're saying there was physical harm involved. No deal. It may be late here, but by creating that qualification, you're expanding the safe harbor. I just want to be clear. Okay.
 Depending on what we mean by safe harbor, I assume safe harbor means that, yes, there are some things an employer can consider. Safe harbor for the employer. Yes. And this would expand such a safe harbor. Yes. Then I'm prepared to vote on it. Okay. So I have a question. I've heard of questions about that. I'd like to know, do we know what deferrals are available for people who have done physical harm? I don't know the catalog. I know so.
 Judy knows some. Right. I know, for example, driving under the influence of intoxicants is one. Beyond that, I do not know. That's one specifically called out for diversion. So, in other words, you may have caused physical harm by your DUI. Well, that's something that we need to clarify, and whether there are others, as the mayor said, other...
 And another concern I have is with domestic violence, which I would assume that there are some diversion programs for, in which case the perpetrator may have specifically violence against a domestic partner, not necessarily a danger to the public at large. It doesn't say that. It says involving harm or attempted harm.
 Well, domestic violence can be a harm or a crime to the target. I agree. That's why I wouldn't be subject to this. That's what my point, and it's late, I'm not making it apparently very well, is that in that case the harm is only directed to a partner. There is not necessarily any particular risk of harm to the general public, particularly if the person has taken anger management classes or whatever. Therefore, they should still not be allowed to consider it
 I think from my point of view, it's propensity for violence. I don't think we can parse this out at 530. I think we should vote it up or down. And if we vote it up, we're saying if we support it, we're saying to Judy in the regulations, we'd like to see a thoughtful treatment of this, and then we have the final say on whether you've got it right or wrong. And we can also ask the police bureau and the district attorney and some others for counsel. I view Steve's as a broader statement of principle, and it has to be worked out in the regs. I'm okay with that, too.
 Okay. Are you content to take a vote on this? Then let's do, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? No. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. So those are our amendments. We've covered them all. You'll bring the ordinance back to us for second reading with those amendments included and with the questions that the council members opposed answered. Is this coming back just in a regular agenda next week? That's, yes. Okay.
 It doesn't have a time certain. It doesn't have to have a time certain. It's just on the regular agenda. Okay. Thank you all very much. We are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Thank you. I'm very proud of myself. An hour ago, I texted Rachel. I'm pretty good. Yeah, I...