Okay, ready, Sue? Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the November 17th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick. Here. Ritz. Here. Saltzman. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. Bear with us. We have some business left over from yesterday's regular council meeting because we were short of a quorum for emergency items and therefore have to act on some things today.
 briefly today that we had to set over. First of all, we have our consent calendar from yesterday. Were there any requests to remove anything from the consent calendar? We did have 1271, and that was Mr. Lightning. Okay.
 Okay, that's right. Okay. So we're going to take 1271 off the consent calendar and act on it separately. I think I need to pull. I think it's 1272. The lease extension? Oregon Pacific. Oregon Pacific? Yeah, because that's complex. Okay. All right. We're going to pull 1271 and 1272 off for separate action. And if there are no further requests, we're going to take a vote on the remainder of the consent calendar, please. No, thank you.
 Chris? Aye. Salzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's take 1271. Authorize leasing of commercial office space at non-city-owned buildings to temporarily relocate business operations during the Portland Building Reconstruction Project. Okay, we have staff here to very briefly explain this item. I think it was pulled off by someone who wanted to speak about it, and I'm not sure if he's here. Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Pauline Goebel. I'm the property manager for the Bureau of Internal Business Services. And the purpose of this ordinance is to request council to grant the authority to the director of the Bureau of Internal Business Services, the authority to sign and execute all leases and other contract requirements that will be entered into and related to the Portland Building Reconstruction Relocation Project.
 This is in lieu of submitting a separate ordinance to council for each individual lease, and due to the limited availability of space in the central business district, we are requesting this authority so that the leases can be secured without delay and potentially limiting the risk of losing available space.
 Okay. Questions about that? I just have one question. I just want to make sure that we're following our policies, our sustainability policy, particularly with respect to relocating our facilities, if at all possible, into buildings that pay a living wage to the service workers that serve those buildings. Well, we have the green building policy that we're following and we're,
 I was not aware of that policy. Yeah, I think we generally try to locate our space. We try to maximize our investment by relocating them in spaces owned by the city, yes. Right, but then we also try to locate in buildings that pay living wages to the people that clean and serve those buildings as security guards because we've extended that pay policy beyond our own employees to contractors. Okay.
 So it's important that we check on that. Absolutely. We don't have to answer that right now, but as you proceed, that should be a factor. And I have the broker here for our commercial team, so we will make sure we follow that as well.
 Definitely. It would be good if at some point you could come back to us with a full list to report what was done. Sure, absolutely. Okay. And is the person who pulled this off as a citizen here? I don't think he is. Mr. Lightning, right? Okay. Other questions for these folks? Appreciate what you're doing. It's a big job. Thank you very much. Let's then take action. I asked. I'm sorry. I don't think there's anyone that wants to speak besides him. Fritz. Hi. Hi.
 Gossman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you, and good luck. It's not an easy market out there. Okay, 1272. Authorize a lease extension with Oregon Pacific Investment and Development Company for the Bureau of Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Office space at 1800 Southwest 1st Avenue. Got it.
 so you're going to stay where you are yes basically we're going to be the same hutchinson bureau of director of that pdnr yes we had done some research with the help of colliers international who does the work for facilities for relocation we're going to like to stay where we are we still have some issues of whether or not we're going to move into the portland building so instead of moving now and later potentially into the portland building we're going to stay in place the lease will be extended to october 2020
 which would be about the time if we do move into the Portland building, we would move into the Portland building. Okay. Questions? And then Dan. I have this poll because I must recuse myself due to a potential conflict of interest on this. I'll have to abstain. He recuses himself. Does it still pass? Even though it can't pass without four. So we're going to have to carry this item over until Commissioner Fish returns, which means we're going to carry it over until next week, right? No crisis there?
 All right. Carrie, I'll catch you next week. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Yes, but you don't have a conflict of interest. Oh, so you're not here next week. Oh, sorry. Okay. We're going to carry it over until we do have a quorum, so we'll figure that out. Quorum minus Commissioner Saltzman. Okay. That's it for the consent calendar. Now, going back to the regular agenda, we had 12 –
 1282, I believe, to vote on. 1282. Yeah. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with eligible partners, parties for sharing of emergency operations center personnel within the greater Portland metropolitan region when personnel are unable to get to their normal reporting location. Okay. We conducted a hearing on this yesterday. There's no one here to speak today.
 If not, then we will take action. Let's take a vote, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Salzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And then the next one that we had to carry over for vote was 1286. 1286, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for construction of the Colonel Summers Park Parkway.
 splash pad and Portland blue installation project anyone want to speak on this item Alright, then we are ready to vote please. No good. Hi Great little project in a great park
 1287. 1287. Amend contract with Dow Architecture LLC in the amount of $3,500 to complete work on the Colonel Summers Park gate design. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, let's take a vote, please. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1288. 1288.
 1288 design and assign the Mount Tabor annex from Portland Parks and Recreation to the Portland Housing Bureau for development of affordable housing Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? If not, let's vote please I
 hi I believe that cleans up the items that we couldn't act on yesterday and have now gotten taken care of so let's move on then please item which is 1292
 1292, amend the official city zoning map, planning and zoning code, and transportation system plan to carry out Portland's 2035 comprehensive plan, establish a new community involvement program and committee, and amend related codes.
 the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and Plan Map to coordinate policies and programs. Good afternoon, Eric. Why don't you walk us through what's before us today, and then we'll get to testimony. Sure. Thank you, Mayor Hales. This is a continued discussion of the package of proposed zoning code and zoning map changes that the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended to implement the recently adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
 The purpose of this hearing is to give you all a chance to hear feedback on the amendments that you have contemplated to that package. As you know, you haven't voted on those amendments yet, so they're tentative at this point, and we're looking for feedback from the folks testifying today. Next week we have time scheduled on the 22nd for you to deliberate on what you hear today and potentially take a vote on those amendments. Thank you.
 A few logistical things. A reminder that in August you held quite a few hearings, or a couple hearings, sorry, September you held a couple hearings on the package that the PSC recommended that include zoning code and zoning map amendments, a new community involvement program, updated public trails map, and the next stage of the transportation system plan.
 The PSC recommendation was made after they had held hearings for approximately a year in 2015 and 2016. Over the past few weeks, we've worked with each of your offices to identify potential amendments that you may be interested in, and we compiled them into a memo on November 4th, which we released last week. That's been put in the record. We've been receiving testimony over the last year.
 week on those amendments, which we've also delivered to your offices today and earlier this week, the two bundles of that testimony, and we'll be giving you a final one after this hearing. We're also placing at this time some technical analysis into the record, which is in the box. We completed the transportation analysis of the zoning map and want to make sure that that documentation is in the record. Okay.
 And that concludes my introduction. I think assuming that we get through the oral testimony of the people signed up today, we would recommend that you close the written record tomorrow at the end of the day. All right. Questions for Mr. Engstrom?
 Thank you very much. So we're going to open the public hearing part of this testimony. Many of you may have been here before. If you haven't, you need to give only your name when you come up to speak. You don't have to give us your address. But it does help if you reference specific property by address or amendment by the amendments in front of us. Just be as clear and specific as you can so that we make sure we know exactly what you're recommending. Secondly,
 We're going to try to hold testimony to two minutes apiece just because we've got a lot of people that want to speak and we want to make sure we hear from everyone if that's at all humanly possible. If you're here on an item that has a number of people speaking about it, if you can organize yourselves to have a spokesperson, that's great. Quantity matters less than quality at this point. We've heard a lot from a lot of people. Did I get it wrong? Anyway, the quality of what you say matters more than the number of people who say it. How about that?
 so make your point please but you don't need to make the point again if it's been well made before you with that i think we're ready to proceed we do have a planning and sustainability commission member here and maybe more than one and we always give our overactive volunteers a little bit of courtesy so mr smith and anyone else from the psc who's here welcome
 Thank you, Mayor, Members of Council. I am Chris Smith. I am Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and I'd like to briefly speak to you about two of the amendments. The first is parking minimums. The PSC did not take up parking minimums in our consideration of Task 5, the comp plan implementation. We did, however, look at it in the context of inclusionary housing, and you will see our recommendation on that in a letter to you, I think, at the end of this week.
 In inclusionary housing, the recommendation came to us to use waiving parking minimums as an incentive for the affordable units. After hearing testimony from the housing advocates, the developers, and even from the Housing Bureau, we heard pretty uniformly that waiving minimums
 Parking minimums entirely, as the amendment in front of you with the comp plan would do, actually creates a landscape that makes inclusionary housing more feasible all around. So waiving those minimums, essentially reverting to the pre-2013 regime, as this amendment does, we feel is a better solution. So you're actually going to have a couple opportunities to vote on parking minimums, so I would encourage you to vote early and often to repeal them.
 Could you just explain that, though? But then we're required to give something as an incentive for the inclusionary housing. So if we don't have any minimum anyway, won't we have to give something else as well? Well, when you hear a recommendation, we're going to tell you that you should be basically providing incentives to make the developers whole at this phase in the development of the inclusionary program. But I think another way to look at it is that the –
 Removing minimums improves the overall economics of housing projects, period. So that kind of raises all ships and I think may – I can't say we've run the economics, but may make the gap that you have to fill with incentives smaller.
 Female Speaker 1 Yeah, I'll need to send that to Clark. Clark G. Okay. Then the second amendment that I'd like to speak to you about is the bikeways on Northeast 7th and 9th. And we recommend the 7th. I see you have an amendment to sort of designate both of them and wait for the project development. And certainly we would agree that the public should weigh in on the project development. Do however feel that there is a right answer.
 Seventh Avenue is the better place for bikes because of the topography, the connectivity. It will connect to the bikeway coming out of the central city. Ninth has the issue that it runs square into Irving Park. And while the Parks Bureau has been a good steward of our trail system, they generally have not been enthusiastic about building bikeways through urban parks, and that would be an issue to resolve.
 We did hear a lot of testimony from people who wanted ninth. Their motivation was primarily,
 don't let the cut-through traffic come deeper into our neighborhood. And really the challenge in project development will be to find a way to tame that cut-through traffic. And I think comp plan policy points very strongly to that, both clearly prioritizing pedestrians, bicycles, and transit over single occupancy vehicles, and saying that traffic diversion is a priority.
 appropriate tool to use to put cars where they belong. So if we wind up with ninth as the answer, I think we will have failed on a policy basis to achieve our goals. So I just want to leave you with that thought. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. I don't think I see any other PSC members here. Okay. Then let's move, please, to the list of folks that have signed up.
 That's true. We do typically give a courtesy as well to parents with small children or folks with disabilities. So if you fit one of those descriptions, you feel welcome to come up early, either in the first group or just thereafter. So go ahead. First, please, Ann and Paul Niederjang and Tony Jordan. They'll be followed by William Henderson, Alan Kessler, and Gail Hoffnagel. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 My name is Anne Niedergang, and I'm here to voice my support for Amendments 12 and 13 of the COP Plan. This is relating to a property around 50th and Hawthorne. I support staff's recommendation for the CM2 zoning proposed for this site. This amendment will allow for higher-density housing, which will increase the potential for affordable housing in the future...
 The site also sits at an important intersection of two major transit streets, allowing for less car-dependent transportation. Additionally, the zoning would match the other corners of the intersection, as well as that of the main Hawthorne Commercial District. I am also in support of Amendment 13, requiring a D design overlay for the site and the CM1 zoning to the east of the parcel.
 Thank you. Welcome. Paul Niedergang. And rather than repeat what she said, I'm just going to say that I think the site is an important place in the community. It's at the end of the Hawthorne Boulevard or the beginning, depending upon which way you're coming. And I think it's an appropriate location for higher density zoning sites.
 And every step along the way, we have choices to make, and I think it's important to make the choice of going towards higher density and building up rather than out. So I encourage you to support the CM2 designation for this site. Okay. Thank you both. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tony Jordan. I'm from Portlanders for Parking Reform.
 We urge you to pass Amendments 34 and 51, eliminate minimum parking requirements, and require TDM. There are many very good reasons to eliminate the requirements. They make our housing crisis worse. The 2013 parking mandate suppressed housing supply. Buildings with exactly 30 homes may have had 45 or 50 homes. Parking requirements prevented the building of housing we sorely need at the time it was most likely to be built. That will have lasting harm.
 The inclusionary housing package depends on new housing supply. It will be much less effective if we retain these regulations. That will have lasting harm. Parking is expensive. Tenants pay for parking for the life of the building, whether they use it or not. And while it is certainly true today that most Portlanders drive, it is increasingly less likely that Portlanders in 2035 will. That parking will remain, and it will have lasting harm.
 We face a climate crisis that is easy to ignore but not for long. Arctic temperatures in October were 25 to 50 degrees above normal. Portland is making an effort to accommodate climate refugees, but we should not accommodate their cars. We must make immediate efforts to reduce our own auto dependency. Parking requirements are a fertility drug for cars.
 and our policy breeds more traffic. That will have lasting harm. The reasons given to retain the requirements don't hold up to scrutiny either. Minimum parking requirements don't ensure access for the disabled. PBOT has programs for that. They don't provide low-income folks with access to opportunity. More housing does that. They don't even ease parking congestion, but parking permits can do that. An arbitrary one-size-fits-all ratio cannot provide adequate parking. Only a market for on-street parking will find that balance.
 I urge you to spend some time reading the testimony supporting this action. These aren't form letters, and there are well over 100 of them. The testimony is given not in the self-interest of those giving it, but in a hopeful desire for a future Portland where housing and economic opportunity are available to all. It is testimony driven by a concern for our environment and an understanding that it's far past time to get serious about climate action. It is testimony yearning for the political courage and will to stop pretending that we can build our way out of parking congestion and traffic. Please pass amendments 34 and 51. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you all. Mayor, I think the bar has been set for the rest of this hearing. I challenge anybody to come up with a better line than parking requirements or fertility drug for cars. Don, shoot. Not me. Thank you. I already get that much in in two minutes. Okay. Welcome. Next three, please. William Henderson, Alan Kessler, Gail Hoffnagel. They'll be followed by Miriam Erb, Brad Baker, and Kelly Francois. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I would like to go first. William Henderson Hi, my name is William Henderson. I'm a board member of the Portland Independent Chamber of Commerce, or PCOC. We're a coalition of businesses and community leaders who are working together. We believe Portland can do better. And we would like to urge council to adopt amendments 34 and 51. I'm not going to rehash Chris Smith's arguments. I'm sure you've heard them before about the impact of parking minimums on housing affordability.
 Sounds like at this point the council understands those things. So I'd like to give you a little bit of a difference perspective instead, which is how our current parking policies are hurting businesses. It's clear, I think you can ask just about anyone in town, that our current parking policies are failing. We could double down on minimums and try to build our way out of them, but I doubt that would be successful. And as Chris pointed out, that would only make our housing affordability problems worsened.
 Businesses are hurt when someone needs to drive and can't find a parking space. When they need to show up for work or when they need to come for an errand and they can't find parking, that hurts those businesses. Businesses are also hurt when we don't have the walkable and bikeable neighborhoods that we are all striving for. They need that access, whether it's vehicle or otherwise. We should be providing that for them, and we're failing to do that right now.
 So we really encourage the adoption of both of these amendments because we view it as the two shoes. We think in 2012 only one shoe was on, and that is part of why we continue to have this parking crisis. Only by having more efficient management of off-street and on-street parking are we going to find a better solution for everyone, including these businesses. Thank you. Thanks.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Nice to have you. I should add also, sorry, that our testimony was joined by over 35 businesses in Portland. That included retail businesses, food and beverage, real estate developers, technology companies. So a really broad group of businesses asking for something to be done here. Thank you. Thanks. Just want to say I appreciate having your business organization getting involved in these issues. So thank you. Absolutely. May I approach, please? Yes, please. Come on. Thanks.
 Welcome. So I think most of the people in this room feel that we're in a different world than we were in a week ago. Everything is accelerated. Everything is more serious. Oh, just put your name back on the record, too. I'm sorry. My name is Alan Kessler. And it's time to be bold. I think that one of the reasons, and Commissioner Fritz mentioned this, one of the reasons some of you may be thinking about holding this off until inclusionary zoning is you might view it as a bargaining chip. Right.
 that you might need to give to developers to get that deal done. I would encourage you to be as bold as San Jose was. San Jose gave nothing. They gave nothing. They went to the California Supreme Court. They got a unanimous decision for them. They went to the Supreme Court and cert was denied. I think Oregon could be just as bold. There's no reason to view inclusionary zoning as,
 as anything different from exclusionary zoning. If we're willing to downzone a neighborhood to R7 and lower the building capacity without worrying about what we have to give back, we should be willing to do the opposite of that. We should be willing to bring more people into our communities without worrying about what we need to give back to developers. And it seems like if you read through the
 I gave you a law review article, but also the decision is fantastic. So if you read through the decision, you'll understand the logic they used to get there, and I think there's a very good argument that we could be bold. That said, even if you don't believe that Oregon will go the same way or you think the new Supreme Court will grant cert in reverse, there's another reason to think that you should vote early and vote often on this.
 This has to go through process. If you pass on Tuesday this amendment, you pass the comp plan, it's going to the state. It's going to come back. There's not going to be any right that's granted until that process is over. Inclusionary zoning happens a lot faster.
 So you can use this twice. You can use this as a bargaining chip if you want to. And the benefit we'll be getting either if no right is assumed, that benefit, or if a right is assumed, at least the benefit for the period between inclusionary zoning implementation and comp plan implementation. So I don't think this is a good reason to not support Amendment 34. I have six seconds. I support Amendments 11 through 16 as well and the TDM 51.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Just as a point of clarification, I believe our legislature said we have to give incentives, so it's slightly different law. Understood. Welcome. Hi there. My name is Gail Hoffnagel, and I'm the vice president of the Selwood-Moreland Improvement League, commonly referred to as SMILE. I've also been a committee member of the city's parking committee.
 Two years ago, I spearheaded a survey amongst the Selwood-Moreland neighborhood on a variety of issues to see how neighbors felt so that the Selwood-Moreland Improvement League could actually advocate for them. We had about 700 responses, which is a pretty good number for a survey like this. And the number one concern was a lack of reasonable minimum off-street parking.
 are increasingly congested, narrow streets, but pedestrians, including children, walking to and from school at risk of injury, and that's a major concern for us. In fact, on November 4th, a woman with a baby in a stroller were struck on the Mark Crosswalk at the intersection of Milwaukee and Bybee, resulting in the mother having a broken collarbone.
 and that's in a marked crosswalk. We support and are hopeful that Measure 51 will improve this situation. However, we currently don't know what the effects will be until they've actually been implemented. If we want to really accommodate increased density, reduce housing costs, and foster use of mass transit, we need new parking regulations to be evaluated before parking minimums are eliminated. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 And if I can ask, if you give me your handouts, then I'll be able to be sure to get one in the record. And if you hand them to me first, I'll distribute them. Thanks. And the next three are Miriam Erb, Brad Baker, Kelly Francois, followed by Ted Labby, Mary Vogel, and Jessica Engelman. Sure. Just hand them to Steve. We'll pass them down. We'll pass them on. We'll pass them down. Thank you.
 here you go you need one good afternoon my name is miriam herb and i'm a board member of the selwood moreland neighborhood i'm also a member of the orange committee selwood moreland opposes amendment 34 because it is a last minute proposal that does not help the measured and inclusive response that we need as all of our neighborhoods struggle with this difficult issue of parking
 In our neighborhood, we are trying very hard to listen to the voices of those neighbors who strongly advocate protecting our resources for the good of all of us and of future generations, as well as to the neighbors of all ages and backgrounds whose livelihood and ability to function includes some need for parking.
 Besides the safety issue that Gail Hoffnagel mentioned, our businesses need parking to survive. We want to be a destination for the rest of the city as well as a pleasant place to live. We understand that we have to minimize parking to accommodate increased density, reduce housing costs, and foster use of mass transit.
 We have the residential infill project, the recently adopted inclusionary zoning, and the recently passed affordable housing bond that should create more affordable housing. We strongly believe that the city should give these new tools a chance to work before eliminating minimum parking requirements. Thank you. Thank you. I should add that we have over 1,200 units in the pipeline in our neighborhood.
 thank you very much welcome good afternoon i'm brad baker um i'd like to discuss why i'm uh for removing minimum parking requirements um i live in an apartment downtown i have a parking spot with my apartment i don't own a car it feels like you know then several people that i know don't have cars it and it feels like a waste of space and a waste of money to have this resource when
 the builder could have used their money for more apartments or some other project that would have provided utility to people other than an empty parking spot. And I think this problem is only going to be more exaggerated over time as people in my generation are less likely to own cars. We're more likely to use ride sharing as autonomous cars come in the near future. It removes the incentive to own a personal car. So I think as time goes on, parking is going to be less and less of an issue. So I think...
 Having a minimum requirement for parking spots is building for a problem that's going to go away, building for the past. We should be looking towards the future. We should be promoting alternative means of transportation. We should be promoting biking, taking the bus, walking, anything other than cars. We need to really wean off of cars. So I think removing the minimum requirement will help us move away from cars. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. My name is Kelly Francois, and I decided to approach testifying here today in a different way of getting out and asking anybody who was opposed to my point of view why they were opposed to my point of view. I didn't want to talk to people that agreed with me. And one of the things that I clearly found is that everyone agrees that
 that we want less cars in our neighborhood, and that we want affordability. I was at a neighborhood meeting last night, and one of the women brought up who was there said, most of us in this room would not be able to afford to live in this neighborhood if we were moving here today.
 So removing parking minimums is not going to solve those problems, but it is part of a progressive package that will get us towards solving those problems. So that's why I am in favor of removing parking minimums as part of –
 package that's gonna get us there including parking management which is something that I want to bring to my neighborhood in addition to removing parking I think we can do both I don't think there's has to be one before the other we can do both thank you thank you all very much next our Ted Labney Mary Vogel Jessica Engelman they'll be followed by Chris force cough and
 Kiana Floyd and Steve Stanich. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello again. My name is Ted Labbe. I live at 3011 Northeast Hoyt Street in the Kearns neighborhood, and today I'm offering testimony on behalf of DPave, a Portland nonprofit. Thank you.
 I'm here today to ask you to vote yes for comprehensive plan amendments 34 and 51, which would remove minimum parking requirements at sites close to frequent transit and to implement a comprehensive transportation demand management system in these mixed-use zones.
 Minimum parking requirements, as you've already heard, are incrementally increasing the cost of new housing and thereby contributing to the housing affordability and access crisis. When City Council implemented the parking minimums in 2013, they were intended to be a temporary measure. With our new comprehensive plan, our new Centers and Corridors parking toolkit that you'll be learning about in December, and our proposed TDM program, as well as other measures, I think you can say that we've outgrown the need for these parking minimums.
 Understand that parking is a hot button issue for many, particularly those in the neighborhoods that live close to transit corridors like Southeast Division, North Williams and others. Parking is an emotional issue for many, including me. The historic 1880 Labby Building at 2nd and Washington in downtown Portland, was the first four-story commercial building in the city and the first built with an elevator. In 1934, it was demolished and replaced with a surface parking lot, which remains to this day. So I get that emotional issue.
 The decisions we make today have far-reaching consequences for the future of our city.
 Automobile parking both on and off street already occupies a glut of space within our city. We don't need more. What we do need is more thoughtful and active approaches to managing the abundant supply so that other worthy things like affordable housing, transit access, street trees, and safe passage for bikes and pedestrians can be provided within and close to our mixed-use corridors. Let's get our parking strategy right, do away with minimums, and better manage the supply with TDM.
 we look forward to working with the city on further refinements and implementation of the comprehensive plan thank you thank you good afternoon mary good afternoon my name is mary vogel and my business is plan green i'm a member of the downtown neighborhood association land use and transportation committee as well as the planning and programs committee of oregon walks i'm also an active member of the congress for the new urbanism but today i'm here only on behalf of myself
 As a planning consultant whose primary concern is to make our city more resilient in the face of climate change through policies that lead to greater walkability and hence better urban design and urban form, like others before me, I'm here in favor of Amendments 34 and 51.
 As I testified last week for the residential infill project, I strongly believe that the city should eliminate parking requirements for all future infill and manage parking with pricing requirements.
 You know, besides the mixed-use zones. I was delighted to find recently Portlanders for Parking Reform, an organization founded and largely run by young people like Tony Jordan, who you just heard from. The people we should be planning for, in addition to the residential incumbents that you so often hear from.
 and discover that they shared my perspective. In fact, I would go even further to say that I've never understood why a city that is largely without alleys would require off-street parking at all. In any case, not to rub salt in our wounds, but the Obama White House released a toolkit last month to provide policy recommendations to ease housing shortage and improve affordability in cities today.
 And as you know, the report said minimum parking requirements have a disproportionate impact on housing for low-income households, and by reducing parking and designing more connected walkable spaces. In any case, I will, you know, submit the rest of my comments in writing, but I did want to say that I believe that...
 And reducing the minimum requirements will also lead us toward a happier city and a healthier city where more people walk from their cars, the 10,000 steps that's recommended that we take each day. So in any case, thank you. Thank you. For the opportunity. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, Jessica Engelman. I'm co-chair of Bike Loud PDX. I'm also a board member of the Hossford Abernathy Neighborhood Association and the Southeast Uplift. However, I'm here speaking on behalf of myself today.
 Quite frankly, I don't have much to add in terms of parking minimums and TDM that hasn't already been said. So I'm just here to try to balance out for the NIMBYs who are upset that their parking-free lunch might soon be over. And also plus one to what Chris Smith said on bikes on 7th and not 9th. That is all. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay. Take the next piece. Next three. Chris Horskoff.
 Kiana Floyd, Steve Stanich. They'll be followed by Madeline Kovacs, Clint Culpepper, and Jason Eslas. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. Go ahead. I'm Chris Schwarzkopf. I'm here to address the number 38 on your bikeway, bike path along Columbia River. I'm part of the HOA of the Hayden Island Association.
 mobile home park, or actually manufactured home park. Mobile home is kind of a misnomer in our park. They aren't mobile. Once they're there, they're there for permanent. And if this bike path were to be continued, it would probably wipe out 100 homes. With the housing crisis as it is now, we wouldn't want
 to make the park less viable by taking out 100 or more homes for a bike path that it does not have any access to the Columbia River. There's a 30-foot drop. If you wanted to make a bike path, maybe you should make it more like downtown Portland where they made a dock out into the Columbia, but there's no way to make it viable across the manufactured home park. We'd like that to be entered into –
 it would be stricken from this plan thank you thank you very much good afternoon welcome thank you mayor hills and Portland City Council the dynamic duo is back
 My name is Kiana Floyd. I'm third-generation owner of Amalfi's Italian restaurant located at 4703 Northeast Fremont Street. We testified here at the last meeting about our block and...
 across the block of properties along 47th Street. And first and foremost, I just want to say thank you. Thank you for your newest recommendation of CM2 zoning for Amalfi's restaurant. Really, really appreciate that. My family appreciates that. Thank you. And I'm really just here in support of my fellow comrade here, Steve Stanich and Stanich's restaurant and the rest of the two blocks.
 that wasn't recommended for the CM2 zone change. You know, if possible, it would be nice if all of the properties along 47th, or excuse me, Fremont Street, could get the CM2 recommendation, you know,
 And really just, again, here in support of Steve and the rest of the properties. And I want to thank you again. Really appreciate the recommendation and as well your time on this matter. I know it's been a busy week, a very busy week for you guys. So just really appreciate it. And by the by, our restaurants are the only two restaurants on Fremont Street that actually has a parking lot with ample parking. So parking is great. Come and park there. Yeah. Yeah.
 So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and city council members. It's been quite a month for Stanich's. We were here a month ago and talking about that Wilshire Little League matters. Stanich Field matters. Customers matter. Property owners matter. Stanich's has been there since 68 years.
 I mean, 68 years. I made a joke last time we were here, should I bring the Little Leaguers here? And Mayor Hale said that he understood the field, et cetera. What I believe also matters very strongly, and I told you I didn't understand the three neighborhood associations, et cetera, but what should matter is I just, on behalf of our family, just wrote four very large statements.
 checks to pay our property taxes. The four stanages live within 10 blocks of stanages.
 We are in the neighborhood. A lot of the people that have been granted CM2 live in Vancouver, Washington, live all over the place. I think it's important that property owners matter. And thanks to George and Gladys Stanage, we've got four Stanages that live right within 10 blocks. I also believe, I'm very happy, I believe that pizza matters.
 But so does hamburgers. And you can have both. And it's been a heck of a month for scannages.
 A month ago, a cab driver sent a guy from the airport. We weren't on the 10 best burger list to be ranked cheeseburgers because we don't advertise. We give our money to Little Leagues, et cetera. So we were the 11th, and in August, we won the best cheeseburger in Portland. On October 29th, and they'll have a national deal, on October 29th, we were awarded cheese.
 one of the ten best in the nation. Now, we'll only be on there for a year because next year, just like being businessman of the year, they'll send me a bill for $5,000 to get back on their list, and I'll say, no, we're not going on the food channel. We do have a parking lot, and if you don't feel like a burger, I'll go up and get you some pizza.
 All right. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Yeah, thank you. We need that CM2, though. Thanks. We're still struggling over exactly where to draw that line, so thank you. Thank you, guys. All right. Appreciate you. Thank you. All right. Let's hear the next three folks, please. Madeline Kovacs, Clint Culpepper, Jason Eilis. They'll be followed by Janet Lee, Matt Ferris-Smith, and Charlie So. Good afternoon and welcome.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Novick, Fritz, and Saltzman. My name is Madeline Kovacs, the record. I'm the coordinator of the Portland for Everyone Coalition. We ask that Portly City Council eliminate parking minimum requirements in mixed use and commercial zones, numbers 34 and 51 on your docket. Taking a guess at the proper size of a garage and then actually mandating that guess
 simply isn't the right way to solve the problem at hand. With smart parking permits, meter programs, lender underwriting standards, many new buildings will likely still include on-site parking regardless of what the code minimum says. Thank you.
 The point is to allow for flexibility, not mandate and assumption. The city's goal should be to leave the door open to entrepreneurs to develop new housing and retail business models that support low-car life. Parking minimums such as this makes this impossible.
 You will also not necessarily strengthen Portland's inclusionary housing policy by preserving parking exceptions as a carrot. Whether developers are saving money through a parking exception with the inclusionary housing policy or saving money due to lower parking minimum requirements, it makes no difference to their ability to provide more affordable units. The inclusion rates will be set.
 What might happen, however, is that less housing might be built overall, both market rate and, because the inclusion rate is a percentage of the total, affordable units as well. What might also happen is that low-income residents who do score some of those units might still be subsidizing their neighbors' parking.
 I will conclude this letter as I usually do when advocating on behalf of one of our partners, which is to reiterate the Portland for Everyone Coalition will continue to support those land use policy and funding decisions that can provide plenty of affordable and diverse housing types in all Portland neighborhoods, prioritize housing for historically and currently underserved populations, prioritize housing over people, over housing for cars, and
 you know the list. And clearly you don't have enough reading material, so I gave you one of my favorite articles. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Thank you for having me here today, Council. My name is Clint Culpepper. I'm a resident of the Sabin neighborhood. I am employed by Portland State University, and I do serve on various advisory committees, but I'm not here representing them today. I'm the father of a two-year-old, and I come here to talk about his future and the livability of the city of Portland. Thank you.
 Our affordable housing crisis has been exacerbated by reserving shelter for automobiles rather than human beings. And the future of this city relies on how we take care of the humans that live here, not the automobiles. I'm asking you to vote yes on Amendments 34 and 51.
 i'd also like to echo chris smith's comments about amendment number 39 and the prioritization of northeast seventh in that northeast bikeway and
 and also to voice my very strong support of Amendment 40, which provides a bicycle and pedestrian connection to Gateway Green. And as we move forward with the Portland Parks Project there, it's very important that we connect the elementary school that is just on the other side of I-205 to that park and to those resources that we'll have available. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you for having me. My name is Jason Eastloss, and I'm actually on vacation from Santa Monica, California. Welcome. But I spent four actually formative years in Portland, a graduate of Reed College, and I cover land use and transportation issues for a nonprofit news source in Santa Monica and Los Angeles.
 And I'm here to speak about 34 and 51, in part because Southern California is a bit of a cautionary tale about parking minimum requirement mandates. A lot of the concerns that people have expressed, traffic and livability issues, I can tell you from firsthand experience, mandating off-street parking requirements doesn't fix them. Southern California has, I think, some of the concerns
 worse traffic on the West Coast, and a lot of it is exacerbated by a
 an outmoded form of planning. Um, and I tell you a lot of us down South are very jealous of a lot of the great work that you're doing up here in Portland, um, in terms of sustainability and livability. Um, also speaking as someone who has done a lot of, uh, housing advocacy in Southern California, um, mandated, uh, off street parking can really be, uh,
 burden to lower income households who disproportionately don't own cars and take public transportation to work, myself included. And I think that looking at 34 and 51, these are incredibly progressive approaches to, you know, the next generation.
 generation of urban planning, and I hope to be able to write a story about how Santa Monica should follow in Portland's footsteps. So thank you for listening to me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Next three, please. Janet Lee, Matt Ferris-Smith, and Charlie So. They will be followed by Joe Cartwright, Dr. Danny Dumdang, and Patricia Dumdang. Welcome, everyone. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Janet Lee. Thank you for your time, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm here today switching gears to Amendment 19, which takes place in the Woodstock neighborhood.
 Amendment 19 has been requested by landowner Don Hanna, extending his block to include all commercial zoning designation. So his property is on Woodstock, extending south to Martins and between 52nd and 51st.
 My husband and Mark Goodan and I own the joinery building on Woodstock and adjacent houses between 48th and 49th, again extending to Martins. As the long-term property owners in this area, we have been in support of and involved with the growth, prosperity, revitalization of this area. We're requesting to have the same CM2 zoning to our block.
 And, as you can see on the map, it would be consistent with the commercial zoning extending to Martin Street for many of the businesses already. The eventual commercial mixed-use development of this block could help with Southeast Martin Street, which is currently not even usable for pedestrians or bicycles. It's a mess.
 And having more commercial property in the area would be helpful since the availability now is almost, I don't know, very low. Can't find much to rent. And I'd be happy to answer any questions. Otherwise, the property addresses are included here. That's very helpful. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 good afternoon welcome good afternoon thank you my name is matt farah smith i live and work here in portland and i'm here to encourage you to support uh mms 34 and 51 and i'll be honest i really don't care at all about car storage per se if people want to have a private space to store a car that's perfectly fine with me i just see no reason to force people to pay thousands of dollars extra in housing costs if they don't want or need a private space to store a car
 So, no, it's not about car storage that I care about. What I really care about is giving people the option to pay for car storage or not. I care about giving people the choice to pay thousands of dollars less in housing costs. I care about allowing our cities to grow in ways that support walking, biking, and transit rather than cementing auto-centric development into our city's fabric. And I understand it can be tough for people to see new housing go up that does not include off-street car storage. Right.
 For people who live near that housing, that might mean they start paying for car storage that they used to get for free, either through time looking for an available public curb space or by paying money for a permit if their neighborhood chooses to offer that system. So as city council members, you have a choice here. You can adopt a policy that helps keep housing affordable, helps us meet our goals for walking, biking, and transit, and helps us reduce our carbon impact costs.
 Or you can relent to pressure from people who are accustomed to getting a public resource for free and who want to protect the public's valuable curb space for their own use. And I'm not here to demonize anybody. Again, if people want to have a private space to store a car, that's fine. But as a city, we should recognize that not everybody wants or needs private car storage and that there are strong public health and environmental reasons for supporting people and choosing to forego private car storage.
 So please, let's give more people that choice by removing parking minimums in our mixed-use zones. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Charlie So. I'm here on behalf of Portlanders for Parking Reform. We strongly urge you to pass Amendments 34 and 51, eliminate minimum parking requirements, and require transportation demand management.
 I'm a renter, and I live on North Williams Avenue. I have good access to many transportation options, such as transit, bike share, walking and biking, that I feel no need to own a car or drive. Recently, a new apartment building opened up on my street with 268 units and 237 underground parking spaces. I was told by the leasing office that a one-bedroom unit costs between $1,500 to $1,800 a month,
 but they are offering nine months of free parking. Is free parking really what pro-lenders need right now? An underground parking space costs $55,000 to build. Parking requirements force developers to oversupply parking, which they then give out for free to recover the cost and recover the cost by raising every tenant's rent.
 It is disturbing to me that when more and more Polanders can't afford housing, the city chooses to prioritize car storage over housing affordability. In some ways, parking requirements end up raising the income requirements for living in transit-accessible neighborhoods.
 Parking requirements also work at cross-purposes with inclusionary zoning. Inclusionary zoning needs new housing supply to add affordable housing units, but Portland's 2013 parking mandate has already suppressed housing supply. Using parking requirements as incentives for inclusionary zoning will only limit it
 its effectiveness. We have parking management tools at our disposal that are better at managing on-street parking and don't exacerbate Portland's housing crisis. Please pass Amendment 34 and 51. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. We're on number 21, Joe Cartwright, followed by Dr. Daini Dumdang and Patricia Dumdang. Will they come up? Thank you.
 It will be followed by Myla Madal, Greg Schwartz, and Joe Angel. Courtright, go ahead while they're coming up and get us out. Thank you, Mayor Hales, members of the council. For the record, Joe Courtright. I'm an economist here in Portland. I work for a think tank called City Observatory, which does research on urban policy issues. I also am a member of Portlanders for Parking Reform, but I'm speaking here representing myself in a personal capacity here.
 The question I think we're all asking this week is how did we get in this situation? And more relevantly to Portland, it's how did we get in a world and a city where we're so dependent on automobiles with all of their negative consequences, crashes, health and safety, air pollution? And how did we get in a situation where housing affordability has become such a difficult problem for so many Portlanders? Now, a lot of the factors are completely beyond your control.
 But there is one factor that is directly in your control, and that's parking requirements. Parking requirements have the effect of driving up the rents for every Portlander who rents a house by a good estimate from a study done by Sightline Institute is between $200 and $250 a month. So the effect of parking requirements is to make every Portlander pay more for their rents, whether they drive or not.
 And it creates incentives for people to own and use and store cars far in excess of what they would do if they were left to their own devices and their own choices. So I think parking requirements are something that drive up the price of housing. And therefore, you ought to definitely support Amendments 34 and 51 because they would reduce parking requirements and have the potential to contribute to reducing rents and costs for all Portlanders.
 If somebody proposed to you today a measure that added $200 to $250 a month to everyone's rent, you would vehemently oppose it. But in fact, that's the system that you've inherited, and that if you don't adopt that amendment, you're allowing to continue. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. My name is Dr. Danny Damdang.
 I am the right-of-morn speaker, so I came here in case you didn't receive my wife's email. So, you know, I own too many properties in this city and different cities. So we can know that the city wants my property on 113A South Illinois North.
 And next door, my son will be talking and my daughter-in-law. So to change the zone to be CE, so I would like to be approved, no matter neighbor agree or not, my property. And I think I have a right to. I love this country because of that.
 We are free to speak, so they can speak what they want. I pay a lot of property more than Donaldson. I pay every year, you know, property tax. So I think the city of Portland, I live many places. I live in Vancouver, Canada. I live in Seattle. We are a crisis of housing. So I support city to have this zone as a CEA.
 So we can help in homeless with it. You are a mayor. You serve and serve well. Thank you so much. You have problem with homeless. I know that. You side so hard. So I support that our property should be CE soon. And then I like my wife's elite leadership.
 The proposal that I sent to you in case you need it. Yes, you can just leave it with Sue and that way we'll go on. Okay, that's all I will say. And thank you so much. Thank you very much for coming. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Patricia Dundang. This is my husband, Danny. Thank you for hearing us. And our property is 1138 Southeast Reynolds. And the consideration is that it remain in...
 I'm sorry about the numbers. I'm not really clear. I think it's R2.5, or if it would be changed to commercial zoning. So we've lived there for 36 years. We've raised our kids and our grandkids. Our son lives next door at the other property being considered. It's 1126 Southeast Reynolds, these two. Also, we own a property across the street, 933 Southeast Reynolds, and we have some renters living there who are great people, or who are great people.
 And my daughter also lives in the Reynolds neighborhood, so this is our neighborhood.
 The value of our property years ago, we basically refinanced our property. We took the money. We helped build a hospital in India. So we're very civic-minded people. Our goal here would be to have the opportunity to keep it residential or to go commercial. My church just closed, and we were able to...
 leave it for Habitat for Humanity. I mean, it's just a fantastic thing. My goal is for fantastic things, including ourself, to have the opportunity to go commercial if it be a good thing and you know,
 I support that. Also, there's a coffee shop directly behind the house that just opened up. And it seems to me the neighbors like it because they use it. Yes, go coffee shop. So there are people that want to have, I mean, in my neighborhood, I've recognized people want to have more going on for our neighborhood. We've got a gas station on the corner, and it's just so ugly the way that, you know, they've maintained the frontage there.
 But basically, the area is kind of commercial already. My 933 property is directly across from that. I see that it would be just as beneficial to have commercial as residential. And we're getting older. I don't think I'll be living there too much longer because there's a lot of stairs. So I'm kind of planning for that, but I would like the opportunity. Another look. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. That's new. Okay.
 24, Myla Middall. 25, Greg Schwartz. 26, Joe Angel. They'll be followed by Bob Lefebvre, Eric Hovey, and Mark Whitlow. Good afternoon. Welcome. I would like to start whoever's ready. Go ahead. Joe, you ready? I'm going to let you go first. I'm ready. I'm always ready. Go ahead, please. I'll go real quick through the – you have – I've given the clerk –
 Four letters. You also have gotten all four letters by email from me yesterday. And just put your name in the record at the outset, Joe. Joe Angel. Thank you. The first three letters, I think, are pretty routine, so I'll go through them quickly. Two of the letters have to do with, please don't put me into a nonconforming use. One of them is on Janssen Beach, and one of them is on Greeley. In both cases, the proposed zoning...
 is not CE. CE is the only zone in the proposed new code that is auto-oriented. I have to have CE in order to run my existing businesses. So I'm asking that those two properties be properly zoned CE, both of them. One has been an auto-oriented site since 1926, and
 The other one has been a restaurant, and next to the I-5 freeway, it's the only way it exists. There's just not enough population on Jansen Beach for it to survive without I-5. The last one is the New Dutch Brothers over by the Metro Center. There is a proposed trail there, and it is a trail that leads to a dead end. The railroad just put in a new track alignment.
 So the bridge to nowhere has come to Portland in the form of this proposal. Please take the trail designation. It needs to come up the slope to the metro building and fit into the rest of the bike and pedestrian system. That's a new one. I want to flag that. We've had a number of questions about the trail map, so I don't think I'd heard that one before, so thank you. Okay. So the real reason I'm here is I would like to –
 just summarize please summarize um we would like to have you choose and i would like you to read this letter carefully option b as it relates to drive-through facilities
 It's very important that we not be put into non-conforming status. And even though the proposal says that drive-throughs will be allowed, when you read the other part of the code, when you come in for a remodeling, it pops you into the non-conforming status of the code, which takes away a bunch of things that makes you, in essence, not able to do a drive-through.
 Okay, we'll check on that. That understands the difference between intent and regulation. So thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hi. My name is Milo Madal, and I live in the Brooklyn neighborhood. Get a little closer if you could to the microphone. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, I live in the Brooklyn neighborhood, and my home and my in-laws' home on Reynolds Street was they want to change it to a CE, which I'm in favor of.
 I believe some people in the neighborhood are not, which doesn't make sense. We have two houses, a vacant lot and a gas station right off McLaughlin and Holgate near La Coretta, near Numerous. I believe they're CM1. They're already zoned as commercial, as well as vacant lots down the street. There's a bar. We're kind of on the edge of the neighborhood. I believe they're saying that it's making the neighborhood smaller and...
 It doesn't make sense because I feel like we're already commercial. I already feel like a commercial residency there, considering we don't have a huge neighborhood around us. So I am in favor of it. And your property is the gas station at the corner and then the property to the east of that? My in-laws are next to me, and then we have my house, and then down the street is another one of the properties that we own. So yeah, as well as my sister-in-law. So we have four properties in the Brooklyn neighborhood.
 thank you very much thanks good day gregory schwartz i appreciate the opportunity i'm here for 38 about the uh i agree that the bike path should be taken off the tsp plan for hayden bay with the provision that there'd be no uh easement on anywhere on the island specifically the hayden island mobile home park where i live
 my property is on the river and a 30-foot or any easement and my house being within that footprint, you'd be empowering any builder, contractor, and disenfranchising myself as a constituent because my house would now be on an easement and the owner, the builder, or whatever you want to call it, would no longer have to, in good faith, negotiate to have my place removed.
 If a mobile home park, this is a special one of 440 units, you'd remove from negotiations 100 and some of your constituents. I think if someone wants to put a bike path in part of their plan, and as we watch the construction going on in Vancouver, that's something that someone else can figure out in another time. But to empower somebody by creating an easement by the city
 You're destroying our opportunity to live there and to negotiate in good faith at the time. So I ask you to please include that there is no easements for anywhere on the island. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. Thanks very much. We've got number 38 on the list. Thank you, sir. Some of the ones we're considering. Thank you.
 Okay. Number 27, Rob Lefebvre. 28, Eric Hovey. 29, Mark Whitlow. They'll be followed by Mary Mitzel.
 Michael Robinson and Rick Johnson. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Bob Lefebvre and I'm a co-founder and broker with Commercial Realty Advisors. I wanted to speak on Amendment 28A on drive-thrus. I urge you to support Commissioner Saltzman's Option B. The Option A from the
 PSC makes an arbitrary distinction for zoning east of 80th Avenue that makes no sense. Option C from Mayor Hales would still prohibit all new drive-thrus for coffee, banking, pharmacies, and groceries in the CE zones. I think we all can agree drive-thrus do serve elderly, handicapped, and families with small children. And they're also critical to the business sales when people put them in. And actually they do reduce the need for parking, which we heard a lot about today.
 I also urge you to re-look at where you are applying the CE zoning. The comp plan policies say we need to facilitate the retention and development of grocery stores, provide an adequate amount of land to accommodate grocery stores at all levels of affordability, and especially in underserved areas of Portland. Grocery stores need thousands of customers to support them, the vast majority of which come by car.
 The existing grocery stores have asked for CE zoning, which is the only auto-accommodating zone. And also, we proposed dozens of other sites that might lead to redevelopment so we can add more grocery stores into some of the unserved areas. And these are virtually all ignored at the PSC level. The result will be it will be harder to redevelop existing grocery stores, and we submitted a number of case studies.
 New stores, especially affordable ones, are less likely to redevelop, excuse me, to develop in underserved areas. And there will be millions of unnecessary vehicle miles traveled per year as urban residents drive to the outskirts to shop for affordable goods. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you. My name is Eric Hovey, economic and development consultant. I'm speaking on behalf of the Retail Task Force in support of more explicit recognition of the auto-accommodating function of the CE zone and in support of Commissioner Saltzman's Amendment 28 Option B proposal related to drive-thrus, both to reduce nonconformity. With respect to the
 of the zone purpose statement be revised to more explicitly state that CE is the place for auto-accommodating uses to facilitate new development and redevelopment. We further request CE zoning for existing auto-accommodating areas and for existing grocery stores. Adding more auto-accommodating zoning is needed to avoid food deserts and nonconformity for existing grocery stores. This approach is also consistent...
 with policy, planned policies 6.1, 6.F, recognizing that 80% of trips now are by car, allowing for a transition over time as market conditions together with transit patronage and increased density of development take hold, especially in East Portland.
 I'm also speaking in support of the Option B proposal to permit drive-thru facilities in the CE zone while continuing to allow existing drive-thrus in the CM1, 2, and 3 zones to expand and rebuild. Our research makes it clear that drive-thrus, including quick service uses, are important to auto-dependent customers. As for parents with children, seniors, the disabled, and even tech-savvy millennials.
 Drive-thrus also are integral to continued retail business innovation. This is the case for pharmacy as well as grocery pickup operations, trends that are likely to continue in the years ahead. We urge your support of the Saltzman Option B proposal. I thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Mayor, members of council, Mark Whitlow. Again, I'm here on behalf of the Retail Task Force and the International Council of Shopping Centers. I've given you another letter, the first point of which is to support, again, Commissioner Saltzman's amendment option statement.
 B to 28A for drive-through facilities. We like that as well as the other reasons stated for the reason that it does the best job of preventing these existing facilities from becoming nonconforming in a way that they can't remodel, rebrand, or redevelop.
 So nonconformity has been a big issue of ours for the whole time. But skipping over to grocery stores, we're finding some solutions for the nonconformity to drive-thrus, but we're leaving our grocery stores, particularly our middle market groceries, Fred Meyer Safeway Albertsons. They have 15 stores. They've asked to have CE zoning. They didn't get but one of them.
 They're all becoming non-conforming. That doesn't help our existing food desert problem. These people need to redevelop it just like anyone else, rebrand every five years, update the ADA standards, etc., so on.
 They're right between two hard places and they need your relief. You really don't want to make them preserve the status quo for the next 30 years and not be able to put new capital in there and maintain their auto dependency character. So the letter states all kinds of reasons, but it's hinged primarily on the policy, plan policies that we had you
 work with you to adopt earlier 6.16F, which is, again, avoiding nonconformity, 4.85 grocery stores, and 6.67 retail development. Those things, you've already made the decisions to do a better job in the mixed-use zones project than the PSC has recommended that you do. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next, please.
 Number 30, Mary Mizell. 31, Michael Robinson. 32, Rick Johnson. They'll be followed by Ty Wyman, Carol Chesarek, and Susan Lindsay. Welcome. Good afternoon. Whoever would like to go first. Actually, I'm not Mary, and that's my wife, but she's asked me to speak instead. So...
 I'm a Hare Krishna devotee, and I'm saying this because there's a saying in our scriptures that says that the king is a representative of God. So in this particular circumstance, you're as close to being the king as I can understand. So I offer you my respects as a result of your honorable position. So I don't have a...
 political agenda, except to say that if you can call on the name of God as much as possible, that will assist everyone in making the correct decision in all circumstances. There's another aphorism that says, īśvaraḥ paramaḥ kṛṣṇaḥ. He said, Kṛṣṇa is the supreme controller over everything. Everyone's controller over something, but Kṛṣṇa is the controller over everything. So if we give Him that opportunity,
 to act, then we're making the correct decision no matter what the rationale or the passion behind the decision is. So actually, I'm just speaking on a particular piece of property. My wife and I own a property on 82nd Avenue. We understand that's a mixed-use civic corridor. And somehow or other, under the comprehensive plan zoning map,
 Our property was included with this change in the property next to us, only it wasn't included. The CE was assigned to the red. It wraps around you there? It wraps around us. So then we're simply requesting to continue the CE zoning to include our parcel as well. This is Sandy Boulevard. What's the address or what's the cross street?
 The address is 3844 Northeast 82nd. It's between Sandy and Fremont. Thank you. And are you leaving that copy with us? Or you can, but we've got the address. That's all we need to work from. No, I'm happy to leave these. Yes, just leave it with her, and we'll get copies that way. Thank you very much. We appreciate your thoughts. And we need all the help we can get around here. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council. My name is Michael Robinson. I'm here on behalf of Providence Health and Services.
 Providence supports Amendment 51, that's the TDM amendment. We may support it for different reasons than others we've heard talk today, but we think it does two important things. One, it provides clear direction to the bureaus that are going to be working with the public to develop the administrative rules that the folks who have an interest in the outcome of those rules are involved in the process. We think that's important not just for the institutions but for our neighbors as well, and we appreciate that clear direction the amendment offers.
 The second thing we appreciate is the portion of the amendment that says that the administrative rules ought to effectively implement
 the land use regulations and make sure that you have appropriate development review standards. One of the things that we and the other institutions have testified about is our concern that through this very long process, we're going to end up with something that while well-intentioned will result in more land use appeals than we need and difficult standards to meet. So we think Amendment 51 does a good job of directing staff to avoid those outcomes.
 In any event, we appreciate it being before council today, and we hope council will adopt it when we deliberate next week. We thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thanks for working on it with us. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. My name is Rick Johnson, and I live in southeast Portland, and I'm here to testify against removing the minimum parking standards.
 The position that this is going to make housing more affordable is a red herring. Market rate is what determines rents. What is driving Portland's housing rents is the fact that 100 people a day are arriving in Portland looking for housing. Demand far outstrips supply, and we'll continue to do so for a while. While agreed that affordability must be addressed, blaming it on parking minimums is wrong, and removing them only decreases the livability in the surrounding neighborhoods.
 In Inner Buckman, where I live, we still have many families with children. Families still use cars, and I fear that a lack of parking will drive them out of the inner city neighborhoods. The lack of families changes a neighborhood's character, taking out the joy and innocence of children. Presently, Portland lacks the necessary transportation infrastructure, making it possible to efficiently move a family from A to B on public transit. For this reason, we need the parking elements to remain, and we need to make sure that we have the right parking elements for the entire neighborhood.
 and a slower transition out of cars to take place. With less than two weeks of notice on the amendments, the lack of public process around this issue is appalling. No local studies on the effects of removing parking minimums, only the parking study prepared by Dan Evans.
 and Associates, a civil engineering and traffic firm that stated the following of our department dwellers. 28% do not own or lease cars. The remaining 70% own at least one car. Furthermore, putting this in as an amendment at the last minute shows a lack of public debate and scientific input, and I wish we had more time to debate this. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Number 33, Ty Wyman. 34, Carol Ciesarek. 35, Susan Lindsay. They'll be followed by Doug Klotz, Ernie Bone, Richard Uren. Okay, Mr. Wyman, I think you're first, if you're ready. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mayor, members of the Council. Appreciate very much your time and attention this day. And I don't intend to take up all my two minutes. Ty Wyman here as attorney for Dr. Nada Razuli. Dr. Razuli owns the property address, the 6141 Southwest Canyon Court. Accordingly, I rise in support of Amendment 23. Very much appreciate Commissioner Saltzman for your
 For putting it on the list, the amendment 23 would rezone 6141 Southwest Canyon Court to our five that would correspond with a plan designation change that you approved earlier this year from our 20 to our five.
 We understand that staff opposes the proposal due to concern about access to transit. And interestingly, we addressed this issue directly in testimony during the April-May plan amendment process. And I refer you now to my letter of today.
 that demonstrates the proximity to transit. It is a well under 15-minute walk
 that is supported by sidewalks and crosswalks. The subject property is improved with a sidewalk along one of its frontages. A question was raised about improvement of the second frontage, and we submitted testimony from traffic engineer Chris Clameau to that effect, that upon development of the site under R5,
 sidewalks and indeed full half street improvements would be required. Importantly, we submitted that testimony this spring. We didn't hear any response from PBOT, so we're not aware of any rebuttal to a point that we've already made in the record. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Council. I'm Carol Chesirek. I'm currently serving as Forest Park Commissioner.
 President of Forest Park Neighborhood Association, and I'm here today on behalf of the neighborhood. I submitted email testimony earlier today with background information and letters from affected property owners, and you've been handed a subset of that information. I'm here to ask you to approve Amendment 48 and delete another trail to nowhere from your major public trails map.
 I want to thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz for moving this item forward. If you look at the second page of the handout, there's a copy of the Metro Westside Trail map with some additions that I put on this morning.
 And just so you're aware, the challenge is how to get from the purple squiggle on the right, which is the trail in Forest Park, to the purple-brown squiggle on the left, which is the trail in Washington County. The issue is this has to go through private property and unincorporated in Multnomah County, and we don't have a final trail alignment there yet.
 The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners requested further study because there are a lot of different issues affecting this trail alignment. One of the most important is that the proposal would pass through a set of private properties that unanimously oppose the trail alignment.
 and those are outlined in red on your map with the property owners dropped in there. Those property owners also have a homeowners association, and the HOA CC&Rs prohibit public trails. So you need a majority of that HOA to support a change, and we think that's very unlikely to happen. The yellow box on the map points to the trail segment that we want removed. Okay.
 The metro fervently insists that they do not condemn land, private land for public trails. The proposed major public trails map currently includes this trail segment from Skyline down Northwest Saltzman Road. City policy requires that those trails be built. But what you get is a trail that leads on the street down a very steep hill about a quarter of a mile into a dead-end cul-de-sac without any identified practicable trail connection or outlet.
 So what happens? Your trail user follows the trail and you can't see where you're going at the top of the hill. So you walk down and down and down and down.
 And then where do you go? There's no sign to tell you. There's no outlet. So what do you do? You hunt around. It's supposed to be here. And what you end up with is frustrated trail users who are going to have to turn around and go back up the hill, but probably not until they've poked around on that private property trespassing looking to figure out where this trail is supposed to be. And some of these property owners have valuable livestock.
 So we don't see any upside to including this trail segment on your public trails map now. The street is a public right-of-way. It's not going away. You can easily designate it for this trail later if we do figure out a connection for it.
 So I'm asking you to please approve Amendment 48 to remove this trail segment down Northwest Saltzman Road. We don't believe that the trail should be designated until you've got a final trail alignment and a right-of-way connection. We don't need another trail to nowhere. We would be happy to work with city staff to identify a more feasible route. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, Ms. Linsley, welcome.
 Mayor Hales and commissioners, I'm here to make a little amendment of my own because I was here recently testifying on the mixed-use zone project as a member of that committee. And at that time, I was unaware that a change had happened that I want to make sure that I bring to your attention. Okay.
 We had a really great process with that committee. And the minimums that were set for the CM2 in our area in the inner southeast were 45, 55, 55 being with a bonus. Well, with the new discussions around inclusionary zoning, that seems to have now, everything has now shifted so that everything's 55, and then there's an extra five feet for the CM2.
 for the ground floor. So now everything's kind of turned into a 60-foot apartment building, which could conceivably really turn into an enormous number of canyons through inner southeast and even into the residential areas, because if you look at where the CM2 is, there's some CG that goes upstart.
 And so I have a concern about that. So I want to make sure that those bonuses stay true bonuses and aren't just sort of waved away with this idea that since everyone is going to include some form of affordable housing that we don't have to worry about the height anymore. I think we do have to worry about the height. And second, of course, I have to say something about parking. And what I want to say about parking is this, that
 With all due respect, Mayor Hales, I think this is not really the best thing for the city. I'm very concerned that removing the parking minimums, that what's going to take place is that it's going to hurt working people, the working class. What we have seen is in the apartment buildings that have been built without parking, we have not noticed that
 that those units are more affordable. In fact, they're just as unaffordable as ever. And I'm very concerned that if you remove this, that you are in fact removing an important negotiating piece and that we're setting up a city once again with inequity so that some neighborhoods of means and affluence will have apartment buildings with parking and that the other neighborhoods will not and that this will not benefit apartments.
 the whole, but in fact will benefit the few. And so I'm very concerned about this. And while I appreciate and have listened very carefully to all the testimony of many young people saying that this doesn't need to happen and all of the reasons for that, having a residence very close to Revolution Hall, I can assure you that young people in droves are still driving cars and are still parking everywhere. And we hear this time and time again, concerns about parking.
 I know that many working class people are not here today, are not represented, but I wanted to speak out for them because our transportation infrastructure is just not there yet to support those people, and they deserve to be able to get around just as much as everyone else can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. And next, if we could have, please, Doug Klotz, Eric Vaughn, and Wendy Chung, and they will be followed by Richard Uren.
 Mike Connors and Jill Warren.
 Good afternoon. This is the last hearing on the comp plan, right? Maybe. I support Amendment 34 to remove parking requirements. What's your name on the record, Doug? Doug Klotz. And we've heard a lot about the housing crisis yesterday, and this amendment is another tool we can use to solve it. This does not ban parking. It just allows the developer or building owner to decide how many parking spaces are necessary.
 how many parking spaces are called for. And when we implement the Parking Centers and Corridors Parking Toolkit, which you're going to hear about on December 22nd, that will be the key to making this whole thing work because then if you're building a building, you'll know, hey, my tenants are not going to be able to park on the street necessarily. And with that in mind,
 the developers may decide that they need more parking or not. They can make that decision based on the market. So it goes along with that. It's not going to just throw everyone out on the street. The building owners will make that decision when they build.
 So we need that as well as the parking toolkit, which is not up for today yet, and also TDM in Amendment 51. I support option C for drive-thrus. I think we have plenty of existing drive-thrus. This option allows them to stay and be rebuilt, and it's the best compromise with new drive-thrus only being allowed for quick vehicle servicing, which makes sense. You have to bring the vehicle to have it serviced.
 I support all the mapping amendments in southeast Portland, numbers 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16, number 39, and the 7th Avenue bikeway. And I hope that we can get specifically the parking minimums removed with number 34. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. My name is Eric Bone. Thank you for the time. I own Metalwood Salvage in the Cully neighborhood at 4311 Northeast Prescott. I purchased the property early this year, and I was kind of late in the comp plan as far as I'm concerned. So two of the lots...
 The 4311-4313 and 4323 are going to be rezoned CM1. The third lot that came with that purchase is lot 4337, which is not slated to be rezoned. And I'm asking that it be added to the rezoning to be included in the CM1 with the other two properties for future development, just for the ease of future development and resale.
 Thank you for the time. So the first two are currently designated CM1? They're going to be designated CM1 with the new plan, yes. And what was the proposal for 4337? No proposal. It was just staying R7, I believe. But you'd prefer that to be CM1 as well? Yes. So they're all zoned the same. Yeah. All right. I get it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales. Commissioners, I'm Wendy Chung. I am here on behalf of NWDA and specifically to testify regarding Amendment 25A pertaining to the RH FAR changes in the Alphabet Historic District. You'll see that on your screens, I think you have a PowerPoint presentation. Hopefully that worked out. I had a little bit of a technical glitch here. But I'm
 I just have a few points to make that are
 in the written testimony that you have there, but the primary thing I want to point out is that we have originally asked that all the RH 4-1 be removed from the alphabet historic district, which is really only half of the district. The PSC recommended half of what we asked for, which is just the part north of Gleason. If you look at this map that's in your packet and also on the screen,
 It really represents a minuscule part of the overall buildable land in Portland. All the historic districts in their entirety collectively, including the alphabet historic district, only represent 2 to 3 percent of all the land. We're talking about a quarter of one district that we're asking to be not down zoned, but right zoned from 4 to 1 to 2 to 1.
 Therefore, we believe that option, if we have to choose among the options, option A, which is what PSC had originally recommended, we believe is the appropriate option. And I'll tell you why. Option C is basically spot zoning. And you'll see in the map that it basically is three parcels that may be spot zoned. Mayor Hales, in all due respect, I understand that there's a concern about affordable housing and the potential speculative project that might come in there.
 But I think it might be a little bit of a short-sighted, again, all due respect, to spot zone a particular site in favor of a speculative project that may or may not happen when we're implementing the 2035 plan that's going to be in place for 20 years. So I would also point out that whether or not it's affordable, this council, this body has been very specific about what can and can't be built in the historic district, and it needs to be compatible.
 And you'll see that the parcels that you were talking about are surrounded by landmarks. In fact, there's 21 historic buildings all the way around this parcel. And this is not just a phantom concern. You'll see that the developers came in and talked to us at NWDA, and you'll see in the top right-hand corner of your screen what they've proposed as an early concept drawing. It's a six-story building.
 Because they think they have four to one and this is precisely the kind of confusion that we were trying to avoid By right zoning the district So I mean this this body specifically said three four to six story buildings are too big for this parcel and so what we're asking is that that this council can consider amendment if you are to do an amendment and
 I guess option A would be the best. We would prefer that the entire historic district be zone 2-1 for the reasons that we want this parcel, zone 2-1. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Next, please. Number 38, Richard Yuen. Number 40, Mike Connors. Number 41, Jill Warren. They'll be followed by Peter Dundeeang, Dona Dundeeang,
 Linda Degman. Good afternoon, welcome. Thank you. My name is Richard Uren. I live in the Historic Alphabet District. I appreciate the opportunity to testify in favor of option A also. My detailed reasons for supporting this option are contained in the letter I emailed to you this morning and in a letter I wrote to you last month.
 I support option A because it clearly states that zoning provisions in a historic district override the base zoning of the area in which the historic district is physically located. I support option A because it affirms the importance and need for historic district zoning. I support option A because it does not allow for spot zoning in historic districts.
 And finally, I support option A because it, of the three options available, is the only one that addresses the past, the present, and the future by asserting that a historic designation and its preservation is something of real and acknowledged value to the city. I urge you to support option A also. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 good afternoon my name is jill warren and um i own two historic properties in the alphabet district um 1815 northwest hoyt and 607 northwest 18th and um i again support changing the far from four to one to two to one um and that's because a lot of taller buildings are creeping in that really don't fit into the character of our neighborhood um and
 I'm right across the street from the Ballou and Wright building, and the owners successfully petitioned to get their value of their building decreased from $3 million to $145,000, claiming the restrictions make their property less valuable and that they're unable to sell. So they are switching gears and partnering with the Northwest Housing Alternatives to provide 160 units for elderly seniors on a lease agreement
 while demonizing the neighbors claiming that we're prejudiced against senior housing, and that's just simply not the case. My concern is because they have a lease agreement with this nonprofit, what would happen if they chose to terminate that agreement and bump up to market rate housing? There's a theory that seniors don't drive, but if they change the status of the tenants, parking will be a nightmare. Yeah.
 We all knew what our buildings were when we bought them, and I feel a responsibility to caretake that historic, unique character of the Alphabet District. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mike Connors here on behalf of Hayden Island Enterprises, the owners and operators of the Hayden Island Manufactured Home Park.
 I'm here to testify in opposition to the bike path proposed on the park property. We understand that there's an amendment to remove that bike path from the Hayden Bay side, and we're asking for a similar amendment for the bike path on our property. I think there's both, actually. We've testified at length.
 about the concerns that we have with bike path, which are both immediate impacts on property values and refinancing, the uncertainty and anxiety that it creates for both the owners and residents of the park,
 as well as the long-term impacts, which would include if and when the bike path is built, taking out numerous manufactured homes on the park and effectively rendering the park non-viable as a manufactured home park, something that I don't believe the City Council supports. So since we've testified quite a bit about that, I want to focus my testimony today on the other end of the spectrum. The other end of the spectrum is why does the city want this bike path? What purpose does it serve?
 consistently at every level whether it be talking to staff Planning Commission or with the City Council we've raised our concerns there's been a consistent response don't worry about it it's a line on a planning document we're not condemning it we're not planning on building out that bike path and we don't anticipate there being any redevelopment we want the manufacturer part to stay
 If that's the case, why are you deciding to consistently move forward with this plan? My client, the residents of the park, have legitimate concerns. So far, what we've heard from the city is this plan doesn't really matter much because we're not planning to actually construct it.
 It's a pretty heavy price to pay for something that doesn't appear to be a very high priority or future plan for the city, and we ask that you remove it and consider our concerns. Thank you. Let's get clarification on that at some point. Maybe it's just these street segments that I don't understand, but I thought we had both amendments in front of us. Maybe I don't remember that correctly, but both the bay portion and the manufactured home park portion, just the bay portion. All right.
 Okay, point clarified. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next, please, 42, Peter Damdieng. 43, Donna Damdieng. 44, Linda Dagman. They'll be followed by Candy Pierce, Jennifer Furness, Jim Kupner.
 Good afternoon. Hi. My brother, Peter, had to leave and go back to work, and I'm in the middle of a shift myself. So I just wanted to say – You're in the record first, though. My name is Dona Dundang, and I believe this is 2035, about the residences at 1138 and 1126 Southeast Reynolds Street.
 I actually grew up in 1138, and I'm now a homeowner on the other side of Brooklyn. So grew up there, left, came back. I love the neighborhood. One of the things that this neighborhood is lacking is, for one, a store, restaurants other than a Mexican restaurant, a couple of small restaurants that have come and gone. And then, of course, the other thing that I'm lacking is a lot of the things that I
 I actually think that making a block that is already two-thirds commercial does not detract from the neighborhood. It rather enhances the neighborhood. I think it would be a really big mistake to keep these houses zoned 2.5 for the next, I believe it's 20 years. Nothing is happening overnight, but to eliminate that gap,
 from being an option, I think takes away from the neighborhood. Furthermore, as part of the Brooklyn neighborhood, and my parents still live in 1138,
 and my brother and sister-in-law own the house at 1126, they were never notified of the same people who are fighting the change that was already implemented, the CE zoning, to change back to the R2.5. The homeowners themselves weren't notified of this. And we just – I reject the Brooklyn –
 committee proposing this change it's already commercial so thank you thanks very much welcome good afternoon mayor Hales commissioners my name is Linda Dagman and I'm here representing Portland Community College so thank you for your time this afternoon and I'll be brief first off I want to thank city staff for engaging large institutions in the region and a conversation about the comprehensive plan update it was an intensive effort and a lot of input and well received by staff
 As you're likely aware, PCC has been engaged in the Southwest Corridor Plan for the past few years. We have been asked numerous times by that steering committee to provide a vision of what PCC Sylvania would look like in the future if a regional transportation system is provided in our corridor.
 We finally did that work in September. We held a two-day visioning workshop that was well attended by PCC staff, faculty, students, staff from Metro, staff from TriMet, staff from the City of Portland, and many more, and the neighbors as well. It was a great effort. Through that process, however, it became clear that the CI1 designation for a Sylvani campus would not allow us to build out a more transit-oriented campus.
 We are asking that you support Amendment 21 and change the Slovenian designation from CI1 to CI2, with the exception of the FAR to .75 to 1, versus what it is, CI2 is 3 to 1, and we don't need that intensive of build-out on our campus.
 This would allow sufficient capacity for future transit-oriented development while preserving the residential surrounding neighbors. We have submitted a letter to all this as well, so I emailed that this morning. So thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Okay, let's move on. 45, Candy Price. 46, Jennifer Furness. 47, Jim Kuffner. Okay.
 They'll be followed by Christy White, Richard Larson, and Giselle Johnson. Welcome. Whoever would like to start us off. Mr. Kupfer is being very gracious in offering you the first chance. You were her first. I stood behind you in lines. That's true. Hi. My name is Jennifer Furness, and I am here to talk about circling the block. I don't like it.
 We already know from a lot of well research and know you're familiar with the Donald Shropes work in cruising for parking from UCLA that 30% of the cars in downtown America are circling the block, 8 to 75% in high density areas.
 As our density moves out into our neighborhoods, this is a definite concern we're already seeing, especially in the division neighborhood. We know that residential traffic density is directly related to preterm and low birth rate children in those neighborhoods. So it's really important that we manage this effectively at the beginning rather than scrambling at the end and going, what are we going to do now that we have a health problem?
 We know that there is damage to DNA in sperm. We know in utero we have premature heart defects, low birth rate. We know in infants and children whose lungs are disproportionately large to their size, we have immune system problems, neurodevelopment problems, asthma in inner city children and children who live near freeways, children who live in high-density areas. The EPA already knows that 80,000 to 100,000 deaths a year are caused by particulates, and this is just the beginning of really us getting into air pollution issues.
 relating to health. So with regards to the parking over 30 spaces, I am wholeheartedly for bike transit. I'm wholeheartedly for really getting our transit systems in place, but it's a part and package, and I've heard earlier that it is part of a progressive package, and we need to be managing the street parking before we start the other section. If we do one without the other, it
 it's going to hurt us down the long run. And it's a long, something we're going to have to deal with for the next hundred years. You know, once the building's up, it's there. And we already hear in the division neighborhood, well, we already parked our cars. So what are we going to do now? Do we want that for the whole city? No, we want to be preventative and progressive and be a great city and do both parts together, not one or the other. Let me just clarify. Are you saying we should have some off-street parking or not?
 I think that we need to manage the parking in neighborhoods, permits, et cetera, before we start allowing for basically depending that the new residents park their cars in the neighborhoods. So if you have a building with 60 units, we really can't responsibly do that without parking unless we have a parking system in place for those streets and managing it effectively. Okay.
 And we also know with the inclusive zoning, I've been talking to the Housing Bureau, and they're already exempt from parking. So if you go from a 30-unit to a 33-unit with a 10%, you don't have to do three parking spaces. So we already have that built in. And I just would hate to see something rolled out that could have really negative long-term effects if it's not done holistically. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 welcome my name is candy price I'm here today for I believe it's 38 for the Hayden Island residents I just I don't have all this fancy talk and zoning verbiage stage all these people know I just am going to speak like 18 years ago
 I got very little amount of money from my grandmother when she passed away. Went straight to Johnson Beach and bought myself a little run-down manufactured home out there and had two girls, single mom, did the best I could, upgraded it, made it a good little valuable investment for the members and my neighbors in the community.
 Going forward today, our houses are not mobile, obviously. We don't have the money to move them. As you know, we...
 There's a lot of lower income residents out there, including myself. I am a certified with the state caregiver, and I also own my own housekeeping business, very small. And I do take care of a lot of the residential people out there that are older and do things for them.
 because they don't have a lot of money. They don't have the money to move if this bike path goes through. I mean, it's a real big concern. So I guess...
 Quite a few people have installed enough trust in me to put their signatures on a piece of paper for you today so that you would take out this consideration. We're talking 120 people up to 440. I'm not going to throw numbers about the housing crisis at you and everything. You guys are fully aware. I'm just going to ask you as...
 I was raised to respect my elders and that I would ask you to just give us a little respect to and not displace us because we have nowhere to go. We can't move these homes. And also, it's already been brought to your attention that the other side of the island has already – has their amendment proposals from you. But –
 If I could also say this is protected wetlands out there, too. There are nesting eagles out there, and they're doing quite well without a bike path or any other things to, you know, upset them. So, yes. So we're just asking that you...
 delete nix please do not put in this bike path it needs to it's just so unsuccessful and with the housing crisis that's already there we have a lot of concerned residents and that's what we're asking oh thank you very much and appreciate you coming on behalf of your neighbors as well thank you mr kuffner welcome good afternoon mayors and commissioners thank you for being here i'm jim kuffner representing the university of portland today
 And as you might imagine, the university has been very attentive to the CI zone process that has been developing over the last two years or so. And we took the opportunity about a month or so ago to submit a letter with some concerns. There were five of them. Two have been addressed because they were more interpretational. And three involved amendments. We do have two amendments that are before you. And Christy White, who will follow me in just a moment, number 31 and 33, will address those.
 But I wanted to speak about two other items. Somewhere along the line during the deliberations by staff or review of staff, there seemed to be a sense that the University of Portland was seeking these amendments without due consideration or consultation with our neighborhood association. I really started to scratch my head on that because we have been blessed with the greatest relationship with our neighborhood over the last 15 years.
 And so I went to their last board meeting, and Tom Karwacki, the chair, vice chair and land use chair, will be here shortly. He already submitted very strong comments on our support because we went and sought that support because staff was thinking we weren't communicating. But, in fact, we are and we always do. I attend all of their meetings.
 The one thing that we did not receive and we're still a little bit concerned about is in the map and the zoning, we worked very hard to get a boundary that included all of the really realistic and logical properties that the university needed. Two of them were private residents that were not owned by us. The other was the McCormick and Baxter property.
 Those residents came forward willingly and included their property in the boundary, M&B the same. Now the zone has proposed that those three properties, the CI zone, would not extend to those properties. And we're a little bit concerned that why are they being left out when it makes more sense for them to be included. And if we need to change the zone later, we can do that.
 So we're just asking basically to retain what we had in our conditional use master plan that our neighbors has approved and the hearing officer approved as well. Oh, thanks for being here. Thank you.
 you know hope you while the records open if you have anything else to submit you know from property owners In addition to yourself that'd be helpful. I think one of the issues that were hung up on frankly in that case is Is whatever? What policy statement we would be making if we included a?
 non-university property or non-hospital property in a zone designation for an institution. The property is not actually entitled to the institution yet. Are we, the city, interfering in a real estate transaction that hasn't been consummated yet?
 You know, those are questions that are lurking around your situation. It may be kind of an anomaly here. I think most of our other campus institutional properties, they own it all. You know, that's a really good point, Mayor. I appreciate that. And that is something that came up in discussions of our conditional use master plan. And we specifically worked with the two private property owners of the residential ones in particular and then with M&B to include that property within the boundary that the master plan, however, did not have.
 affect those properties or was not in place for those properties until and unless the university owned it. I think it, at least to my mind, it would make sense to go ahead and rezone the CI, but say it doesn't apply until and unless the university comes into ownership of those properties. So that would be our take. I appreciate the suggestion. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 Next, 48, Christy White. 49, Richard Larson. 50, Giselle Johnson. They will be followed by Vicky Skirha, Jessica Richman, and Michael Smira, I believe. And just for your information, we have 65. 65 total. Not 65 left, but 65. Very much so.
 All right, Ms. White, I think you're next because you're following. Thank you. Following Christy White for the University of Portland 5000 Willamette Boulevard. Just commenting on the two amendments that are proposed, and thank you, Mayor Hales and the rest of council for listening to our testimony and making this proposal. We...
 support, of course, Amendment 31 and 33. 31 is about changing the street setback along Willamette Boulevard for the one portion of the street that had imposed a 200-foot setback. And I think there was a little bit of misunderstanding that led to this.
 It was lifted from our conditional use master plan, which doesn't have a building setback in that location. In fact, what it says is that's an area where we didn't plan to build in the next 10 years that had athletic fields on it. And because we're going from – we're kind of changing the paradigm, right? We're going from a conditional use master plan that applies for 10 years to a forever –
 It was never intended that there would be a building setback there, so we very much appreciate that this proposal under 31 to move it from a 200-foot setback to a zero setback like the rest of the Willamette frontage.
 And then the other issue was on the building length standard. We don't have one on our campus at this point. Rather, we have design standards for our frontage along Willamette Boulevard. We like those design standards. The University Park Neighborhood Association likes those design standards. And what happened in the CI zone...
 is what was imposed was 100 or 110, it's a different number in different locations in the code, maximum building length. And we talked to you about why that building length was really inconsistent with the design pattern there and the problems it brings for a dorm development across the street, across the 100-foot right-of-way on Willamette.
 You've proposed in Amendment 33 to increase that from 110 to 200 feet, and we can live with that. So we support Amendment 31 and 33 and hope that we can take another look at this boundary issue that Mr. Kuffner spoke about. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, Richard Larson.
 Here today on Amendment 53, asking you to support that for the Markham Hill node, commercial mixed-use node. We have a property there at 10th and Southwest Gibbs, and we believe this is a down zone to a CM1. There's very little retail on that hill. We've got development plans. We haven't submitted. Honestly, waiting for the construction cycle to ease up a little bit.
 So I think that we're counting on the zone we had was the CS. We thought the CM2 was very similar. We consider this a down zone, and we hope that you see that and adopt that amendment for that zone. I've also included some handouts on some other properties I represent. I know I've only got two minutes, and it's a long day, so...
 i'll leave you with those they're not on your list currently and i'll be working on those in the coming months okay this is helpful thank you very much thank you thank you welcome hi my name is joselle johnson and i'm actually a neighbor within the alphabet district and i am here in support of option a which is the two to one far my reason for not being in support of the four to one is i believe it changes the face of the historic district
 I've been a resident in this neighborhood for 27 years. That's why I purchased my property. That's why I've stayed. So I think actually changing that changes the intent of the Alphabet District, and I would like to make sure that we support that as we have in past and with our discussion with you.
 Again, with the erosion of the continued development in the face of the historic district, it's been very difficult. As a neighbor, I do want to say I support the affordable housing. I just support the affordable housing within the guidelines. So working within the actual overlay within the activity, love to have them there, just not a six-story building. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both very much.
 Okay, who's three? 51, Vicky Skriha. 52, Jessica Richman. 53, Mike Smira. Sorry. They'll be followed by Marcus Mead, Tony Schwartz, and Marty Stevens. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead. I'm Vicki Scria, and I live on Northwest Hoyt in the Alphabet Historic District, and I just want to confirm, like, what other people in Northwest have also said. And I just would so much like us to be able to get to a place where we can move constructively forward with this project that's proposed and implemented.
 And even though the FAR is under consideration, if it gets changed, there's still the overlay zoning. And when the city council looked at the demolition proposal before, they said,
 Those overlay zones, I called the city and confirmed that they are still in effect. And what we really want is the two-to-one to be confirmed because it's consistent with what would be allowed with the overlay zoning. And I strongly support affordable housing and historic preservations. The piece of paper that you got from me on the reverse side of it, I looked up.
 tons of examples where affordable housing is developed in historic preservation. They work together. And we think, or I think, because I have a background in affordable housing, that a project of about 45 units or so would fit on that site, and it would increase the number of units on that site. There are currently six.
 dramatically and it would work. And if we can just at least get the two to one and work together and be constructive and neighbors would be happy to work with the nonprofit and come up with a good complex, it would be so wonderful and it would avoid a lot of contentiousness. Thank you very much.
 Welcome back to the council chambers. Mr. Richmond. Thank you. I'm Jessica Richmond. You also have a letter from me As you know, I worked for you as a planner for almost 30 years and for almost that long I've been a resident and owner in the alphabet historic district So I'm speaking today as a resident and owner and also as a very experienced and some would call brilliant planner I would call
 I think I did, actually. I'm talking, of course, to the FAR and the Alphabet Historic District, and I agree with the NWDA and Vicki and others who've spoken in favor of reducing it all to two-to-one.
 as a planner i'd like us to step back and remember that planning involves zooming in on the detail and out to the big picture and i think we've lost a lot of the big picture in focusing on this site and this site and what might happen on that one and i think we need to remember that the reason that the neighborhood and others have asked for the reduction to two to one is as vicky said we
 to provide a clear expectation that if you're in the historic district with RH zoning, you're not going to be able to build that six-story building and be compatible. So you won't meet the design guidelines, and you're going to go through a lot of frustration. And so it's really asking for truth in zoning, and that's the big picture part. Okay.
 I think we're talking about compatibility and clarity and also making decisions, again, good planning, based on circumstances of the land and the neighborhood, not on individual potential possible maybe proposals by the owners of particular sites. To say that four-to-one, based on that possible potential,
 maybe development is not good planning. And that's something that Portland is proud of and is known for. And we need to look at this with dispassion rather than we want to help these particular property owners out, or we don't want to get in the way of a particular project. And
 And finally, just a note that this 2-to-1 FAR would not take effect until January 2018. And so any serious project is going to at least get in a preliminary application by then, and so would still be considered under the 4-to-1. So changing 2-to-1 will not knock things out. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good to see you. Okay.
 we have 54 marcus meade 55 tony schwartz 56 marty steven they'll be followed by tim ramus garrett nelson and even heitman welcome i would like to go first go ahead thank you my name is marcus meade and i live stumbling distance from pock pock restaurant which puts me in the parking contested area formerly known as southeast division street
 However, I fully support the amendments number 41, or sorry, 34 and 51. And you might ask yourselves why that would be. That might be slightly illogical. But that's out of love, and love for my city, and the desire that I want others to love it just like I do, and have the opportunity to do so. The best way for we humans to love something is to know it. The best way for us to know a city is to get out of our cars.
 So the more that we enable people to, as transportation planners might say, shift modes, get out of our cars and access our city in different ways and find the wonder in our city, the more people might love it. And I hope that more people can do so and enjoy it the way that I do. Thank you. Thank you very much. Who would like to go next? I'll go next. My name is Tony Schwartz.
 I live at 1729 Northwest Irving in the Alphabet Historic District, and I live directly across from two of the parcels that City Council is considering, essentially spot zoning with regard to Option A and Option C. I'm here in favor of the reduction of the 4-to-1 FAR to 2-to-1 FAR in the Alphabet Historic District. I will say that I was a little concerned with regard to the owners of the Battle on Right District
 I heard one of them essentially say in the press that he would without doubt file a claim under Measure 49 if the 4-1 to 2-1 reduction occurred. I read Measure 49. Measure 49 only applies to just compensation when there is a regulation that impairs the establishment of single-family residences, and your city attorney agrees with me.
 I will say that I would ask you to not only be aware of but also reject that sort of legal bullying tactic. With regard to my house, I bought into the Alphabet Historic District in 2007. I did so buying a house that was built in 1884, 19 years after Abraham Lincoln was shot. It has stood the test of time. I bought in knowing that I had a duty and responsibility to maintain that house, but also as a steward of the historic district to try to maintain this historic district
 both in terms of existing structures and also new development. New development would be essentially developed in compatible and comparable size and scope and architectural featuring.
 I firmly believe that the district was established with generations in mind, not just crises from one year to another. Crises come, crises go. I know this city is suffering from rental and housing shortage, but no one predicted the 2008 Great Depression. With the new administration, we have no idea what's going to happen with regard to fiscal and monetary policy. Nothing is for certain, but what is for certain right now is this district.
 and the district wants to survive, and it wants to survive with comparable and compatible buildings into the future. So I ask you, with everything that's been said before, including from the NWDA, to reduce the FAR from 4 to 1 to 2 to 1. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Marty Stiven. I'm here today on behalf of Richard Passantini.
 who represents various members of the Passantini family and the properties that they own in Portland. I've appeared before you several times, and I'm here today to support four of your amendments. The first one is Amendment No. 14 at 60th and Belmont. Thank you to Commissioner Novak for sponsoring it. It adds the second Passantini property to the CM2 zoning. We have two pieces of property there. One was proposed to be –
 zone CM2 and one was left behind. This simply adds that property to it and expands the node for CM2 zoning, and we are, of course, in support of that. The second one is Amendment 15, and it affects our property at 7200 and 7400 Southeast Milwaukee Avenue. It's proposed to be zone CM2, and the addition of this amendment puts a D overlay on it. I've talked to the staff. I understand the history behind that, and we support that D overlay zone.
 The third option is in regards to the drive-through windows and the quick vehicle servicing areas, and we're in support of Commissioner Saltzman's Amendment 28B. If you remember, we have asked for zoning to be changed to CE on several outlying properties because of the timing, we think, redevelopment opportunities. You haven't seen it yet,
 senior way to doing that yet, but we still would like to support the option for the 28B, which would allow new drive-through windows and quick vehicle servicing in the CE zones. And lastly, Amendment No. 53, if you will recall, we submitted testimony about property at 9th and Gibbs on Markham Hill, thinking that...
 knowing that it's a down zone from the commercial storefront zoning to CM1. We're happy to see, Commissioner Novak, with this amendment, that you are willing to take a second look at several areas, including the Markham Hill, and post-acknowledgement, and we would support and hope and encourage you to do that. Thank you very much for your time and all of these. Thank you all. 57, Tim Ramos. 58, Garrett Stevenson. 59, Egan.
 Evan Heitman. They'll be followed by Pete Ford, Allison Reynolds, and Denny Martinez. Okay. Mr. Ramos, thank you first. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. For your record, Tim Ramos, I'm here today supporting Amendment 22, and I don't believe there's any real disagreement about the goal for this property, which is a one-acre site at 58th and Sylvan.
 The owners, I think, along with the staff, agree that it's a great site for middle housing, and there needs to be an infill of the missing sidewalk frontage along the front of the site. The real question is how to get there. Failing to act on the amendment will produce only delay. It will not advance obtaining housing or advance building the sidewalk.
 The argument for delay has been the strange assertion that absent a quasi-judicial zone change accompanying a development request, the city is powerless to condition the owners to build a sidewalk. You heard that twice in your work session. I think as you travel the city, it is apparent that that statement can't be true because throughout the city you observe changes.
 sidewalks, street frontages, all being constructed as the product of conditions on projects where there's been no zone change. The reason is that you have plenty of authority in your code and you enforce that authority. That's true on 58th and other projects along the way. The staff report also makes the statement that the site lacks good transit access.
 And to that, I will respond with the report I've submitted to you, which is the most recent work of PDOT on the street, which speaks to the site immediately adjacent and says, the site is well served by transit and comfortable and safe walking routes between the site and all stops are available. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 good afternoon mayor hales and commissioners my name is garrett stevenson representing columbia steel castings here to talk about amendment number 43 testifying today in support of that amendment and i wanted to say that we appreciate working with staff on this this for the record
 was a minor change to the proposed bike and ped path that was mapped over our client's property. And staff was very easy to work with when we came and said that we'd like to move that slightly, still on the property but out of –
 Columbia Steel's operational areas, which included their circulation roadways as well as their substation. So I urge you to approve this. I think it's a good compromise, and I'm here to answer any questions you have. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Thanks. Welcome. Hi. My name is Evan Heitman. I'm justifying in favor of Amendments 34 and 51.
 Minimum parking requirements are a bad policy, plain and simple. They don't create more parking overall. They don't ease parking congestion or traffic congestion. They incentivize car ownership and they subsidize car owners at the expense of everyone else.
 So on parking supply, wouldn't you think that minimums result in more parking, but actually in Northwest where we don't have minimums, we've seen that construction is producing minimums at a greater ratio than would be required if minimums were required. The difference is just that some buildings have more parking than would be required and some buildings have less. But overall, the ratio is comparable to what would be required elsewhere in the city. So limiting minimums allows more choice in housing.
 Regarding parking congestion, you might think that minimums will free up street spaces, but that's not how it works. Minimums force builders to build parking, but nobody can force tenants to rent those spaces if street parking is free. So as long as there's any space available on the street, that's where people will put their cars. The only time when people will rent space in a lot is if the street parking is so congested that it's really difficult to find a space. So at no point do minimums improve parking congestion on the street.
 On the other hand, if street parking is not free, then you don't need to force developers to build parking. You don't need minimums because they all build as much as their tenants demand. So set this price of street parking appropriately and drivers will be able to find a place to park when they need it. You can also eliminate minimums to allow more choice in housing.
 Regarding traffic congestion, if you think congestion is bad now, imagine what it would be like if we continued to grow at the same car use and ownership rates that we have currently. We simply don't have space on our roads for that many cars. So we need to stop incentivizing car ownership and driving as we currently do. And we can start doing that by eliminating parking minimums.
 Climate change is another issue addressed by minimums. Driving is the most inefficient way to get around a city, so we need to stop requiring developers to incentivize driving through minimums. Wealth inequality is also a part of this, and I'm out of time, so thanks. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next, please. Pete Ford, Allison Reynolds, Denny Martinez. They'll be followed by Deborah Romero-Ross.
 Siri Schulte and Tamara DeRitter, and then we do have two more in addition after that. Okay. Looks like we're going to get there. All right. Come on up. Pete here. Denny Martinez and Deborah on Northeast 23rd. Siri on Northwest Gleason. Come on up. Who was the second person you said? Denny Martinez, Deborah Romero.
 We've got a full compliment. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Allison Reynolds, and I'm with Perkins Coie, and I'm here on behalf of several of our clients, as provided in our written materials. I don't know if you guys have those in front of us, but we have provided a table, essentially, that has these requests on it. And...
 We are asking you to adopt some new amendments today that didn't make the list and to add several of these clients' properties to item 53, which is for later staff consideration. Okay.
 Almost all of the changes that we're asking for are to keep our clients' current allowed uses from becoming nonconforming under the new code or to bring long-time nonconforming uses into conformance under the new code. The items that are shaded in blue on that table are changes that are needed to prevent uses from becoming nonconforming, which we feel is especially crucial. Okay.
 Many of those changes can be accomplished by only prohibiting new uses in certain categories. Two examples of this are, one, our client Broadmoor's golf course use, which will become a non-conforming open space use when industrial zoning and the prime industrial overlay are applied to its property. Prohibiting only new open space uses in the industrial overlay would solve this non-conforming issue for them.
 Additionally, the ground floor commercial use in our client Solterra's new multifamily development in the Williams corridor will also become nonconforming when that site is rezoned from RX to RH. RH does not allow ground floor commercial on sites that aren't served by light rail transit, which the Williams corridor is not. Here again, prohibiting only new commercial uses in that zone would solve that nonconforming use issue.
 and if you guys do not feel that you can accommodate our request in today's planning action we ask that you add a new item 55 to the list which directs staff to consider changes to avoid new and continued non-conformance on the properties we've identified and potentially others okay thank you thank you very helpful thank you welcome hi
 Thank you. My name is Siri. I have a house on Northwest Gleason Street behind the historical homes on Hoyt, and I agree with all of my neighbors, Tony and Vicki and Jozelle, and hope you go for the option A. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Deborah Romarin. Good afternoon.
 And I'm actually here to urge you to maintain some adequate parking requirements in mixed-use and commercial zones.
 If we need more study to best predict what adequate parking will mean, let's do it. The alternative is more congested neighborhood streets like northwest Portland where parking is a blood sport. As more retail and residential units are built without adequate parking, street parking obviously becomes more scarce and the arduous task of finding parking more stress-filled.
 businesses are also hurt all and i mean all of the business along businesses along one arterial street in my old seattle neighborhood went broke and closed for lack of customers who could no longer park nearby when adjacent construction went in with little parking that building that housed those businesses now stands empty the landlord is is deeply desperate the
 This year, construction housing three new businesses, including a 150-capacity restaurant and a theater music club, were built with no parking, zero, for staff and patrons right next to my small apartment building.
 My building has been there for 90 years, and now for the first time, my residents come home to face the anxiety of having to circle and hunt for non-existent parking. How is that fair to ruin my business by not requiring any parking for some new business traffic? And further, many of my residents would have to take multiple buses to get to and from work, thus doubling and in some cases tripling their commute time.
 Time is one of our most precious commodities. There seems to be an inference, or an implication, I should say, that people who want a car are somehow selfish and addicted to a luxurious lifestyle.
 I live in a small one-bedroom house apartment. I don't own a second home, a boat, an RV, motorized toys. I don't have kids that would have used enormous more resources and used more rentable spaces, but I have owned the same very small fuel-efficient car for the past 17 years, which I need to run errands for my business, visit friends who live in many parts of greater Portland, and patronize the arts and local businesses.
 but already I find myself often choosing malls in which to shop, and avoiding small local businesses I used to frequent because their on-street parking is so clogged.
 We are not New York City with a mature, extensive subway system. Give people incentives to move to electric, hybrid, and smaller fuel-efficient cars, but they still need to park them, and they surely should be able to park without engaging in daily, high-stress parking wars. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Could you tell me again where you live, please? Where I live? 3512 Northeast 23rd. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 And our last three, please, Tamara DeRitter, Tom Kowalke, and Adam Herstein. Adam, are you here? Hey, Tamara, I think you're next. Okay. Hi, I'm Tamara DeRitter. I am here on behalf of Rose City Park Neighborhood Association as their chairperson. At our last board meeting, which was on the 15th,
 Our board did support the letter that I had written on October 13th, dealing with asking the council to address adequate parking. As it is written in the comprehensive plan, the policy is 9.58, and it says strive to provide adequate but not excessive off-street parking where needed, but instead limited.
 the mayor decides to take away the required parking that me and the other neighborhood representatives worked so hard on for a full year back in 2012 to get in place. So the board also approved, well, they went through and looked at what was proposed and opposed the removal of the minimum on-street parking requirements.
 And the reasoning behind that is, number one, incentive. By keeping minimum off-street parking requirements, these parking spaces can be used as trade collateral for increased bicycle, pedestrian, and community amenities. B, needed for off-street parking capacity. It creates off-street parking that could be used as shared future public parking spaces.
 and it supplements the needed nearby off-street parking for the handicap accessible spaces, which is not necessarily on-street. It supports local business clientele.
 and it retains future income-generating options, such as retains the leverage with the property owners and builders to bring them to the table to create future parking management options, such as a fee-based system for them to pay in lieu of creating the off-street parking. We lose that leverage. So keep it for now until we go through the process and create a management system.
 Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Karwacki. Tom Karwacki, Vice Chair of University Park Neighborhood Association and Land Use Chair.
 The University of Portland has a conditional use master plan that was unanimously adopted, accepted, and endorsed by the Neighborhood Association. It was adopted by the city two years ago and has been in place. The current proposal doesn't always address that, and I think the particular amendments number 33 and 31 are particularly important.
 They actually return the staff proposal to actually what is in the conditional use master plan. And so what we're asking for is to make sure that the university and the neighborhood are kept whole through this process and not hurt by the process, which it would be without these two amendments.
 In addition to that, there's an issue of the boundaries. And in the Conditionally Used Master Plan, that was a specific master plan applied only if the certain two properties that are islanded, the Mercer's and the Hilder's and then also the Baxter and McCormick property, were actually controlled by the university.
 The proposal before you on the campus institutional structure includes those properties, but the university does not control them. And so there's a real concern that you may be opening yourself up to a lawsuit even because you're actually limiting these particular property owners from actually doing something with them. So we are asking you to reword that particular section of the institutional campus map.
 with respect to return it back to what it was in the master plan. You mean including them in the... It includes them, but with a proviso that only if the university or another institution controls them, and otherwise you're precluding them from selling them to anyone else. I get it.
 Is there an amendment that does that? Well, so far, that is, I think, what Mr. Kuffner has asked for. We are asking for it as well, that it actually be a little more tailored than what it is right now. It's very easy to just draw a map, a line, and say everything on this side is this and everything on that side is something else. But if, in fact, the master plan was there, it said that only if they actually listed
 control the property, either through a lease or ownership. I'm glad that Dr. Kuffner is still here as well, because I want to commend both of you. You do work really well together, the institution and the neighborhood. Whenever I've dropped in and announced at the University Park Neighborhood Association, you have always been there. So thank you. And we want to work, continue. And this would be very important for that relationship. Thank you. And is Mr. Herstein really the last person signed up?
 So, Adam, if you don't mind a reference at your expense, or at least in your honor, in the creation of the world, Adam was the first man, and in the creation of this multi-year comprehensive plan, you're the last. So, yeah, my name is Adam Herstein. I am asking City Council to pass Amendment 34 to the comprehensive plan to eliminate minimum parking requirements in mixed-use zones.
 If we are to be a city that provides housing for people, not for cars, and we want to discourage private automobile use, we must eliminate parking minimums along transit corridors. Given the fact that the next four years will likely be disastrous for combating climate change, now more than ever, it is imperative that cities take the lead in fighting against this impending disaster. There is also much uncertainty regarding housing affordability over the next four years. We have no idea what may come from the federal government, which is why it's important for cities to take the lead to provide affordable housing.
 Requiring parking necessarily increases housing prices in neighborhoods where people have other transportation options. We should instead require fees for on-street parking so the city can better manage the parking supply with more flexible space. I live in inner southeast and get around primarily by foot, bus, and bike. My wife and I enjoy walking to Division Street and supporting the many restaurants and bars along the street there. One of the reasons I moved to Richmond is its high level of walkability and bikeability, and I believe adding more cars to the neighborhood is counter to the desirability of my neighborhood."
 Please do not hesitate to pass Amendment 34 to eliminate parking, minimum parking requirements, and mixed-use zones. Thank you. Thank you very much. And that is the last word in terms of public testimony. So thank you. So I'm going to close the public hearing but leave the record open until 5 p.m. tomorrow, 5 p.m. tomorrow for written testimony. And any questions or inquiries for staff at this point? I know we have work sessions ahead. Well, thank you three very much for being our last testifiers. We'll get Eric back up for a minute and talk about the process ahead. Thank you.
 And then we'll actually be done a little early, which is phenomenal. Yeah, I think the main order of business is you also have to continue this item until Tuesday so that the public knows that you're going to have that deliberation so that we don't have to re-notify anybody. All right, so we're continuing this item until Tuesday's work session, right? It's actually a regular council session because you'll be voting on the amendments. Voting session. Okay, that's what we're doing. We're continuing it until Tuesday. It's 9 a.m. Tuesday. Okay.
 9 a.m. Tuesday, and again, written testimony can be submitted until 5 p.m. tomorrow, and we'll have more chances. Sorry, go ahead. Are we allowed to bring new amendments on Tuesday or not? No.
 You can. Just be aware that you won't have the benefit of as much public feedback about that. If you heard something tonight that causes you to make an amendment to your amendment or something different, that's possible. Okay. Yeah, that could happen. Well, we'll have more chances to thank our hardworking and long-running effort by the staff. Thank you very much, and we'll adjourn until next week, and we'll see you Tuesday.
 Good job. Hey, Jim.