to allow the council to begin work on amendments to the comprehensive plan.
 and that is to the zoning code and map changes attended to the plan. We have a lot of testimony behind us, and BPS staff is going to give us an overview of where we are in the process, and then we're going to start walking our way through potential amendments after that. Commissioner Novick apparently is going to join us by phone.
 later in the session. We're going to pause the discussion at 1045, returning at about noon so we can all participate in the event over at the post office site. So... I was in New York last week and missed all the drama. Thank you for giving me an opportunity to vote on some of the amendments. I
 I did meet with Joe Zender and his team yesterday to kind of get my boot camp. I'm probably just a step behind my colleagues in terms of the cheat sheet and the sequencing, so I apologize in advance for any clumsiness, but I think I know where we're headed. Okay. And, yeah, there are a number of areas I think where we're going to want to have pretty open discussion and get some further perspective from staff because I've got some questions as well. Okay. With that, Eric? Eric?
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. Just a few logistics before we dive in. Pardon me, could I read the title, please? Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Sue. Item 1293, amend the official city zoning map, planning and zoning code, and transportation system plan to carry out Portland's 2035 comprehensive plan, establish a new community involvement program and committee, amend related codes, the 2035 comprehensive plan, and plan map to coordinate policies and programs.
 Okay. Thank you. Please proceed. So as you know, over the past few weeks, each of your offices have sent potential amendment ideas to BPS staff, and we compiled them into a memo released on November 4th.
 In addition to that memo, we also published several other staff memos identifying minor errors in the earlier recommendation and some technical changes we believe that are minor and technical in nature that you should adopt. Those memos were dated the 30th of September and then 10-13, 11-4, and 11-14. We have also drafted an agenda for today. It's a little bit of a long agenda.
 In that agenda, as we go through each item, it refers to the different amendment numbers in those memos, and you should have each of those memos in the pile of paper in front of you, and I apologize for the thickness of that stack, but we'll try and, if anyone needs to be oriented as we go through, please just say so, and we'll try and help you find the right memo. Okay.
 We also distributed a bundle of testimony that arrived. The record was open until Friday for written comments, and we did receive some. And you have those in front of you now, and they've been entered into the record. I understand there's a few more stragglers that are still in the hands of the clerk that will be distributed today probably. Okay.
 Today's agenda, we're going to start this morning with several consent lists, taking care of the staff-identified errata and some of the technical changes. We'll move into considering public trails.
 then on to code amendments, zoning map amendments, and then finally after the break that the mayor indicated we would focus on the transportation items then, and we expect Commissioner Novick to be joining us by phone for some of those items. If we run out of time today, we have also reserved a time certain tomorrow at 315 if you need it. We'd love to be done today, but I know that we need to discuss some of these items, so that's there if we need it.
 Any questions about the papers or the order of business? May I have just a question?
 Since it's the four of us and not the five of us for the first session, if we don't have three votes for a particular approach, is it your inclination to just move that forward to either the next session or to the residual session tomorrow so we can see whether there's a consensus? Yeah, or at least that there are three. Yeah, because I think there are going to be some of these items where we're going to have three votes and no more for a particular approach. And the default is the –
 we go back to what planning has recommended. But if the four of us can't resolve the issue, I would hope our procedure is just to kick it to either later or tomorrow to see if there's a third vote. I think that's the right thing to do. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, and we've tried to cluster some of the harder issues later in the agenda where Commissioner Novick can join us. I believe he is not present tomorrow, so you also have to keep that in mind in terms of kicking things forward. Okay.
 So if there are no other questions, we'll start with the errata memos and sort of ease into it with those.
 And I think the way we could work this, if you'd like, is I can be the emcee and identify the amendment, and then you all can then make motions as you see fit. So this is the errata section. So, Mayor, I'll move the motion for number one. All right. Second. Further discussion on motion number one, which is just the errata in the document? Okay. Let's take a roll call vote on that amendment, please. Aye. Okay.
 Aye. Okay. And then let's move on to number two. The number two are a number of technical amendments identified by staff. They're not errors, but they're small and fairly non-controversial. We did recommend there are nine minor changes to the code and ten mapping changes. We did recommend that you pull item 2E from this package.
 based on testimony on Thursday. This was concerning Southeast Rental Street, and you heard some testimony about us not removing the commercial zoning. The property owners prefer to keep that, and so we recommend you pull that item. So the effect, that's one of the questions I have, the effect of pulling item 2E is to retain? They would retain mixed-use commercial zoning, which is what they had asked for.
 I move the motion. Second. Further discussion of that item? Do we need to separately remove item 2E? It has been removed. Oh, it has been removed. So in this version, it has been removed, right? Yeah, you just need to state that you've removed that, I guess. I move the motion that includes removing item 2E. All right. So let's take a vote on that, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Zossman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Number three. Okay, and now we're moving into some more general –
 Thank you.
 because there was testimony from that property owner saying that they prefer Amendment No. 30, and if that passes, they don't need this amendment. And the situation was that the site is a residential property owned privately within the Adventist Hospital campus, and their original testimony was they would like to keep residential zoning, so Amendment 18 passed.
 However, when we introduced the amendment to allow residential development in the campus zone, they wrote in again saying they would be okay with that and would prefer it over 18. Okay. I don't think it's still. I haven't seen that testimony. I was wondering why in principle should we have campus zoning on a property that they don't have ownership of? In general, that has been our approach.
 Unless the property owner specifically had other views or had – in this case, I think the property owner does not have an issue with the campus zoning but wants to be able to maintain residential. Would it mean that they can only sell to the campus, to that institution? Yes.
 I don't think so because the campus zoning would allow other uses, but it certainly would restrict more than – it restricts the property differently than a residential zone would be restricted. So if you keep residential, they would not be able to do medical offices, for example. If you keep the campus zoning, they could do private medical offices without necessarily being associated with the campus and not necessarily have to sell to the campus. Yes.
 or they could do housing if you're inclined to allow housing in that zone. So it kind of hinges on two things, the philosophy of when you apply the campus zone, and then, in this case, whether you intend to vote for number 30 or not. But it's no longer number 30. It's...
 Something else now. Number 10. Well, it's, yeah, I guess we should state that the amendments still have their numbers from the memos, but the motion item numbers we should. Motion number. Yeah, so. Code amendment 30, motion number 10. Yeah. Exactly. Okay. Sorry for that confusion. Yeah, okay. I move the motion. What motion then? Then number three as. Yeah.
 As drafted. As drafted. So I have some comments on 16 and 21 as well. So I'd like to pull those for discussion. Oh, in that list? Yes. We'll do the ones that are non-controversial. You're pulling what? 16 and 22, please. All right. My motion is number three, excluding 16 and 22. Second. All right. Further discussion of that option, that revised motion? Okay. Let's take a vote on that, please. Fritz?
 Fish? Aye. Southman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, so you want to go ahead and pull out 16 and 22 now and talk about those, Amanda? So 16 is the south side of Powell, west of 17th Avenue, and the request is to change it from CE to CM2. The staff says that the north side is zoned EX, so CM2 serves as a step down. And you support that?
 I support the staff's recommendation. Okay. So, but why did you pull it? Because wouldn't that have been accomplished if it had remained in the package?
 As everybody else, I'm quite challenged by the process here. So I'm looking to staff and – I hope we err on the side of ventilators. You don't want to miss anything. Nothing wrong with that. All right. So you're comfortable with that CM2 being applied to that property at 17 Nepal? You didn't want to change that. You wanted to apply that CM2 there. Which is the more intense zone, CE or CM2? They're both roughly equivalent. CE has a C-M2.
 a slightly broader allowance for manufacturing, light manufacturing and industrial uses, and a slight broader allowance for auto-accommodating uses. Wouldn't that be a good thing in the Central Eastside? Well, actually, I think CM2 makes sense here, and that's what the property owners actually requested, I believe. And, again, if the north side of Powell there is going to redevelop as a –
 pretty intense development around the station area someday and then having more less auto oriented uses across that's good playing major industrial sites near there but those are small parcels and it's the transition into the Brooklyn neighborhood there so to me that made sense as a you know as a scale
 And just to clarify, I spoke with Eric Weiland, who is the Brooklyn Action Corps chair, and he said we've been wanting this change for years. So why they did not submit testimony and support, for them, they were very favorable to it. To the CE? No, to the CM2.
 They would like to. And that's what the amendment says. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm fine with it then. Thank you. So then let's act on 16 then unless there's any other discussion about this. So moved. Okay. So we're moving 16 as stated and second. So let's vote on that please. All right. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Southman? Aye. Ailes? Aye. Okay, and then what was 22? 22 is the Sylvan Highlands issue, and there's a couple of them that are here, and we've had many discussions during the process about should they be up zoned from R20 to up.
 R2, which is a massive change. Well, there's several here. There's one or more here in the package that's handled individually. Right. And my understanding or my recollection is that we did handle each one individually, but we had some good discussions about not to change the zone that we could do what the property owner said and put the comprehensive plan designation up, but we still need a quasi-judicial zone change process so that the neighbors can weigh in so that we can require all of the transportation improvements that we need.
 Well, so what does 22 in particular cover? 22 covers the properties on Southwest 58th, 1434 and 1512. You received testimony from the property owner. They're abutting. The frontage in front of them is unimproved without a sidewalk, but they are directly north of where there is a sidewalk, and they testified that it is their intent to build a sidewalk there.
 Staff told you that we are slightly more comfortable with the idea of doing a quasi-judicial change in this situation. They testified that there is evidence that we have succeeded in requiring sidewalks with building permits. And so it's a little bit of a debate about how strong our ability to require sidewalks is and whether we need the quasi-judicial hearing. The property owner asserted that they're comfortable building a sidewalk in any case.
 Well, that's good, but they still need to, I think, go through the process because the neighbours might not have been paying attention to this. I've been looking, obviously, while we're doing all these changes, I've been extra vigilant at looking at where has Peabody required sidewalks and where have they not. And I think that there isn't the evidence, certainly from my looking out the bus window, that sidewalks are always required where needed.
 Well, so I think I have the opposite viewpoint on this. These are R20 today, right? Yes. They're R20 with an R2 comprehensive plan designation. So R20, if we're doing long-range planning, which is what we're doing, R20 doesn't make any sense. Right. So I think making someone go through a quasi-judicial process just to assure that we will get a sidewalk is really using –
 you know, the wrong tool. We should make sure that PBOT's requirements are sufficiently clear and strict that when that kind of development occurs, that sidewalks are required and constructed. I mean, the assurances from the property owner are fine, but we don't have to rely on assurances. We can rely on regulations. So I would assume that we would rather, in many cases, oh, we've got connectivity stuff in here, too, elsewhere in the TSP portion of the plan. I would rather us be...
 always in planning, and in this case as well, be very explicit about what we expect and require rather than say, well, it's an open-ended process. It's not. So if we want it to be developed for housing at some density other than 20-acre zoning, then let's say so, but then let's make sure that we get the sidewalks that we're
 that are the issue, right? There's not another issue here besides the sidewalks, right? It's not should it be R20. It's are we guaranteed getting the sidewalk? Yes, or at least it's okay now is what that would be saying. If we vote for R2 now, we're saying just go ahead. The challenge there is that you're not going to be in charge of PBOT. I'm not going to be in charge of PBOT. We don't currently have, I think, the same pressure as would be exerted by neighbors at the hearings on a quasi-judicial change.
 Well, again, but I guess I'm pretty mystified that we can't require sidewalks in a situation like this. I mean, is there anybody here from PBOT that can help illuminate this for us? Denver, somebody? Based on, I mean, PBOTs, feel free to come up if you have. And I think that it's site-specific sometimes. There is an ability to waive the requirement or accept waivers, especially when it's an isolated site.
 This is not isolated, so maybe it's more likely. This is the parcel at the end of the sidewalk, right? Yeah, I think we do have, I think, the tools and code authority. My name is Denver Agarda. I'm a senior transportation planner with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And we do have the code authority in making those requirements. As Eric described, sometimes it's site-specific based on the conditions. We also have...
 tools such as the new local transportation infrastructure charge to get a fee in place of improvements on local streets. But with that, we're able to provide more clarity on where we need the street improvements the most. And so I think PIVOT has been a lot
 in recent years about getting street improvements, infringe improvements. Yeah, I think you have been too. I mean, to put it a little playfully, in these four years, I've heard a number of complaints about PBOT being too strict about sidewalks, and frankly, I haven't agreed with those complaints most of the time. But I haven't heard a single complaint from a neighborhood about PBOT should have required a sidewalk and didn't get one.
 So, you know, if anything, it seems to me you're erring on the side of infrastructure rather than on, and we'll get to it later, and that's where we should be. Mayor, this is a good discussion. Let's test where we are. Yeah, let's test it. So I'm going to move 22 as is, which is the change, right? I'll second that. All right. So let's take a vote on that and see if we've got a majority, and if not, we'll set it over. Great. Good discussion. Thank you. No. Thanks. All right.
 All right. Okay. So now those are done. So now we move to motion package number four, which is a collection of zoning code amendments that staff has identified because they appear to have support and are not controversial.
 I'll move. Okay. Second. Were there a couple of amendments we were going to do on 26, which is the school district notification to add school districts to the enabled contact requirement? Yes. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I believe we have a friendly amendment to add business associations to 26 on the notification. Makes sense. Yes, that's correct. Okay.
 Do you want to consider that separately or just move it with that amendment? Move that as a friendly amendment. I understand the sponsor has graciously agreed to add it. And the school district notification too, has that been added? That is the amendment. That is 26. So you would be amending number 26 to, in addition to listing schools for the neighborhood contact requirement, you're adding business associations. Do you want to vote on that or can it be a friendly amendment? It can be a friendly amendment. That's fine. Thank you. That's incorporated. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 All right. Any more discussion about that one? Then let's take motion for it with that understood friendly amendment in addition. I'm going to, at times, just look through my notes to make sure that there was nothing else I was supposed to do. But I believe this is aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay.
 Now we're transitioning to some trails, and the first motion is a bundle of trail amendments that we believe we had support for. You may want to have some discussion of this bundle, but we put them together as one vote because they are relatively uncontroversial. And this bundle does not include the two questions on Hayden Island, which are the
 Which are separately addressed later. Correct. The Hayden Island question is part of the street classification map, not the trails map. And then we pulled out for individual vote the Markham Hill and the Saltzman Road trail segments because we believe there was some discussion necessary there. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 And one that's – Excuse me, I have one more question. I'll have a question on this. It includes the trail near I-405. Can you tell me where near I-405? Yeah, it's – as you approach westbound the Vista Tunnel on the south side of 26 there, there's a trail that starts – I'm not sure exactly what street it starts on, but it starts there right before the tunnel and goes east south of 405 and connects kind of past south of PSU –
 Okay. I got briefed yesterday by Parks on an issue on a different part about the green loop. Is the green loop included in any of this? No, the green loop is part of the central city plan. That's what I'm reading. Okay, thank you. Aye. I'm sorry. I think we have a second. Aye. Now we can vote. Aye. Fish? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Hale? Aye. Okay.
 All right. So motion six related to trail segment 82 on Markham Hill. And the request, this is a modified version of amendment number 46, the request.
 The request, or the modified version, is to move the trail segment from crossing a property to follow Southwest Campus Drive. And the reason we suggested the modification was we got testimony from both the Southwest Trails and the neighborhood and the OHSU folks that they all agreed with that change. I'll move. Motion to second. Second. Okay. Further discussion? Let's take a vote, please. Okay. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ailes. Aye. Okay. Number seven. Number seven is an amendment to remove a trail segment on Saltzman Road west of Skyline. And this is one where staff recommended against the motion. So I don't know if Mr. Cole is here to just provide a little background on that. This is John Cole with my staff who has been focusing on the trail issues. Yes.
 So refresh our memory about this one, John, why there's a difference of opinion here about this one. Well, you did receive a number of public testifiers against including this particular case.
 based on issues, I think, of privacy and of impact on some natural resources in the area. It had been included in the packet initially to match up with a west side trail project that had been adopted through a public review process through the
 through Metro, during the adoption of that Metro trail segment through a resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, they did raise some concerns over the specific alignments that occurred under county jurisdiction to the west of the city property.
 So that was the basis of their testimony against including this particular trail segment.
 It is entirely within city right-of-way, so we're not on any private property. And staff had taken the position that having this particular trail segment that does match up with a conceptual trail alignment within the metro-approved trail was an acknowledgment of that particular trail planning process.
 and did indicate that we were interested in providing, if you will, a receiving point of the West Side Trail, regardless of which alignment it eventually settled on under county jurisdiction. So I don't think it's anything that staff feel strongly about, but we do think that
 retaining that particular trail segment is a signal in support of the Metro Westside trail planning process. Isn't the concern of the neighbors that it's entirely private property on the county side, so it takes people down a public right-of-way, but there isn't a connection to anything public on the other side? It doesn't necessarily – the designation of a trail on the zoning map doesn't necessarily –
 lead to signage or any specific trail that the public would be aware of? And I guess it's staff's assumption that people don't use the zoning map to navigate trails in Portland, but aside from a few of us. Yes, but that doesn't answer my question. There's private property on this other side, so the county or somebody would have to condemn private property to get people to make the connection. Or exact it through a development process, correct. Okay.
 And that's been the debate at the regional level about the routing of the trail to the west of here. So since it's public right-of-way, I'm not really quite sure why we would put a trail designation on it. If there were to have exactions with the county property, it might even be a street, never mind just a trail. The primary effect of the trail designation, if it's in public right-of-way, is to give PBOT a signal that this is a potential trail, and so it could affect city design
 requirements for sidewalks on that street but but you're correct that the the trail could be built without us having the stars on the zoning map in this segment because it would be connecting to the public right away sorry so your inclination is to take it off yes yeah
 Okay. So that's the motion before us. Staff had the contrary recommendation, but you don't have to always agree with the staff, just most of the time. Mayor, you're moving the Hales-Fritz amendment? Yes. I'll second that. Motion is seven. All right. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Fritz. Another good discussion. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Aye.
 I want to just say thanks to the staff. We're working our way through a lot of trails issues in this. And it ended up in sort of this, at least for me, in a late-in-the-game turbulence between the metro process and our own. I think we're getting it right in terms of sorting out where trails are actually practically likely to be.
 and we'll return to that conversation when we talk about Hayden Island, as opposed to ones that are going to get people concerned that aren't going to happen. I don't mind pushing the envelope on trails that have any reasonable prospect, but this one falls on the right side of that line. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to number eight.
 We're now shifting gears into code amendments that we want to consider individually. The first motion relates to Amendment No. 36, and I believe Commissioner Fritz had further revised it in a memo on November 15th. This is amendments to Title III, which established the Citizen Involvement Committee, and the Commissioner proposed changes provide more specificity about membership meetings and appointments. Thank you.
 Okay, so are you satisfied with where we are on this now? Yes, thank you very much. Okay, so this says as modified by a November 15th memo. We have that memo? You should have that memo. If you don't, we can certainly find it somewhere. Commissioner Fritz, could you just summarize what's the highlights? Yes.
 I believe we have it in the box somewhere, so we'll look. Is that? One of those boxes. I guess, Commissioner, to summarize, it was cleaning up who's responsible for this committee, what it does, how many is a quorum, and that kind of thing.
 And I heard the word appointment, so under your approach, what would be the appointment process? Commissioner, I know it's just after 9.30, but at this point I'm still not functioning particularly well because I can't remember where we got to. Bureau of Planning and Sustainability would be the appointing. I believe that's correct. The commissioner of that agency would be the appointing entity. And would they come to council?
 Yeah. It typically would. I think it's technically the mayor on the recommendation of the commissioner in charge of the bureau. Right, right. So like other appointments. Some of the council for a vote. Okay. So I was just working to make sure it was congruent with our other committees. Okay. If you're satisfied with that, I am too. We also included in that, in discussion with the commissioner's office, a recommendation
 An amendment to include the phrase that it was going to be geographically representative to, and that was testimony received from the neighborhood association's concern. Representation from a reasonably broad spectrum, yep. Okay, so Commissioner Fritz moves, and I'll second number eight. Further discussion? Okay, let's take a vote, please. Okay.
 So I apologise to Claire Adamczyk who's done an amazing job in my office of helping sort through this. I have now found that she's included the memo in my packet. So it consists of, the committee will consist of at least five, no more than 12, broadly representative, commissioner in charge appoints, renewable for one second term but not after that, and gathering information and other such good things that committees do. Okay.
 Yes. Aye. Rossman? Aye. Mayo? Aye. Okay, thank you.
 Number nine is Amendment Number 37, and this was a staff request. I'll try and go over the purpose of it. Metro Title I requires that cities have minimum densities codified in their zoning code, and this has been the case since the 1990s. Commercial mixed-use zones don't currently have minimum residential densities. You can do either commercial or residential, and if you do residential, there's not a minimum. Okay.
 With the new comp plan and the zoning map that we're asking you to adopt now, we've done a number of zone changes that shift properties from residential to commercial. And the net result of all those changes was to reduce the total minimum density of our zoning map as a whole, which may run afoul of the Metro Title I requirement that we maintain and not slide back on our overall total minimum density for residential zoning. And so –
 We're proposing an amendment that would impose residential minimum densities in mixed-use commercial zones when residential development is proposed. So it wouldn't force residential, but it just says if you're going to build residential, you have to meet a minimum density similar to how you would be doing that in residential zones. And we believe that's a sufficient addressing of that issue that would satisfy Metro's concern with their Title I. Thank you.
 Does that mean that there has to be housing in the commercial zone? No. You could still build 100% commercial and it would not be subject to this. But if you're going to start putting housing units on a site, it would preclude someone from using a prime mixed-use zone for one house. You would have to build more than one unit if you're building new development. If you have existing residential development, you can come closer to conformance without going all the way. Right.
 But if you're completely redeveloping a site, it would require a minimum density if residential is included. So moved. Second. All right. Further discussion. Let's take a vote on number nine then, please. All right. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay. Motion 10 is related to Zoning Code Amendment 30 from the memo dated November 4th.
 This is the one that we referred to earlier that was requested by Portland Community College to add the allowance for housing in the area.
 in one of the two campus designations, the denser of the two campus designations. There's a second question coming later about whether the Sylvania campus should be zoned to that denser designation. But the request, there are two campus zones, one that's more oriented to lower density neighborhoods, and an example of that would be Lewis and Clark. Another, or Reed, another campus zone is the denser one that's more accommodating for urban campuses like,
 Killingsworth, PCC, or the hospitals, good Sam. And the proposal, as originally recommended by the Planning Commission, the campus zone allows housing for staff and students and, in the case of medical, the patients, but doesn't allow just separate housing facilities.
 And the request was to be a little bit broader and allow housing outright. And the distinction would be that would allow potentially those campuses to entertain the idea of building potentially affordable housing that wasn't directly affiliated with their campus, which is something that PCC is considering as an option. I'll move. Or let me just –
 It would also allow them theoretically to develop market rate housing and use that proceeds to subsidize some part of their operation. Correct. It doesn't prejudge what kind of housing. Correct. But it gives them the flexibility. Right.
 Okay. I move number 10. Second. Further discussion? Yes, I just have a question. In relation to your comment, Commissioner Fish, is there any concern that any institution, not naming any, would develop housing for profit and then not have enough student accommodation? Yes.
 I don't have that. I would defer to the Board of Directors and the political process and the governing process. I just was clarifying that there is no constraint. My guess is, from a public policy point of view,
 And given the locations of the campuses, there'll be tremendous interest if there is to be other housing, housing for other than faculty and students, to make it affordable because there is a shortage of affordable housing generally for people who are students or full-time minimum wage workers. So I have confidence in the political process. So keep going if you want. I have another question. Well, I'm just thinking about the...
 building that PSU helped complete, which is for sale. And, you know, they're condos, not dorms, right? And it would be good to know how many of those actually are being either rented or sold to students versus the general public. Okay. I hear you. I don't know the answer to that question. I have another question, which is I should know this because we've talked about this before, but it just occurred to me that I don't know this, and that is I understand the scale and –
 design requirements attendant to the mixed-use zones, but what would prevail here? Is there a floor area ratio? Yeah, the campus – In other words, obviously we don't want, you know, Lewis and Clark building a 25-story tower. Right. The campus zones have their own floor area ratios. The lower-density one has a 0.5 FAR. These tend to be pretty big campuses with a lot of trees, so that's enough. Right.
 The denser one has a three-to-one, which is similar to the moderate-scale mixed-use zone. They do include some of the same design standards as the mixed-use zones, where it fronts up against commercial streets and other mixed-use streets. So in terms of the transit setbacks and the articulation of the buildings and all that, it's the same standards that have been applied there. Eric? One other thought I just want to throw out there. I've been thinking about ways that we could –
 create more incentives for faith communities, campuses, to build housing for older adults. The idea being that we know that older adults like to be adjacent to academic institutions, take advantage of programming, so perfect case would be within the university district.
 We also know that we have some churches, historic churches in this city that are losing their congregations, and what better place if they were to develop a parking lot or something than to have housing for older adults that then could be part of that community. So that's not before us, but I am personally intrigued by the idea particularly of housing for older adults and affordable housing on campuses because of the other amenities that campuses offer the residents.
 Yeah, I like that, too. One other question that hadn't occurred to me, and Dan, you may know the answer to this already, and that is assuming, and I certainly am assuming, that we're moving forward with inclusionary housing. Would those requirements apply to non-student housing built on a college campus? Yes.
 Probably, but that's a good question. To be determined. So we might want to specify that. Yeah, you might. My understanding, Tom Armstrong, I believe, is in the audience. He's right behind you. Who? Mike Satt. Would inclusionary housing requirements apply to the non-student housing built on a college campus under this provision? Okay. That's as it should be, in my opinion. Okay. Further questions or concerns about this one? All right. Then let's take a vote, please, on this one.
 Chris? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? It's a little bit of an experiment. I think it's a good one, though. I like it. Aye. Okay.
 Okay, so now we're moving into one that we expect a little more debate. This is the alphabet district and this this one We've put three three alternate motions on the table a B and C Motion a essentially upholds the Planning Commission recommendation With a slight technical change that is that staffs recommendation? motion be Adopt
 Adopts rejects the Planning Commission recommendation and retains the existing four to one FAR in the in the alphabet district in the RH zone and then motion C was an attempt at a compromise from the mayor that
 the Planning Commission recommendations but adds a few more properties to the 4-1 area. And a bigger background is the Alphabet District is one of our National Historic Districts. The RH Zone, which is what this amendment is about, has two potential FARs, either 2-1 or 4-1, and it's mapped in the zoning code. And the Alphabet District initially was a
 and has been for many years, there are sometimes some conflicts between the Landmarks Commission design review process and that floor area and in the past some buildings at 421 have been rejected because of concerns about massing. We got into this business of looking at FAR
 You modified some of the boundaries of the RH zone in your zoning map amendments, and so we had to go clean up these maps from just a housekeeping perspective. And when we did that, we got the attention of some of the neighbors who then testified that this should be two-to-one, not four-to-one. Okay.
 You heard some testimony from affordable housing providers and some property owners concerned about the loss of density in such a close-in urban neighborhood, and then you heard from NWDA and historic preservation advocates that the two-to-one was more appropriate. The Planning Commission's recommendation kind of split and kept four-to-one on the south side of the district, which is close to the MAX station and where there is a slightly higher preponderance of –
 of bigger historic buildings. The maps on the screen, the red line on the map on the screen is where the Planning Commission drew the line, essentially. So the RH zone south of that line retained 4 to 1, and the areas north of that were reduced to 2 to 1. The...
 So that's sort of what would be in play if motion A passes. If motion B passes, the line would go away and it would all just stay 4-1. Motion C would add the properties in red on the map to the area that is 4-1 and retain south of the line 4-1. And then the other, to complicate this a little further, the other notion that was floated but never actually put in the form of a potential amendment was to look at 3-1 instead of 4-1.
 either of these or as a compromise correct that was discussed a little bit um staff didn't recommend that it's it's it would be introducing kind of a whole new framework into that zoning code and it was yeah i'm not sure but i'm not sure which of these i like either but i'm not sure if i like that one i'm not sure if that made it any better but it was at least worth talking about
 MS. From my understanding that C is the one that you were leaning towards. MR. Yeah, I think, you know, I still think C is a reasonable compromise. But it's, you know, there are detractors to each of these approaches. The detractors to option C is that it's spot zoning. I think it is, it was an attempt on my part and our part to try to make a reasonable call
 where the two-to-one really should be applied for purposes of historic preservation and where some higher-intensity development potentially could be allowed, although it's still subject to the landmarks process, as we saw in the case that we decided against. So I would maybe start with a motion, or whether you have some other... I wanted to just interject that I believe this is the point where Commissioner Novick wanted to join the conversation. And it's available to do so. Okay. Thank you, sir.
 All right. All right. So council member is going to participate by telephone in the meeting. I need to make these announcements that need to be made before we do that. The nature of the emergency requiring the member to participate by telephone is that Commissioner Novick is participating by telephone because without his participation there may not be a sufficient number of council members present to adopt this ordinance as presented.
 We have made sure that Commissioner Novick is properly informed of the business before us. Do any of the council members who are physically present object to having Commissioner Novick participate via telephone? MR. Mayor, if this was another legislative body in Washington, D.C., I would offer and I would reserve my objection pending which way he tends to vote on the matter before us.
 Okay, but no objections for now. So, Professor Novick, you're provisionally participating. Welcome. Thank you.
 So I would move motion B. Can you hear us, Commissioner Novick? Let's see if Steve is connected here. I'm here. Okay, there he is. All right. Is that Commissioner Sautzer moving motion B? Yes. And I will second that. Okay. So this is retaining 4-1 everywhere where it is currently mapped and both not accepting the recommendation from the PSC or my attempt at a compromise.
 Yes, I'd like to speak against the motion. In terms of answering the question of is this spot zoning, I think a lot of what we've done in this comprehensive plan is lot-by-lot zoning, so I'm not at all concerned that we would be providing that. Also, as we found with an appeal to council, it's about truth in zoning. If you can't possibly or are very unlikely to be able to meet the historic review standards, we're not really doing people a favour by saying,
 implying that they can develop at a higher intensity than it actually works out at. I agree with that viewpoint. Okay, further discussion before we take a vote on option B? Okay, roll call, please. Fritz? No. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? No. Okay, but it passes. All right, let's move on then to...
 Option number 12. So motion 12, like the previous one, is three options. This concerns drive-through regulations. And we've discussed this at length in some earlier briefings, but I'll just go over the general lay of the land again. We have three options, A, B, and C. Option A retains the Planning Commission recommendation and includes some clarifying language from staff, essentially,
 Essentially, it would prohibit drive-through facilities and related quick vehicle servicing uses east of 80th. West of 80th, it would allow new drive-through facilities and quick vehicle servicing uses only in the more auto-accommodating CE zone. West of 80th, it would also allow rebuilding and expansion of existing facilities in the CM1, 2, and 3 zones.
 Motion B, we tried to keep the same pattern. I believe this was Commissioner Saltzman's amendment, reflects the staffs. It goes back to the staffs.
 August recommendation to Planning Commission before they added the 80th Avenue distinction. So it would allow new drive-throughs and quick vehicle servicing uses in all of the CE zones citywide. It would also allow existing facilities in the CM1, 2, and 3 zones to be expanded or rebuilt. They would continue to be prohibited in the central city and in the new Main Street overlays, which correspond to the core Main Streets of our centers in the comp plan.
 and those would be treated as non-conforming development. The option C was a
 potential compromise floated by the mayor, it would continue to prohibit drive-through facilities in all of the mixed-use zones, but not just east of 80th. So it erases the Planning Commission's east of 80th distinction. But unlike the Planning Commission, it would allow quick vehicle servicing uses, new ones in any of the CE zones citywide.
 So that was drawing a distinction between like a fast food drive-thru and a gas station. Excuse me. And then all drive-thru facilities in the central city and in the new Main Street overlay, like option B, would be treated as nonconforming. Like the other option, it would also allow existing facilities to be rebuilt and expanded in the CM1, 2, and 3 and CE without being considered nonconforming.
 And we had some maps that we had prepared of the sort of net effect of this. If anyone needs to look at those, they're on the screen.
 All right. The option A, in these maps, they use the same color scheme where red is showing where they would be new ones are prohibited. Orange is showing where new ones are prohibited but existing ones have a more liberal rebuild allowance. And then green is where you can just build new ones or rebuild old ones. So under option A, you can see the green has retreated to the remaining CE zoning west of 80th. Under option B.
 So the green basically corresponds to the CE zone citywide and is both east and west of 80th. And then in option C, there is also less green but more orange, and it depends on the distinction here is whether you're quick vehicle servicing or other services.
 uses, so it could be green or red depending on the situation. So let me speak a little bit about option C. Let me speak about all these. I thought that the planning commission's idea of east of 80th was laudable, but not, I don't think,
 really workable. I think what we should be trying to do in this planning effort, like all, is just zone for the city we want and be serious about climate. Well, we want the whole city to be less auto-oriented, but we have to acknowledge the reality that people do need to have their vehicles serviced. So that's why the distinction that we're making, particularly in C but also in B about quick vehicle servicing, is just being practical to me.
 And then secondly, I don't want to – the problem I have, frankly, Dan, with option B is it really does the opposite to East Portland. It says East Portland is very auto-oriented now, and it's going to stay that way. So I'm concerned about that. So my preference here would be first choice C, second choice B in my evaluation of these options. I could live with B, but I think C is better.
 here can i make a couple of observations and i um this discussion about drive-throughs um brings back some memories because this is an issue that the mayor has been very passionate about and has shaped the debate and and has brought a lot of his own values and his history to this and i'm reminded um when when i served with another mayor named adams he helped me do something called bug clark
 And there was an issue a couple years later he cared a lot about, and I was wavering. He passed a note down to me. And I opened the note and said, this is my Bud Clark comments. Unfortunately, I still couldn't support it, but that's another matter. And based on the briefings I've had, Mayor, and the analysis, I have kind of a 1A, 1B on this, and I think we're going to land in a better place. But we'll see how the votes unfold. I just want to make a couple of observations.
 As my colleagues know, last year I lived by myself with a much more limited support network because my family was in Europe, and from time to time I got sick.
 And it was really eye-opening, frankly, to navigate hospitals, doctors, drugstores, and the basic necessities of life. And it really sucked to have a medical condition and be in a drugstore trying to navigate all the things. And I began to appreciate the convenience for some people of being able to stay in their car and pick something up.
 And, you know, years and years ago we had younger children and there was also a benefit of not having to get out of the car and go through all that. But so there's a convenience factor.
 I think Commissioner Saltzman has made an important argument about opportunity to some of these businesses that we don't necessarily endorse as a city but have created opportunities particularly for minority entrepreneurs. And it is worth noting that our newest member of the state legislature from the region is a successful entrepreneur of color who owns McDonald's franchises.
 Not a place that I go to for my food, but I know for other people in our community it's a place they go. There's another concern I have here, and that is I have a young, I have a 12-year-old now who seems to be spending a lot of time in Washington County and Clackamas County because they have malls.
 And that is a safe place where kids get sent on the weekends. And so I'm seeing a lot more Clackamas in Washington. And I notice that there's a lot of drive-throughs in those counties. And it would be a perverse outcome of all this if what we ended up doing was encourage people to get in their car and drive to another county to take advantage of something that they can't take advantage closer to their home. And then I'm...
 I will just close by saying on the question of what kind of economic activity we try to encourage, again, thanks to my daughter and Chuck Amato and others, I have a different view about food and about choices. But as I get older, I'm loathe to impose those on others.
 When I go to the county fair, I don't break out in hives because people are walking around with candy apples and cotton candy and smoking and sometimes have about what the Surgeon General said is the weight limit for our age. Because people get to make those choices. We hope we can encourage them to do healthier things. And I'm an example of someone who can be taught to try healthier things.
 But I'm increasingly reluctant to mandate, which is why I love the fact that in parks, for example, when I was a commissioner and continuing under Commissioner Fritz, we offer healthy choices, but they're options. They're not mandates. We don't restrict. We add.
 So those are the kinds of things I've been struggling with on this. And again, I have a 1A and a 1B, and I hope we can vote first, ultimate, see where we are on that. And if there isn't a consensus, then take up C, which I'm guessing there will be a bigger consensus and see where we are on this. Could you just show me option C, Matt, please? I'm looking at Barber going diagonally on the west side and also at Sandy on the right side, because those are places which...
 I would prefer to have fewer drive-throughs than there are now, which it looks to me like the Hales Amendment gets us there. Could you go back to B again, please? Yes.
 Maybe it's about the same. It's about the same. Both are showing the CE zone, but the distinction is in C, the only drive-throughs allowed are the quick vehicle servicing kind. Right. So the green is a different flavor of green, I guess, in C. In terms of the zoning on Barber, that green essentially shows where the CE zoning is. And, Commissioner, there may be further opportunities to affect that map as we learn more about the location of the light rail station areas and –
 probably do some further refinement there. Yeah, so I mean to put it sort of in policy terms, the approach that I'm recommending in option C says we want walkable urbanism everywhere we have zoned for mixed use, and drive-throughs would generally not occur there.
 We want quick vehicle servicing in the CE zone because that's the kind of use that's supposed to happen in the CE zone.
 The other distinction, I guess, or element of several of these options is the idea of allowing a more liberal rebuild allowance and not considering the existing ones nonconforming. And what that does is it allows the property owner, in theory, to upgrade their facility to the latest brand design, which usually means they're going to come closer to meeting our pedestrian standards and our building orientation standards rather than locking them into the exact footprint they have right now. Yeah. Okay.
 If you look, presumably those vertical ones are 80 second and 120 second. Correct. And so it seems to me that that is zoning for what we want, is allowing it in a few places, but trying to change from the very auto-oriented properties that are there now. And I think that was why East Portland Action Plan was so keen to have slightly less liberal allowances than they have now.
 All of these maps have less green than the current zoning map because we've moved some properties out of the CE zone and put them into the CM2, as you were discussing in the earlier Powell amendment. Yeah, the only other comments I would make, and this has been a really robust debate. We had a lot of testimony, but the only comments I would make is I was struck on this discussion, as I have been in a lot of things lately, about a generational divide. The young progressive Portlanders saying we don't want to live in an auto-oriented city
 We don't want parking, required parking. We don't, you know, a lot of those issues have been dividing pretty clearly along generational lines. And then secondly, it's just our commitment to climate action. So when do we start? Well, we should have started 25 years ago, but we're trying to catch up. So that's my pitch. So I guess I would just say on behalf of my amendment, you know, I believe there's a lot of different currents running through this issue around drive-thrus, whether it's new urbanism, climate action.
 uh but you know i'm looking at it from a point of view that these are drive-through services are things that our residents want i see every time i see a line in front of the dutch brothers or you know a taco bell or whatever people want the convenience of drive-throughs and i'm loathe i think like commissioner fist said to sort of impose my set of values here uh and and restrict that option i mean i think we are restricting it but i think
 you know we should be more tolerant of them and and as commissioner fish alluded to these you know a lot of these businesses are the first rung for minority entrepreneurs to become successful and i think we should think about that as well so there's a lot of different values at work here and that's those are the values that drive me is it's something our residents find convenient
 particularly those with young children or those with disabilities or older adults and It does provide an avenue for successful people people to be successful as business people and I think these are values that to me Make me support my amendment and I would move my amendment The further discussion Steve do you want to comment before we vote I
 Yes. I was persuaded by the mayor's argument. I think option C is correct. I also would note that I think that limiting drive-throughs is a way of honoring Michelle Obama and her healthy food campaign. True enough. Okay, let's take a vote then on B as moved. Fritz? No. No.
 fish i really appreciate this discussion and i i again i i was being lighthearted but the mayor has made this uh a signature part of our debate and i have a much deeper understanding of the competing values here and i i think there may be a couple of right answers today hi boss man hi no no no no so i move uh option c second that further discussion okay let's take a vote on option c
 fish hi salesman hi nobody this is steve this is c this is this sorry nice you're at a disadvantage this is c this is my proposal okay that's what i thought hi hi thank you very much okay let's move on then to 13.
 Okay. Motion 13 is we're now moving into the zoning map amendments, shifting gears out of the code into the map. And this first one goes back to something we touched on earlier. This is the request from PCC Sylvania to change their zoning designation from Campus Institutional 1 to Campus Institutional 2. There is a...
 a caveat that the request comes with a .75 FAR rather than the normal 3 to 1 that would come with that denser zone, just acknowledging that this isn't quite as urban as some of the other CI2 zones. You did get a letter from PCC.
 saying that they were okay with that caveat. It may help calm concerns from neighbors about the scale of development. But they've got a massive campus, so what kind of buildings would we get if they wanted to do a residential with .7? Yeah.
 0.75 would – both the current 0.5 that would exist without this change and the 0.75 would allow a substantial increase in what they have now. Their intent, we believe, is to try and move the new buildings sort of in the direction of the street in front and towards the light rail line to the north. There is an E-zone that wraps around the south and west of the campus, which would restrict –
 some of the growth in that direction towards that portion of the neighborhood. But both zones would allow considerable growth above what's currently allowed by their master plan. The main distinction is that the CI2 zone has a broader allowance for commercial uses in the campus beyond the ones that are strictly part of the college zone.
 And as your earlier amendment did, it also now allows a broader allowance for housing. And the building orientation and other standards are more like the mixed-use zones, more like the CM2 zone. So, again, I'm getting back to how do we get sidewalks within the campus? Yes.
 Both designations, the campus zoning has similar requirements for pedestrian orientation and internal pedestrian connections as the mixed-use zones do. So as part of that review of new buildings, we would be looking for that. Well, they have the internal pedestrian circulation with sidewalks, but they don't have any connection between the buildings in the middle to the street outside. Okay.
 So how would that be affected by actually giving them the CIO2 versus having that as being the comprehensive plan designation and some kind of process to approve it? Oh, I see what you're asking. Yeah, I mean, if this was left to a quasi-judicial request –
 Both of these zones are allowed with the campus designation on the comp plan map that you've given them. So that would be an option to ask them to do this quasi-judicially. That would create a process that is separate from this. Well, again, I share some of the basis for your concern. But, again, I want to maybe take a slightly different approach. This is a huge area. I mean, I see you have the same reaction. Oh, my God, that's a huge area. So we're moving from…
 you know, this whole, you know, in the past, what we did with campuses is we zoned them R5, right? And then we had a conditional use master plan, right? So we've come a long way, baby, from that to this idea that we're actually deliberately zoning campuses with their own zone. But then the devil's in the details. Do we get a mixture of housing or just student housing? I kind of like adding some other housing in. We've done that. That is a little bit of an experiment. We'll
 Does it actually fit into the neighborhood, and do we have the kind of transportation leverage that we need to get the infrastructure that should be there if it's more than just a campus? And those details are going to matter in terms of whether this innovation of this special zone is actually going to work out in practice or whether we're going to wince later and go, oh, we didn't get that right. The pedestrian improvements, I think –
 I attended the charrette that the college alluded to in their testimony a few weeks back where they did a pretty comprehensive discussion of what the future of Sylvania should look like and
 I would say that probably a dominant part of that discussion was an acknowledgement from many of the participants that the pedestrian environment is terrible on the campus, and particularly for people with disabilities. And so that, I believe, is an emerging theme within their internal master plan discussion. A second angle on it is that as we –
 the Southwest light rail line, one of the associated projects that is connecting those stationeries to the neighborhood is a pedestrian improvement and bike improvement on Southwest 53rd that would connect the campus better to the potential light rail station. And so that's also part of that project, essentially. But the Barbell Transit Center right now is a mile from the campus. Right.
 There is a sidewalk, which I think you got done in your previous work. It's one of the only sidewalks. And I live in the West Portland Park neighborhood, which is to the east. And then to the south is the far southwest neighborhood. So part of my question is, how does the master plan work? I mean, yes, the Charette is very nice, but...
 But if you have a quasi-judicial process, you actually get to say you need to have this connection to here and here. You will still have a quasi-judicial process in this case with either zone because we did reserve the transportation impact review as still a requirement for both of these zones. Okay.
 Although the flora area is allowed, it still comes with a land use review to look at transportation impacts, which would give you an opportunity to discuss that element. It is a – Well, you get to discuss it, but can you actually affect the choices? Unlike the University of Portland that has made a point of attending every single Cathedral Park Neighborhood Association meeting –
 I don't think there has been that ongoing collaboration between PCC Sylvania and either Far Southwest or West Portland Park. So I guess I'm concerned about just giving them a whole lot more intensity without the ability of the neighbors to point out what might work for them, especially because we know now that we're not going to get light rail going actually to the campus. It's going to be a mile away probably either way.
 I think there needs to be more discussion about how does this work. So the staff recommended in favor of this. Tell us why we should be reassured. Well, I think our conclusion was that the Southwest project offers a big opportunity to affect this, and this has been a focus of that discussion as well, is not only the sidewalk connection, but how do we improve bus service or shuttle service to the college. And, again, the –
 The fact that we're still requiring a transportation impact review with substantial expansion, they're going to essentially have to do a transportation master plan still. It's not the same master plan that is the conditional use master plan, but the approval criteria in that review have been strengthened, and I believe you heard some nervousness and testimony from the colleges about that, that we've upped the game in terms of transportation demand management and expansion.
 We've reoriented the criteria to emphasize multimodal connections. So that review is really going to look at pedestrian and bike and transit access to the campus and what are we going to do about that. The other driver in this case is their land base is basically their parking lot. So if they want to build new buildings, they're going to have to figure out a way to –
 either build structured parking or shift their mode split to other modes to make that land available because their students are currently driving at a fairly high rate. Actually, they're also not. They're parking at the public transit center and taking the bus or walk. Okay.
 oh yeah it's really different on days that the campus is not open so are you telling me with the transportation review that that would happen in a judicial setting yes the neighbors would have input and there'd be a hearings officer deciding whether it's good enough or not it's um I have to refer to one up John um
 One of the amendments that will come before the Commission later today is a direction, if you will, from the Commission for staff to work with neighborhood associations, the public, and the institutions on transportation demand management and what that means. Okay.
 currently in our discussions and currently as it stands in the code, the Transportation Impact Review is a Type 2 application that's appealable by the neighborhood associations if they were aggrieved to the hearings officer. And have we had any input from either of the neighborhood associations on this particular amendment? No.
 We, I believe, had a few letters in opposition from neighbors earlier in the process. We have had testimony from a few neighborhoods preferring to keep the existing conditional use process and expressing some nervousness about the new system. Should we test this motion? Yeah, I think we should. Let's give it a try. I'll move the motion. Okay. Is there a second? Any further discussion? Let's take a vote and see where we are. Thank you for the information. No.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. I think we're going to have to make sure that that transportation master plan process works, but I think that there are folks in this room that will endeavor to do that. So moving on to number 14, this is map amendment number three from the November 4th amendments memo. This changes one property on Hayden Island, which is –
 Actually, I think it's missing a number in the address there, but it's on the map in front of you. Headed down as 1225, not 11212. Yeah, and it changes it from CM1 to CE. This was a request from Joe Angel. And this was basically an island of CE surrounded by CM1. Yeah, right. Isn't CE the more intense zone? Yeah.
 CE is more intense and allows a broader range of auto accommodating uses, which I believe is the current use of the site. CM1 is more of a neighborhood oriented commercial zone. I believe currently that this picture shows after the amendment. So this broader area is an island of CM1 in the area.
 in the CE zoning on Jansen Beach. So we'd be creating an island within the island of CE there. Right, so our current plan is to have it CM1, like the rest of that area. Yeah, and currently I believe, Marty can correct me, but I believe it's CN currently. It's CN now. It's CN2, correct. But then there's all that.
 Across the freeway is the whole area that was – how did we end up zoning that? All that is still CE, although it has a planned district, which has a street requirement that is a little different, and it has some housing requirements with bonuses. Yeah, I mean, I'm inclined to accede to this in that, frankly, I think –
 prospect of change on Hayden Island is distant, but where it will happen is in the giant strip mall complex on the west side of I-5 when we get light rail there. That's when it will change. The rest of Hayden Island is not going to change anytime soon.
 so what was the reasoning for having um the cm surrounded by i'm not sure why the cn we we took this this area in general to cm1 because we believed it was the closest analog to the cn zoning that the neighborhood plan established at that time i think the intent was the area west of the freeway be more the more urban area and that this area east was a more neighborhood oriented
 But that really would be a spot zone, then, to just have one property in the middle. Fair enough. Fair enough. Yeah, that's what the property owner requested. I would be willing to go CE over more of this because, again, I think realistically the gas station, the fast food restaurants, the motel, the car wash, they're not going anywhere anytime soon. Right.
 You could amend your motion to change the whole pink area on the map to CE if that would be a twist on what's currently before you. Well, we haven't had any testimony on that, right? No, you just heard from the one property owner. We didn't hear from the Hayden Island High Noon? No. Okay. So does anybody want to make the motion? Okay.
 i just want to first note that i think i introduced this amendment after hearing about it from joe angel and initially um staff said that they were fine with it but now i see the staff member opposes it i mean eric could you elaborate on that like was there sort of what kind of discussion was there about this i think we we were just concluding that the cm's one zone is a better representation of the adopted neighborhood plan but um you know i think that that's it could go either way but that's that was our
 After some discussion internally with staff, that's where we ended. The only – Mr. Angel's here. I don't talk about you in the third person since you're in the room. So we only got testimony from one person about this whole area, like one property. You got a lot of testimony about the trails nearby but not on the zoning. That's bizarre. Well, except that I thought we had the comprehensive plan map process before, and now this is another coming back at it. Yeah.
 Okay, so, yeah, I mean, seeing this map, frankly, this would be kind of an absurd result, even though I thought it was a reasonable request. So I'm not sure if I can support this amendment. So, Steve, do you want us to move forward with this, or do you want to have this set over? I think I'd be fine with moving forward with it. I move the amendment. All right. Is there a second? Second. Okay, let's take a vote then on the amendment as stated. Okay.
 Obviously, this has been a good discussion, and we do need to encourage things to change, but I do think we should stay true to the process and not go back on it just because somebody asked, even though we like him a lot. Aye. I mean, no. Fish? No. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? No. I can't justify this. Not when I see the map. No. Okay. Let's go to 15. 15.
 15 is a similar request from CM1 to CE. This is at 6454 North Greeley, and I believe the testimony here also from the property owner was concerned about the existing use of the property as it relates to the allowances of the CE versus CM1 zone. So I'm trying to track this here, so.
 In this case, there is some other CE and CM1 at this corner. It's just the red circled parcel? Yes. I believe in this case the concern, the argument against was coming kind of from a neighborhood perspective that there had been some neighborhood discussion and the preference was to move this intersection to a more less auto-oriented format.
 And so the CM1 was preferred, although we do acknowledge the CE is probably closer to the use allowances of what's there now on that property. So the amendment as – the effect of the amendment would be to create the pattern that you've just mapped. Correct. Opposite diagonal CE and CM1 on the four corners. Right. And just to clarify, the uses at this intersection on the north –
 west corner there is a gas station on the north east corner that is a convenience store and then the subject property in question is has some sort of i believe auto oriented nature to it and then on the southwest corner it's a medical office
 I've actually done a lot of sign waving on this corner. It's really good evening rush hour. And I think it would be good to have it more as a node of neighborhood commercial services, just leaving the gas station. I move the motion. All right. The motion is moved. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Fritz? No. Fish? Aye. Osmond? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ailes? No. Passes. Second.
 Okay, 16. Number 16 concerns Map Amendment 9, and it's been modified slightly based on testimony that happened on the 17th. This is Northeast Fremont, which the original amendment changed the area between 46th to 48th from CM1 to 2.
 The further modification is to extend that to 50th, so the whole stretch between 46th and 50th would be changed to CM2 from CM1. On the north side of the street. On the north side of the street. The original logic for the – Stannage is in? This is the Stannage. Stannage is the modification. The other property owner was accommodated by the initial request. The logic of drawing it at 48th in our initial amendment was that –
 That's where the CS zone currently shifts to CN, and so we were trying to reflect that existing pattern, but you did get compelling testimony from Stanich, so that's the change. I'd move the amendment. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Aye. First Jimmy Maxx, now Staniches. I mean, we're losing our heritage, our cultural heritage. Aye. Gossman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hale? Well, they didn't say they were going to close. Aye. Aye.
 Number 17 is Map Amendment 11 from the November 4th memo. It concerns properties on the west side of Chavez between Division and Sherman, and this is a change from R1 to CM2 with a D overlay added. The comp plan is mixed use here, so this is something that can be done as a zoning change. You got testimony. You got testimony.
 in favor from some elements within the Richmond neighborhood and in opposition from some neighbors and other folks. Actually, that's incorrect. There's no opposition on this particular amendment. So a bit strong support from five members of the Richmond board. Oh, right. I want to note for the record that Eric has been talking nonstop now for an hour. I think that was the first mistake. Maybe in six months. Pretty amazing. Yeah.
 What's the net effect of what you could now do with this change? I know this corner pretty well. In this case, there are five properties. The Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendation is for this to go to R1. And so if you have a 5,000-square-foot lot, you're looking at roughly about five to seven units per property.
 property. With it going to CM2, for a 5,000 square foot lot, we are seeing roughly about a 19 unit product
 So it's really a gain in potential housing with this change. And it is at a very prominent intersection at Chavez and Division. We have two major bus lines that intersect at that intersection. You have a lot of development happening there. This is Chavez, so, I mean, it is Chavez.
 And I actually walked down Chavez last night at about 8 o'clock and was really struck by the lack of pedestrian improvements along that stretch of thoroughfare there. Here I move the motion. Second. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Aye. Fish? Aye. Balsman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Dixon?
 I think this, like some of these others, number 18, the Mount Tabor sites that we've talked about, these are opportunities to try to shape a little neighborhood center where there isn't one now. So that makes sense. Aye. Okay. Let's move on then to 18. The 18 is a combination of Amendments 12 and 13 from the November 4th memo. They both concern a note of zoning at 50th and Hawthorne.
 Number 12 is to change that one property on that node that is kind of at the end of Hawthorne to CM2, and 13 changes the whole node, including the CM1, to add a D overlay. And I realize that there may be some preference among at least one or two of you to split this into two votes, but I put it together to see where we were. Okay.
 I'm comfortable with them being together. No, I'm actually not. No? No, I think the overlays, but we had the discussion in the comp plan process of this being kind of a step down to the residential neighborhood. So there isn't really a step down if you make this the two areas.
 Oh, I see. You think it's too intense, even with the D overlay. There would be some remaining CM1 to the east and north. So I believe the property in question doesn't actually touch the residential property. It's got CM1 to the… Yeah, it's a question of is this a big finale to the going on whole thing or whether it starts indicating that we're transitioning to the neighborhood. One clarification that's important to make here is that
 because of the comprehensive plan map amendment that was made at 50th on Hawthorne, it does transition to mixed-use neighborhood. And so what that means is even with the addition of the D overlay,
 And if this property goes to CM2, because of the mixed-use neighborhood opportunity, there is no ability to bonus height on that site if it goes to CM2. So that is a nuance that's important to – Why is that again? Why is there no opportunity? Because you have to have the mixed-use urban center designation and the D overlay to get to the height bonus. They don't have the urban center.
 They don't have the urban center comp plan map designation. So wouldn't the step-down requirement, if there's R5 to the east, wouldn't the step-down requirement apply? It would – not to this site because it doesn't touch the R5 directly. Oh, because there's still CM1 between it and – Yeah. Yeah.
 That's not clear on the map here, but I'll take your word for it. The property that is requested to go to 2 is the square that the arrow is pointing to. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. The pink would remain as CM1 to the east. And then everything to the west is CM2, right? Correct. That's right. You're talking about where you want to draw that step down, as the commissioner indicated earlier. Is this where the animals club is?
 I don't know about that, but I know that the Sapphire Hotel is in this building. Not what I'm thinking of. So it's a residential building now. Yeah, it's a residential. No, the building in question is actually a classic. It's the picture on the upper right. It's a classic traditional storefront building that has, again, the Sapphire Hotel as the business that I am familiar with. And what would be the zoning to have that stay? Yeah.
 So currently the zoning is storefront commercial. So a straight translation of the storefront commercial would be the CM2. And that is what the property owners are requesting, is that they have a straight translation of the CS to the CM2. Okay. Then I'm comfortable with it. Thank you. So Commissioner Fritz moves. I just had a question. Is this a very small design overlay? I mean, do we do that?
 It's kind of like spot zoning. So all of Hawthorne has a design overlay, with the exception of this area that went to mixed-use neighborhood areas.
 Within the package of amendments, we have two deviations to that. We have the one here at Hawthorne, and then we have the entire neighborhood of Selwood-Moorland that would receive the D. That is a deviation from kind of the parameters that staff were working with.
 So there is a D overlay on the rest of Hawthorne already. I just paced it a little further east this way. So is there a second? I'll second it. So let's take a vote unless there's further questions or discussion. See where we stand on this one. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Can you tell me who moved and seconded? Commissioner Fritz moved and I seconded. Thank you. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hossman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Okay.
 All right. Then let's move on to 60th and Belmont, 19. Yeah, this is Amendment 14 from the November 4th memo at 60th and Belmont. This is a – I'm not sure what great group of students we just had visit us, but thanks for coming. Thank you for coming. I hope it wasn't too tedious. Where are you from? I'm from Michigan. Ah, future planners? Yes. Future commissioners. Go Vikings. This is a change from CM1 to CM2 as well.
 Okay. And I introduced this amendment to follow up with a comp plan amendment we've adopted that's raised changes to the parkway from the first mixed-use neighborhood. Yep. And there was a question raised about the impact on the transportation system, and he said that the few additional units that would be allowed aren't going to have a significant impact. Understood. Okay, so Commissioner Novick moves. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion? Second.
 Let's take a vote, please. Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hale. This makes good sense. Aye. Okay. 20. This is a return up to Sylvan, and this was the other property that had been debated in that context. This particular one is from R20 to R5, which was the compromise that you ended up with when you had the comp plan map discussion. I move the motion. Second. Second. Okay. Any further discussion? No.
 roll call please well i'm just still not believing that it's i think it would be better with the quasi-judicial process and so to be consistent now hi osman hi no bit hi hey hi okay 21.
 21 is Amendment 19 from the November 4th, and this was at roughly 50th and Woodstock, several properties as noted in the memo. With a further modification, you received testimony about both the joinery and autos. The properties are between Woodstock and Southeast Martins, between 48th and 49th, and then on the west side of 42nd.
 So the modification is to expand the change to add properties to the CM2 zone on those based on testimony. I'll move the amendment. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Fritz? Aye. Dish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Hopefully in this case also we're preserving long-distance future redevelopment because if Northeast would mourn the loss of Stanish's, my neighborhood would steeply mourn the loss of Otto's, and I hope that doesn't happen any time soon. Aye. Okay, 22. 22 is not something that was in any of the memos, but it's something that came up in testimony on the 17th
 This was from a property owner at 3844 Northeast 82nd, requesting a change from R1 to CE. And it is abutting other mixed use. And specifically to the north, that's the old Shriners Hospital site or the Columbia Knoll development. They're along Sandy and 82nd. And to the south, it is the Red Roof Inn.
 which, interestingly enough, you can see is not only south of this property in question, but it is also to the east, so it kind of wraps around L-shaped. So staff heard that testimony and felt like, yeah, this was probably a good site for a commercial. There's a single-family house on the site now, but, yeah, that's kind of an anomaly at this point. And it does have a comp plan designation of mixed use, so we can do this. Okay. Is there a motion? I'll move it. Second. Second.
 Further discussion? Roll call. Grits. Aye. Fish. Aye. Kaufman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Mills. Aye. Okay. So we're ahead of schedule. You want to try and take a few from the afternoons? I'd recommend we go...
 What time do you have to leave, Mayor? We've got to leave at quarter of probably. We have about ten minutes. Another ten minutes if we want to. That makes sense. Get more done? Okay. Let's move on then. So number 23, this is – we're moving into a directive now, so this would be, in this case, a separate ordinance. And I invite Denver Agarta from PBOT to describe this. Hi. Again, I'm Denver Agarta, Senior Transportation Planner with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Okay.
 So, this amendment is not part of the Transportation System Plan recommended draft. However, it does relate to several sections in the Transportation System Plan. So specifically, we're working on an ordinance that would advance comp plan policies to improve connectivity in centers, specifically in eastern neighborhoods pattern area.
 With this direction, we looked at existing city code, specifically through street requirements to city standards with both our Portland Bureau of Transportation Development Services Group and the city attorney's office. And looking at the code, we determined we have sufficient code authority to make requirements for new connections that meet the spacing standards of the city. The ordinance...
 that we're preparing would adopt a strategy providing further guidance on applying those existing city code by focusing where the connections are needed most. Essentially, it'd be council giving direction to PBOT to enforce the requirements per city code and per the code requirement, specifically in centers where we intend most of the growth to be focused and the change to occur.
 in eastern neighborhoods where we have a comp plan policy asking for us to create connections to improve access to local destinations. And then along with our spacing standards, the sites that are furthest from parallel streets and larger sites. The improvements required as part of this code would not change for what's already in place.
 So the effect of this amendment, if you agree to it, would be that PBOT will file a separate ordinance that would be heard on the same day as the comp plan adoption that would essentially adopt this strategy for directing them how to move forward to achieve stronger street connectivity in these areas. Okay.
 I appreciate this. I just want to speak in favor of this. Obviously, this is something, a long conversation I've had with PBOT and with the Planning Bureau, that systematically trying to create connectivity in these areas where it's been lacking because of a very suburban pattern. And the past is really important. It's real wonky and down in the weeds. But over time, done right, which I think the Bureau will do, the bureaus will do, you start to get more of a neighborhood-connected feel to an area that was –
 was developed without any regard for people walking around at all in some cases. So this is good work, and I appreciate it. So I'd move this item. Is there further discussion? Let's take a vote, please. Who seconded? I did. Dan did. Thank you. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Balsam? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 Hi. Hey, Al. Hi. Thank you very much. Samara, on the next few things, I would appreciate it if we could wait until after I've had another cup of tea after lunch. Okay. But there is one that we could possibly take care of now, which is 29. I think we might have consensus on that one. All right. And the other is the one you want to be refueled for. That's only fair. Thank you. Okay. So number 29 is – Is that motion 29th?
 Okay. Motion 29, the seventh, ninth issue. Okay. So are you ready to move that? Yes, I move it because it's just making it clear that there is going to be a public process to decide which is seventh or ninth. It's going to be the developed major bikeway. In the meantime, putting them both on the map. Okay. Is there further discussion about this? Let's take a vote. Chris? Aye. Rossman? Aye. Novar? I will support this. I think that seventh is a better option. Aye. Okay.
 aye okay commissioner novick are you going to rejoin us after the break i am indeed okay all right so it sounds like we should go ahead and take a break now and we're going to return at uh is it noon so we're coming back yeah i believe so sorry looking at my own notes here we're coming back in noon okay so we're going to recess until 12 noon thank you very well thank you thank you good work nicely done thank you so we're going to use the
 let's talk about the car we're going to get together yeah yeah yeah let's meet you in five minutes or something okay okay mayor we should call the roll real quick uh novick here chris here fish here salesman hales
 You did 23 and 29, I believe. So next up is 24, which is another one of those multi-part options. This is the pairing of off-street parking and transportation demand management options.
 And the off-street parking has a couple options. The Transportation Demand Management Directive is the same in all three, except that we've revised the language. So to aid you in this discussion, you should have two pieces of paper, one that looks like this that has a revised directive concerning Transportation Demand Management, and then you should have a piece of paper –
 that says option B for Amendment 34 as well. That's a supplemental piece of material that was not distributed earlier. I don't... I used to do... This is half sheet, half page? Half page, correct. So the three options that we crafted, and of course you could bundle these motions differently than I did, but there's an A, B, and C choice. And A is to act only on...
 Amendment No. 51, which is the directive to adopt further TDM work or to direct further TDM work without adopting changes to the off-street parking requirements. Option B removes the minimum off-street parking requirements that you put in place in 2012, which is Amendment 34, and also adopts the TDM directive. And then Option C removes the minimum off-street parking requirements that you put in place in 2012,
 takes a different approach, which is represented by this half sheet that was shown earlier, and that's a version that has been suggested by Commissioner Fish. And I can go through these in a little bit more detail, but before I did that, I wanted to show a map. And this map is just a reminder that the current off-street parking requirements waive parking for buildings over 30 units where they're close to frequent transit, and the –
 The lines on this map show the frequent transit
 There are two different flavors. The yellow is what TriMet considers frequent bus line, and then the gray is the stuff that isn't TriMet frequent service but does meet our definition or did, at least when we made this map last year. Some of those gray lines could come in and out each year depending on the bus cuts or changes, but it gives you a geographic idea of what geography we're talking about. So it includes – it's not just light rail. It's –
 It's frequent bus and light rail stops, and it's defined as 20-minute peak hour or greater, which could be either a.m. or p.m. peak, but it's 20 minutes is the cutoff here. Sir, just a clarification. Wasn't it 2013 rather than 2012 when you got the current requirement? It might have been 2013. I may have that wrong. Yeah, I think it was early 2013. Yeah. So...
 Just a reminder that the current code and the PSC recommendation essentially was to
 There's still limited parking required for buildings over 30 units based on the table that I just put on the screen. Farther from transit, there would be still parking requirements that are higher than that. And then small lots, it was recommended by the PSC in the mixed-use zones that very small lots not have parking requirements. And this parallels the current code, which gives –
 the see some of the CN zone and CS own properties which are usually those small lots doesn't require parking there
 So the PSC recommendation was essentially status quo on parking, but adjusting it to match the new mixed-use code framework. If you could change the slide. They also recommended a few other changes, wider allowances for commercial parking, maximum ratios, greater allowance for shared parking, and then, of course, the TDM program being applied to buildings with 10 or more units. Keep going.
 So option A, as I said, would keep the existing framework for buildings over 30 units, which is the compromise that was worked out in 2013. And in parallel with that, direct us to do further work prior to the effective date of this ordinance. And as you recall, this whole package isn't going into effect until January 2018. So you would be directing PBOT to do more work to clarify
 the T.D.M., the process behind the new T.D.M. requirement for mixed use and campus zones. You would also be directing us to develop an expanded Phase 2, which you would consider at that time. So it doesn't commit us to that, but it asks us to go prepare options for that. And then the last bullet is to acknowledge that you'd be directing us to revisit the parking question at that time in light of whatever we come up with with that process.
 with those more detailed and revised TDM requirements. And that just reflects the fact that we think these two are related issues and that whenever you open one, you should probably look at both. Option B then would remove those requirements, as I said, for the mixed-use zones, but leave the same TDM directive in place. And then option C is a –
 A different version, which would remove the parking requirements from residential developments, but only if the building is following one of several paths that includes affordable housing, either bonuses or the future mandatory or voluntary inclusionary housing provisions. And so this relates to the upcoming consideration of that ordinance. So, Mayor, can I make a suggestion? Sure. Sure.
 May I propose that we take the motions up as follows. Motion A first because that effectively is the first test as to whether we're going to go with effectively a status quo or change. And then depending on the outcome of that vote, go to motion C because motion C then has the condition. Links brings the affordable housing piece into the equation.
 And then, depending on the outcome of that, bring Motion B in, because that's essentially Motion C stripped of the affordable housing component. I would like to have an up-or-down vote on Motion B. On what? I'm sorry, could you say that again, Commissioner? I would like to keep it the way it is, to vote on Motion A first and Motion B second. Well, the problem with that, Steve, is that Motion C is Motion B with an amendment.
 So all I'm suggesting is rather than amend motion B to conform to C, why don't we take up the amendment first and see if that passes, and if it doesn't, then motion B is the clean approach. Otherwise, what I'll do is just make a motion to amend B to conform to C, and I think that makes it more comfortable. Well, but hang on before we do that. I mean, I think we should unbundle and understand our choices. I agree with you about taking it up or down on A because –
 Are we okay with the status quo? That will determine that question. And if we aren't okay with the status quo, then what are we going to do? Right. I mean, status quo plus TDM, but status quo in terms of the regulatory requirement. Option B is a more sweeping question.
 approach to not requiring parking. Right. And option C is, is, uh, is a, not, not a compromise in that sense, but it's a, a more focused application of the change. Right. And, and by the way, and I'll, I was going to say more when C came, uh, came forward, but,
 My sense is that option C will effectively – the impact of option C is that it will work just like option B, with the exception being instead of –
 waiving a current requirement will be creating a linkage so there's actually a public benefit for each time it's triggered, and my assumption is it will be triggered in each and every instance. Well, let's go ahead and stay in discussion and then we can figure out what we want to do about motions. So
 Help us out here, staff, and that is what's the universe of – if we were to pick B versus C or vice versa, what's the change in the universe of projects that are not required to provide parking? Right. Well, if inclusionary housing programs pass and go into effect, the universe will be virtually identical, right?
 in the sense that the only buildings that we require to have parking is those over 30 units will also be subject to inclusionary housing every time. So in every case, this exception would get triggered, as Commissioner Fish just said. The universe would be different, however, if inclusionary housing doesn't end up going into effect. For one of two reasons.
 the council doesn't adopt it, which is highly unlikely, or it's challenged in court on some constitutional basis, and in the interim what we have is a voluntary system, not a mandatory system. Right. So under that scenario, the provisions in the Commissioner Frisch version allude and point to
 voluntary bonuses that are built into the mixed-use codes that you're considering today that would be the default if inclusionary housing doesn't pass. And so that would still allow those projects that are using the voluntary bonuses to get a relief on the parking, but projects that didn't do that. An example might be if someone tried to build a building just based on the standard code
 Without using the bonuses for affordable housing, they would trigger the parking. If they used the bonuses, they wouldn't. Mayor, let me connect the dots. When I was briefed on this, what staff told me was that if we take off the minimum parking requirements in some of the target development that's likely to occur, it has a substantial value to the development.
 And we're talking about hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars of savings. And in the current market that we're in, there is no guarantee that being relieved of that obligation, there's going to be any pressure downward on rents. We are in a unique market right now.
 where it is at least conceivable that relieved of one regulatory obligation, what we have done is we have made the pro forma more generous for the developer because there's a competition for scarce units and people willing to pay a premium. Now, enter stage left or right, however you want to look at it, is we're going to have a debate about inclusionary housing. And I'm not well-versed in all the details, but –
 Dan will be proposing a bunch of benefits that we'll be offering people to buy down to close to 60% or below of MFI. And my understanding is the toolkit will include things like FAR, systems development charges, a whole range of things which will, with the exception of FAR, will come out of someone's pocket. They'll cost us something. If we do a tax abatement,
 Deborah Kafoury has to agree to it. It comes out of the county budget. If it's an assistance development charge, we're robbing Peter to pay Paul and on and on. What my amendment is trying to get at is that by relieving someone of this obligation to have the parking, which may be good for the environment, may be good for smart planning, may have all these independent reasons why you want to do it, it also has a significant economic impact on the developer.
 And since we are about to debate a set of tools which we will propose to essentially buy down the rents in the affordability component of mandatory inclusionary housing, it seemed like this is a unique opportunity to take two things, a desire to change our parking rules significantly,
 and leverage off the windfall that goes to a developer and merge them so that this becomes one of the things that we can cite to as buying down the affordability. Now, what I've heard from Joe Zender in my last briefing is,
 that this approach is not ideal for code writing on this exercise. It doesn't quite fit. We'll be doing something in French where English is preferred. But notwithstanding that caveat, Joe doesn't think it's a dumb idea. He's just not sure that this is the right process to achieve the goal. Here's my ultimate concern, Charlie.
 Every time we've talked about how to seize an opportunity to leverage affordable housing of late, and I'll cite to the example on transit corridors, where we said, hey, maybe we could down zone and then give people bonuses as a way of getting affordability. We've been told that there is some reason why we can't do that. Well, here we're completely clean because we don't have to change our parking minimums. But if we are, and if it results in a substantial savings to a developer...
 Why not now, if this is the council will, why not now link that to IZ so that this becomes something on the menu of options which buys down the affordability component, recognizing that in almost every instance that's what will happen. Commissioner, may I respond to that? Sure. Go ahead, Steve. If we eliminate parking minimums, the overall cost of development will go down.
 So fewer incentives will be necessary to make inclusionary housing policies work. Maintaining this parking requirement is a way of driving up the overall cost of housing. The White House weighed in on this recently in a statement on a variety of zoning-type rules that prevent development of housing supply, and they listed off-street parking requirements as one of the local rules
 inhibiting new housing development that has resulted in undersupplied markets, reducing options for working families, and causing house costs to grow much faster than wages itself. Parking minimums raise the cost of housing. If for whatever reason we wind up not adopting or not being able to implement inclusionary housing, then we'll still have this provision that drives up the cost of housing across the sector.
 And I think that the idea that we should preserve a policy that increases the cost of housing as part of a strategy to raise more affordable housing is as convoluted as it is now. I understand that. I guess I want to respond as well. I like your, I think I like the approach that you're taking, Commissioner Fish, in that I'm operating on an assumption that we are going to move forward with inclusionary housing, no surprise there. Okay.
 I also am operating under an assumption that this parking incentive, assuming it's provided, or this, sorry, the benefit of not providing parking, the financial benefit of providing parking, it will not in and of itself be sufficient to offset the market impacts of our inclusionary housing policy.
 requirement we might have to give other incentives in addition to that yeah right some some additional you know weights in the balance in order for it to tip towards feasibility I don't know exactly how much more but I'm assuming that this won't be enough all by itself I also am intrigued by the
 possibility, maybe it's a vain hope, that doing it the way you've suggested will give everyone an incentive to make sure our inclusionary housing policy works rather than having people want to argue about it. Well, and Mayor, I appreciate both comments, but I'll use maybe this as a feeble analogy, but we all just got dealt a hand in a game of poker and there's an ace in our hands.
 I'm not going to trade that in for another card right now. We are creating value. And I don't disagree with what Steve said about the economics, which is why I think the likely outcome will be this plus something else will get us to what we want, which is a certain kind of development with the affordability. And remember, if it's mandatory IZ, our subsidies by state law can be a lighter touch. If it's a discretionary IZ, it's going to have to be more market-based.
 That's the key distinction, but the legislature gave us latitude. They said some consideration. They didn't overly prescribe it. I would just hate to take this tool out of our kit. And by the way, if at some point there's a complication in the future about the future of IZ or something else, I would argue let's come back and revisit this but not take this tool off the table now. That's all. I think it's a unique moment to seize this opportunity. Thank you.
 Other comments? Commissioner, what we'll have to do to have an effective IT program is to have a rule and a package of incentives to make it economically feasible to create housing that includes affordable housing at the lower end.
 If you take cost of parking off the top at the beginning, you get as much closer to making the affordable housing economically viable as you do if you take it off somewhere down the line. I mean, the economic impact is the same no matter where you build it. The risk that you take if you tie, if you adopt Commissioner Fish's amendment is we wind up with only a voluntary program.
 And there's people who don't choose to follow the elementary program, and they don't build housing that's affordable below 80% or 60% MFI. But all of the housing that they do build is that much more expensive for everybody above 80% MFI. So it's that much more expensive for people less 90% and 100% and 110% MFI. And I think we need to be worried about those people too.
 So I think there's nothing lost by taking the requirement off the top as opposed to saving it as a carrot plate. So, Mayor, I guess the only comment I would have to that is that
 I think it will be easier to operate off of my proposal and make the fine-tuning later than to bring it back in. And if we're wrong about either the forecast about IZ or how the market works, we can fine-tune this. And by the way, we're talking about changes that are going to be in the future here. I just think –
 I think that we get the strong headwinds at our back and not at our face. And if we're wrong, we'll fine-tune it. But why miss this opportunity to acknowledge that there's a benefit to the developer? And in this market, you can do any forecast you want. There's still no guarantee of affordable rents absent a mandate. And that money, we may be relieving someone of one obligation and just increasing their profits. Right.
 The impact on IZ is hard to anticipate because it's not even before us and we haven't adopted it. I'm simply saying don't miss this opportunity to bake it in. And if I'm wrong, if our thinking is wrong, we can revisit it. Great to hear some thoughts. Thank you, Mayor. Unless Commissioner Novick has more to say? Steve, I think we're going to give Amanda a chance here. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I agree with you, Commissioner. We don't want to give away our ACE, and we haven't had any discussion at all with the public on inclusionary housing yet, but that's still to come. So my recommendation is to go with option A, which is don't do 34, do not give away the parking minimums, until we've...
 discussed in flagellary housing what incentives we can or should do, what the rules for that is. I have not seen any evidence that says that comparable apartments with or without parking are less expensive. And certainly when my son and daughter-in-law were shopping...
 there didn't seem to be any discernible differences whether a unit came with a parking spot or not. And as you have said, in this market, developers are charging whatever they can get, and so are landlords. Mr. Fritz, may I just comment that... I'd really rather you let me finish. I want to support you in something you said. Okay, go ahead. As the only renter on this council, I can say that the way landlords are now doing parking is they are charging everyone the same rate.
 and charging an extra cost for the parking. In my building, which has about 400 units, if you want parking, it is the market rent plus a parking space, and that is at your option to support your point. But they're not able to rent all of the spaces, and I think you probably know that, so the cost of all three other units is inflated to cover that amount.
 Thank you, Mayor. Rather than guessing and using our own intelligence to figure what might or might not happen, I think we should do 51, which is the transportation demand management, go look at the whole issue, have the different discussion on inclusionary zoning and have this as certainly one of the options for what we can give developers in return for affordable housing.
 We need to have a separate discussion on parking alone. I thought it was more in 2011 that we went through all of the challenges on division. There were literally hundreds of people involved in it. I think most people are not aware that we could be getting rid of parking minimums in this comprehensive plan process. Especially when the hearings have been on the afternoons of work days. I know that more people would like to discuss this.
 particularly good example of looking at the issue with an equity lens. Who benefits? Who pays? Is that fair? Which workers are going to suffer because there may not be parking for them? And often it would be the shift workers who tend to be more women. I'd just like to draw to your attention, I kept a tally during the hearing that we had on this as to how many men and women supported removing the parking or keeping the parking.
 So removing parking was 13 males and four females, most of them quite young and looking like cycling would be an option for them. Keeping the parking was six women and one older gentleman. So I don't know that... I wonder if any of you have had to think about parking underneath a streetlight and then walking back to your door with your car keys between your fingers in case you would get attacked.
 because that is a normal thing for women to have to think about, is how safe is it from getting from the bus stop to my home? It's a very intricate discussion that we should be having, and we should be having it in a holistic way so that we do make sure that we're going to make decisions in the right order. So to me, that would be 51, which has the transportation demand management, and then inclusionary housing,
 Then a discussion on parking alone. And then looking at the equity issues and coming back to these issues. So I would really appreciate if we would go with not doing 31 right now and doing 51. And then we're leaving all of those options open to us rather than closing doors or smelting them in. We got a lot of testimony on this issue. I mean, I disagree with the characterization that we haven't ventilated this. I think we got a lot of testimony about whether we should keep the minimum parking requirements or not.
 And I believe it was early 2013 because I voted for it, and I think it was a mistake. So I think the threshold question of are we going to stick with required minimum parking or not is a legitimate threshold question, and we can answer that by voting on A. Okay.
 And then what is what arises with B versus C? And one says, go ahead and do it now across the board and count the benefits. Frankly, Commissioner Novick, I'm hoping that it would be that the
 Our beneficence would be remembered by those that would still be asking for more in exchange for inclusionary housing. I'm not sure that our beneficence would be remembered, even a week or two later. It would be taken as a given. That's what I'm saying. Yes. So that's why I'm more inclined to go with option C if we are going to make the change than to hope that
 that are that what we've already put on the ledger to make it more feasible to meet our inclusionary housing requirement would still be given full consideration if it were done prior to the calculus of what you get in exchange can I ask the housing Commissioner question because I think it well it's the for me the final piece of just this discussion Dan you've been doing some modeling
 in support of your inclusionary housing work. You'll be coming to council with some recommendations. I assume that your modeling was based on the existing parking requirements.
 In other words, whatever the costs were and the impact of IZ, you were assuming that developers were otherwise required to meet the existing code for parking memos. I believe that's correct, yes. Okay, Mayor. So I think we should proceed. So should we try walking through in that way? Let's take up Amendment A first and see how we stand on that and then move on to the other two. Okay, let's take a motion, please, for Option A. Second. I'm going to second for purposes of debate. All right.
 So let's take a vote on that, please, unless there's any further questions or discussion. Okay. Yes. No. This is A or B? This is A. Okay. Hossman? No. Novick? Steve? A lot of barking there, Steve. Oh, sorry. All right.
 i'm proud i'm going to second what the mayor just said about making the stage in 2013. i'm proud of the work i've done in this council but not all crowds according to 2013 proposals that parking been in frequent transit areas only commissioner saltzman did the right thing at that time and opposed that proposal
 Parking minimums are a system which should be two of our main policy goals, promoting housing affordability and fighting climate disruption. I noted earlier what the White House had to say recently about the effect of parking minimums on the cost of housing. But parking minimums are also a way of continuing to build society around the cost. And if we are to prevent catastrophic climate disruption, we do need to get people out of their cars. Studies show that people are most likely to change their transportation habits when they
 someone who moves into a new home without on-site parking is obviously more likely to discard their car and start relying on walking bicycling and transit plus perhaps an occasional camera than someone who moves into a new home with with on-site parking again the white house weighed in quote when transit-oriented developments are intended to help to do automobile tenants
 Parking requirements can undermine that goal by inducing new residents to drive Thereby counteracting city goals for increased use of public transit walking and biking and quote in two weeks The council will vote for best deciding a few major fossil fuel terminals in Portland when it comes to fighting climate disruption Today's votes on parking minimums are more important Soffit noodles are like narcotics not going to solve the problem by trying to disrupt the supply as long as the man is there The party will find the man
 eliminating parking minimums is an important step to reducing demand if we prevent new fossil fuel terminals that pass in this opportunity to eliminate parking minimum we could fairly be charged with climate policy i recognize that to eliminate parking minimums we need to give our neighborhoods more robust tools to manage parking demand through permit systems and i'm working with c-lab to see if we can bring in the new parking tool kit council before the end of the year and we've got a first reading scheduled on december 15th
 But even if that's not feasible, I'm confident the Bureau will be ready to present the toolkit later in the winter or as late as the spring. I vote no.
 As I said earlier, I do believe it was a close call then and it's a close call now, but I think it was a mistake on my part to support these minimums, although we did it for understandable reasons. I've been trying in my service on this council both in the past and now to try to preserve neighborhood livability, issues like historic preservation, accommodate a huge amount of growth in,
 and move us towards a carbon-free future. All those things do not rectify easily. But I've, again, on this issue, been particularly struck by the demographic gap
 uh distinction about the many young new portlanders or young portlanders who argued for a parking less future and i think that's where we need to go on this we are going to have there will be traffic there will be congestion there is now and there will be more but we are not going to be able to accommodate
 200,000 more cars for 200,000 more people in this city. Finally, on a personal note, living on a block that used to have lots of available parking and now is a favorite park and ride, I like it better because traffic moves slower now that it's more crowded. Aye. No, sorry. So I'd like to move option C. Okay.
 But if you would consider it, Commissioner Fish, I'm uncomfortable adding your specific code language because I think we should have a public hearing on this. I think actually the option C as modified on this paper will get us all to where we need to be. It says that we're going to direct...
 PBAM to come back with further changes, including recommendations to increase or decrease the minimum or maximum number of required off-street parking, but it does it in that kind of logical sequencing and including a consideration of inclusionary zoning that I was hoping for. So I'm moving C, but without your additional language, because I think we should get there, but get there later. Not sure if I follow that, so help me out here. So option C...
 as stated in the materials from the Bureau, is a provision that either voluntary or mandatory inclusionary housing requirements are the trigger for the lifting of a requirement for off-street parking. Are you saying that stays? That is the amendment. I mean, that's...
 That's the guts of it. That's the guts of it, right. But then this additional language, can you help us here? Yeah, the description there was intended to be referring to the additional language. That is C in our mind was the additional language. What Commissioner Fish is, this one. Yeah. From the city attorney, don't we have to take testimony on code changes? Yes.
 Well, at this point, you've heard testimony and you're having amendments proposed in response to that testimony. So you can do that. You're not required to take testimony on all amendments. Okay. I mean, we heard from 24 people. That doesn't seem a lot, given the far-reaching nature of it. Just so we're clear, there was a lot of testimony about the need –
 to leverage affordable housing, and I've just come up with a tool, not a perfect tool, but a tool to make sure that the benefit we're conferring results in a public benefit by linking it to IZ, which, again, from staff's interpretation of this, will mean in virtually every case this is exercised, but this becomes one of the tools. As the mayor said, there may still be some additional consideration we have to offer. Thank you.
 to get what we're looking for, but it puts it in play. And that's the gist of what I'm proposing. And I can support that, so I'll second that. Thank you. Okay. So option C is moved and seconded. Further discussion before we take a vote on that? Okay. Vote, please. Thank you.
 I just want to be clear that option C does include this language as we wrote it. Yes. It includes both, right? The red underlined and Commissioner Fish's half page. And as I read it, Commissioner Fish says that that's when there's affordable housing and when it's near transit. Right. And it also includes all the errata that we have put together in this notebook. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I appreciate that. All right. Let's vote then, please. Prince. Aye. Esh.
 I want to thank Jamie Dunphy in my office for working on short notice to craft this. I want to thank the staff at the Planning Bureau for being superb partners, which generally means when the door is closed and I'm with senior folks, they push back on a lot of what we're thinking to make sure that we're doing it in a thoughtful, coherent way. And if this approach falls short, colleagues, then I would propose we revisit it in the future. Hi. Awesome, thank you.
 Well, as all my colleagues know, the inclusionary housing legislation that passed in Salem requires that local governments provide some sort of an offset to the development for affordable housing under the law. And as we move into considering and debating this in the next few weeks, I think it's very important that we hold on to this powerful incentive we do have to get developers to,
 take advantage of the inclusionary zoning, whether it's the voluntary 60% of median income or below, or the required 80% of median income. But as the modeling and everything shows, being able to waive on-site parking is a powerful, powerful tool, and we need to keep it for the use for inclusionary housing. And so that's why I'm supporting this amendment, and I thank Commissioner Fish for putting the words on the paper. Aye. No, thank you.
 steve did you hear that that's you i know i didn't i haven't been hearing the uh the call um i what we recommend that we're going to have irrational requirements that we can then waive to encourage affordable housing uh we should also adopt the requirements that everybody get a pony when they get a new house and then we can wait back for affordable housing um
 Anything else? We've heard from a lot of people in this comprehensive plan process, neighborhoods, individual citizens, and even organizations, and the fact that we could have organizations like Oregon Walks or a new one, Portlanders for Parking Reform, meaning that we live in a city where people actually think about this stuff, and that's a good thing, and I appreciate their help. Hi. Okay. Let's move forward. Okay.
 Okay. Motion 25 is amendments to the proposed street vacation code, and this amendment has been further modified through a memo from Commissioner Fritz dated November 15th. And I believe you have the final language on that, Commissioner? Are you comfortable with that, Commissioner Fritz? I think there's just one, there's a couple of amendments suggested by City Attorney Catherine Beaumont, and one is to, has everybody found the
 The changes that Commissioner Novick and I have worked out. I'm looking for it. This is the approval criteria for 1784.025. And the one further amendment is to delete the needed in the future. Is that right? You had talked about that. So it would now read. I don't understand this, Catherine. Could you explain it to us?
 You're fading, Commissioner. Okay. Hang on a minute, Commissioner Novick. We're looking for copies here in order to be able to discuss this. So I don't see that deletion of needed in the future. We've talked about that. I think we need that in there. Not needed in the future. Okay, there we go. Not needed in the future. That's what you do in street vacations is you think about it. So what was it that you wanted to change, Catherine? Or if Claire in my office is available to come and give us copies or something.
 All right. That's a great idea. Good idea. All right. We're going to move on to another one and come back to this when we're better equipped. I'm sorry. I wasn't aware that I was supposed to bring the copies from the meeting. And me both. Okay. Let's move to number 26. Do you want to go to 26? So 26 is amendment number 41. This replaces a portion of the South Waterfront Street Plan and related narrative in the TSP with revised text.
 to accommodate recommended changes in the vicinity of the South Portal. You heard a discussion of this on November 16th, and I believe it's coming back to you on Monday for a resolution. Right. And this amendment essentially directs you to, provided that that resolution passes, it directs us to make the parallel amendment to this package to,
 There would be no sense in amending the current TSP and not also amend the new one that will go into effect in 2018. This is anticipating what Andrew Abbey is going to bring to council next week? Correct. And so today, the way you'd word it is, if that resolution passes next week, that we are directed to incorporate the same version in this package. Okay. Do we have to have the data on it? I mean, supposing it –
 It doesn't get done by December 14th. Well, the only reason it has to be done before December 14th is that's when we're coming back for final action on this. So we would need to know whether it's in or out by then. Okay. I would say, Mayor, that I was expecting to have some more discussion on that with somebody's staff in the interim. And so far, I mean, we've been very busy. You could take that out, but as a practical matter, we would still need it. Got it. That's all right. I just wanted to say that.
 I wanted to let you know that I would still like to have some more discussion. No, we're going to have that discussion, but this will be moot if we don't do anything. That's it, right. But if assuming we proceed, it will then go into effect. I move the motion. All right. Second. Further discussion. Let's take a vote, please, then, on 26. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Aye. Zossman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Mills. Aye. Okay.
 Twenty-seven is a housekeeping measure. If you recall, at the end of the comp plan discussion, we inserted some policy related to –
 transportation planning performance measures into the transportation chapter of the comp plan. And we said at the time that it was kind of clumsy sitting in the policy document, but now that we have the TSP document portions with this package, we'd like to move those to become objectives in the TSP rather than sit at the highest level in the policy document.
 effectively they're still in effect we're just moving them to the place where they're with their with their friends so to speak in terms of other policies that are similar mm-hmm okay all right any questions about this is there a motion to approve it then second further discussion let's vote then hi
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay. And then we have 28A and B. So this is concerning Hayden Island bike classifications, and this is another one that you got quite a bit of testimony about. The initial amendment number 38, which is motion A, was to remove the city bikeway classification just from Hayden Bay, which is, I believe, circled on the screen here.
 Motion B is an additional change that would also remove the bike segment that passes to the west through the manufactured home park on the north shore of the island. And this changes.
 You got testimony on both of these elements, and the second, Motion B, was not part of the original amendment, but you got a lot of testimony supporting that change, and Denver Agarda is here to talk about it from PBOT's perspective. Yeah, there was a significant amount of testimony, so I just wanted to say a few words for background and clarification. Since 2009, the Hayden Island plan was adopted then.
 There's been a bicycle classification in place along the river, as shown on the screen, on the waterfront with the exception of the Hayden Bay Marina. There was no bicycle classification there. The original amendment would be no change to what's been in place since 2009.
 In April, the Planning and Sustainability Commission reconfirmed their desire to have bicycle access along the river and voted to add in the Hayden Bay Marina alignment as shown here with the circle.
 extending bicycle access to the east. We did receive a lot of testimony from residents of the manufactured home park, particularly concern about being displaced and removal of the existing houses there should the path be built.
 Classification, this is the bicycle classification. So the classification alone establishes a policy basis to accommodate bicycles if a path is built in the design of that path and to consider easement and property dedication when the property voluntarily undergoes a major redevelopment.
 Based on the classification alone, the city would not initiate a path improvement prior to redevelopment, and therefore, there would not be removal of existing homes.
 a project would have to be in place within the TSP major projects list or the Portland bicycle plan project list for people to make that type of investment in building a path. And that does not exist in either the Portland bicycle plan or the TSP as a project. So it's not on either list. As a result, staff was recommending to stay consistent with the project.
 adopted Hayden Island Plan that was adopted in 2009, which is shown on the screen. The question is, with testimony that we've heard from the manufacturing park, the motion B, the second motion was presented as an alternative. Thank you.
 Yeah, so I appreciate the policy basis, but I plan to support both of these amendments. You know, if we need any reassurance that this is the right thing to do to take these off, remember why we just had to do, albeit on a grander scale, why we needed to move forward with better NATO
 We don't have room for a wide public way along this bayfront and along the waterfront where the mobile home park now exists, unless it was completely redeveloped, to have both people walking along the riverfront and bicycles going by. We would have conflicts on the narrow side.
 paved surface that's there. So I think there's no upside to trying to mix pedestrians and bikes in this environment. There's a good bike way on Tomahawk Island Drive. There could be good bike access in the redeveloped strip malls west of the highway when that someday happens, but there's no need to either scare people in the short run or even hold out the prospect that there's ever likely to actually be a bike way on that waterfront. I don't think it's ever going to happen no matter what we
 we say so i think there's very little upside to it quite a bit of short-term downside by scaring people um and and therefore i think we i believe we ought to pass both of these and take it off i do too and then the the manufactured home part is already very walkable and bicyclable just not in people's backyards by the river yeah yeah so it's a different environment out there than typical so i'll move option a or motion a
 Should we do them both together? I'm going to do them together. I was to take them both together. I'll move both of them. Second. Further discussion. Roll call. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Novak.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay. Thank you. So you had already done 29. Done 29. So we have 30, and then we can go back maybe to 25. It's like a city chain is ready for it. Okay. You want to go back then? All right. Let's go back then to 25. Was it? Yes, 25. 25. Okay. Thank you. Magic of the print button. Yeah.
 And as this is being passed out, colleagues, you'll remember that we had an extensive discussion in the comprehensive plan policy about what things should be considered in street vacations. And this is merely checking back on that and making sure it's all listed. Okay. So, yeah, Steve, what it now would say is the area proposed to be vacated is not needed presently and is not identified in any adopted plan.
 for public services, transportation functions, utility functions, stormwater functions, view corridors and or viewpoints, tree planting slash retention, pedestrian amenities, or community or commercial uses. So in other words, if there's a plan to use this right away for one of those purposes, hang on to it.
 I actually have not realized that this was the change that was being requested because, unfortunately, we're moving away from adopting community plans. So I would... It says any adopted plan. It doesn't have to be a community plan. It could be... A comprehensive plan? Yeah. Well, or these neighborhood or these district connectivity plans that they're working on now, right? What do I push? Courtney to the rescue? Maybe. So Courtney to transportation. I think originally this...
 conversation about adopted plan had come from the tree plans is one of the things that at least when we were looking at it as staff had looked at. And then we look at in the past when we've done it as a part of the comprehensive plan, we have looked at existing neighborhood plans. So the existing plans from the 80s and 90s, we have gone back to look at an example being, I think, in the Westmoreland plan, there were some connections there.
 identified to the river that were not necessarily bike or pet paths identified later that we looked at in one of our street vacations so um i believe that that's why we had put that we kept that in there because we still look at the old plans uh to just see if there's something that might be needed we wanted to be able to give direction to and i know commissioner fritz is interested in you know the future staff
 as to what they should look at. And I know that I always wanted to make sure staff looked at any adopted plans in the area. And I agree with Mayor Hales. It could be a street connectivity plan. It could be an existing neighborhood plan. It could be a master street plan. You know, and again, it's identified. I mean, there's still criteria. There are still things that even if it's there, you may still make a finding that it's not relevant anymore or something else has overridden it.
 I think the concern that staff had was the questions about some of the tree plans and the tree plantings and what that would mean for vacating a street, that if there was a
 an identified tree or something like, because those are new, those are newer plans that we haven't used in a vacation before. But I think that we're comfortable with moving forward with this. And if we start coming up with problems or issues related to that, we can revisit it, or that'll be a part of our work as a part of a team. Thank you for walking us through that. I passed out the whole approval criteria. And so we've got other places where it says doesn't impute the
 impede the future use of development or access to. So I'm moving all the amendments as written here, please. MR. Can I just ask one question about drafting? The – in Sub A, it says the council – the proposed language now is the council will consider the following factors as relevant, and it replaces the approval criteria are as follows.
 What does the word relevant add as opposed to just saying the council will consider the following factors? And that was Catherine Bowman's suggestion, was it? I had suggested the as relevant simply because not every one of the listed things may be relevant to the particular street vacation.
 So let's say you would consider... Oh, I see what you mean. I didn't read it that way. So it's as relevant as conditional, not superfluous. Correct. I read it as you're telling us that we're going to consider these factors...
 because they're relevant. I was thinking, well, why do I need to be told they're relevant if we have to consider them? No. This is why we need an Oxford comma. You're saying as relevant. Let's put an Oxford comma after Cambridge grad. It's a comma. It's a Cambridge comma. After factors. Yes, exactly. Factors. That's the missing piece for me. All right. The Oxford or Cambridge comma, whoever wants to take credit for it, is added as a friendly amendment. And I do want to thank Courtney and Catherine Beaumont for all their work on this, and Claire Adamczyk in my office.
 All right, so Commissioner Fritz moved that. Did someone second it? I will. Oh, Steve did. All right, then let's proceed, unless there's any further questions about this with the language, as included in the November 15th memorandum with the Oxford-Cambridge comma. Roll call, please. Thank you.
 Well, thank you also to Commissioner Novick and Kate Shriver and his office and all of the people who've worked on this. As you have known from the beginning, this is one of my most important pieces, and I'm very happy we got it here. Thank you. Aye. Yes. Aye. Balsam? Aye. Novick? I really appreciate the work with Commissioner Fritz and Claire and the work of Erica and Katie and my staff and the work of your staff. Thank you. Aye.
 Yes, thank you for sweating those details. They will matter. We just can't quite see where yet, but they will. Aye. Okay. Do we have anything left? There's two others left, 30 and 31. 30 is a motion to adopt Amendment 52, and this concerns –
 This is a direction for BPS to take a look at over the next year the purpose and the scope of the F overlay along Skyline. I believe there's a slide there if you wouldn't mind. Yeah, there's an area along Skyline near Forest Park that has the future urban overlay area.
 That was originally put in place to require 20-acre minimum lot sizes in this area. This is an area of the city that's outside the urban growth boundary, which is a little unusual, but it predates the UGB. We had already annexed it, but upon creation of the UGB, we were required to treat it as rural land. And it is still going to be rural land, but the –
 Now that Metro is close to resolving its urban and rural reserves question, once that is resolved, there is the opportunity for us to consider whether 20 acres or 2 acres is the appropriate rural designation in that area. And the property owner has requested that we take a look at that.
 question it is something that probably should be looked at we don't know which way we would go on that but it would probably involve looking at transportation and stormwater considerations and whether that 20 acre lot size is is helpful to that those other issues we don't object to looking at it okay any further questions about this one is there a motion to adopt it I moved further discussion roll call please
 it's always a good thing when we study things more i almost anyway hi hi hi hi okay and 31. this is uh this last one is kind of a cleanup and this this is a catch-all that includes a number of properties that fall into the category of
 You made a decision in the spring with the comp plan map and testimony came up that caused you to maybe question some of the comp plan designations there. You can't amend the comp plan with this implementation zoning ordinance without reopening that, which we advised you against. But a way to move forward would be to make this list and direct us to come back again.
 as a post-acknowledgement amendment once the new comp plan is in effect and re-look at some of these properties and either reaffirm the decision we made or go in a different direction. But this was responsive to testimony. We added a couple properties based on the most recent hearing that came out of the testimony from Allison Reynolds, I believe. Okay. Okay.
 What is 3138WIN? That's just the address. It's a vacant site, so it's a parcel within 3138 North Vancouver. That within. Yeah. A new acronym at the end of the process. I didn't know that part of Portland. What happens when we cut and paste from Portland maps. All right. Okay. Is there a motion to approve? I moved. Okay.
 i'll second that any further discussion of this cleanup grass catcher item roll call hi fish hi ozman hi no big hi hails all right okay next steps so um the given that we've finished the discussion of any amendments i guess the the next step that we had contemplated was um
 you would direct us to go back and prepare findings and prepare an updated ordinance that incorporates these amendments that you've made. We have on the calendar, I think, a session on December 14th at 2 p.m.,
 that you would essentially be continuing this item to so that we can bring those back to you. And then that would be the motion to pass to second reading, and we have another session on the 21st to take that final second reading. Okay. So directed. One question, Mayor. What do we have on the calendar for the afternoon of December 7th? Joe, this came up yesterday. Is that residential infill?
 It is. That's what it is. Yeah. So, colleagues, I may have a conflict that afternoon, and I had raised that before, and it somehow got scheduled on this day. Would you have any objection to moving that a day or to another time off of that afternoon? I don't have any objection as long as we have a slot where we can put it. How much time was set aside for that? For residential infill, it was 90 minutes. Is there an alternative that week, like Thursday? No.
 No, that's your fossil fuel vote for just a few minutes, but then inclusionary housing. How about in the next week? And then the next week is full.
 Okay, well, we'll stick with it for now. We'll stick with it for now. We'll stick with it for now, and then we can return to the – we have time to adjust if we have to. Thank you. And obviously today is a Tuesday, right? So we've got – we have this session extra. It seems to me with the amount of stuff that we've got left that we want to finish up before the end of the year, we might need to schedule either some Tuesdays or some evenings or both to get through it all. I appreciate –
 if whatever you could do collectively to get out from that afternoon on the 7th okay all right we'll see what we can do and obviously getting this all done today helps so good work everyone thank you very much uh we will plan on that schedule as you just articulated eric and with findings to come back at the seventh part thank you thank you until tomorrow it works