Good morning, everyone, and thanks for accommodating us here with a different schedule this morning. This is a special meeting of the Portland City Council on November 24th. Would you please call the roll? Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman.
 Here. Good morning, everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar this morning, which is a continued item from a previous council meeting. So I'll be brief about the specifics of how we have council meetings because maybe some of you were here for that one. This is a continuation of a previous council meeting. We'll be taking testimony of folks that signed up last time and then didn't get a chance to speak. We'll also be considering council amendments and taking further testimony on those amendments from those that came here today to speak about them.
 As always, we maintain the rules of decorum here in the Chamber, so if you agree with someone and want to indicate your support, give them a thumbs up. If you don't, give them a thumbs down, but we ask that we not applaud or make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens so everybody has a chance to be heard here. If you're here to testify, you need only give us your name unless you're representing an organization, in which case you need to let us know who you're representing. With that, let's please read the item.
 item 1211 replace code chapter 16.40 pertaining to private for hire transportation in the city of portland mr novick uh we actually have a two amendments to offer um which like mr hockaday to explain okay come on please brian i don't know that i have those and let's make sure everybody on the council's got copies of the proposed amendments i think i think i do commissioner fritz may not
 No, I don't. Do we have... For copies of the amendments, please. Mr. Novick has an uncanny ability to schedule these hearings when my lead person, Claire, is on vacation. That is not intentional. I know. I highly value Claire's input. Mr. Fish needs a set, too, and Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you. Okay, gentlemen, walk us through these, please.
 Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Brian Hockaday. I work for Commissioner Steve Novick. So Commissioner Novick has two amendments to offer. The first is the sheet of list of scriveners and typographical errors that we wanted to make sure we corrected. So you'll see that there, just to address some unintended errors within the actual code. The other, however, is a substantive amendment relating to T&C insurance.
 As you recall, at the last council hearing where this issue was addressed, there was an amendment adopted to strike language, which essentially stated that insurance could be provided and maintained by not only the TNC, but also the driver or a combination of the TNC company and the driver. That language was removed. It now just reads insurance must be provided and maintained by the TNC.
 So this amendment, before you, adds some language stating that drivers do have the option of purchasing a ride share endorsement, which is additional insurance above the city's required minimums. The TNC is required to maintain at all times the city's required insurance levels at all periods, and they must disclose to their drivers that they...
 that the drivers do not need to purchase anything additional, and that the specific levels of insurance are maintained by the TNC. The drivers still do have the option to purchase a rideshare endorsement. The product is not currently available in the state of Oregon. It's a relatively new product that's being offered in a few states, including Colorado.
 Metro Mile, as I understand, has applied with the state to provide, to offer, rideshare endorsements, but again it is not yet available and this amendment makes it very clear that the TNC is always responsible for providing primary insurance. MR. And our concern, the TNC.
 The last hearing was that if we say there's an option one or the other, then the TNCs will pressure the drivers into always buying the insurance themselves. So we had a language specifically saying that a TNC shall not require or encourage a TNC driver to secure a primary personal automobile insurance policy. It shall disclose in writing that drivers are not required to purchase and maintain their own insurance policy covering TNC activities.
 We also added language saying that the TNC shall advise affiliated TNC drivers that the driver's personal automobile insurance policy may be subject to cancellation or might not provide coverage because the driver uses a vehicle in connection with an affiliated TNC as specified at the terms of the policy. So...
 We want to make it actually a violation of the rules for a TNC to even encourage a driver to secure a primary personal automobile insurance policy and also to more directly address a concern that has been raised before that drivers should know that it's, although we haven't seen a lot of evidence that this is happening or any evidence actually recently, that the driver's personal automobile policy might be at risk if you're a TNC driver. I'll second for the purpose of discussion.
 So I have a question of the sponsor. Steve, we discussed a couple of proposed amendments that I drafted yesterday, and I'm not going to offer most of them based on the conversations we had. But the question I have is, at some point the rideshare endorsement may become –
 is readily accessible in the marketplace and may become almost an industry standard. What's the mechanism for us to revisit the question of whether that's something we're going to require? Actually, Commissioner, I think that for this new industry, as for Airbnbs, for that matter, we should be revisiting a bunch of these issues as time goes on, more information becomes available, more products become available. So...
 I am planning to ask for counsel to have probably a work session on a variety of issues relating to TNCs, like after we're out of the budget season, maybe before we're into the next one, like maybe sometime between June and September. Okay. And as these things evolve in the marketplace,
 and become available, we'll have a chance to be briefed on them and decide whether we think they are – should be part of our regulatory system. Yes. Another issue where I want us to keep on monitoring the studies that are done and the information we get is, what's the environmental impact of TNCs? Right now, the jury's out. People I trust think that they're persuaded on balance that the existence of TNCs results in fewer overall automobile trips, but –
 New York City, I know, is undertaking a study to that effect. And if it turns out six months from now, a year from now, that actually there's strong evidence that we're increasing the number of vehicle trips by allowing these, I think we need to revisit the whole issue. Mayor, I have two amendments to place on the table. Oh, sorry. To this? To this. Oh, not on this.
 I have a suggested friendly amendment, Commissioner, I think it's friendly, Commissioner Novick, to add to number two about the disclosure in writing, that at the end, the disclosure shall include a statement that the TNC does not provide collision insurance. Do you accept that as a friendly amendment? Yes.
 I want to ask Mr. McGarrett, Mr. Huckaday, if that raises any particular flags for them for some reason. I don't – I mean, it doesn't raise any particular flag for me. The collision insurance is an optional coverage under state law, Commissioner, and the –
 This is simply a disclosure that the T&C has to make to the drivers. And it's my understanding that taxi cabs also are not required to provide collision insurance for the drivers that happen to be driving for them but own their own cabs. Is that correct? That's correct. It's not in our code that they have collision insurance. But, I mean, practically, I think they do provide collision insurance for most of the vehicles, not all of them. And a few of the companies self-insure that particular coverage, as I understand it. Okay.
 Okay. Could you use your language again, Commissioner Fritz, because I think I have a question. At the end of paragraph 2, the disclosure shall include a statement that the TNC does not provide collision insurance. Well,
 Well, what if they did? So I don't know if that would be possible, but maybe it needs to say as to whether or not. I would accept that as a friendly, friendly amendment. Don't be friendly. I may just add, in paragraph three, we are requiring that the TNC is disclosed in writing to the TNC drivers the insurance coverage, including the types of coverage and limits for each coverage. Oh, well, maybe you've covered it then.
 hear that so you're requiring you proposing to require that they disclose what kinds and amounts of coverage they provide right yeah but i actually think that um that wouldn't necessarily result in a specific statement that we don't provide collision insurance so i i i accept commissioner prince's friendly amendment as friended by the mayor okay thank you getting awfully friendly uh
 All right. Other questions or suggestions about Commissioner Novick's proposed amendments, then we could take a vote to accept them for purposes of testimony and move on. So, ready? Okay. Roll call, please. Aye. Aye.
 Since I haven't had my expert staff person looking at the, looks like a couple of dozen technical amendments, I'd like to reserve the right to look them over. I don't know if we're planning to have a final vote today. I also have a question about the amendment, a technical amendment that I had requested to 1640.020a to make that language more clear, and I don't believe I received anything on that. But for the purposes of this hearing, I vote aye. Yes? Aye. Aye.
 Gossman? Aye. Hayles? Aye. Okay. Mayor, I have two amendments. Other amendments. And a question. Let me start with a question. Mr. Hockaday, I'll follow your boss's lead. When we had a discussion yesterday about some amendments that we were considering, one of the issues that we raised was whether...
 in the context of someone that had Washington or California license plates, whether we would require a DEQ certificate of compliance. And I believe that...
 The information you shared with me was that we're satisfied that Washington and California have equivalent standards, and therefore we would not require an additional certification from the DEQ. Can you just elaborate on that?
 Absolutely. So we are including a new requirement for taxes in TNCs that they do comply with Oregon DEQ standards for the Portland metro area. That is new and it's to address or to help address some of those environmental concerns that we have about this industry. We do not have an agreement with the state so that we could require that every single vehicle go through an additional emissions test.
 However, I can rely on some folks from PBOT who are the technical experts, but it's our understanding that California has higher DEQ standards than Oregon, and Washington's are about the same for Portland. Thank you.
 May I just have a follow-up question on that? My understanding is that even Medford doesn't have or Pendleton don't have the same air quality requirements that we have. And if they do not have and if those vehicles are not able to demonstrate that they meet or exceed the Portland metro requirements, then they cannot be permitted to operate in the city of Portland. How would we know?
 There are a few ways. We can look for the Portland Metro sticker to make sure that it's gone through the test or we can refer to other decals or other certifications from other states to determine exactly what the emission rates are for that particular vehicle. And most vehicles these days, particularly very new ones, they're not even being required to be tested by Portland and by many states because they do comply with stringent DEQ standards.
 We heard, though, in testimony that you can go and buy. I don't understand what you say when the state doesn't agree to it. Anybody can go to the DEQ and buy and do a test and get a sticker.
 Sure, absolutely. It's just that we, the City of Portland and PBOT, have not entered into an agreement with the state so that we can include a requirement that all vehicles go through that. And we think that that would not be necessary because all vehicles already, many vehicles do meet those standards. I'm sorry, I don't understand why we need an agreement for the state to do that. The volume of taxi and T&T vehicles that would go through that test would be quite a bit.
 And set, well, but presumably they charge fee for service, so I don't understand that. But also, my understanding is it's the number of Utah drivers who are driving in Portland. What are Utah standards like? I don't know how many Utah drivers are in Portland, nor do I know what the Utah EQ standards are at the top of my head. I'm happy to look that up and provide that to you. Thank you. For purposes of today, Commissioner McClendon,
 Novick, I would just like a commitment that we'll park this issue for future consideration. And since you've identified some environmental impact questions that you have concerns about, at some future date we'll take up the question about whether our standard is sufficient to ensure that people's cars are meeting our emissions standard. Absolutely. And I should note that...
 the cars are required to be less than 10 years old um in and as mr hageday said newer cars tend not to have a problem with anybody's emission standard in fact in california which has very stringent emission standards they're not requiring exhaust tests for 2009 or newer cars
 And we've been engaged with BPS at the beginning of this whole process because we are very concerned about the environmental impacts. Nationally, there's not enough information known about the industry and its environmental impacts, but I think this is an issue that everybody around the U.S. is looking at. Well, I appreciate the conversation we had yesterday, the fact that it's on the radar, and so I will not be offering an amendment today on that issue.
 I will be offering can I just ask you a question about this amendment you are offering the DEQ one I'm not no. Oh, you're not okay wants to have that issue. Okay? No, I was salmon didn't looked at again later Is that right special team yesterday raised some concerns? But also made a commitment to follow up on this issue, and I thought it better better to defer So the first amendment I'm going to offer is on insurance I
 The last time we gathered, Commissioner Fritz offered an amendment, which I seconded, which would require a minimum of $1 million of liability coverage in periods 1, 2, and 3. That amendment did not secure council approval. We've had some extensive discussions since then on this question. Reasonable people can disagree about insurance, but I'm offering an amendment that would require a minimum of $500,000 in liability coverage.
 of insurance liability coverages in period one. Second. Second.
 If I might speak to the amendment. We received yesterday some information from the Taxi Cabs Insurance Company representative that I hope will get some testimony about examining the data from crashes in taxi cabs and showing that between 75% and 80% of the crashes that taxis are involved in have no passengers in the car, which implies that they are in period one.
 equivalent, and that the average taxi crash rate is about 0.5 to 0.6 crashes per car per year. So if you take a conservative estimate of 50% of the crashes happening in period one and 0.5 crashes per year, with 2,000 TNC drivers on the road, that's 1,000 crashes per year in period one. So knowing that having
 Good insurance doesn't cost that much more than having poor insurance. I know from my – I looked at my own records for how much I pay for insurance on the one car of mine that would be eligible for this ride-sharing that's new enough. It would only cost about $100 a year to go from the state – or six months to go from the state minimum to going to good insurance coverage. So the –
 What we have all been striving here is, first of all, to make a level playing field between the taxis and the TNCs. The taxis are required to carry 500,000 at all times. And second of all, to provide a safe system that protects both drivers and customers and the general public. And having 2,000 commercial drivers on the streets with only $50,000 in liability for death for a person is just not adequate.
 so that the Commissioner Fisher's amendment more clearly addresses the need that if you're driving commercially, you need to have adequate commercial coverage. Mayor, the only other thing I would add, and I would urge us to take a vote on it, is over time, and we've had a number of very thoughtful hearings on this issue and other issues, the principal objections that I've heard,
 to having a higher limit in period one are as follows. There was a national insurance settlement, and that settlement resolved the issue, and therefore Portland should follow the national settlement. To that I simply say we have not felt constrained in regulating in this area based on national standards.
 In fact, Portland has taken some pride in setting the bar higher than the national standards or what we think is the practice in other jurisdictions. And I think in this area we could also take some pride in providing an extra measure of protection for the public. The second claim that we've heard is that somehow the market doesn't provide insurance at this level in period one.
 I think that's been effectively rebutted by testimony we've had. And my general understanding of the marketplace is that if you require people to have insurance and it turns out it's an over-insurance, there'll be plenty of people willing to offer it because that's a pretty good business model. So for those and other reasons, I would just call the question.
 And I will say again that I think that the argument for higher-level insurance is a perfectly reasonable argument. I also think it's a reasonable argument that period one is sort of a period in between commercial service and personal use. Uber has given us their crash data during the pilot period, and what they've had out of a million rides, 95 crashes, 111.
 11 of them have occurred in period one, 19 in period two, 65 in period three. So that's the data that we have so far. And by the way, Commissioner, period two is also a period when there's no passenger in the car. It's when a ride has been accepted, but when there's no passenger in the car. So I –
 Think again that this is an issue we want to monitor the data, and I think it's quite possible that some months from now or a year from now, we might actually reverse this decision. But for now, I'm inclined to follow the lead. Yes, I'm talking about other cities here, but of Denver and Seattle and Ann Arbor and Austin and Chicago and the other cities that have adopted the model that we've adopted now.
 Other comments before we vote? Okay. Roll call on the proposed amendment, please. No bet. Nay. Prince. This council is different from other councils because two members of the council have had dear relatives killed in car crashes.
 And for us to say that those 11 people who were injured in period one this year are somehow part of an experiment, we don't know what the extent of their injuries were or what the cost of their medical bills were. $50,000 per person, $100,000 per incident does not go very far in today's economy. And I urge the council to take responsibility for our citizens. We're talking about the people of Portland who are at risk from commercial drivers. Hi. Hi.
 Fish. Aye. Kaufman. No. Hales. I'm not going to support the amendment, but I'll hear testimony on the subject. No. Mayor, I have one additional amendment. Yes. I'll hand this out. And this, I discussed this briefly with Commissioner Novick this morning, and this was brought to our attention yesterday. My amendment would amend 16.40.160C.
 to give taxi cab companies the flexibility of using more than one unique color to identify their cabs. This issue came to me yesterday through one of the cab companies that, in effect, made the case that they may choose to have more than one color scheme. I guess we could call them the Oregon Ducks of cab companies.
 And, in addition, we currently don't require a uniform color, obviously, for any of the TNCs, and so we don't regulate that area. It seemed to me, while this is not the most important issue we're going to address, I couldn't see a good reason why we wouldn't afford the same flexibility to the cab companies to choose more than one unique color to identify their cabs. And let's just use an example of EcoCab.
 They may choose to have a chocolate brown, a green, you know, a blue, all that may or may not be identified as having an environmental branding, but have the flexibility to do so. I can't think of a good reason why we would regulate one and not the other, so I'm offering this amendment. Okay. Further discussion? Sorry, didn't know it hadn't been seconded. Thank you. Further discussion? I'm curious as to what Mr. Hockaday thinks of this idea.
 Well, taxis do have the exclusive right to queue in taxi stands and to accept street hails. Part of that exclusive right is that those vehicles are very clearly identifiable by their unique color and design scheme. So I think that removing that color requirement would make it more challenging to easily identify vehicles for the use of street hails.
 Are you saying that TNCs are not easily identifiable? TNCs are not allowed to accept street hills. They are not allowed to queue in taxi stands. But there was a question about whether there the sign is visible enough on all sides. So by saying that the taxis have to be clearly identifiable, that implies that the Uber and Lyft vehicles are not.
 Well, the difference, Commissioner, is that with Uber and Lyft, with the app, you have a digital record of who exactly is giving you the ride. You don't have to rely on your recollection as to what the cab looked like. So I'm actually curious about this amendment and what –
 the final words in the provision would still be as approved by the director. And I'm actually wondering if the director might speak to whether she would find it too much of a burden to review color schemes. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Can you repeat the question for what the work would be for PBOT to do in this instance? Well, what it would mean is –
 Every taxi vehicle affiliated with the taxi company currently must be painted in the unique color and display the design scheme of the affiliated taxi company. The amendment would be to strike be painted in the unique color and instead say display the design scheme of the affiliated taxi company in a manner that clearly identifies the taxi company as approved by the director. Commissioner Novick, just to be clear, as approved by the director, I believe modifies the language about –
 the design scheme. I'm not suggesting in this amendment that the director be the arts czar approving colors. She has to approve many things with CAVS. As long as there's an identification of the company and it has the licensing stuff, we're giving her the flexibility to allow people to use other colors. It's not meant to burden her. It is meant to give the company's additional flexibility. And I
 I'm guessing that there will be some companies that think there's a competitive advantage in having a uniform, unique color because for some people that's a shorthand of what cab they're going to get into. They're just in the habit of getting in one that's green or yellow or something.
 For others, like particularly me in the evening, I can't tell the color of a cab. So that's not the distinguishing characteristic. I look to see that it has a license, that there's someone competent to drive, and that they have a photograph and a license that I can verify. We're not trying to – it was not my intent to create a whole other level of administrative burden for the director. I do think, though, that what the director would end up doing is determining whether the design scheme –
 clearly identifies the taxi company. So I think that would become sort of a judgment call as to whether a taxi company that uses multiple colors is in fact clearly identifying itself.
 We could take the as approved out. I think that was originally, I believe that's in the existing code to give you the flexibility to make sure that there isn't someone gaming the system or doing something that creates havoc in the marketplace. It keeps you in the mix so that you're using your good judgment, which is why I kept it in.
 From a public safety perspective, I think because there are street hails allowed for the cabs, it is just important that they are clearly identified as a taxi as long as that is still included in the rules that it be clearly identified. And the company associated with it, I don't administratively see an issue for us, and I think we're still protecting people who would be hailing cabs on the street so that they have visual identification of a cab company. Okay.
 and let me be clear this is not intended to to erode or dilute in any way the other requirements of what's a cap and the licensing the standards uh um this might give someone the flexibility to use a light green a green a heavy green a green with a stripe or something and that's again i don't think this is the most important issue for us but um it does seem like it creates a little more of a level playing field to give the cab companies that option
 i don't see any issues with it but i welcome the cab companies to testify on that later we'll take testimony on this as well um so could we take a vote please on accepting this amendment aye aye aye aye aye aye okay any more amendments commissioner are you going to present you are the one on the um tnc dress side the trade just dress signage no um um
 I'm happy to have a colloquy with Mr. Holliday, but we talked about that yesterday, and I was persuaded to defer on it. We've heard testimony that the Uber and other decals are sometimes difficult to see, and your amendment specifies how clear they must be. Can you give a summary as to why that's okay? Yeah, Mr. Holliday, why don't you tell us, when we raised this issue yesterday about requiring a PFHT vehicle decal,
 with a specific number for each vehicle, and they require that to be certified. You had some, you and Commissioner Novick had some fairly strong feelings about that. Why don't you share those with us again? Sure, absolutely. So the trade dress requirement for T&Cs is not the only identification requirement that the T&Cs have.
 They actually are required to provide more information to consumers, and it's primarily built in with the app. So not only do the vehicles have trade rest in the front, and these new rules are proposing that they be required in the front and the rear, but the app itself has to clearly identify the driver, picture of the driver, the name of the driver, description of the vehicle, the license plate of the vehicle. So there's actually more identification requirements for the T&Cs in that regard for the consumers.
 And when we were discussing this, Commissioner Fritz, someone in the room actually took out their phone and showed me some old rides and the identifying information on the phone, and it struck me based on that that, in fact, the customer gets more information on his or her phone that then becomes a permanent record than we'd be requiring in this on the car. And so it struck me as being a nice-to-have but not a need-to-have. Thank you. Okay, more amendments, if any?
 All right. Thank you very much. Anything else you need to put into the record before we take testimony? Thank you. Okay. Thanks very much. Okay. So let's go to the sign-up sheet from the last hearing, please, and call any of the folks that were there and didn't get a chance to speak. That opportunity now. Okay. We have 12 today. First, please come up, Peter Newell, John Middleton, and that would be Stephen Kofori is reading his testimony, and Tesfaye Alain.
 and they'll be followed by Ron Norrie, Brian Honeyman, and Wendy Wellington. Good morning. Welcome. You can go ahead while they're getting settled. Hi, City Councilman, Mayor. My name is Peter Newell. I'm a Lyft driver. Lyft has been a life-changing event for me. For 15 years, I've worked two full-time jobs, 40 or more hours a week, and have not been able to make ends meet. With Lyft, I now am able to work a single 60- to 65-hour-a-week job
 and I'm making well over $1,000 a week on a consistent basis. So for those who think that Lyft is a part-time job for college students taking away full-time jobs from taxi drivers, they should be aware of the fact that Lyft incentivizes all of their drivers to work a minimum of 50 hours a week by allowing them to keep 100% of the fare that is taken in on each ride. And Lyft is satisfied with simply taking the $1.55 service fee they add to each ride. Because of this, I'm now able to see my wife.
 I actually have a date night with her every week. And when she needs me to come home and take care of some emergency around the house, like the water heater that just blew up, I can just stop my job and go home and deal with the issue. I don't have to worry about going to a boss and seeing if I can keep my job if I go home and put a new water heater in. There's a few things that people have been speaking about in previous testimony based on supposition with no knowledge of how things work.
 In the first phase of the Lyft app, I'm free to do anything I want. Frequently, I take a nap. I'm not driving around because driving around is not going to get me a hail because I'm not allowed to take hails. So the first thing I do after I drop off a customer, I find a safe place to park where I'm not interfering with traffic and I can be sitting off to the side of the road. I might catch up on my email. I might go get some lunch. I could take a nap. And I don't have to worry about missing a ride because when I'm taking a nap,
 And I get a ride offer. I get this really loud, obnoxious noise that wakes me up. If I'm driving and I get a request, if I'm driving and I get a request, I don't have to be looking at my app to see, am I going to get a request while I'm driving to get to a place to park? Because my app is so loud, I'm going to hear it. I can reach up and touch the app without having to look at it because all I have to do is touch the bottom of that screen and it will instantly start to navigate me to my passenger. So I never have to see where I'm going. I don't have to look at my phone at all.
 So there is no danger involved with the app. You mean it gives you audible commands about where to turn? Yeah, it'll either give me my choice of Waze or Google Maps, whichever one I have preset, but it'll automatically start to navigate me to the passenger, and it will announce the name of the passenger to me. So when I arrive at the location, I can ask the passenger without ever having looked at my phone, is this John?
 So that I know that the right person is getting in my car. In my app, in the app, when you request a ride from me, there's not only a picture of myself, but there's a picture of my car. It shows my license plate number. And it has a brief bio of me. So if you have questions, you can ask of me if you'd like. Thank you. This is very helpful. Appreciate that. I need you to wrap up because you're out of time. Okay. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Go ahead, Stephen, please. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Stephen Kufuri. I represent Broadway Cab, and I'm working with the Transportation Fairness Alliance. I wanted to make one comment before I read this testimony having to do with the $500,000 bill.
 that is correctly stated is the minimum requirement for taxis presently that is a very old number mr mayor and it is obviously at this point uh all our taxi companies carry well over a million dollars insurance presently and while five hundred thousand dollars would be a better figure than fifty thousand dollars which is ridiculous
 It still is a very obsolete number, and we would be delighted to have the minimum raised for taxi cabs as well as TNCs to $1 million. I'll have some questions for you about that, but go ahead with the testimony you want to read. Mr. Mayor, because we don't want to is not a sufficient reason for a transportation company to refuse to offer protection to innocent people who may be harmed by the company's vehicles. But it was the best that Uber could do at the meeting that you held last week.
 Uber wants $50,000 of coverage. Notice Uber did not say we cannot afford it. That would have been a ludicrous statement for a $50 billion company to say, especially when looking at comparing with the Portland taxicab companies that have well over $1 million, 24 hours a day, even our very small companies can afford it. There's no problem about Uber affording $1 million.
 The period one is an important period for the TNCs. The reason that Uber and Lyft are able to be successful in our market is because they can say to their people who want to ride, we can be to your place within two or three minutes to pick up a fare. There's only one reason that they're able to do that, and that is because, as you just heard, they've got thousands of people out there with their apps turned on.
 Those people are effectively working for Uber or Lyft because if they weren't, Uber and Lyft would not exist. They cannot exist without thousands of people with their apps on. You've heard about the $50,000 as some national figure. Let's take a look. Where did this come from? It did not come from an analysis of good public policy. It did not come from anybody representing consumers or people who have been injured in automobile accidents.
 It came from a group of insurance companies meeting with Uber, because Uber didn't want to have any insurance at all on phase one. And then they killed a little girl down in San Francisco, and there was a big public outrage, and they knew they needed to do something. So they worked together with the insurance companies, and this came to me straight from the insurance company lobbyists. This is not something I made up or heard over the Internet.
 The insurance companies made out a deal and said, all right, how about we have a low rate for Uber and we can pick up the rest of it? This would give us the opportunity to sell a lot of insurance policies. This has nothing to do with public concerns or worry about who gets injured. This has to do with a cozy arrangement made between Uber and some insurance policies. And then how did they get this in various cities and counties and states around the country? By their huge lobbying effort.
 not because of good public policy. And where some cities stood up and said, no, we want to protect our citizens with a million dollars, Uber then went to the legislatures and got the legislatures to overrule saying, no, the cities cannot have higher requirements than our league. Let me let Mr. Lamy testify, and then I've got questions for both of you on this subject. Go ahead. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. First of all, I just want to say something that is important.
 over and over is commented. We're not asking to stop Uber and Lyft to stop operating. We're asking equal treatment of insurance, permitting, uniforms, and inspection, background check, all these kind of things. We're not asking that Uber and Lyft has to stop. But let me go to my point.
 I would like to offer my support to the testimony that would be provided by Wendy Willington. I also believe that the proposed code requirement and insurance rating of M-based A- is excessive and will cripple small companies like mine. For three years, I have done business with American Service Company. They are a leading provider of insurance products to the taxi industry. They are...
 A proven reliable company with a great track record of fast claim payments. They do not have an AM-based rating, but they are excellent at what they do and more affordable for a smaller business like mine. I also ask you to amend the proposed code to add a second rating agency, DemoTech, to the insurance rating system. No public policy is served by giving AM-based ratings
 Companies and monopoly are by any level aid. Huge companies that really does not rate on company works which are fighting clements. Finally, the code should be expanded to allow PFHT operators to buy equivalent insurance across all periods from carriers with a B rating or better. That's a critical request. I ask you to please take action immediately.
 on it today. And I just want to say something that I'm surprised in my own analysis. When we're talking about the period one, period two, period three, I was surprised when I was trying to analyze a year and a half worth of accidents. From all that, over 65% of the time, the accidents were period one.
 And all the time, we have to have insurance. And the other thing that I will say is we are required $1 million. That's what it is. And we cover, you know, the drivers cover a collision coverage. So everything is covered here. But I'm struggling to pay the insurance.
 pay premium every month, and now I'm seeing and I'm looking to a company that has $41 billion not to pay even a million-dollar coverage for its vehicles and drivers. That's just asking equal treatment for all our providers.
 can we go back to your first issue and then i want to talk with i have some questions for both of you about the insurance issue so we're we're separately in this code package changing the rating requirement for insurance companies that applies to your your business and other taxi cab companies i guess that to me is a new issue i had not seen this before okay what what happened is
 We were insured by American Service Company, which is a demo tech. And then we were told that your insurance company is not acceptable by the city court. So what happens is the next renewal time that I'm going to renew in December, I have to look for AM best rating A minus A insurance company so that I have to pay more.
 insurance. So that's one of the things that we've been talking to staff, and they're saying, we don't know. This is a code. So imagine if you're allowing a personal insurance for
 Uber to be driven by personal insurance, and now you're trying to tell us you have to have A- rating when we are a company. Is this not a place where you have a contradiction? Can you please see this and rectify all these things? And we need
 These companies that are A-based, B-rating companies are the best companies. You can have rating levels, which is what it says, very good. Those are companies that are rated by their own level of insurance guideline. So this was an administrative decision by PBOT. It's not part of the regulations. I'm not saying it's not an important matter. I'm just trying to figure out where this came from.
 So this was an administrative decision by the city to require you to have a different rating basis for your insurance company? Yes. That we were told because it's a code. So we can't move. And now we are deciding to change to another insurance company which has an A-minus rating.
 Okay, I get it. So we'll have a chance for us to get some further information from staff about that. So back to the insurance issue for a minute. We have been debating this for a long time, and I've been thinking, albeit maybe a little more slowly about this than I should have. There's a question.
 There's a warm side of this issue and a cold side of this issue. The warm side of this issue is we want to make sure that we're giving the citizens of our city reasonable protection from harm. All of us want that. You want that. Everybody wants that. Then there's the cold side of this issue, which is that it's a proxy fight between the taxi cab companies and the T&Cs. So let me spin a scenario for you, Stephen, and have you respond. And that is let's stipulate – I think you got it right –
 Uber and the insurance industry were having a big fight all over the country, nationally. Somebody can correct my understanding of this if I don't get it right. They were having a big fight nationally all over the country. They also had some catastrophic incidents like the one that we've heard about in San Francisco. So they reached a national agreement about...
 providing insurance for themselves for their drivers and and otherwise right i won't get into all the details but they reached a national agreement and maybe it's true i don't know this i've never seen their national agreement maybe it's true that that national agreement says and you won't go operating hop you won't go hopscotching up the scale of agreeing to cities that require you to do more maybe that's part of their deal i don't know this okay maybe it is
 And so if we were to require a higher level of insurance than that agreement, and if they have that understanding with the insurance companies, they might leave the Portland marketplace. Would that be a good outcome? Mr. Mayor, that's a very interesting question because this is exactly what happens all over the United States. And as far away or as close from here as Eugene. Okay.
 It's a typical tactic of a company that's basically a bully. And, you know, we've talked about this. I understand that, and I've experienced that, but I'm saying would that be a good outcome? Would that be good? Here's their outcome. Their outcome is this. All right, if you're not going to play our game, we'll take our ball and go home. Right. And that taking their ball and go home extends out to the city limits. And then they go out there and they sit. Right.
 And they sit and they wait, and they wait for political pressure to happen on the city council. And they send an email out, or however they get their apps out, text messages, whatever, to all their writers out there. They've got a fabulous database.
 And they say, don't you like Uber? Don't you like Lyft? Don't you want to have us come here? And so all these people will send you texts. You'll get 10,000 texts saying, oh, please don't take Uber away. And this is what happens all over the United States. The next thing happens, the city council gets Christmas.
 We can't afford this. I can't have 10,000 people not wanting me. I'm up for reelection. Let's renegotiate with Uber. This is the pattern over and over again. It has nothing to do with public policy. And I understand that description may actually be very close to what could happen. Absolutely. But I'm saying, would that be a good outcome if they left, if they took their ball and went home? And we went back to the situation. We were back to the situation that we were in.
 when we first had our own head-on collision with Uber, and they stopped operating in the city in the... stopped operating in the part of the metro area where we write the rules and continued to operate in the rest of the metro area where no one has written any rules. So there were 600,000 people in the city of Portland, and there are 1.1 million 600,000 people in the rest of the metro area. The 600,000 people
 live in a city where the city council is adopting regulations about TNCs. The 1,600,000 people live in cities or counties where they have chosen to not write any rules at all.
 So if they left Portland, we would go back to a situation in which they were operating completely unregulated in two-thirds of the metropolitan area by population and not operating at all, but perhaps carrying out the political campaign that you just described in the area where we govern. Would that be a good outcome? Mr. Mayor, let me carry that scenario out. Last legislative session –
 Last spring, I had a bill representing Broadway Cab asking for a million dollars insurance for TNCs through period one, two, and three. The bill, although it came very close, did not pass. And the reason it did not pass is that people, especially Portland legislators, said, I want to see what the city of Portland does first. I don't want to go out and be at odds with my mayor and my city council. We have a bill prepared today for the February session. If this city council...
 says, yes, we want to have a higher limit. We want to protect our citizens. I think we will pass that bill, which will cover Coos Bay as a taxi company, cover Eugene, cover Salem, cover the Portland Medford, cover the Portland suburban area, so that everybody in the state who gets into a TNC taxi cab
 and i use that phrase advisedly because they are taxi cabs everyone who gets into a tnc taxi cab will have insurance if they get hurt and everybody who's in that community if they get run over will get hurt and i think this if i just may one other thing mr mayor this talk about how many accidents there are is interesting but not really relevant it takes one accident one accident where a person is permanently disabled or one accident where a breadwinner is killed
 and you run that 50 000 up real fast so in the next couple of years if we have only one accident where someone is badly hurt then it was worth having that protection it doesn't cost very much uber can afford it right well you're you're speculating that they would submit to this requirement but if ultimately i don't think they can afford not to be here in the city of portland it's too too much for them number one number two if the city of portland agrees to raise this limit
 I think we'll have a statewide legislation that can pass. This is not a Republican legislature down there, Mr. Mayor, as we've had in these other states like Idaho and Ohio, where the Uber lobbyists have gone into a friendly atmosphere. We've got a Democratic legislature that's very supportive of consumer protection. And if you put that together with the support from the city council so that the Portland legislators say, this is what my city wants to do, I think we can pass that bill.
 Interestingly, it's suburban legislators who are carrying the water on this issue, Mr. Chair. Mr. Mayor. All right. Thank you. Can I ask another question about insurance? And as you first make a comment, that I believe that a person injured or killed in a crash there, a state would come after the city if we have knowingly approved commercial drivers with a lesser level of insurance. And I think that they have a good chance that they would prevail there.
 My question is, going back to the very beginning of these sets of hearings about being certified for insurance in the State of Oregon and a question as to whether the James River Corporation or insurance company rises to the level that we expect. Can you refresh my memory about that issue? Mr. Mayor, Madam Commissioner, yes, the Port of Portland requires $1 million insurance.
 Phase 1, Phase 2, Phase 3. Those people are covered by James River Insurance. You all have in your office files certificates of insurance, the copies that we've provided for you. I realize that this has been a period of time in the last couple of months where you've had 10 or 15 huge, huge issues, and not time to focus on those kind of things like looking at the insurance copies they would give to you. But you'll find in your files insurance certificates from James River for $1 million. Okay.
 Or Porter Portland, phase one, phase two, phase three. And is their company the AM best rated company? I don't know about that matter.
 i all i do know is that that we have this issue was raised to us by two eco cab you're here testimony from them and by our smaller cab companies here in portland that uh there's a there's a real problem and that we this is an easy problem to save just to solve and i don't think it'll harm anybody's protection until you get first class insurance
 Thank you. I'm hoping that we have some insurance representatives. We do. Okay. Good to hear. Thank you. Okay. We may have other questions for you later. Thank you very much. Thank you all. And we'll get an answer from staff to survey on that issue. Okay. Let's take the next folks, please. Next three, please come up. Ron Norrie, Brian Honeyman, Wendy Kellington, followed by Alan Loden, Lightning, and Patrick Montgomery. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Ron Canore, CEO of EcoCab. We are one of the newest entrants to the Portland market, having received licenses to serve the public with a unique for hire riding experience, namely a great ride in a non-polluting Tesla, driven by a fully qualified driver who is an employee of my company, receiving a living wage and health benefits. Thank you for the opportunity to appear on this important subject.
 Like others who are trying to bring disruptive and innovative service to underserved Portland consumers, we are finding a market that is hungry for high-quality, on-demand service. But we are prepared to do that without asking you to radically deregulate the system that provides consumer protections, public safety, and other valued public policies.
 If you want riders that are protected, drivers that can earn a living wage, and a for-hire transportation system that exists on a level playing field, I respectfully suggest that you reject the task force recommendations. There's a lot of good work that was done by this task force, and it's useful to have that data about the unmet needs of service in our community. But as a guide for public policy, the report is fundamentally flawed.
 The pricing strategy leads to the undermining of city and state consensus on living wages and fair working conditions. By setting a minimum price per mile, this will ensure a minimum living wage. Unequal treatment of taxicab and TNC business models are baked into the operational regulations in the form of exempting TNCs from certain requirements or allowing them to externalize costs that must be internalized by taxicab companies
 For example, why cameras in cabs but not in TNCs? Why can Uber come in any rainbow of any color they want, but taxis must be a uniform color? Insurance rating monopoly.
 by Uber's favorite insurance rating company, AM Best, puts taxi cabs at a significant financial disadvantage, especially when other acceptable options such as DemoTrek rating company exist and could provide some price competition and relief for small business cab companies. The Portland City Council is right to demand innovative, high-quality service for the consuming public.
 But I am here as just one of many companies who can promise you that you can have disruption and innovation without sacrificing core values in our community. Please tell your staff to go back and remove the fundamental flaws in the product you are reviewing so that you can truly offer the public a for-hire transportation industry that protects and promotes our community. Thank you. Thank you. Andy, would you like to be next? Sure.
 Sure. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the council, Wendy Kellington representing EcoCab. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and council for your amendment regarding taxicab colors. That's a step in the right direction. We really appreciate that. Thank you.
 I also want to point out that the reason you care about this insurance rating issue is that the AM Best A- rating does not ensure that the City of Portland is protected. The City of Portland wants to be a named insured, but if you're a named insured with AM Best A- James River, which is non-admitted in Oregon, that means that if –
 they fail, that they don't pay into the safety net, and the city of Portland has no liability protection. That's a big deal issue. So that's an issue for the city. Okay.
 I want to let you know that the proposal before you purports to be even-handed amendments. It's really a stack deck against taxis generally and specifically against this new entrant into the marketplace, built on a business model that is totally aligned with express city policies. If the city stands for innovation, fair wages generally, and for taxi drivers specifically, and for clean air specifically,
 Why would it adopt amendments that propose to lock taxi meters and taxi fare systems into a 1960s vintage technology that encourages Walmart-like predatory pricing practices designed to drive out competitors like EcoCab that pays its drivers a living wage, benefits, and complies with the city's sick time off policy and law?
 Why would it adopt a draconian regulatory model that falls disparately on small, zero-emission taxi companies to buy expensive insurance that only benefits Uber and Lyft but has no relevancy to established city policy and to maintaining the safety of the city's system?
 Why would it force a choice between new electric vehicles that are incompatible with old-school taximeter technology in favor of gas guzzlers that are compatible with that old-school technology? I have provided you with three things, and I hope you look at them. One are some modest proposed amendments that would address those three issues, and the
 In addition, I provided two articles for you that talk about the new taxi operating system that is not a taxi meter designed to replace the antiquated jumble of meters, navigation devices, and credit card machines currently found in many cabs with a single cloud-enabled smartphone. This is the technology that is moving forward in San Francisco, in New York City, in Philadelphia, in Boston, and in Washington, D.C.,
 If you have questions about that, please feel free to let me know. With respect to base fares, if base fares are not required by the city as they used to be, then it will be impossible for companies that do pay living wages, that do observe compliance with the city's sick time off policy, that do carry this requirement.
 ridiculous amount of insurance that Uber doesn't have to carry to compete in the city marketplace. So you end up with no zero emission vehicles, taxi drivers making less than minimum wage, lots of gas customers on the road because that's what we're encouraging, and inadequate insurance. And I don't think that's the kind of innovation the city stands for. Thank you. So let me follow up again on the same basic question as Mr. El-Amy.
 So you've raised a bunch of new issues here about other regulatory impacts on ECOCAT. Are these changes in the city's regulations that are incorporated in our proposed rules, our proposed ordinance here today, or are these other administrative decisions by the Bureau that you're disadvantaged by?
 Combination of both. So under the current city code before the proposed amendments, the city had interpreted its code under Frank DuFage's leadership to allow it to accept amendments
 insurance that was less than A-minus, AM-best, if they felt that it was equivalent and adequate. And that had been the determination that the city had provided. Information was provided about Demotech rating as being an equivalent rating system that deals with metrics like, does an insurance company pay? Is it rate? Is it?
 admitted all of these other things that were important to the city and the city interpreted its old code to say, yeah, fine, no problem. The city's old code used to say that with respect to colors that the words to the effect that the cab company is painted in the colors
 of the company, some distinctive logo, and that was recently interpreted to mean, no, it has to be one color. And so the proposed amendments actually ratchet it down, the color of the company. And that's a problem for EcoCab and other sort of electric vehicle-based companies because it's real hard to come by electric vehicles. And when they're available to purchase, you need to buy what you can buy, and they don't all come in white. So that's the issue there. Okay.
 There are some things in the proposal that are new in the sense that the proposal is trying to address innovation. It's trying to recognize this new type of technology.
 But in doing that, it doesn't recognize all of the new technology that is available to taxi companies as well to kind of come into the now and to be hailed and to pay and all those things with an app. And so it says, okay, so Uber gets to have that. But taxis are stuck with this old school stuff that the industry is moving away from. And as a matter of fact, you can't get a new electric vehicle
 that is compatible with the taxi meters. You're having to take these beautiful electric cars and Frankenstein them in order to get them to work on this old technology. So that's the new problem that's being introduced. It's stifling your innovation. And there are simple, easy amendments that I propose that address these basic issues.
 Ms. Cullington, this is the first I've heard of this issue of you're having a hard time dealing with the old meter technology. So I'm certainly willing to have a discussion about that, but it will be hard to act on it today when it's the first I've even heard of it.
 It's helpful to hear this, but it is new to me also. Aren't these types of things that you can petition to have addressed in the rules? No, that's the problem, is that the rules say taxis have to have taxi meters that
 that couldn't be GPS-based, which is what these new systems are. And they have to be certified by the National Type Evaluation Program, NTEP. And NTEP has a subcommittee that is dealing with GPS systems, these kinds of apps that I gave you these articles about, as well as the Uber types of apps. But they're just not ready yet. They don't know how to certify these systems. I have a solution. Oh. Okay.
 Why don't we propose that in the implementation phase of this, for six months or a year or whatever,
 The director has the explicit authority to waive any code that doesn't present an unreasonable risk to public safety and health if in a case like this there is some benefit to innovation or cost or experimentation or whatever. I would be very comfortable, Commissioner Novick, giving the director a catchall.
 for anything during the implementation phase where you're putting essentially a round peg through a square hole, and there's a case made that it doesn't impact...
 public health and safety, but there's a public policy reason to provide a delay or an exemption, mostly a delay, I would think, because we're talking about a phase-in. And it would seem to me there ought to be that provision anyway, and what kind of council oversight over that would have to be determined. Let me just ask the city attorney, is it legal for the council to delegate authority to waive code to a director? Sure.
 Well, even if it's not, I'm not even suggesting potentially a waiver. There could be, since all of these laws have, since we routinely deal with things called implementation schedules and phase-ins and things of that nature, it just seems to me that,
 we could classify certain things as subject to a phase-in and give a little more latitude during the phase-in period. Commissioner, I don't think it's a matter of phasing in. I think that what ECOCAB is asking for is a change to longstanding rules about taxi meters, and I am reluctant to suggest that the director should...
 on her own undertake a review of those rules. I mean, I think that it's, I think that this is an issue that we can take up as a standalone issue as to whether we need to change the rules for what taxi meters look like. Mr. Commissioner, then I'm pitching one of a number of options. We could do it.
 An alternative would be to have an informal, the equivalent of a recap process for PBOT, where as these issues come up, they can petition the director and the commissioner in charge. If you think it's meritorious, then they could come back to us for tweaks from time to time. Yes, so let me suggest this. I think this is a very good discussion, but I want to later in this hearing call the director and relevant staff up to talk about some of this, because this is new to us.
 That's fine. Nope, not being critical of you. But this council has to deal with lots of arcane issues, whether it's what the height of an apartment building should be as it steps down to an adjacent neighborhood, or whether an assistant pool leader is a classified member of our union or not. Well, likewise here. We've got arcane details about insurance that this council has been wrestling with for months now while we've been trying to resolve the question of
 Do TNCs operate in our city and how? And now you've raised a whole new set of issues about do our existing regulations disadvantage cab companies, and is that even more of a problem now that there's TNC competition? And Mr. Alemi's concern is similar. So...
 i i like commissioner fish's suggestion in concept we'll get to whether or not it works in reality but someone needs to sort through these technical issues and make a decision that could be the city council but maybe not because what kind of meters you use is probably not best decided by the five of us so and i think that's why you know i think at least
 Each of our bureaus has some administrative process for pursuing hardship or appeals and things. So I'm just flagging. But there's a related issue that you raised I just want to give you a chance to elaborate on.
 We have been thinking about the insurance issue primarily through the lens of consumer protection. So we're thinking about the driver, the passenger, and the person from the public who could be injured in an accident. So basically the three people, the driver, the passenger, and someone crossing in front of a car and getting hit and injured. And so we've been trying to figure out
 how to fairly appropriate liability in those circumstances. So we've talked about minimum standards. We've looked at different periods. We've asked the question, who's primarily liable? We've dug a little deeper into insurance law generally. We've had a disagreement, a spirited disagreement, about what the limit should be. But we have not spent a lot of time looking at this question from the point of view of the city's liability. And...
 I would say that using the mayor's metaphor, this is one of those cold issues that we ought to get right. And so I haven't heard a lot about the interplay between a rating and
 and the extent to which the city, as a third-party insured, has confidence that its liability is covered by an insurance company. So could you just – it's not an issue that we're necessarily up here experts on. Could you just go a little deeper on that question? Thank you, Commissioner Fish. That's an excellent question. So –
 There are essentially, as relevant to that question, two kinds of insurance policies and companies. There are companies and policies reflecting admitted status and non-admitted. Excuse me. And non-admitted companies and non-admitted policies don't pay into the state's insurance safety net. And so when they are too big to fail and they fail,
 There is no compensation available. There's no safety net for any of the persons associated with that policy, whether it's a claimant or named insured. And that's where the city comes in because it's laws. Oh, bless you. Thank you. Now you're going to have my cooties. Thank you. You'll have his, one or the other. Thank you. And so the...
 The city is a named insured, but it would receive no compensation when that company fails. AM Best is a rating company that,
 whose matrix is predominantly limited to how big is the company. That's what AMBEST is interested in, how big is the company. They're not really very interested in other metrics. Demotech is interested in other metrics. And so too big to fail, that's important. Admitted not important, not admitted, that's important. Do they pay claims? That's important.
 And so back in the day, the city of Portland accepted Demotech, A-, or even B-rated insurance companies because the city of Portland was protected. Those companies paid into the safety net.
 They had good histories, they were solid companies, and the taxi companies were able to provide an affordable product with the city being protected. Well now, AM Best, James River is a non-admitted company. So if James River has made a bad bet on Uber, and if Uber has to start paying during period one, and James River fails.
 The city of Portland is out of luck because it has no coverage. The insurance companies, or the, sorry, the taxi companies don't like that because they want to have the safety net. They don't want to be sitting there looking at an injured claimant or the city of Portland and say, we're going to somehow try to accommodate that claim. That's the issue.
 Mayor, I do want to, I mean, get along with the rest of the testimony, but Mr. Begayar is prepared to respond to a number of the statements Ms. Culligan has made. All right, good. Well, let's proceed and then – I just want to mention to you this issue about the GPS. These new electric cars that we've been getting have this brand-new software.
 That is incompatible. So this is a brand-new issue, but it just goes to the point that I think particularly you, Mayor Hales, care about, and that's being nimble enough to respond to innovation, and that's why we need these amendments sooner than later. All right. Okay. Thank you. I would just point out with respect to your –
 suggestions for meters that as a passenger I would not be able to tell what the fare is if I'm in the backseat looking trying to trying to see this anyway it would be it would be an app based system the same thing that that uber uses that's what we're asking for and if that's not well written then it should be you could ask your staff to come back with something better if you're interested in that the point being what if I'm not I don't have an iPhone and I hail your cab how do I know what the fare is I like to watch the fare on my meters
 Can I answer this? Yeah, please. Thank you. These GPS-enabled meters are used throughout the world, and so they're just now starting to get used in San Francisco right now. So we would always make sure that the fare was clear and visible to the passenger at all times. According to code, the only thing that we're asking for is that we can use a GPS-enabled meter versus one that's physically connected to the car, because every time they have a software update, it changes.
 So you'd have that information. Nobody's saying, and that could be a code requirement to have that information. You'd have it whether it's on an app or whether it's sitting on a meter, but you would have it. The only difference is the source, GPS would be the source. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you for letting me speak. My name is Brian Honeyman. I'm the president of EcoCab. I have just recently completed.
 been brought into and hired by EcoCab. So I'm a fresh perspective. I actually come from, I've only been in the role for three months. I come from the franchise industry where I've worked with a number of large international franchises, where one was a security franchise, where we would hire hundreds and hundreds of patrol vehicles. So there's some relative information there. But I've been asked to speak because I thought I would share some
 brief experience in my eight weeks from just interviewing people. So I have a sample of about 350 resumes that I've reviewed.
 I've completed 142 interviews and I've hired 25 new drivers. And in that, when I first saw some of the documents that we've been discussing, livable wage was one that I could speak to from my franchise experience. I don't have a lot of taxi insurance experience. I'm getting a lot very...
 very quickly. However, living wage. So I've met lots of drivers from all the different taxi businesses and companies, some currently employed, checking us out. It's Teslas, it's electric, it's new, it's hip, it's a wage, there's insurance, you know, there's vacation and so on and so forth. So it's attracted a lot of people. I've met a lot of people from Uber and from Lyft,
 Again, some working, some not working. So obviously those not working will certainly have a bias, and I would understand that from some of the information that I'm gathering, my learning points. Here's some of the learning that I've experienced. Earnings have dropped excessively, and it's hard to pay our expenses is what I hear a lot from the taxi business.
 From the others, there's a lot of drivers now, and it's sure hard to make $10 an hour. That's challenging. Wait times at the airport, we go to the airport, and we will wait at times three hours before we get called up to get a fare, and we sure hope it's a fare that's not going to be close proximity where I'll earn $20 and then have to get back in line and hope that it's not another three-hour wait. Okay.
 which, you know, extrapolate that out over a 12-hour shift and just ask, you know, is there going to be a cap on the amount of people that will be in the marketplace, act as drivers, be them taxi cabs or the Uber and Lyft folks? Then I just, within the last couple of weeks, I saw something on a morning news show where there was an Uber spokesman, and, you know, some of the numbers, and I was trying to make them work, $4.3 billion in wages...
 400,000 drivers, so just factoring that out, I get about $8,750 in earnings. They made the statement that the average driver works 10 hours a week, which I'm fine with. But just working those numbers, trying to figure out some expenses of which I don't know, but just being logical, it was hard to try and come up with even $9 an hour.
 So what's the quality service that we would get representing the city of Portland to people in the city and our residents if we're going to be attracting someone? And then just briefly, I've also been the executive vice president for a security franchise where we would hire hundreds and hundreds of drivers that would be in patrol vehicles. Any driver for the company went through a background test, obviously, check,
 and they all had to be fingerprinted. We provided fingerprinting service. It's very cheap. It's quick and easy and much more thorough. And then there was cameras, and the cameras that were in the cars were not expensive because I would be the franchisor, so we'd have all the drivers asking.
 It was a safety tool looking inwards. It was a safety tool looking outwards for all sorts of other people outside the vehicle. And from a quality attracting the right driver with the right wage, it was a skill development. You could be sitting there looking and saying, okay, are we doing the right thing for people? So it was beyond just security. And it wasn't an expensive thing. Okay. Thank you very much. Questions? Yes.
 All right, thank you all. Let's take the next, please. The next three, please come up. Alan Loden, Lightning, Patrick Montgomery. They'll be followed by Teal Aber-Abel, Mike McDermott, John Orr. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Alan Loden. I've not spoke like this before, so I'm a little nervous. I've been in the taxi business for 30 years. I've driven cabs in four or five different cities.
 I had built up quite a large clientele in two of those cities based on my attitude and the way I'm fair and honest with my passengers. You want to deregulate the taxi industry, but you have a lot of regulations for Uber. If you are going to accept Uber, I think you need to accept Uber in its entirety, just the way it is, including its business model and the way it operates. Uber allows drivers to drive their own vehicles.
 Maybe someone does not own a wheelchair accessible vehicle. Uber allows drivers to drive anytime they want to. Uber does not require a certain driver to drive certain hours as to make sure someone is available 24 hours a day. If you are going to allow market forces to dictate the taxi business, then the customer will call whichever company has a suitable vehicle for them at the time they want it, whether it is Uber or Radio Cab or whoever.
 As an Uber driver, most, if not all, of my negative experiences were because the riders did not know how to operate the app. I got wrong addresses every day, several times every day, starting the relationship off on a very bad note. This happens to probably all the drivers. Uber is aware of this and does nothing about it. All Uber has to do is make the rider type in the exact address they want to be picked up at.
 Guess what? No more wrong addresses. This would only take a few seconds, and the rider can save the address so they only have to type it in once, and it would create a lot less stress and heartache for everyone involved. You'd be surprised at how many riders literally go less than half a mile. At least they go short enough distance that only the $5 minimum is charged.
 Out of this $5, Uber takes $1 for a safe ride and then takes 20% of the rest, $4, which would be $0.80. Can you imagine how difficult it can be to motivate yourself to be overly exuberant when you know you are only going to get $3.20 and you're pretty sure you will not get a tip because the app does not allow it, Uber discourages it, and even encourages drivers to refuse tips.
 That is just one more point where Uber is not driver-friendly, but I won't talk any more about that. Uber drivers and riders rate each other on a scale of one to five stars. A rider can give you a low rating for any reason, maybe by mistake, maybe just having a bad day, personality conflict, misunderstanding. One of my riders gave me a low rating because I used a Garmin GPS unit.
 Why? Your guess is as good as mine. You should wrap up soon. Go ahead. You must maintain a 4.6 stars or you can be deactivated. If half of your riders give you 5 stars and half give you 4 stars, that's a 4.5 average. You can be deactivated and never get less than 4 stars.
 In a court of law, you are able to defend yourself. You are allowed to confront your accuser, and you are assumed innocent until proven guilty. With Uber, if a rider gives you a low rating, you will never know which rider it was or for what reason. A rider gave you a low rating, you're guilty, you're fired, that's it, goodbye. All right, thank you. Thank you very much. I'll have to cut you off there. Can I just take five more seconds? Five seconds. Go ahead. All right.
 If one rider gives you one star, you need nine riders that will give you five stars to maintain a 4.6 average. We understand that issue. Can you imagine showing up for work and being told that 10% of your constituents were not happy with you yesterday? Thank you. I'd actually be happy with 10%. Go ahead.
 Yes. Well, you didn't let me finish saying that you would be fired because 10% weren't happy with you yesterday. It has to be 51%, but we'd all settle for 10%. That's his point, though, that 10% could get him fired. I know. I understand. Thank you. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I think this comes down to leadership on the insurance, is that the city needs to understand your first obligation is to protect the public.
 We all know this insurance is too low on the TNCs during period one, two, and three, or at least one. And we need to increase that limit to 500,000, plain and simple. Now, if Uber and Lyft have a problem with this, like you said, will they just leave? Leave. Just leave. The public safety is number one. You have plenty of money to pay this. And if you're not satisfied, just leave. You have outlying areas that you can still do your business.
 That comes down to leadership of the city. That comes down to protecting the public. You make that rule to them. They don't like it? Leave. Now, another issue I have, again, is pertaining to the caps. I never wanted these caps to just open up the floodgates and let as many drivers as possible.
 My biggest concern, again, is on the public transportation also, streetcar, trimet, bus. We need more data to see if we're beginning to lose profits there. It's very important to the taxpayers, to the people that have to maintain these systems, to the values and being able to add money on the infrastructure of transportation. If we're losing money, we're going to continue to lose money in all these other areas. So I want to have, again, take a closer look at this.
 Now, again, from my position, if Uber and Lyft is not happy, leave. I have always had a concern on the traditional taxi cab companies. Why not just allowing them as a pilot project to have no caps, operate for a year, and decide if we want to let Uber and Lyft back in the market? I don't think we need them here. I think the traditional cab companies can pick up
 and begin to pick up the customers faster. And they were basically held down by how many caps they could have. And if we release that to them...
 Push Uber to the side right now because they don't want to pay that higher insurance, and let's just see what happens in the marketplace. And I can assure you these traditional taxi cab companies will step up. They will provide more quality service. They will pick up their customers on a faster timeframe.
 They need to be given that chance. We don't need Uber and Lyft here. Uber and Lyft is a $50 billion company. They're not going to lose much value by not being in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Patricia Montgomery, not Patrick Montgomery. To show you it's ironic that I'm talking about fingerprint checks today because then you'll know who I really am.
 So I think that there needs to be some driver oversight in this city. There's no oversight. You've got all these people operating in the city, and there's nobody who's watching who. The International Association of Transportation Regulatory recommends biometric fingerprinting as a gold standard for background checks. I strongly support the city following this gold standard in order to protect the citizens of Portland. Other big cities like New York City, Columbus, Ohio, and Houston do the same.
 I was looking at this article real quick. It says equally important TNC background checks are name-based checks rather than fingerprint-based checks, which increases the probability of errors. In April in Houston, someone had 24 aliases and five different birth dates and ten different names that got through as a TNC driver.
 Uber argues that the time to conduct fingerprinting will delay drivers getting on the platform. If that's the case, the city could issue temporary permits. The continuous stories we read in the media about Uber drivers committing crimes are not the soccer moms out there making extra bucks. They are often dangerous criminals who have slipped through the cracks of the current background checks. Biometric fingerprinting was safeguarded from this from happening.
 And I think it's a very important issue that we protect our citizens in this city. The second is the vehicle signage. I think the cabs are all at a disadvantage. They're required to do all this extra stuff. And I think so maybe it's time to drop the idea that transportation providers need to be fully painted, but let's not go so far as to eliminate safeguards. Instead, require all providers have distinctive branding that can be accomplished with an exterior decal that can be easily identified on a dark and rainy night.
 I'm alarmed by the trend of hearing about citizens who are waiting for Uber rides climbing into the wrong vehicles. I've seen them downtown. People jumping anything that they can get at any time, especially at 2 o'clock in the morning. This trend is dangerous, particularly for women, because it creates too good of an opportunity for predators to prey on citizens.
 This just happened a few weeks ago in Portland, someone getting in the wrong vehicle. In addition to a brand decal, a vehicle should also be required to display a decal issued by the city of Portland, which confirms that the vehicle and the driver meet all the requirements of 1640. These tiny stickers, you can get this on Amazon. I can put this on my vehicle and go to work for Uber tomorrow and cruise the streets, and I can almost guarantee you that Friday or Saturday night at 2 a.m., somebody will jump in my vehicle.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Does your company require fingerprinting now? Yes, because we've gone to the bigger contracts. When you have the Portland Public Schools and medical transportation contracts, they require that. I don't know if you guys recall when the SAT, specially attended transportation vehicles, came into service back in the late 1990s and early 2000s.
 that they didn't require the fingerprinting and they had a young lady who was mentally disabled and she was taken out to Lake Oswego and raped in the park
 and they came back and required that the medical transportation had to have fingerprinting. This is really an important issue because, you know, you're making a decision to protect the citizens of this city, and there are a lot of people that have too much easy access like this to get into vehicles, and they're not protected. Thank you. Thank you. I'll give this coffee to you. All right. Thanks a lot.
 We have eight more signed up. A couple have signed in since we started. Next three, Teal Abo, Mike McDermott, John Orr. They'll be followed by Ryan Hashagan, Kurt Foster, and Nona Carrasco. Good morning. Good morning. Go ahead. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you. Thank you for having me today. My name is T. Label. I'm with New York City Cab Company. We've been around for 44 years. We're the smallest cab company in the Portland area. Currently, we have a million-dollar automobile insurance, 24-hour dispatch, and cameras in our vehicles.
 excuse me uh prior to uh 2015 uh april 2015 there were approximately 500 vehicles in the taxi vehicles in the system for hire vehicles as you know um currently
 As I don't have exact figures, I had to do rough estimates. There are approximately 1,250 taxis, 5,000 Uber vehicles, excuse me, Uber, and then 1,500 Lyft. The Ubers were, that was the number that was last disclosed at the last city council meeting.
 That brings a total of 7,750 vehicles, essentially. According to your report, you're saying that 60% of those rides are being taken by Uber and Lyft. So that would be about 4,650 vehicles that are being used as Uber and Lyft vehicles that are taking...
 that are taking rides from the Portland area. Twenty percent of that goes out to California and other areas as far as the income from those. The 20 percent number essentially is the $46.50 that you're
 Is that 60%? And then 20% of that is approximately in 930 vehicles. So basically the revenue from about 930 vehicles or roughly twice the amount of the previous –
 I'm sorry, I was helping. The 20%—excuse me, 930 was double the amount of the 500 vehicles that we had before April. So you're using the revenue from those vehicles double the amount to go into California and other places. So all that revenue is not kept local. The other—
 The other issue is that essentially that you're stripping, not only stripping the regulations, but you're essentially using, before April we had consistency with the amount of fares that were used. So the public also knew exactly how much they were being charged, and they also knew –
 what responsibility the cab companies had for those passengers. Right now, with using period insurance, this changes the responsibility and it allows the Ubers and Lyfts of the world to point the finger at other people and other responsibilities. There was an incident with one...
 with a person that was traveling up via bike up Williams. They got sideswiped by an Uber car in period, I believe it was period one insurance. The article didn't quite specify. But the person subsequently tripped over, or excuse me, went and over the passenger or the driver's side door and fell.
 has lost three teeth. He is currently was told by Uber that he
 that they're not holding them responsible, that Uber's not holding any accountability. The insurance company, the private insurance company that the driver had given to the person who was injured is saying that it's not valid, and so he has to go out and sue Uber and Lyft, or excuse me, he has to go out and sue Uber for his damages. Right.
 That's a big problem. We've set unprecedented numbers of cabs, excuse me, of taxi TNCs in the marketplace, over 7,000, which is the highest number that's ever been in Portland. We've never had that, let alone in a nine-month period. Thank you very much. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you. Welcome.
 thank you mr mayor um my name is mike derman i'm here to discuss with you an important point about passenger safety we just gave the council clerk over there five uber decals to give to you guys um i caught bought those for about five dollars each and nobody checked to see if i was an authorized uber driver there was no background check nobody checked to see if i had insurance there wasn't any vehicle inspection and that's how easy it is to impersonate an uber driver
 This quick example highlights critical safety risk. Anyone can easily impersonate an Uber driver. It seems to me that the city has an important obligation to safeguard passengers. The only way this can be done is for the safety to issue vehicle decals that identify each vehicle by number and are issued only after the operator has passed a background check, shown proof of insurance coverage, passed a safety inspection, and shown a DEQ certificate of compliance.
 Okay, Uber will say that only people who are on the platform are registered Uber drivers and that Uber passengers need to take responsibility for assuring that the drivers are indeed with Uber. That's fine and dandy until it's at night, it's raining, and with the passenger who's had a couple of drinks...
 it's probably easy it's easy to imagine that the passenger jumping into the first vehicle with Nuber decal that shows up without double-checking the driver photo and license
 Commissioner Novick's proposal suggests merely putting decals like these in the front and back of the car with no permit ID numbers like cabs currently have. This is irresponsible public policy and will place Portland passengers at risk. I urge the City Council to amend the proposed Private for Hire Transportation Code to require City-issued vehicle decals, which include an identification number,
 ensuring that the vehicle meets all requirements under Chapter 1640. I don't think that's difficult to accomplish. Yet it seems like with the warm and cold debates we're talking about here, it seems like the City Council is willing to compromise on public safety. And I've heard it in the insurance. I've heard it in the trade dress issues. I've heard it in the background checking.
 The city council is willing to compromise public safety to, and from what I heard you say to Mr. Kifori is, do you want Uber to leave town? I mean, if that's really what you're afraid of, Mr. Mayor, then yes, let's have them leave town until they really take our passengers' safety, put that at the forefront. But it seems like they're unwilling to do it. They can afford to do it, Mr. Novick.
 Mr. Salzman, they can do it, but they don't do it. Thank you. All right. Please, go ahead. Okay. Hey, my name's John, radio cab driver. Got one of these, too. So, you know, the other day Uber and Lyft were imploring you to wait for Oregon data, and I think national data is actually more valuable because in a more mature Uber market, you have, you know, the drivers on the road are used to looking for suction cup rings in the front windshield when somebody hits them after driving carelessly because...
 You know, you hide this. That's what happens. And that shifts not only cost, but that helps their stats because their model requires that the driver in period one gets a rejection from their primary insurance. And then they'll cover it up to some tiny minuscule amount. So the way you are setting this up mandates that the drivers are either claim liability themselves, commit insurance fraud, or get the claim denied by Uber. So that's what's in your regulations here.
 This is a letter to Uber from the city auditor requesting Mark Wiener's lobbying contract. He was emailed a list of the city's task force as it was formed, and I think until this issue is cleared up,
 Uber said that they are going to respond by, I think, the December 6 deadline. Or was it December 4? Sometime early December to get the contract back to the city auditor. But until this is cleared up, the integrity of the whole process is called into question. I think we should wait to finalize anything until this issue is behind us and the city auditor has had a couple of weeks after receiving that info from Uber. Now on to something I prepared. Now, one sort of quote that I really liked, from you, Mr. Hales.
 Measure twice, cut once. I like that. Yeah, you have. We've taken a lot of time on this. Measured about four times in this case, but keep going. You know, well, I'll come back to that. So I mentioned the city auditor. All right. Still waiting to hear back from Uber, which is kind of an ongoing theme here of Uber eventually getting back with data that cities or Portland have the auditor requests. Yeah.
 I'm curious why Mr. Wiener and Uber lobbyists received a copy of the names on our task force from the city. You know, to me that calls into question the integrity of the entire process. So back to your analogy, Mr. Hales, it appears our measure isn't merely out of calibration, but it's been tampered with. So for the integrity of the process, we need to wait for that investigation. Okay. So trade duress and cameras. These have been working to keep cab passengers safe for decades.
 Why change that? You know, because, again, Uber's responsible. We don't want to. Okay, full commercial coverage. Why change that? It's not we can't afford it. It's we don't want to. I would be curious. Maybe you can ask an Uber representative for the number. Give me just a moment. Because they're coming in here, and they're eating our lunch, and it's because they raise a ton of venture capital.
 They operate at losses. Both companies last fiscal year operated a huge loss. And it's because, one, their lobbying expense, two, because they give out a ton of free rides. Okay? They could easily – I bet if you compare that number of dollars given to their drivers in free rides that were given to their passengers but they paid it to their drivers, compare that number to what it would cost to get full trade dress visible from all sides so you don't have people hopping into a car with some predator to get front and back facing cameras.
 to prevent tragedies before they happen instead of having a rating system that responds after they happen, and full commercial insurance so that when a tragedy does happen, like the pedestrian couple that got hit by a Northwest Cooch by an Uber driver, the company responded saying he wasn't on the platform at the time. Maybe he was picking up street hails because you have to be naive to think that's not happening. So how much would all that cost compared to how many free rides they're giving away?
 They could compete on a level playing field without asking you to reduce their expenses relative to us and using that money to give out rides at, after all the freebies, probably a much lower cost than we do because we can't afford to give out $10, $20 off. We need to cut you off. You've got extra time. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, let's take the next folks, please. All right, next three, please. Ryan Hashigan, Kirk Foster, Nona Carrasco. You were mentioned by the city auditor too, Mr. Hales. It will be followed by Jeanette Tiberius, Dan DeGrange, and Dick Waringhoff. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Ryan Hashigan, and I run Portland Pedicabs.
 I'm very surprised to be here today as I and our industry were told repeatedly by city staff there was no reason to attend innovation task force meetings as it would not apply to our industry and
 Yet two days before the first hearing of this code, our industry received a new code that not only included us, but completely overhauled the rules around our industry with no input from anyone in our industry. The final report of the Innovation Task Force said in highlighted text, quote, non-vehicular forms of PFHT, such as pedicabs and horse-drawn carriages, are not addressed in these recommendations. PBOT staff indicates that it will be reviewing the program for non-vehicular LPT at a future time.
 So I'm surprised to be here. We've been told in the last week that these changes to our industry are just small edits or formatting, but they overhaul our training, driver certification, and our operations. All of these issues are ones that the TNCs and taxis spent two years discussing for their industries. This is deja vu to the private-for-hire overhaul of 2009, where pedicabs were thrown in as an afterthought, with boilerplate language requiring automobile insurance and driver's licenses.
 We actually have insurance in excess of the proposed TNC phase one insurance. We have a million dollars. But we can't buy auto insurance anymore.
 Commissioner Saltzman and Council in 2009 saved the day with a thoughtful amendment that created a task force for pedicabs that was supposed to report back to Council in 60 to 90 days with a separate code written for pedicabs and non-motorized providers. It took four years of us working within the system to make this a priority for revenue and PFH staff.
 After four years, we got a unanimous vote from our task force and also a unanimous vote from the Private for Hire Board of Review, which is pretty remarkable, supporting a new code, Section 1641, non-motorized transport, that was written by the city attorney and that was specific to our industry. We were waiting for a council date for this code rewrite when Uber showed up, started making threats and hiring lobbyists, and our industry got pushed aside.
 As the city overhauls TNC and taxi codes, we were told not to attend the task force meetings as they did not apply to us, and then were thrown in at the last minute. Amendments were made today to the most glaring and embarrassing oversights, like requiring us again to have auto insurance and driver's licenses.
 This new code is not the same as the previous code. It is not just minor edits. It completely changes how we conduct business. Bans on things like dynamic pricing reminds us of being previously thrown into boilerplate taxi language. Just this time, it's boilerplate Uber code.
 I urge you to stick to the original plan and not include pedicabs in this overhaul, as we had no involvement in this process that dramatically affects our industry. We were told this was about TNCs and taxis, and the task force did not apply to us in the first place. The TNCs and taxis got a two-year process debating these issues, whereas pedicabs got two days. Please use the original plan of separating non-motorized transport from the code into 1641 and allow our industry to provide input on these new rules that affect our livelihood.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Do we need a motion to strip them out? Well, let's get staff back up and find out what's in the package. Go ahead. I think Dan and I were prepared to bring such a motion. I understand, but let's find out what's there. Thank you. Go ahead. Yeah, my name's Kirk Foster. I'm the Wapato Shores Transport and also still the SAT rep on the private friar board as long as it still exists. Thank you.
 Two points I wanted to bring up related to taxi and TNCs. One, the fingerprint that Patricia brought up. There's no reason not to do fingerprints. It's easy. It's cheap. There's a new organization called Fieldprint that is putting their terminals in, you know, convenience in places like UPS stores all over the place. It's easy. There's no reason not to do it.
 The molestation case that you referred to in the late 90s taught TriMet and all other regulatory bodies that work in this everywhere in the state. Fingerprints are necessary. The city of Portland is the only government agency that we work with anywhere in the state of Oregon that does not require fingerprints. And that's something everyone should kind of think about. The city of Portland is way behind the times on the fingerprint issue.
 Insurance also, the new insurance language references making the TNCs primary. We do have a contract with Lyft to supplement their wave service in which we provide insurance, and so we're providing Lyft with $1.5 million coverage in all periods for whenever they're using us as supplemental. So the code would prevent that and actually reduce the service, the level of insurance, by making them primary. So that's something that should be addressed as well. Those are the points I intended to make. I, like Mr. Asher, again, am in the same boat
 Surprised to be here on this topic because our industry, the NEMT and SAT industry, was told the same thing throughout this entire process, that we didn't need to participate because our industry would be addressed after the fact as well.
 Nothing in the wave industry or NMT, which is completely different than taxis and TNCs, has ever been discussed in any depth at any of the meetings. And our code was completely rewritten as far as our requirements as well. And there are a lot of things that are specific to our industry. For example, this new code rewrite that appears to have just been a copy and paste job from the TNC regulations requires all of our employees to have a business license to work for us.
 It requires all of our employees to own a personal car so that they can have personal auto insurance in order to work as employees. We have $1.5 or $2 million coverage, depending on our region in the state, and yet my employees are supposed to go buy a car. Most of my employees don't own cars, and so they would have to basically – I'd have to let them all go unless they go buy a car and get personal insurance under this code. It just doesn't make any sense. Why would any of my employees need a business license under this code?
 The reason I bring this up is these things are easy to change, but this brings it up because there's been a complete and utter lack of process in the other industries. And so I think there should be an amendment to remove those and revisit those later as well, because no other industry other than taxi and TNCs has been allowed any participation or comment on any of this. And those basic things are just things I'd like to point out. Thank you.
 Another interesting issue, I have not been able to find a single member of the city staff, the PHVFs, that says they were allowed to read or vet this prior to being submitted to council.
 Nobody in the city staff saw this first. There are tons of mistakes like I've just referenced. There are clear errors that were made in this that would have been picked up by anybody with experience in the industry or by city staff had they had an opportunity to review it. But again, I have found no member of city staff that was able to review this prior to it being submitted to council. And so the whole thing really needs to be taken a look at and at least allow the city staff to review it before you vote on it, which hasn't really been done at this point yet.
 And another thing that I wanted to point out that wasn't put in is you're talking about lack of coverage for wave transport being a huge part of this, even though the wave industry has been basically excluded for most of the discussions because that's us, the NEMT part that we're told to wait. Could you just tell me the acronyms? I'm getting lost because I don't know what – I know what the WAV is, the wheelchair access vehicle, but what is the –
 NEMT is the national reference for non-emergency medical transportation that looks to be adopted by the new city code. SAT is Portland's acronym for specially attended transportation, which is essentially the same thing functionally.
 And that's the one that when you're providing it, you have the primary insurance rather than the TNC, is that correct? Yes, that's the contract we have. We provide primary insurance during all phases while we're providing that wave service for them. But that's kind of a separate side point. We'll get staff back up at the end of this hearing and get information about what...
 is being done or not done in this code proposal. It should be brought up. There's another issue. There's other cabs and SATs and other parties to the transportation system other than the two we've been hearing from at great length on this controversy, which are cabs and TNCs. So we might need you to come back, but let me get them up here. There's one other point for the wave coverage that needs to be addressed.
 I believe it was in 2012 there was a motion made to reduce the vehicle age for wave vehicles to 10 years.
 There was a great outcry that there's a lot of companies with that would simply not be able to replace their fleet fast enough to go into that. So the city made an agreement with all wave providers, taxi companies, everybody, that if you had a vehicle that prior to 2000 that was permitted with the city prior to 2012 and continuously permitted, that vehicle could be used to a reached an age of 15 years. And the code rewrite eliminates that agreement the city made with the entire wave community. And again, had this been reviewed by people familiar with this, that would have been caught, but it wasn't caught.
 So you've got lots of companies out there that have an agreement with the city that they can use any vehicle until it reaches 15 years, as long as it was permitted prior to the change in 2012, I believe it was.
 And yet that has been completely eliminated. So you have an entire significant portion of the fleet, which I've been trying to get numbers, but nobody seems to have the exact numbers. But I would say estimated in the neighborhood of 30 percent of the fleet that will have to be decommissioned immediately when this code takes effect because they're more than 10 years old. And all the providers have that assurance from the city. They can use them until 15 years. And that, of course, was missed, too. And they're –
 This new code is rife with examples like that of things that were completely missed because staff and the provider community was not allowed to even look at this before it was sent to the commission. Okay. Thank you. Yes, please. Nona Carrasco, Radio Cab. You know me by now. So I wanted to talk about the 50 cents per ride idea.
 It is my understanding that this is to further the enforcement and accountability of the TNCs, and I am all for accountability, and I am all for further enforcement. However, this is not exactly the way to go about this. This 50 cents a ride would either fall on me, a cab driver, who my income has already gone down as it is. Last week I worked six nights.
 I worked Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. I took Friday off because I needed a day off, and then I worked Saturday, Sunday. I took last night off so I can be here today, and I will be working the rest of this week. Last week, I still made about half as much as I did last year when I only worked four nights a week.
 So that would either fall on me, that $0.50 a ride, or it would fall on the shareholders, which would triple the amount of permitting fees that they are already paying for the city plate on the back of each cab. Or it would fall on, as Novick said, our consumers, our riders.
 Every person I get in my cab, nine out of ten times, those are loyal cab customers. They would never take TNCs. And I've actually talked with them about this lately. And they said, why would I want to pay 50 cents, even 50 cents, towards the further enforcement of TNCs? I would never take an Uber or Lyft. So, like I said, I'm all for accountability. When I became a cab driver, I went in.
 to Radio Cab and I got interviewed by Charlie and Noah, two of the superintendents. After that, I went in person down to the city and I paid the fee to have my background check done by the city in person. So I was able to actually prove I was who I was. And I'm also all for the fingerprinting.
 I also, once that came back clear, which it came back pretty fast for me because I was already in the system as a social worker and I had worked with very vulnerable, or I had worked with vulnerable, developmentally disabled adults for 16 years. I was already in the system getting those background checks every year.
 I also, so that fee was a non-refundable fee. I also paid for the permit once I passed the test in person. I met the five-year requirement to drive Radio Cab.
 During, I also got training, and during training I was assessed for my knowledge of the city and my appropriateness with my passengers. I now train and assess other drivers. I pick up my cab at Radio Cab, so the superintendents and other staff, they see me when I come in. They see that I'm okay to drive, you know. I also am supervised throughout my 12-hour shift. I have...
 dispatch looking over at me at all times. My cab is clearly marked with the phone number on the cab as well as the cab number. And how do you enforce rules on 24-7 on regular cars with one decal that you can see in the front? I have one of these, too. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have a question because you and I had some correspondence about the defensive driving class. Are you, as a radio cab driver, required to take defensive driving class? Absolutely. How often? How often?
 Every two years. And if an incident occurs or if anything happens, I can be required to take one immediately. And are there other things that happen periodically other than just the first certification that you went through? Are there other requirements to continue being a radio cab driver that you have to, like defensive driving is every two years. Are there other things that you have to keep doing? No.
 Oh, well, I also have to go in and get recertified every year. Oh, every year you have to get recertified. Yeah, I have to go in and renew my permit, which I actually was going to renew my permit. My permit also has my picture on it, and that's displayed in my cab. I do have some recommendations, but...
 Okay. But why don't you – no, we're not going to – this is not a work session. So let me thank you because we're going to get staff back up here. We've got lots of questions from the testimony that's come in. I want to make sure we have a chance to do that. I know that the cab drivers have put a lot of time in that. If you could just give us your top two recommendations, please. Okay.
 Okay, I think that all TNCs should have lived here for at least five years. I would like to know, I would like... The people driving or the company? The people driving TNCs. That's not constitutional. We can't do that. So what's your next... That's a requirement for me to drive Radio Cab. I don't believe it's the city's requirement, but keep going.
 I would actually like to know how long the person that hit those two pedestrians last week, I would like to know how long he had lived here. I'm almost willing to bet he just moved up here within the last six months. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's take more testimony, please. And we have our final three, Jeanette Tiber, Dan DeGrange, and Dick Orninghoff.
 Good morning. Good morning. Go ahead. Hi, I'm Dan DeGrange. I'm with Propel Insurance. And I've been providing insurance delivery industry in the western United States for the past decade. And I want to share with you some important loss data from my insureds in Portland and other cities throughout the west. In Portland, my insureds' claims data reveals that most of their claims occur before period two and three.
 But before getting into the specific details of the claims data, I think it is important to share with you some statistics about how many accidents livery companies have annually in Portland and other cities. The cities that I currently have insureds in is Portland, Seattle, San Francisco, Phoenix, and Los Angeles. The lowest accident occurrence rate for the livery industry is a half of –
 an accident per car per year. So if you had 200 cars, the best run company would have 100 accidents. The highest accident occurrence for the livery industry that I've seen is almost two accidents per car per year. The high accident occurrence rate almost always occurs in those cities with high driver turnover and inexperienced drivers.
 The low accident occurrence rate occurs with those cab companies or livery companies that have experienced drivers, and those companies spend a great deal of time and money training their drivers to be safe. So let's get into the actual claims data in the city of Portland.
 Steve Entler, the GM at Radio Cab, pulled all of his claim files from the past four years. And in that four years, they had a total of 753 accidents. 221 of those accidents occurred in, if we're using TNC language, period two and three. The other 531 happened.
 had no passengers in the vehicles and would have occurred in period one so approximately 70 percent of the accidents occurred with no passengers in the cabs or in the words to borrow from the language of uber the driver had his app on and and was seeking the next call
 Mr. Antler was nice enough to also go back another four years, and during that period of time, he just looked at individual accidents that incurred losses of excess of $50,000. There were a total of 17 accidents that incurred over $50,000 during that time span, or roughly for a year. Keep in mind, he only had 200 vehicles on the road at that time. Okay?
 not thousands like the TNCs. Of those 17 accidents, the largest incurred losses did not occur in period two and three, but instead they occurred in period one. The largest one was roughly $1.2 million, no passengers in the cab, period one. The second largest incurred was almost $1 million, no passengers in the cab, period one.
 The third largest was 264,000, no passengers in the cab, period one. My other clients, Broadway, Green, Union, Portland, Rose, also reviewed hundreds of claims over the last three years
 And the average percentage of claims that occurred for these other companies was roughly 58% of the accidents occurred in period one. Thank you very much. If you could make a copy of that available to us, then that would be helpful for us to consider. But we need to hear from other folks and move on. Okay. I just want to finish. This data has been collected over a period of several years and hundreds of accident files, which leads to credible actuarial data.
 I believe that this is why the liability limit that Uber has with their insurance policy has the lowest limit during the time where there are the most accidents. They have this low limit to minimize their costs for insurance because insurance companies understand this. They understand that most of the accidents occur during that period. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Go ahead.
 Hello, my name is Dirk Warninghoff. I'm a 38-year-old Portland native. I've worked as an owner-operator at RadioCat for almost five years. Personally, I'm being punished by your non-regulated experimental double-trail period by about 35% less income. However, I'd like to address the suggestions of your new rules as quickly as I can.
 All the companies should have the same minimum million dollar policy as a public safety issue. The whole period one quickly removed my little six by six card before someone sees it as my personal insurance company would drop me is a bunch of baloney. I personally called 15 or more major insurance companies in Oregon and not one of them will insure you if you tell them you're driving for a TNC vehicle. So almost all of these people driving around are prepared to be committing insurance fraud because if they hit the if they call I was in an accident.
 and I hit somebody, a pedestrian, and I told my insurance company they would drop me, so now the pedestrian is stuck suing a driver that has no insurance at all and has no job to pay for it. Why are you willing to put the public at risk?
 If they are not allowed to not have a $24 million coverage and the taxicabs, I am, then that's collusion. You're not allowed to give them a competitive advantage that I don't have, and you're opening yourself up for possible litigation. It seems funny that you're...
 Really breaking, giving new rules for people who are brand new to compared to people that have been here a long time following the rules. But as for paying the city's 50 cents a ride instead of the $600 per plate flea, I don't know what you're thinking. I mean, let's say I do 15 rides a day, five days a week. That's my 12-hour shift and my partner does the other 15 rides a day, five days a week. That's $3,600 a year we'd be giving you. Why is that six times the amount I was giving you before? I was only giving you $600. That doesn't make sense.
 And finally, basically, yeah, I'd just like them to be labeled as much as possible. That'd be really nice. Maddening us on all sides of the vehicle. It's really weird that they even wanted to argue with you guys about the fact that they have one in the back because just like they want to argue with you that they don't want fire extinguishers because they're not about that. They're about the bottom line, which is lowest denominator, least profits, and –
 Either way, it would be really nice if they were labeled on all sides of the vehicle for a public safety issue. Thank you for your time. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning. Jeanette Thiebert. Thank you. Commissioner Novick, I have one question for you. Why? You're college educated. You're a leader. Why do you continually insist on devaluing your own life? And now you're putting it in the record. Okay? Okay.
 You step off a curb twice a day every day you come to work. At that point, you're a pedestrian. A year ago, your life, according to this, was valued at a half million dollars. Now we in the four higher transportation agreed to value you at a million dollars. And that's what we insured in case for some reason somebody couldn't see you for whatever happened.
 Okay, we value you more than you're valuing yourself. As a leader, I'm asking you to reconsider your actions. Commissioner Salzman, Mayor Hales, he's thrown you under the same moving wheel. He's valued your lives at that as well. Every visitor to this city, every person who lives here, every person who serves here is worth a million dollars when they step across our streets. Thank you.
 and it is a simple task to ask that vehicles be identifiable because an 80-year-old who's not tech-savvy and doesn't have a smartphone doesn't understand the difference between a black-and-white U on the front of a vehicle compared to a red-and-white U in this city means this building is unsafe to enter. What's the difference? It doesn't... So I can get a magnet...
 that shows 12 by 18 inches, it's magnet, and it says the full word, Uber. Not just a U, it says Uber. And those should be required on the outside of a vehicle for the safety of pedestrians as well. So I have a question, which is, do you think that, I mean, all of us should be required, no matter whether we're commercial or non-commercial drivers, to carry a million dollars' worth of insurance?
 I think at least a half million, all of us. So – Can I answer that question? Actually, no. I was addressing the question to you because I think that –
 Most crashes happen with non-commercial vehicles. So I appreciate you giving an answer that Commissioner Prince has suggested that the legislature should raise the overall limit for everybody, and it sounds like you agree with that. I have no problems if you want to make it a million. And if I were driving my personal vehicle, here's the irony of this. I own two taxi cabs, and when you submitted this,
 Up until recently, I didn't own another vehicle. So how many different ways do you want to put my wave vehicle out of business? Put me out of business. Because the way this is written, had my partner not renewed their car and thrown me in on the title at the last minute, a year ago, I wouldn't have owned a personal vehicle to have insured myself.
 By the way, Commissioner Novick, since I'm in a public life, I choose to have much higher limits. But let's be clear, on the private side, whatever limits I have would cover, the insurance would cover up to those limits if there was applicable coverage, and someone could go after me personally because I'm behind the wheel. One of the things we're trying to avoid here is something which I have some prior experience with in my life before counsel,
 is the living people make doing this on insurance coverage in the commercial side so that people spend a good portion of their life trying to establish liability and damages. But the reason individually I have higher limits
 is because I'm insuring me and my family against the risk that we will be sued. Insurance will cover up to the limits, but I'm potentially on the hook, which means our savings, our house, and everything else. And it is different on the commercial side because we can regulate consumer protection on the personal side. If you choose to be irresponsible and keep very low limits,
 and put your own resources at risk as a private individual, that's your choice. But once you're in commerce, I think we hold you to a higher standard. Thank you all very much. Okay, is that all the testimony? So I'd like to call up for questions. Leah Treat, Brian Hockaday, Kate Wood from Risk. Ken, again, I think, should come back up. So pull up another chair as needed. I know we have a lot of questions. Yes.
 Rick? Do you want to take a break? Yeah, let's take a three-minute mercy break for the council and then come back. So you can get organized while we're doing that. I don't want to miss these answers. We've gone from compassion to mercy. Okay. I think Commissioner Fritz will be rejoining us momentarily. So I know there are a bunch of questions, but I guess I'd like to try to –
 get back to some context here, which I tried to do earlier. So refresh my memory. Again, we've been, I think we've had either four or five major city council hearings on this subject over the course of the last year. I think there's a prospect that this hearing could be endless, given the
 constant arrival of new technical issues as we've witnessed here today. It's my very fervent belief that it should not be endless and we should make some decisions and then move on to perhaps addressing some of those issues, but I'll get back to that. But recontextualize this for me. At this point in the United States, how much of the United States is regulating TNCs and how much is not? Right.
 So the regulations are mostly occurring in large and medium urban cities. And it's a fraction of the country, right? Most of the country TNCs are operating without any regulation whatsoever, right? And so I assume there is insurance cases and litigation and that kind of stuff going on in those places, right? So we'll get back to that. Then secondly, of the cities that are regulating –
 If there's a scale of not much to a lot, where does Portland's current standards as proposed fall on that scale?
 I think that Portland has some of the most thoughtful regulations that have been developed and large credit to the task force and because of all the public input that we have received. We're certainly doing some things that are very similar in other cities, but there are some differences in our regulations. For one, we made it very clear to the TNCs that they shall provide service to people with wheelchairs, where most cities have not been able to get that commitment from the TNCs.
 and are other cities stricter than our proposed regulations on issues like levels of insurance fingerprinting trade dress and cameras
 So the insurance issue, as has been discussed, is a national issue for the TNCs. And it was a very, very contentious issue for the past couple of years. The TNCs were at heated odds against the insurers. They finally did come to an agreement with the current levels that are included in these proposed regulations. How about the other issues?
 For some of the other issues, I think that Portland is consistent in our standards for background checks and our standards for vehicle inspections. There is a lot of innovation happening in this industry, a lot of groundbreaking work, but there are some things that we know work and work well. I would add that one of the things that Portland is probably at the high mark on is the requirement of citywide service.
 As well as what Brian said. Okay. Excuse me. My next set of questions are first for Kate. This James River issue and the port, can you pick that apart for us and explain? No, I'm really sorry. I just got called over here, and so I have not been following this. I can do it. So the –
 The code has, for years, had a requirement that the insurance carriers be rated by the AM Best Company, which is an insurance rating agency that rates the level of insurance companies. At some point, and I think Ms. Kellington is accurate, the city, somebody in the city, approved EcoCab's insurer that was,
 rated less than the A-minus standard by AMBEST. I don't recall what it was, B, I believe, because that particular PBOT staffer had determined that a different rating agency had given them an A rating and that was sufficient, but neither risk management nor the city attorney's office had been consulted to
 The port has the same requirement, an AM-BEST rating of A-minus with a financial size of 8 or greater for the insurers. And when ECOCAB went to apply for port permits, the port said, hold on a second, you don't meet the AM-BEST rating, and they began discussions with us.
 We looked at it and we consulted with risk management and Kate's shop and decided that, yes, the AM Best rating was better than the AM Best rating.
 the standard that the city of Portland wanted to have and because the company didn't meet that They needed to find a new insurer now We gave them a grace period and we gave all the companies a grace period that had insurance that didn't meet the a.m. Best a minus eight or greater Standard to come into compliance and I'm trying to recall but I believe it was something like the
 the next time your insurance comes up for renewal, we need you to come into compliance with this. So that was the kind of...
 workaround we provided. In the code, the new proposed code, we still use the AMBEST company A-minus rating. We've taken out the financial size component of the insurers. And I'm not here to quibble with whether Demo Tech is a better rating agency or AMBEST is a better rating agency. I rely on the advice of the risk management
 who say that AMBEST is the industry standard, and that's what is generally used to rate insurance agencies. Now, that could change as new things come into market, but as it stands today, that's what the city of Portland looks at, and that's what a number of other jurisdictions look at as well for determining the viability of the insurers.
 Now, the second piece to what Ms. Killington – Do we take a look at all about – the issue was raised about some insurance companies are registered with the state while others aren't. Yeah. Is that – Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. That's the second piece of what Ms. Killington raised, which is the admitted versus the non-admitted insurers or the surplus lines carrier. The new proposed code and the current interim administrative rules that the TNCs are operating under allow for a surplus lines carrier.
 insurer. And generally speaking, that is a non-admitted insurer that operates in a number of states. And the insurance people behind me can probably fill in the gaps. But essentially,
 They do not pay into the state guarantee fund. They do not have a product that's approved by the state insurance division, but they are approved as a surplus lines carrier for the state that they're operating in. And they have an insurance product that's approved in the state in which they're licensed, which I believe for James River is one of the Carolinas, north or south, I can't remember. Okay.
 So it is true that if James River were to fail for some reason, there would not be the state insurance guarantee fund to draw from. But, and I think Kate can address this, I don't think that the state guarantee fund is a huge amount of reserves there, and that would have to cover all the claims in the state, not just TNC or taxi claims.
 So those are the two issues, and I think addressed everything that Ms. Killington raised outside in the insurance context, not with regards to the colors and things like that.
 So back to the colors issue, that's my other more global couple of questions really for you, Leah. And that is, it was news to me today that at least some people believe that the proposed regulations affect pedicabs. It was also news to me that at least some people believe that the proposed regulations affect SAT or special access transportation vehicles. Okay.
 I raised the question earlier of what's the level of detail that the city council should engage in
 versus you as the administrator of this bureau and some advisory board we deal with those issues all the time of where's that dividing point in the discussion about the color scheme on the card and he might have dived below my threshold of what I think the City Council ought to be engaged in though I appreciate the fact that mr. fish solved the problem
 to use it again to go to some other areas. The city council adopts design review goals and objectives. It says we want these goals and objectives, and we want them applied to this part of the city. But we don't generally get involved into picking the color of people's window mullions. But, Mayor, what we often do is play the role of referee. Yeah, I get that. I think that's why the threshold question should be,
 were they involved, the pedicab industry involved in these regulations? Oh, fair enough. Because frankly for me, then I'm not interested in getting to the question of whether this is an improvement or not in the system.
 That's enough of a red flag that I think we should strip it out, have a conversation, and bring it back. Yeah. Because we're not the right body. Right. Fair enough. But I'm raising the question of how this is going to work in practice. Because it might not be that we've heard every detailed issue. We heard some new ones today.
 But we might not have heard every detailed issue about how this is going to get worked out at practice. Where is the boundary in this whole scheme between policy that's going to be set by the council and issues that are going to be worked out by your authority as bureau director with or without an advisory body? I've lost track of that boundary just this morning.
 So if I can, a couple of comments. First, I'll start with the pedicabs. It's my understanding that the code that is before you today for approval is the same code that was in existence prior to the pilot being started with one exception, that there is a requirement for pedicab drivers to have a driver's license. That is the only change that I am aware of.
 That's a proposed new requirement in code. No, we need to clarify. So the PEDICAB regulations and the non-emergency medical –
 transportation regulations are in wholesale the same as the status quo. And it was primarily done because we had not intensively engaged with those stakeholders. However, throughout the entire For Hire program, there are some changes that we're making, notably that the city is deregulating fares and we are not restricting the number of permits.
 and we are proposing that the drivers apply to the companies that they work for, as opposed to applying to the city, which is the status quo.
 And we did that in large part. MR. I was trying to say, we need to say apply to them, if you can elaborate on what that means. MR. Sure. So when a driver wants to work for any given taxi, TNC, or pedicab company, their first action is to approach that company, submit an application, the company reviews it, make sure that the driver meets all of the city's requirements. The company is then responsible with contacting the city, presenting all the information to demonstrate that the vehicles and the drivers do meet all of the city requirements.
 we are able to pretty efficiently review and approve those applications to get those drivers and vehicles out there on the road. The current system is pretty administratively intensive and prevents us from doing the type of field enforcement that we want to. We could spend all day. Turn your mic on, Nick. Charlie raised the point about what's the right venue to have what discussion. I have to say, I don't think we are the right venue to discuss this.
 whether the Petticab concerns are well-founded in the code or not. I think having a follow-up meeting to find out whether there are provisions in this code that impact them and what their views are is important, particularly in light of the fact that we have a representation on the record that they were told that there was no reason to become engaged in this process because it wasn't going to have an impact on their industry.
 Whether that conversation happened or not is irrelevant because we haven't adopted this code, so we still have an opportunity to sit down and say what proposed changes impact your industry and are there unintended consequences? And whatever the fruits of that conversation, you can report back to the Council and we have an option. We can strip pedicabs out altogether or we can address any inconsistencies.
 But for me, I'd also like to know what did happen to the new proposed code in, I think it was 1641. What happened to that omnibus set of rewrite? Where is that in this? Is it in your proposal or is it off to the side? Okay.
 Not necessarily sure I understand that question fully, but it is Exhibit A within the ordinance itself? Is that what you're asking for? Well, we were told that since 2009 there's been a lot of work in updating the non-motorist transportation chapter of our code. And we were also told that at least by one person who testified that that package has not been accepted yet by the council. What's the status of that?
 Correct. So the task force, the innovation task force, was primarily focused on taxis and TNCs. And I do want to make it very clear that we encourage participation at those meetings, input both spoken and written from any and everybody. However, we did make it very clear to the different stakeholders what the focus of each meeting was. And throughout the entire task force's process, it was all focused on taxis and TNCs.
 Now, the 2009 recommendations pertaining to pedicabs, we have not gotten to those yet, again, because we have been focused on taxis and TNCs. Not gotten those means that not a word has changed, right? I think it has, Mayor, because 1640 is the pedicab, and it says in number 9 of 1647.75 about what you have to have in order to be a pedicab driver. Number 9 says you have to have a year's continuous driving experience.
 And I was here with Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Salzman when we adopted the pedicab rules and there was a huge discussion about whether you had to actually be a licensed driver and the answer was no. So I don't think that is in the current code. So the current code, Chapter 1640, the proposed new code, has a significant rewrite and restructuring. The current code is very challenging and difficult to read, in large part because the
 The requirements for the different types of companies and the drivers are kind of interspersed throughout the entire code. We wanted to reorganize the code by the type of company. So it was very clear to the companies and to the drivers what those requirements are. So there is renumbering of the code, certainly, but the actual requirements are the same. Now, there were a couple of unintentional edits that did make it into this exhibit, which we wanted to correct with
 this amendment here. And those do address a couple of missed references to a couple of requirements. One of those was the driver's license. The current PEDICAB requirement is that drivers have to have either a driver's license or a government-issued ID. And that is referenced three times in the code. There were two occasions where we unintentionally left off the government-issued ID, but we put that back in there.
 Because we do not want, we did not intend to have any changes for the other types of companies. So you don't have a change, though, to 1640.775, number 9. And that requires that there be a year of continuous driving experience. It's on page 126. Yeah, so could you give us that reference one more time? It's page 126, and it's 1640.775, number 9. Can you see that again? Yeah. It's the...
 She's referencing the standard kind of criminal background check requirements. Yeah, so that would pertain to a driver who presented a driver's license at the time of application. But no, it says that they will not be certified as a pedicab driver if any of the following conditions exist, so that if they can't prove that they've had a driver's license for a year, they would not be a certified pedicab driver. That would be correct if they, yes, that would be correct. But that's not what we passed for pedicabs.
 oh this this that would be a new point to me yeah but this illustrates for me look if if this if we were in salem not portland at this point the committee chair would say i direct an industry representative and committee staff to hold a meeting to go through any go through the language review any changes in the language that impact that industry
 See if there's concurrence, and if there are things that cannot be agreed to, that comes back to council. I'm very inclined to do just that. Again, I thought that's my question of Leah is, isn't that what the board's supposed to do? I'll just speak for myself. I don't think that council should adopt legislation that has unintended consequences that can be corrected or that has changes in the law that have not been discussed properly.
 adequately with an impacted part of the marketplace. And while we've had lots of hearings, as you point out, about the main event here, we're now hearing some things that haven't been the subject. And we can flag them. We can spend an hour flagging all the inconsistencies, but we could also require staff to sit down with the industry, go through this, and report back to us if there's any concerns. I have a question of timing. I mean – We're going to answer my question first. Okay.
 Thank you. Sure. We have had some preliminary conversations with the pedicab industry. I do believe several more are warranted. They have some issues that I don't believe we've resolved to their satisfaction. So if the will of the council is to direct us to go back and work with them and bring back forward changes, we would be in agreement with that. And we also started to take over new companies. What was the other? Medical emergency medical. Oh, medical. Yeah. So we have already started that work because we do want to move forward.
 So can we do that and still move this ordinance to second reading? No, no, sorry. Let me clarify. So because the task force had not engaged with the other stakeholders,
 We've already known that there are other changes to the other types of companies that they want to see made. We have not had those stakeholder meetings publicly. We had preliminary conversations with a couple of the company owners to get a sense of where they would like to see the new code go. So, again, we wanted to preserve the status quo in large part for the other companies beyond taxis, T&Cs, and town cars, and
 and begin the work with the stakeholders and with the public to update the code throughout the entire, in its entirety. Okay. My question is, can we move to second reading on the broader ordinance next week and still be talking to the pedicabs, or do we need to add an amendment saying, notwithstanding anything else in here, what we're passing today has nothing to do with pedicabs?
 And then have those discussions later on. You'd have to move to remove that section and the NEMT section from what would be passed today. Because I wanted to go back to the city attorney and get an answer to my question. Does the council have the authority to delegate to the director to waive sections of code? Push your button. I can't hear you. I didn't find that.
 Mayor Hale, Commissioner Fritz, in answer to your question about whether you can delegate authority that's in the code, you can't amend the code and just delegate authority if it's not already delegated in the code.
 I was hearing something about rules and codes, and that's why I was trying to determine whether you were talking about amending rules or amending code. But amending code would take another act of counsel. No, we cannot delegate that. So you can't just delegate authority without something in the code already authorizing that, without an amendment.
 Yes, we either have to take all sections out of the ordinance, say, deal with this by administrative rule, give the director authority to do that. It's tough to amend the code. I mean, there wouldn't be anything in the code on pedicabs at that point. Right, that's what I'm saying. That is an option. I'm not necessarily recommending it. But, in other words, to get to the environment in which the director –
 and her staff works through these technical issues and resolves them outside of council, we'd have to do that. So, Mayor, there actually is a very simple way we could do that, which is we could say that with respect to any provision of the code which is different from status quo that applies to pedicabs, they shall not be implemented until the earlier of December.
 the director reporting back with a set of amendments or 90 days, and that becomes the transition period. So we're just maintaining the status quo for that 90-day period, no changes, because you've said that the intent was to maintain the status quo, and then they report back either a change to the code, applicable, tailored to the industry, or not.
 But that way we're assured of the status quo, and we simply specifically direct that there be no change in the status quo until the director either comes back or a certain period of time elapses. Mr. McGuire, what do you think of that idea? I think that works. I mean, I know...
 Ms. Brown is looking at it. But I think that works. I would only say 90 days may not be enough given. Yeah, yeah. I wouldn't have a if you let the clock run out, then the new code goes into place. Could I add? I think it would be until the director comes back. But we could say that there shall be no change in the status quo.
 for six months or earlier if the Director comes back with some kind of representation. Because if she comes back and says all is well with the world, then I don't want to hold it up. If she comes back and says there are issues to be worked out, then I want the moratorium in place until that code comes to Council. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Why have any kind of date? Why not just say until the Director comes back?
 I want to make sure this is only applying to Petticabs, NEMTs, and SATs. Unless you tell us it should be broader. I think you can direct that the sections that apply to those particular industries have the moratorium, and we'll figure out the code reference. It varies from the status quo.
 Correct. So there is an existing regulatory system. There is a code in place. We're saying no changes to that code until such time as the director comes back with a recommendation. Correct. I would offer that as an amendment. For the particular industries we talked about. Just the industries that you've identified. Okay, that's been moved and seconded. Do you want to take action on that amendment at this point? I'd be happy to. Okay, let's do it. Please, roll call.
 no bit hi hi i very much appreciate both the discussion and the testimony that prompted the discussion hi husband hi hi good okay got that so i have mayor can i ask since we're just posing questions yeah and this may be to commissioner novick or to our panel we heard in one of the prior hearings someone
 observe that if we impose a surcharge or a fee on a fare for the purpose of creating a fund to take care of a laudable public purpose, that it may, under the compensation agreement between the driver and a TNC, a portion of that fund may go into the wrong pocket.
 Is that true, and is there any way that we can regulate that since any fee or charge that we're contemplating, in my words, was sort of meant to be something in the nature of a pass-through, not as a tool to inflate gross receipts so that the 20 percent off the top gets bigger? Does that make sense? Yes, but I thought that that's kind of – I mean –
 The 50 cents is going to be paid to the city to administer the program, so it's not going to be money that Uber gets. And in terms of – I mean, one way or another, I mean, if –
 Regardless of, I mean, if we had a regular old permit fee as opposed to a 50-cent charge, then Uber winds up taking that out, either charging it to customers or taking it out of its own shareholders or taking it out of drivers. I mean, the fact of how we do it doesn't affect how much money Uber makes. It's designed to be, I mean, I was sort of the suggester of the idea as a straight pass-through to the passenger. Right.
 So it doesn't go through the driver's hands, it doesn't go through the cab company's hands, it doesn't go through Uber or Lyft's hands. It goes straight to the city from the passenger. And the way that we wrote the... How would that be done for the TNCs? Everything goes through Uber. Well, I mean, they have to remit. Yes, I mean, it would be on your receipt, you know, as a surcharge from the city of Portland. And, yeah, the companies do have to remit that amount to the cities, yeah, to the city, I should say. But it doesn't count as driver income, it doesn't count as...
 Can't we specifically provide that it shall not be deemed
 or Y subject to whatever fee a TNC takes from that transaction? So it's clear it's a pure pass-through? Well, but we don't regulate the – we're not regulating the relationship between the TNCs and their drivers. I mean, the 20 percent thing is something that Uber has applied, but, I mean, we didn't regulate how the taxi cabs pass on the permit fees to their drivers either.
 Yeah, but here's the difference. If we keep adding fees and charges which we think are laudable for public purpose, we may be inadvertently reducing the net income to the driver. That wasn't our intent. It was to create a pool of funds to cover a public purpose, not to adversely impact the driver.
 But why would it – I mean, why would it adversely impact the driver? Because, I mean, the driver gets 80 percent of the fee, I mean, of the charge. So you could argue – I mean, you could argue that it gives the driver another 80 cents. In fact, neither is true. The money ends up going to the city. It goes to Dan's point about who's responsible for remitting the payment. And if it's clearly the TNC's responsibility –
 then it seems less likely it will be part of the formula. If it's not clear in the code, it could end up being partially funded by the driver, and that was not our intent. So the reason
 The detail of the permit fee, that surcharge, is on page 140, and it requires that the taxes and T&Cs add to receipts the 50 cents and with the line item City of Portland surcharge. We will bill all companies quarterly and collect those fee rates from them. Does that help clarify anything? Yeah, so the companies will send us a check for the aggregate amount of those 50 cent charges. Mm-hmm.
 yeah yeah that's fine looks you got it right there so i did have a question about the uh the decals i mean i'm a little disturbed to see everybody holding up uber decals today so what about the issue of i mean we are going to require that the decals be back in front now but what about the issue that they somehow carry a serial number or something that shows that the city has you know issue the decals
 Yeah, so that again kind of goes back to the whole app. So drivers cannot be on the app on the platform without having been cleared by the city. So Uber and Lyft provide to us, the city, a list of applicant drivers. Those drivers are not active until we say that they are certified.
 So that in and of itself. And the business license is a unique identifying number that we are using for the TNC drivers at this time. So we feel confident, and maybe Leah can speak to this. I guess I'm thinking of just sort of the safety angles that have been brought up here. So you're coming out of the bars at 2 a.m., and you see cars with that Uber or the Lyft mustache or whatever. But what?
 you know given that you know people are holding them up here in the audience that they could anybody could get those decals so that's what i'm thinking about is if i saw a decal that had a city serial number on it or something like that i guess i'd feel a little more uh safe
 Yeah, so, go ahead. Because I think, like, if you're coming out of the bars at 2 a.m., you may not be as likely to do your research on the driver history. Other commissioner, if you're coming out of a bar at 2 a.m., are you going to memorize the identification number of the taxi either? You've got to look for it. But you see it. At least you'll know to look for it.
 What passengers really need to be looking for is the app because it does provide that detailed information about the driver and the vehicle, which we have found to be more useful for customers than just a city identifying number.
 And again, those drivers are not available for street hails, so you're not supposed to be just walking into any car. In fact, there was an incident where a woman mistakenly entered a non-TNC vehicle, did not have the decal on it, and the Uber driver actually contacted the passenger because on the driver's app, they also get some information about the passenger and who they should be expecting to enter that vehicle. Okay.
 And this is just somewhat relevant in that it's not limited to the TNCs. We have several cases on our files of people impersonating cab drivers as well. So this is where enforcement is really critical in this industry. But at least for our cab companies, we're requiring a color scheme, a decal, and Uber vehicles are only requiring this hue. Yeah.
 Again, the app in and of itself is essentially a digital city certification number. The app provides, I think, more information about the driver and the car than you normally have when you get into a cab. So another issue that came up in testimony, fingerprinting versus name-based background checks. Could you elaborate on that? Actually, Dave Benton is kind of a resident expert on that. Would you mind if you called up? There's probably none, Gabe.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. How are you? Fingerprinting. There's a couple things that have been talked about here. One is biometric or live scan. Currently in the state of Oregon, the only agencies that have live scan, where you actually scan a fingerprint and it's transmitted to the state, are police agencies. And then there's one private vendor with Department of Administrative Services who has that.
 So right now, if you use LiveScan, although there are vendors out there, and I've spoken to the state police, and I've spoken to one, there's no direct transmit. It just, it's LiveScan, it gets printed on a fingerprint card, and it gets just mailed in the standard way to Salem.
 Certainly you can do that. There are private vendors out there that provide that service, and then it takes seven to ten days to run through the fingerprint check. Why is that, the technological connection? Well, we just haven't caught up quite yet. The state police is working on it. They just haven't got the systems in place for private vendors to transmit to the state. I think that's where they're going, but we're just not there yet. So on my iPhone 6, I have 5K.
 the thumbprint recognition to turn it on as technology increases? Is that not going to be available to everybody? You know, Commissioner, I believe relative to criminal background checks, if that's what we're talking about, I think the state police wants to get us to a place where you can do live scan and it is a direct submit to the state and we'll get there. But
 They're just not there administratively yet. We can still do that with an ink card or a computer-generated card. So fingerprinting, whether it's electronic or manual, it's quite possible to do it? It can be done. We can't do it, but there are private vendors out there who can provide that service. And when you check a private-for-hire driver, they only check the state-only queries, the state of Oregon. Why would we not require that?
 You certainly can. I mean, it has some limited value. It doesn't – there's a misnomer that you verify identity, you don't. You're just testing against a known database of people that have either been arrested or there's a limited number of folks, like in my previous life as a police officer, physicians, and a few others, they maintain records of those folks.
 But other than that, if you're not, if you don't compare against somebody who's in the system, it doesn't verify identity. It would for immigrants, though, because everybody who's not a U.S. citizen gets fingerprinted on. You know, I don't know about the retention of those records. I'm suspecting those are kept in the federal system. And for those employment checks, the state police only checks the state system.
 another issue on my list sorry we're all running through multiple levels here the issue that was raised by both eco cab being disadvantaged by old school as they were describing it provisions in our regulations you know in terms of meters and those kinds of things again are we changing
 the rules in this proposal are we failing to change the rules um where are why are we erupting on that front at this juncture in this process well that's a good question we are not changing the rules for meters um today and this is a new issue that for us today as well so we're happy to work with eco cab moving forward on their issues but this was a new one for us today as well
 And then the, we talked about this a little bit, but Mr. Aleme's point about requiring the change of insurance rating, how are we going to resolve that one? So we have taken out the requirement of a certain financial size, but the AM Best Company A- rating still exists. We've given...
 doesn't solve this problem. No. We've given them a period of time to come into compliance, which is, I believe, at their next renewal period. I had a lengthy conversation with Mr. DeGrange yesterday in which he stated to me, and I committed to him to continue looking at the DemoTech issue with the risk managers, but he stated to me that there is a larger company that meets the AAM-BEST requirements
 rating that will be writing paper for insurers in the state that do taxicab insurance products. So that should be coming into play in the next, I think you said, 30 days. What's the problem we're trying to solve with restricting to AMBEST A-minus rather than the DemoTech B-minus?
 There's a number of rating agencies that are available. Within the insurance industry, AMBEST has been the gold standard for a lot of years. All of the commercial insurance that we place for the city is AMBEST rated. Brokerage houses have teams of people that review the rating agencies' assessment of different insurance companies. And the problem that I would see for the city is –
 which rating agency do you want? And if you have multiple rating agencies that rate the particular insurer differently, who do you choose? And so it really is more of a practical matter of how do you select which rating it is that you want to use if the rating agency looks for that. Is it true that AMBEST doesn't include promptness of paying claims as part of one of their criteria?
 I don't know. I wouldn't be too surprised, but they really are looking at the financial solvency of an insurer as opposed to their claims handling process. Given the litigious nature of car crashes, I would suggest that including whether or not companies pay out promptly should be part of our criteria. Other questions?
 Yes, I have one. Are TNC drivers covered by the state law that says it's a felony to assault a taxi cab driver?
 I, well, I mean, if it's a felony, I'm not sure where the question comes from. If it's a felony to assault a taxi cab driver, then everybody would be covered by that. Is that what you mean? Or if they're the ones who are assaulted? Yes, the state law specific, and it's going to the section of the code that says that the taxis are required to have cameras, and the cameras are required to have it posted underneath that it's a state law. It's a felony to assault a taxi driver. Okay.
 and the state law specifically says taxi drivers and defines that and does not include TNCs. Then I don't know. I'd have to look at the definition in the state law. Obviously, you have, but...
 We'd have to look at the definition and stay long. So part of the reason for my question is for the safety of cab drivers or private for hire drivers. That's the reason that we put in requirements for cameras was not for passenger safety but for driver safety. And indeed, in researching the Uber driver safety, my main concern isn't for passengers. It's mostly assaults by passengers on drivers. Okay.
 So what's the safeguard? Like we have the proposal or the current requirement, and we're keeping that for cameras with the sign that says it's a felony. How are Uber drivers to be protected from passengers who may be drunk and or assaultive?
 Well, again, the app does provide some safeguards in the sense that the driver's activities, locations are known through that app. So in the course of an investigation to determine what happened in an alleged assault or something like that, that information would be very helpful. And the identity of the passenger. Right, absolutely. One of the passengers, if there's more than one, there might be some question about that.
 But there's no... The identification of the passengers in a taxi vehicle is not captured in the same way with the camera as it is with the app. And the council, I believe, decided not to have the camera turned on. Moving to enforcement...
 A case was made in Broward County, Florida, that since you have to have a phone to order an Uber, each city employee can only do a spot check once because then that phone number will be collected in the database by Uber or Lyft and be known to be an inspector. So we're not going to be able to do random checks the way that we can with taxi drivers. How do you propose to address that problem?
 Well, so we currently are doing random checks more than once on our phones and haven't been removed from the app, so it's not been our experience here in Portland. But I believe we have the authority to compel the TNCs to leave us on the app because we have had some instances of people being removed and have worked with those companies to say that people need to have access to the app, and it has been resolved very quickly. An agreement has been reached that we would not be banned from the app.
 Wouldn't they, though, have the capacity to only direct your request for a ride to the drivers that they know are certified? In the same way that taxis could only dispatch a pristine driver upon our request. Taxis can get hailed. In the scope of, excuse me? Taxis can get hailed. Yeah, you can also call them. So you can do the spot check on a taxi, but you can't.
 potentially cannot, because part of the verification requirements that you've talked about is, because it's the same with the Airbnb. How do we know who's not being reported to us? So we assume that any...
 company with people with brains in it would only give us driver's license numbers of drivers that they know have done all of the required steps. There could be an entire shadow community of drivers that Uber just says have at it, but they don't connect our inspectors to those drivers.
 If we found that our checkers were constantly being directed to the same five drivers, that's something that we could definitely look at. But, I mean, there could be shadow communities of anything. There could be people painting their cars to look like taxi cabs and driving around, and we wouldn't find them by calling taxi cab companies. I think the answer right now says that they can't block us from the app, so that's part of what the rules say now.
 They can allow us on but only give us certain drivers, though. I suppose, again, I guess that's conceivable. And then moving on to defensive driving requirements, as far as did you have a concept of what the training will be that's required and will there be every two years requirement for recertification in defensive driving? Okay.
 I was going to ask Mark Williams, excuse me, gosh, Mark or Dave to come up and talk about that part for you. I'm Mark Williams. Good morning. Mark Williams, program manager for the Pride for Hire program.
 Repeat the question for me, please. The taxi companies now give their drivers every two years they have to take a defensive driving class. I don't see any reference to defensive driving classes having to be taken in the TNC code. But the city does not require the taxi cabs to impose that requirement on the drivers, do we? Correct. I understand that some of the taxi cab companies require that internally, but we don't have that requirement in the code.
 And why would we not, while we have the opportunity to have safer drivers, if we're going to Vision Zero here where all drivers and all road users are more safe, why would we not take this opportunity to get a couple of thousand, 5,000 more drivers trained in defensive driving?
 And because P-BOT has adopted Vision Zero as a priority, that is a new requirement that we have put into the training requirements. It's obviously not as full – it's different from defensive driving, but we are looking forward to advancing the Vision Zero priority through this opportunity by required training. Why wouldn't we do it right now? For Vision Zero training? We're developing the curriculum right now. Okay.
 We never have required defensive driving, so that would be a big departure from the current training and testing requirements. Commissioner, you brought this issue up to me a few days ago, and this is –
 And apparently in the entire history of the taxicab industry, this has not been a requirement. That doesn't mean that it's not a requirement that we should consider for the entire industry. I'm just hesitant to shoehorn it in today.
 as part of this bigger process because we want to have both the taxi companies and the DNCs and the drivers as part of a conversation about that. So I'm perfectly willing to have that conversation, which we haven't had previously. I just don't know if we should rush to do it immediately. Okay. Well, I have actually brought it up multiple times before a few days ago. And then my final question is on 1640.020, the nonsensical
 Part A. Again, I didn't realize that you wanted us to rewrite that. That is, again, the existing language forever. If you'd like us to close and then we can bring it back, obviously we're going to have meetings with various stakeholders. Well, I realize these hearings have been very long, but we did actually have that discussion at the last hearing, and we were supposed to work together on that. So, yes, I would like that rewritten, please.
 If I could, Dave Benson has some further information to share with you on the Uber and Lyft apps and access to that for enforcement. Commissioner, I did hear your question about anonymizing phone numbers, and we can do that, and we've already considered that. You can go to any store and buy a phone with a data app on it.
 before you can get applications it has a new phone number on it and we intend to do that and so we constantly cycle through phone numbers so any of the companies won't know and we'll keep changing the numbers so they won't know who's calling them or who's on the app requesting the ride
 and there's an app that does that for you we'll change the no no we'll buy the phones the track phone for instance you can buy it with the dad app has a brand new number nobody knows who's who's using it but then you use it then it becomes known and then you sell it again or that sounds pretty expensive we just we just use it they're very inexpensive you can use them for short periods of time they're disposable and then we we can just get another phone
 Since we're relying on phone numbers and to be verifying people, what's to stop the companies from doing that, the drivers from doing that? Well, again, if we're constantly cycling through phones and phone numbers, they're not going to know us. And then as time goes on, we'll go back to the store and we'll get more phones with different numbers. So we'll keep cycling through the numbers so there'll be always a fresh crop of numbers out there.
 And to circle back on your question about the new burgers, one of my colleagues from upstairs brought down the statute for me. They're always watching up there. But you're correct. It only says a taxi driver, and that would be a change that would need to be made to the legislature to fix that for TNC drivers. Yes.
 It's an analog code in a digital world. Be clear to our friends, the Uber drivers and Lyft drivers who've come here testifying, you're not covered by collision in the primary period, and if you're assaulted, then you're not covered for that either. Well, it's not charged as a third-degree assault necessarily. I did have an amendment I wanted to offer on the decals and decals.
 I'll just read it. I only have one copy. It's courtesy of Commissioner Fish. It would say that the TNC under 16.40.250, it would read that the transportation network company may not dispatch a vehicle unless the director has issued a PFHT vehicle decal for that vehicle. The director will issue a PFHT vehicle decal, including an identification number specific to each PFHT vehicle.
 Upon certification by the director that the vehicle meets all requirements under Chapter 16.40. Second. Second.
 That gets us into the – I think we have to think about that because that gets us into the business of manufacturing decals, which we don't do at this point. Director Treat, do you want to address that? I do. Thank you. Well, I appreciate the spirit of your amendment. It also would be adding some very heavy administrative burden to PBOT staff to be available on a daily basis to review TNC documents and hand out these decals.
 and currently don't have that staffing capacity. The number of drivers that are onboarded on a daily basis far exceeds our administrative ability to administer decals to them on a daily basis. You could charge for it for cost recovery. So far, we have not had a problem.
 of specific TNC decal on these vehicles. I think that that might be another issue that we should focus on and commit to coming back to council to report on any suggestions for improvements on trade dress signage or decals. I was thinking, I guess I kind of envisioned it working this way, that would be that Uber or Lyft or whatever would print their decals with some sort of
 serial number on them and then as they assign them to a driver they would report that to us the driver and the serial number Of the decal and we're actually already Getting information that connects the driver to the vehicle just because we get specific driver information and specific vehicle information So I think it's it's intended for you know, commissioner fish and I were just kind of talking about what so we're we're downtown And we're we get run over our foot gets run over by an uber vehicle, you know
 So maybe I'll catch the license plate. Maybe I won't even know it's an Uber vehicle because they are kind of hard to tell. They look just like another black sedan unless you really know where to look for the label on it. And this is just a way of having a particular identifier associated with the vehicle. For those of us who aren't on the app, we're not looking at the driver, not any of that. I'm struggling to understand that.
 The problem we're trying to solve in the scenario you just described, the car has a license plate. Right. Right. So that's pretty big lettering. Right. So how are we going to see the lettering on a label any better than we're going to see the lettering on a license plate? Yeah.
 I mean I grant that point I guess I just I would feel I would know that the vehicle is a truly an uber or a Lyft vehicle if it had a serial number as opposed to an imposter Oh, maybe this is no long hearing. I mean, we're all a little punch Yeah, I don't really care if it's an uber or lyft vehicle if it runs over my foot, but I damn sure want to know Who it was? So that so the license plate is pretty important to me and
 So, yeah, I'm trying to understand how that would – given that the driver and the vehicle are linked in the app, right, I know that that car is driven by this person because they're on the app and they're registered with us. It seems to me we have the informational equivalent of a sticker and maybe more. Well, I guess one of the points that I would say in support of this is that –
 You know, I keep hearing these statistics about all the Uber and Lyft vehicles on our streets, and since my daughter moved to Europe, I've had the benefit of driving her car to work. And maybe it's because of my advanced age and what's happened to my eyes, but I almost never see the decal for either cars, and yet I'm told there are hundreds if not thousands of cars. I think Dan's point is, sure, you hopefully get a driver's license.
 I've noticed that a lot of cars have dirty license plates or they're obscured or the light isn't on, so at night it's harder. I don't see the Uber decal. I think they are discreetly placed. I almost never see them, but I'm told they're all around us. And this would have two benefits. One is a clearly identifying marker, and two, you could also –
 To someone, I mean, I sometimes get in the wrong cab, not because I'm gaming the system, but because I'm someplace and I need a cab and I call the cab and another cab shows up. It turns out they're showing up for Dan, but I get in the car not knowing that and blah, blah, blah. So I frequently get in the wrong cab, if you will, in terms of – I'm sorry to acknowledge that publicly to my friends who are left hanging, but it happens. And –
 What's wrong with having a little more formal identification with a serial number that's sort of like a good housekeeping seal that gives the customer an added love or the victim
 of an accident an added level of protection, particularly because what I think Dan is envisioning is something that you could run off in a typical printer in an office situation with a little adhesive. So what would be so burdensome about that? Because we certainly don't want you, Leah, to get in the business of having to create a whole new shop around this. But couldn't we just impose this requirement on the TNC and have them certify they're in compliance? We can help you with the self-imposed.
 I think that might get close to the micromanaging the mayor is going to admonish us on. I think we could, I would be comfortable with you coming back with a recommendation. I would also take care of the enforcement issues. If there's numbers, I mean, this is what we didn't do with Airbnb, is require that they have the numbers posted for everyone. I'd like to see it big enough so that, I mean, one of the things I'm always reminded by my friends at Elders in Action is that it has to be big enough for the graying part of our population to be able to read, and that means a sufficient font.
 i mean maybe what we could use is the business license number they have to have and have that you know have a strip of adhesive with that number on it yeah that sounds good that sounds good that wouldn't tell you that they've gone through all the trainings well but they're neither would a bogus number but if it's there if it's a business license number issued by the city i guess i'm i'm not i'm not hugely enamored of this idea at all but i don't think we should be issuing two numbers
 As a city whatever number we issue ought to be the number. Yeah, I think business license number Okay any further discussion on this amendment so let's take a vote please on this amendment Hi I Know what it passes. Okay now other amendments. Okay, so you have You have both
 amendments that were printed and adopted by the council earlier in this discussion. You had additional verbal amendments. They've been recorded. That gives you the ability, Commissioner Novick, to bring us back an ordinance on second reading that's amended by council discussion. We also have a lot of other requests and follow-up that the Bureau needs to provide. Anything else before we close the hearing? Do we need to actually move the sections to be taken out with Commissioner Fisher's?
 I think you already did that. You already adopted his amendment. The way I framed it was anything that is at variance with status quo would not be enforced until such time, and we're leaving it to your good offices to make sure that nothing that's at variance with the status quo is enforced.
 Okay. Mayor, I don't know that any testimony was taken on that amendment. And leave it to... I think testimony was taken on that subject. Okay. I think we've covered the subject of whether or not pedicabs and special access transportation, whether we intended to change the game for them, and we do not. And that's why Commissioner Fisher's amendment was adopted. We're about to lose a quorum, Tim. We are. Okay. So...
 we'll close the hearing in this scheduled second reading next week