Good morning, everybody. This is the November 29th morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Are you Daly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Thank you. Wheeler? Here. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting and also ensure that decorum is maintained. Thank you.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have the opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for the public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you signed up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Traditionally, people have three minutes to testify. I apologize. Today we have a gigantic agenda, so we're asking people to please keep their testimony limited to two minutes. Okay.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up. When your time is done, the red light will come on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting. For example, shouting, interrupting others' testimony, or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed.
 People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there's a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If folks would like to show your support, please do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, thumbs down. Thanks. Let's get started with council communications. Carla, please call the first item.
 Item 1238, request of Shedrick Wilkins to address counsel regarding police. Good morning. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. This one's on, I wrote this. The death penalty moratorium was started by John Kitzhofer on November 22, 2011. Our woman Governor Kate Brown has kept it without public debate, although not without flaws. Kitzhofer was a doctor and an intellectual. Excuse me, you've got three minutes, so you don't need to go quite so fast. I was thinking about getting those voice recorders and putting them on fast speed.
 It's hard for the captioners. I'm nervous because I wrote this. I'm coming out of the top of my head. I was in the U.S. Army, and where we tend to round up the death penalty, I feel that the stabber of the light rail stabber in Portland brings out my instincts for capital punishment as a man. However, I am to talk today about Chief, Woman Chief...
 Daniel Outlaw. I forgot to put that in there. A woman's soft hand to law enforcement. We need a woman's soft hand to law enforcement as we need a woman's soft hand like Kate Brown not in the prison system to kill or execute prisoners. Interesting that John Kipsoffer's moratorium was started on November 22nd. The odds are 100 and 365 that this was not related to the Kennedy assassination. Kennedy was assassinated on November 22nd.
 Too much of a coincidence. I believe in conspiracies in the 1963 Kennedy assassination. Lee Harvey Oswald was framed. If he was not killed, he would have been unjustly executed within two years. I should say probably. He would have been probably executed within two years. He was totally innocent. And I think the Zerbruder film kind of shows that.
 And that's another reason for not being for the death penalty because our legal system is not perfect and makes mistakes and executes innocent people. Although it's probably only like one out of 100. Also, Jerry Brown just released a person convicted of murder given life and he had to admit that he was spent 40 years in prison by a mistake in California. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 1239, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding trust and city government. Good morning. Good morning. My name's Craig Rogers. Time for a customer satisfaction survey, like when I go shopping at QFC. Looking at the code of ethics, the purpose of city government is to serve the public. City officials treat their office as a public trust. Thank you.
 All of you are a public servant, and you have a duty of care. Your job is not to make a few people happy, but to balance the interests of many. On one of your campaigns from last year, it says, work to help homeless individuals and families get off and stay off the streets by providing transitional housing, mental health care, addiction treatment, employment assistance. Create a new air of openness and...
 and accountability at City Hall. Now last year you went down with Steve to Texas to see the way they were dealing with the homeless. You were elected as mayor, not serving yet, but last year in May. That's 18 months ago. I got a kick out of the police chief. She said to bring one officer on board. It takes 18 months. Well, I'm still waiting for you. And here's
 customer service survey for Portland last year in November. Here's a recent one, April, Translated Community. It says half report city is doing a good job. Another one, polls shows Portlanders dissatisfied. This is October of this year. November, residents disturbed by homelessness. Watching out for you, Channel 6. You're telling, cut your budgets 5%.
 Homeless budget could be cut for other needs. You have priorities versus limited funds. You know, I've wondered, when you get rid of somebody that you don't want here as a department head, then you always kind of sign off on hush money. I would like to see those contracts that they have to sign off on to get that money in health care for several months after they've left office. You know, what are the priorities here?
 So then all of a sudden, you turn around, and I know more than what I have time to say here, but it says Wheeler hopes to extend homeless emergency 18 months. That happened real soon after he said you were going to cut it. So I watched...
 when down there with the small business community, one of your people you sent down there, he's standing there like this. He says, we want to know where the hot spots are. That's the same thing your spokesperson said to me during the summer after countless emails and pictures of where I live right near what's called a gamer trail where we've got a whole hillside full of homeless women,
 They're assaulted. Like I've said to you before, the face of homelessness is a woman with a black eye and a bloody nose. And I see it and the guy goes like that and she goes flying. And you know what? You contribute to that by not doing anything. So when I come down here, it's like watching reruns of the gong show.
 Because to me, this isn't City Hall. When it was, it was spelled H-A-U-L. Okay, thank you very much. This is a palace of propaganda. Can you do me a favor? Could you actually leave your email, and I will send you a very specific list of what I am doing and what the strategy is, and I'd appreciate your feedback. And if you think there's more that we should be doing in a particular area or something we're missing, let me know. Because I know what the problem is. Read my email to Michael.
 Very good. Thank you. And read the ones I'll send back in response. Next item, please. Item 1240, request of Eli F. Ritchie Hightower to address council regarding filming police and public spaces. Mr. Hightower here today. Next individual, please. Item 1241, request of Roberta Palmer to address council regarding tax reform. Come on up. Good morning. Excuse me.
 Good morning, and thank you for the progress you have made in housing our homeless, and a special thanks to Commissioner Saltzman for the amazing work he has done in this area. The time seems right, though, for tax reform that will generate more revenue with even more needs. With even more needs, we face budget cuts. Thank you.
 Our reliance on the property tax may no longer be possible. Already too high, it increases the cost of housing, and its deductibility from our federal returns may be limited. Thank you.
 Two new revenue sources should be considered. First is a 2% to 3% tax on served food and drink, a tiny tax with a huge return, already used at 5% in Ashland and Yawas. It is a sales tax with heart, since it targets the more affluent
 Many Portlanders cannot patronize restaurants or food carts often. Portland's tourists and visitors can help pay this tax. They pay more tax nearly everywhere else. The second change would be to scrap the business income tax for a gross receipts or gross profits tax.
 from this source could easily double without the problems of watching the tax expensed away, of noncompliance, and of high administrative expense, speaking of which the ill-fated arts tax could be eliminated with new revenue sources. Some Portlanders reject these taxes because they are, quote, regressive sales taxes. However, the progressive income tax is the only tax that is not regressive.
 Any tax at a fixed rate or amount, as you know, is regressive, including our federal, state, and local gas taxes, the property taxes, the arts tax, and many more. The same people who object on the grounds of regressiveness also envy the social services provided in other advanced nations by a very large sales tax, the value-added tax. Obviously, the kindest tax system in the world
 cannot provide opportunity without revenue. In 2008, a European study found a threefold increase in incomes at the low end in nations that provide, quote, social transfers, as opposed to those nations that rely on tax policy as an anti-poverty measure, such as the United States. So to close, I live in the Pearl District, where dogs live inside and people live outside.
 In this upside-down world, Portland, be bold. You are the default government when all else fails. Thank you. Thanks for your indulgence. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next individual, please. Item 1242, request of Alan Kessler to address council regarding transit congestion in Portland. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Alan Kessler. I'm here with the Portland Bus Lane Project. Hi.
 I'm addressing you to make you aware of a pop-up bus lane project that we've proposed with Better Block and with Portland State University to happen next summer. The idea is that for one week next spring and summer, we would open up the left lane of eastbound Southwest Madison, which is currently parking. We'd open that up as a mixed traffic transit travel lane. And then that would allow us to take the right lane and make that bus and bike only for that one-week trial period. We'd have to...
 stop right turns on first and third, but we think that would contribute to cyclist safety substantially. And we think that traffic would adapt
 I imagine people who work in this building have seen that Southwest Madison doesn't flow smoothly in the evenings. There are throngs of people at the bus stops waiting for the buses to crawl down from the transit mall. And this is one of the places in the city that we really need to fix because so many bus lines move through here. We've already gotten substantial support from Better Block PDX, from Portland State University. We had a conversation with Matt Grummanart-Pierce, and they've been helping us work with PBOT staff to try to advance this.
 We also had a meeting earlier this week with TriMet, and they seemed really excited about the idea that we would clean up one of the biggest trouble spots in the city, at least on a trial basis. So the reason I'm here today is I would like the support of the other offices. Especially Mr. Mayor, for example, we met with the commander of the central precinct to talk about the parking situation for Portland Police. That's one of the biggest sticking points.
 We think that it would be possible to move the six emergency vehicle spots around the block onto the left lane of Southwest 3rd, which would also be right next to their front door. Initially, Portland Police seems like they might be okay with us. We'd really...
 We really enjoy the support of your office working with the police to try to find a compromise solution that can clear up that critical thruway for bus traffic and move vehicle storage maybe to a secondary street.
 Um, similarly, there's going to be construction in the Portland building next year. We'd really appreciate Commissioner Udailey, your office's support, uh, with BDS and then, uh, Commissioner Salisman, your support in figuring out a way for one week during the construction period to take what's supposed to be a staging lane in the left lane of Southwest Madison and make that available for this project. Um, we're hoping that there's some week that we can pick that will, um,
 work where the construction staging can happen off that main thruway.
 We're hoping to do all this to prove that Southwest Madison could be better, that we could save TriMet a lot of money and improve bus service throughout the network by freeing up those resources to be used in outer areas. So, again, my goal here is just to ask for all of your support in this one-week pop-up bus lane project that we're hoping to do next summer.
 Great. And I'm not as well versed on this as I'd like to be, so I'll coordinate with Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thanks, Mayor. I just have a suggestion, and that is usually I'm very pro-pedestrian because that's what I am most of the time. But I would suggest for this project at least that you try not having pedestrians.
 pedestrians crossing on the east side of the second and Madison intersection, because otherwise the cars that are getting out of the Jefferson Garage trying to turn right, there's usually only one or two can get through because of the pedestrians on that side, whereas if they were diverted to the west side, I think that would be safer for the pedestrians and also maybe solve some of the congestion problem there. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Mr. Kessler, did you send an email to our offices in the past?
 I'm not, I didn't send an email today based on this. I have some correspondence I can forward or I can send you an email directly if you like. That'd be great, thanks. Thanks.
 Very good. Carla, I know that there's one item on the consent agenda, item 1246, 1246, that we'd like to move to next week. 1256. Oh, I'm sorry. 1246. 1246 we'd like to move to next week for further consideration. Okay. And then it's my understanding 1256 has been pulled. Correct. Are there any others that have been pulled? That's all I have. Call the roll, please, on the consent agenda.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Please call 1256. Accept and authorize an intergovernmental agreement for a grant in the amount of $669,209 from Metro for Regional Transportation Options Smart Trips, Smart Cities Transportation Demand Management Programs.
 Very good. And I'm not sure who pulled this item. Mr. Lightning did. Very good. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of the reasons why I pulled this item is that I want to have a clear understanding from –
 President Trump on some of the moves he's beginning to make on these federal grants. Now, a lot of people think that the federal government is required to do federal grants down to the state, the city, the counties. Now, that is being basically challenged through court as of this time on certain presidential executive orders. Now, what I'm beginning to see, and with a little more research on this...
 is that a lot of groups that, like, challenge Hillary Clinton, Judicial Watch on her foundation, the Watchdogs, is that what we're going to start seeing on these grants is that you may be able to receive the money, but there's nothing from their position on how restrictive they can be on these grants. Now, for instance, when you start reviewing the federal grants and the federal clauses,
 You'll notice in there that you are required to follow presidential executive orders. Now, that's being placed inside the federal grants on the federal clauses. Now, when you review this very close, you need to understand that you received the money, but if they come back and say you're in violation of the grant because you don't follow presidential executive orders...
 You're in violation of this grant. Now, what does that mean? Well, that's where it's going to get very complicated because at that point they can come back and impose penalties. They can come back and say that you were aware that you were going to violate this grant based upon my presidential executive order and yet you signed for the money. Well, you don't want to be doing that. So, again, I'm just stressing to the city attorneys, right,
 Start watching very close on his positioning. There's a difference between an Oregon developer and a New York developer. There'll be about 100 pages added in New York of various terms, clauses, that you need to look at very close. That's how they negotiate. That's how they deal. Very restrictive. So watch these grants very close and understand. If you violate these grants in the terms, you might have to pay that money back
 whether you like it or not. And you may be entitled to it up front, but when it gets so restrictive, you might not want to sign on the dotted line. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fish. I've had a chance to skim the documents in our packet.
 Looks like this is focused on trips and demand management, but where we often see smart cities coming up in matters before council now, it also has to do with so-called autonomous vehicles. I see nothing in the attached documents that relate to autonomous vehicles, so can I just confirm that with the commissioner in charge? I see nothing in it also. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The grant's approved. Thank you. Please read items 1243 and 1244 together. We'll vote separately, but please, or excuse me, we want their presentations. 1243 and 1244.
 1243, presentation regarding partnership between the Portland Rose Festival Foundation and Portland Parks and Recreation. And 1244, Portland Rose Festival Foundation updates. Very good. Commissioners Fish and Fritz. Fritz will take the first one, Mayor, and I'll take 44. Very good. Thank you.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your partnership on this. I know that both of us are very fond of the Great Rose Festival Foundation and great partnership. And this first report is about the partnership with Portland Parks and Recreation.
 the Rose Festival Foundation runs the garden store at the Washington Park International Rose Test Garden which many people know just celebrated 100 years and a new walkway and more accessibility thanks to the Fix Our Park bond measure the store is really a key stopping place for lots of visitors including myself pretty much everything roses you could possibly imagine is on sale at that store and just some really great
 holiday gift ideas. I just put that in right now. And we very much appreciate the partnership, which is good for the foundation and also good for the city. Thank you. So we're going to have a...
 I'll hold my comments until after this presentation. So, Jeff, you want to come forward? Okay. So I think I'm inviting Rachel Burlington, the Rose Garden Curator, Seth Mensah, the Washington Park Operations Supervisor, and Jeff Curtis and Lilia Valencia from the Rose Festival Foundation. Good morning. And, Jeff, before you get started, I just want to say that for those that haven't been to that gift stop,
 I usually go there the week before Christmas and finish up all my Christmas shopping. And one of the cool things that you have there is books about various historic parks in our system. And those are sometimes hard to find, but there's one place you can go to get the history of Washington Park, the history of other things. So I really appreciate that story.
 So my name is Rachel Burlington. I'm the Rose Curator up at Washington Park at the International Rose Test Garden. So Mayor, Commissioners, Director, on behalf of myself and all the fellow Portland Parks and Recreation staff, the countless volunteers that make this Rose Garden such a special place to us and the city of Portland, I'd really like to express our gratitude of our longstanding relationship
 partnership with the Rose Festival Foundation. It's not just the financial contribution, but it's our daily interaction and support that we get on a daily basis from the foundation that really means a lot to us.
 the International Rose Test Garden makes many hands to make it bloom and we recognize and really appreciate all that the Rose Festival Foundation has done for it and the City of Roses
 Thank you, Rachel. Appreciate our partnership. Distinguished Council, I'm Jeff Curtis, CEO of the Rose Festival Foundation. It's an honor to be here and tell what I think is one of the best-kept secrets within the city and how this partnership was created and what it means to both the Rose Festival Foundation and the City of Portland and the park system. And I want to just share a slide that is appropriate to honor former Commissioner, Bureau Director Charles Jordan. He had the vision. He had the vision.
 for this. He had the vision for the City of Roses. His time as Director of the Bureau, he saw what the Rose Festival does.
 saw the power of the Rose and saw an opportunity for a partnership to build a small store and have it operate on the private side by an independent nonprofit, the Rose Festival. And it made sense in that context. So we honor Mr. Jordan for his vision for making this possible and building this store some 16 years ago. Specifically, it's very small. Lily will talk in detail a little more about it, but it's just 450 square feet.
 but it has a tremendous impact on a daily basis. The mechanics of this partnership is one where we operate it,
 We receive a set commission by those net proceeds, with the majority going to our park system directly. And at the end of this presentation, we'll give you a cumulative total, which ultimately is a very significant number that helps our park system. So at the end of the day, it's been a wonderful private-public partnership.
 It certainly serves a purpose for the Rose Festival itself. It gives us year-round branding in the context why it's not a festival store. It does connect the Rose Festival, the spirit of the Rose, the Rose City with us, which is in our mission. And it allows us to have some retail activity. And most importantly, in today's world, providing dedicated funding to some sort is a critical part of our operations.
 Going forward, there's an opportunity moving ahead with the Washington Park Master Plan. There's opportunities to look at that store, to integrate that, which is in consideration by our Parks Department. We appreciate that. As well as the idea of having a visitor center up there, which is right now that that store serves that purpose. So we're excited about continued conversations with our Parks Department on that.
 With that said, I think it's really important to acknowledge and appreciate one of my employees, Lilia Villasenor. We hired her 10 years ago to run this store, and it's her hard work and dedication that has turned into the results that we're sharing with you this morning. I'd like to have Lilia say a few words.
 Good morning. My name is Lilia Villasenor. And first, just as a little intro to who I am, I was actually born in Mexico and lived there for the first six years of my life, raised in California, where I met and married a native Oregonian.
 So, thus I landed in Portland 35 years ago. And interestingly enough, my very first job was with Portland Parks at the Children's Museum located at Lair Hill. Obviously, my life has taken many turns and almost 10 years ago, I accepted this job as manager of the Rose Garden store.
 Reflecting back on the past 10 years, I am really struck by the word community. And as Rachel, who is new actually, stated earlier, community.
 It is about community, and in this short period of time, Rachel and I already feel that community, which I think is very important also in the city of Portland. Everybody who comes to my store, as some of you have already alluded to, feels they are part of the Portland community, and it is our pleasure.
 to welcome people from around the world. I am lucky to have an amazing crew who all serve as ambassadors to the city, who love our city, and who are more than willing to give restaurant names, you know, what to do, where to go.
 I also have some amazing volunteers. And keep in mind, our store is now seasonal. And these are volunteers and employees who come back year after year. My volunteers have been there over nine years. Two of them followed me from a previous job. One of them just turned 94 years old.
 It's pretty amazing. Anyway, that community, as I said earlier, includes everybody up in Washington Park. And in addition, I've really sought out local vendors because that to me is also very important. It is one of the first questions customers ask, where does this come from? And I love to be able to say from Portland or, you know, I have a...
 a window where I say, if I can get it in Portland, I get it in Portland, then it's Oregon, then it goes on and on like that. But if you're from New York, unless I cannot get it anywhere else, you're not going to be in my store. Anyway, just as a small little window into my world in sourcing vendors,
 I had a local vendor I found at a bazaar who made soaps and lotions. I asked him to make a votive candle for me, which he had never done. He proceeded to do it, and of that little candle, we have sold over 13,000, which translates to dollar amount, $33,420. Not bad. You will each be receiving one of these candles, and I hope you enjoy it.
 and come up and visit us sometime. In addition, I've managed to get local, larger companies to support us, Dash T, after much...
 Consideration have branded two teas for us, which we sell in the store very well. In addition, Smith Tea. Before Stephen Smith passed, we had a tasting and came up with a Rose Festival Tea that also does really well. In all, I have over 20 local vendors that I deal with. Thank you.
 And Jeff alluded to the size of our store. It is 438 square feet, to be exact. And in the retail industry, we look at square foot, how much that per square foot, your sales, and that translates for 2017, which actually was a little below what I would have liked due to all the construction costs.
 But our sales were still about $600,000, and that translates to $1,358 per square foot, which is very high in the national standards for retail. I thank you for your continued support of the Rose Garden store. I feel honored and privileged to be running this store and look forward to a fantastic 2018.
 Well, thank you very much. I just have to interject and say the fact that you've got so much stuff in a very small space makes it really interesting to me. I often go around two or three times and keep seeing more stuff. So thank you for that. I also appreciate you welcoming Rachel Burlington, who is the new curator of the Rose Garden after Harry Landers, the longtime curator, retired in a blaze of glory, I would have to say. Absolutely. Thank you.
 And I think that in closure, it's about the context of what it means to the parks system and the dollars and cents. And we delivered a check last June to Minister Fritz and the Bureau to the tune of $157,000, which was Portland Parks, which is a direct contribution to Portland Parks and Rec for one year of those sales.
 That's a significant amount of commitment. I can tell you today we're still in the process. We've closed our fiscal year for the store and there'll be an auditing process.
 but by next spring we're likely to present a check to you in the amount of $125,000. So a little bit less due to the construction volume at the store. But still, when you look at the life of the store, the vision of Charles Jordan, the commitment of prior councils and your commitment to continue this, it adds up to nearly $1.3 million based on just selling...
 Rose Merchandise, a true partnership. We're thrilled to continue that, and we'll look forward to continuing it in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Is the store open for shopping over the holiday season? It is open 10 to 4, seven days a week, until December 21st. So get there while the getting's good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So, Mayor, we now have a second related matter, which has already been read. So we'll welcome Jeff Curtis back and ask Jeff. Jeff is joined by Board Members Kara Stoudemire and Amy Johnson. If you would please come forward and join Jeff. And I have a few introductory remarks. Earlier this year, Mayor Wheeler assigned me as council liaison to the Portland Rose Foundation.
 Now, as we all remember, in the year of 2010, Council declared the Rose Festival to be the official festival of the City of Portland. It serves as our premier annual event and showcases the best of Portland, with over a million people visiting our city because of the various activities. It's an integral part of Portland's identity, and we're so proud of the partnership, Jeff, and so grateful for the many ways the Foundation benefits our city.
 It's year-round work, it's hard work, and each festival requires all hands on deck. Today we're going to get an update on their work. Jeff is joined by, as I mentioned, two board members.
 And I'll turn it over to you, Jeff, for the annual presentation. And welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Distinguished Council, Mayor Wheeler, thank you very much. We realize that your agenda is very full and really appreciate this opportunity as your official festival to come up and brief you. I'll give you what we're going to do this morning, give you a little bit of a recap. We're going to go back in time to 2017 with some facts and some of the things that we experienced in 2017 and share with you the momentum that's building for 2018.
 But what we really wanted to do is show the true character of the Rose Festival Foundation. Why I am the CEO and I have the opportunity to be in my job to steer the ship on a day-to-day basis and talk to you on a regular basis. It's really the people that make up this organization, the people that you may not even ever meet.
 that we've invited you today, but they're just a cross-section of a board and a family of volunteers, of citizens that make up the Rose Festival now, and they represent the history, and they represent the future itself. So we're going to tell the story through their eyes, and then I'll give a very factual update on what happened in 2017 and some facts about 2018, and certainly have time for some questions, but want to be respectful of the time you've given us this morning.
 So at this time, I want to introduce and have Kara Stoudemire Phillips say a few words. She's been on our board for us since 2002 and a distinguished member of our team. Kara? Thank you, Jeff. Good morning. Morning. Wonderful to see so many of you again. As Jeff said, my name is Kara Stoudemire Phillips, and I want to share my personal story about why I love the Rose Festival. To me, as a native Portlander, I believe that everyone should have their own Rose Festival story, and here's mine.
 So every year from the moment I can remember my parents and my aunts and uncles took me and all my cousins to the Grand Floral Parade. That was our annual event. We also went to the Starlight Parade and of course to the Junior Parade. But it was the Grand Floral that was my favorite. And it was in 1983 that I actually fell in love with that parade. And it was that year, that June, when I was eight years old, that
 Coming around that corner was someone that I knew. The first time I saw someone that I knew on the Rose Festival court, her name was Marla. And she was my neighbor's girlfriend. And she was a Rose Festival princess. And she looked like me. She had brown skin like me. She had black hair like me. She had a bright smile like me. And that let me know that I could do that too. And that's the day that I fell in love with it. When she saw me.
 I was mesmerized, and she scrambled to find a rose on that float, pulled it, and tossed it to me, and I kept it for years. That was when I fell in love with the Rose Festival.
 Later on, I did run for princess for junior court and then also for senior court in high school. I did not win, but that did not take away my love for the Rose Festival because seeing Marla that day inspired me to know that I could do it too. And so after that, when I was invited in 2002 to join the board, I jumped at the chance.
 because not only was I going to be able to give other girls the opportunity to see someone that looked like them, not just on court and not just participating in parades, not just participating at events, but actually wearing this blue jacket and making decisions and being out there, being an avid volunteer and advocate of the Rose Festival. So like I said, I took that on. And 15 years later, yes, I joined when I was 10. I am still here. And it's because of...
 that wanting people in my community to see people that look like them to be a part of the Rose Festival, to let them know that this is for us, this is for everyone, this is for all of Portland.
 And so the first committee that I joined was the court committee. And I'm a graduate of St. Mary's Academy, but I requested to support Jefferson's program. St. Mary's is a wonderful, amazing school that did great things for me, but I felt that the students at Jefferson High School could benefit from seeing me more than the girls there. And so that's where I remain and have served successfully.
 served in that capacity for many years. I have also joined other committees and it's been a pleasure to join committees and work on events that I actually attended as a child. And to now actually be behind the scenes and back then I didn't know that all the people that had on these jackets and also the people that wear the white jackets are volunteers. Yes.
 We are all volunteers. And we do this because we enjoy it, because it's a tradition, and we want to be a part of that tradition and keep that going. I'm now a mother of two, and my kids have gone to the parade since they were born. They have gone to every parade. I drag them there, even when they didn't want to all the time.
 It's a tradition that's a part of our family. My husband is a New Yorker, and he goes to the parades. He thinks it's absolutely amazing that we have this week-long festival of parades, three huge parades. He's gone to parades in New York, but he's never seen anything like what we do here. People come from all over the world to be a part of this.
 great pride in being a part of it and being able to showcase our city and being able to showcase the Rose Festival. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for sharing that. It's a great story. You're welcome. Awesome. Thanks. Thank you, Karis. Great. Amy Johnson, member of our team, board since 2005.
 has also a similar story of growing up in Portland. I'd like her to share her story and her commitment to this great organization. Amy? Thanks, Jeff. As Jeff said, my name is Amy Johnson, and I have been a board member since 2005. However, I'm also known as Princess Amy from David Douglas. Thank you.
 David Douglas doesn't have the history that other Portland schools do when it comes to Rose Festival. And in 1996, I was only the fourth princess ever elected for my school. And for East County, our inclusion in the festival was and still is a big deal to our community and our school. It is no secret to anyone who knows me that the Portland Rose Festival is an organization and mission that I'm passionate about and is something that has impacted me in multiple ways and on so many levels.
 My journey to the festival came simply because I wanted to accomplish more than I was expected to. My divorced parents were blue-collar workers, and I lived with my mom and younger sister. While my parents did the best they could, they both lacked an education and an understanding of how to be successful in school. We received public benefits while I was in high school because my stepdad, a convicted felon, was serving time in the federal penitentiary. My mom's focus was just getting us through the next day, the next week, make sure there was food on the table and heat in the house.
 And me, well, it's probably not shocking to you that I was a bit unique in high school, with a shaved head and chains and spikes on my oversized clothes. But I was on the school newspaper and coached third grade girls basketball and was in all the advanced classes and got good grades. I was fortunate to have attended a school like David Douglas, with teachers who encouraged me to embrace and be proud of my quirky personality.
 I really wanted to pursue higher education, which would have made me the first person in my family to attend college. I spent most of my junior year filling out dozens of scholarship applications and being rejected by every single one. I didn't have a college savings fund, and my parents were not capable of contributing to the cost of my education. By the time I reached my senior year, I was resigned to the fact that I would not be attending college. I was a student.
 And then I was invited by one of my teachers to learn more about the Rose Festival Court. I laughed, of course, imagining myself among the more traditional court. I mean, my hair was less than an inch long, and I couldn't even wear a crown. But I went to the meeting anyway, enticed by the possibility of a $2,100 scholarship. I was so excited.
 I spent the next few months going through the application process, culminating in a lengthy interview session that included 35 other girls from my senior class. And the rest, as they say, is history. I became Princess Amy from David Douglas with an undercurrent of gossip about why I had a shaved head and how that would impact my ability to serve on the court.
 I had little idea just how controversial my lack of hair would be in the community. But the support I got from the Rose Festival staff, my classmates, teachers, and administrators in my district, and from my fellow court members was critical as I navigated through such an odd debate. Nonsense the other princesses would spout to their friends and family members when asked about me. She's the same as the rest of us, smart, kind, and generous."
 Starting from when I was a Rose Festival princess 21 years ago, I was influenced and challenged to be a better version of myself because I was surrounded by court members who were and still are ambitious, driven, independent, successful, intelligent, gracious, and amazing women. I took my scholarship and completed a bachelor's degree in communications at Merrill Hearst University and have gone on to do leadership work in the nonprofit industry. Thank you.
 This year, as I'm celebrating my 12th year as a board member, I continue to be influenced by the amazing people who I serve with, the incredible staff I have the privilege of working next to, and the community groups and people who I build relationships with every single year.
 More than two decades since I became the first and only Rose Festival Princess with the shaved head, I'm still pushing the envelope at the festival, trying to lead people in positive and impactful ways, not being afraid to say what I think, and finding new ways to serve our community through our events. I've been honored multiple times by my colleagues at the festival for my passion, my drive, my enthusiasm, my energy.
 I'm still speechless in describing what my role in Rose Festival means to me, from my days as a princess to my current role as a board member. It is truly an honor to be standing with some of the most amazing, influential, and generous people in our community, and then to be told that I have inspired others. It has come full circle.
 I'm proud to be a member of a board and part of an organization where I can do the kind of meaningful work that is so important to me and who I am as a woman. The Rose Festival Court embodies the values of strong, independent women and encourages growth. And without that, I would not be the person I am today. I am a mother raising smart and independent children who, of course, love the festival.
 I'm an avid volunteer, and I'm confident with a strong sense of self-esteem. And I have also had the courage to start my own foundation that serves our community in unique ways that are significant to me and my family.
 After all these years, my community work with the festival continues to challenge me in different ways. I am grateful for those who let me fail, give me tools to succeed, throw up a roadblock when necessary, and always recognize that my passion comes from the deepest and most intimate places of my heart, because Rose Festival is my heart. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Amy. Thank you, Karis. I'd like to bring up Leslie Goodloe and Brett Baker. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm going to start off. Leslie, you're going to go first. A familiar face, many of you, a City of Portland employee. But to us and our Rose Hustle family, she's family. She's grown up around our festival and has had an amazing impact as our centennial year president. She's past president, but that doesn't mean past. She's incredibly active. I'd like to have Leslie say a few words.
 Well, good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. As you know, I work for the Portland Housing Bureau during the day and in the evening. I spend my hours working on getting ready for the Rose Festival Court Program. Some of you may have heard this story, but I moved to Portland in 1971 from a small town in Illinois. And my very first parade was in 1971.
 My family, we walked to the parade route with a wagon and we joined thousands of other people and watching the parade. And I have been to or participated in every parade since 1971, save one. And that's because my daughter was being bored. So I hope I can get a pass on that one. Okay.
 My parents were very staunch supporters of the Rose Festival, and they were both very proud of the fact that I was going to be president. Unfortunately, they both passed away before they got an opportunity to see me as president, but I know that they were very excited about that.
 Both my daughters have volunteered with the Rose Festival. My oldest daughter, she started when she was 10, and she recently became a board member. So she's second-generation Rose Festival board director.
 And my younger daughter was fortunate enough to be selected as a princess in 2013 representing Benson High School. She, like Karis, saw the princesses in the parade and when they would come to SEI and from the time that she was probably four or five years old, she said, I'm going to be one of them. And when she was a junior, she decided she was going to try out and...
 Despite the fact that she was very nervous and concerned that she would not do well, she won. And I think I was probably more surprised than anybody else. And there's a video somewhere that demonstrates my surprise when I got up and started to walk out of the room because I was so excited. Thank you.
 My being president of the Rose Festival in 2007 was probably one of the biggest honors that anybody could ever have had. Not only was I the fifth woman to ever be president...
 but I was the youngest person, and to date I'm the only African American to ever hold that honor, although Miss Terry will be president next year. She will be the seventh woman and the second African American to hold that honor. The Rose Festival Court Program, as you've heard from both Karis and Amy, is an integral part of the Rose Festival, and I have worked with it since 1999 when I joined the board.
 I too tried out for the court when I was in fifth grade for the junior court. And then in high school, I didn't win. One of friends of mine won. But as I tell people, I wasn't a princess, but I got to be president. So I think it evens out. The Rose Festival Court Program is not a pageant.
 Lots of people think that that's what it is. It is not a pageant. These are young women that want to go to college, and so they work very hard to win a scholarship that's provided generously by the Randall Group. I've done research of other programs across the country, other festivals that have court programs, and we give one of the largest scholarships.
 in the country for young women to go to college. And each of our 15 princesses gets a scholarship. Some programs, only the queen gets a scholarship, but each one of our princesses gets $3,500. We're also the only program in the country that pairs up our princesses with a mentor. Unitas Community Credit Union, another one of our wonderful partners, pairs up each of our princesses with one of their friends
 women executives to help them answer questions, to just be another role model, to be another person that can support these young women as they go through college and into their careers. Since 1999, over 2,000 young women have participated in the court process.
 And some of them won and some of them didn't. But all of them were able to build on their interview skills and their public speaking skills by participating in the process. I'd like to say that...
 The Rose Festival, as Jeff said, is my family. My children grew up with the festival. And a woman asked me a couple weeks ago when I was doing a presentation about the core program, why do I give my time to this when there are so many other opportunities for volunteering? And...
 My answer to her was that I grew up with this. This festival brought a lot of joy and happiness for my family, and it's only right that I do the same for others. Thank you. Thank you, Leslie. Thank you, Leslie. Introduce our current president, Mr. Brett Baker. Brett. All right. Thank you, Jeff. Well, I have a tough job following those recommendations.
 dynamic women, but I'll try. So before I jump into that, Leslie, thanks again for handling the court. Leslie's done that for how many years? It's a big job, and just think of all the impact she's had on quite a few young women. By the way, we all have Leslie stories, but I think...
 Speaking from my colleagues, one of the highlights every year is meeting the young women again at the St. John's Parade, and they are enthusiastically received during the parade. And afterwards, we meet in a little church just off the end of the parade route,
 and we have a chance to sit down and share a meal with the young women. They then do their presentation again, and then the mayor and council members get to meet them and some of their family members. And there's Leslie off to the side sort of making sure everything goes according to plan. They're a remarkable group of women, and my recollection is this year the entire court are young women of color? Thirteen. Thirteen out of 15. What an accomplishment. So thank you. All right.
 So good morning. Again, I'm Brett Baker. I have the honor of serving as the president of the Rhodes Festival Board of Directors for 2017-2018. And it's really important to me personally that I thank
 the City Council for supporting Mayor Wheeler's appropriation of $100,000 this past year for the Rose Festival. The funding was critical to our efforts to provide the necessary safety plan and continue the programming elements of the Grand Floor Parade that sets the parade apart as one of the best in the world.
 The 2017 Portland Roads Festival was produced under greater pressure and anxiety over public safety than ever before. Sadly, terrible events, both locally and on the world stage, leading up to the festival had an effect.
 With that said, we saw an incredible commitment from city bureaus, particularly the Portland Police Bureau, PBOT, and Portland Parks, who all worked together with the Rose Festival officials in coordinating a safety plan that proved to be successful. We thank all city bureaus for their efforts in assisting us.
 We are lucky to have an organization with an incredible commitment to volunteer resources, as you heard earlier. I'm fortunate to lead a 54-member board of directors committed to the mission of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation and producing the city's official festival. The board stewards an entire volunteer force in the thousands.
 Rose Festival board members collectively gave over 5,000 hours of time in planning and producing the Rose Festival events and programs. Like many of us in this room, my happy relationship with the Portland Rose Festival goes back to my childhood, when my parents and grandparents brought me to the events that they attended as children.
 and it has been fun for me to take my own daughters to the same events I got to enjoy as a child. It makes memories for families, and it's one of the most impactful things that binds our city together in a positive way. Then as an adult, I began to appreciate the festival even more. I became the commercial banker for the festival some quite a few years ago, and then about 10 years ago I joined the board of directors.
 It has been very satisfying for me as a board member and as a business person to watch the investment of our time and resources in this organization and to witness the positive economic and social impact it has had on this community. With that, am I going to reintroduce you? Okay. Let me reintroduce our friend Jeff Curtis.
 Jeff, of course, as you know, is the CEO, and he's going to complete this report this morning. Jeff is celebrating his 20th year on staff. It's hard. You're not even, you don't even look that much. And his 14th year, 14th year as CEO. His tenure is unprecedented in the events industry, where Jeff also plays an important role. In January, he will become the chairman of the World Bank.
 He will be chairman of the World Board of International Festivals and Events Association, the trade organization for big festival events around the world. This is only the second time that anyone from the Rhodes Festival has led this organization. It is the first time since 1974. But you're not going away, right? No, no, no.
 We just renewed his contract. Jeff Curtis has become a force in the special events industry, which says a lot about what an important asset it is to Portland and Portland's official festival. We're very proud of Jeff, and it's my pleasure to introduce him to you again now. Thank you, Brett. Thank you, counsel. Thank you, counsel.
 And that IFA piece, I think it's really, I feel it is a responsibility to take the Rose Festival's time and talent, including the staff with my partnership with Marilyn Clint behind me and team, to take our excellence and broaden and contribute to the events industry worldwide. Jeff, by the way, congratulations for the honor, but we can't take any chances. Would you please surrender your passport? Certainly. Thank you. Thank you, Nick.
 You know, it puts the Rose Festival on that global stage, and appropriately so, for 100 being 112 years old, one of the largest festivals in the United States, and recognized globally. My role there is to be a steward of the events industry, but also represent Portland, Oregon. In fact, I was just at IFEA's World Headquarters yesterday, flew back last night, discussing the 2018 year, those issues that affect all events, including issues that affect cities, how they manage and produce events.
 So I look forward to further conversations with council about that as we continue to lead the events industry. Specifically, I want to give you an update and go back. I've had a chance with a liaison role to go back in time with you to 2017 to give you some facts about what happened to the Rose Festival Foundation, what we experienced, and how we propel forward as an organization, but also with you as in partnership.
 I want to take you back to April 25th, 2017. I got a phone call from the 82nd Avenue Roses organization canceling their parade, of which set a whole precedent of conversations about safety of events and potential violence. And that was a Rose Festival sanctioned event, so it really set up a lot of questions going in and, frankly, a distraction to the core purpose of Rose Festival.
 A few weeks later, on May the 19th, there was a carnival incident in Port Townsend, Washington, and the Rose Festival has a large carnival. That had media implications. It was a minor one, a couple people injured, but still set the question of what are you doing for safety of your participants. Just one little episode, but it all adds up.
 On May the 22nd, just three days later, and yet just on the footsteps of the 2017 Rose Festival, Manchester, England, bombing outside a major concert, continues to set the stage for concern over public assembly at events, leading right on the forefront of the 2017 Rose Festival. We're about to welcome the world to Portland, Oregon and celebrate.
 And then on May the 26th, we all know that date very well, it was the opening day of Rose Festival, 10 minutes before we opened the doors, the tragedy on our MAX line. Sets the stage for Portlanders to be concerned at the same time, Portlanders were just numb and raw about that, that tragic event, appropriately so.
 Just two weeks later, June the 4th, another date you'll remember, public demonstrations in downtown Portland, taking place right when the roast festival is happening, on our major event days on that Sunday. And then also having a little bit of rain.
 But through all that, what I will tell you as a CEO, and important to understand, I've never been more proud of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, its volunteers, for its delivering on its core purpose that we do for this community. The purpose of uniting us, not dividing us. Through all those circumstances, Rose Festival leaders had one of our best produced events.
 collectively, from a safety standpoint. People came to Rose Festival events, they saw the need to celebrate, but that definitely came at a cost. All those cumulative efforts came at a cost. We saw a fairly dramatic reduction in attendance at City Fair, which is our waterfront event, which ultimately is our primary fundraiser. So I do think it's important to acknowledge and share with you some financial facts related to the Rose Festival in 2017 and how we address those.
 We have a slide for you that shares that we definitely will incur a loss in 2017, roughly a little over a quarter of a million dollars as a nonprofit. That's something you obviously look to avoid at all costs, but that was very real and direct cause of most things out of our control that I described.
 As an organization that produces its festival with great pride and financial care, you look to do so with a break-even or a surplus. In our case, look for a surplus to build our reserves. So that's the bad news for 2017 that definitely had an impact on us and I want to share with you how we're managing that.
 The good news is, through good stewardship and good partnerships, both from the private side as well as with City Council, we've been working on a reserve for over 10 years, currently $640,000, towards a goal of a million. That's your rainy day fund. That's to ultimately, our job as an organization is to be good stewards now and to ultimately put this festival in a good place in the future. So having reserves are critical.
 And the good news is we've made significant contributions to our reserves over the years. We'll take a little bit of a hit in 2017, but at the end of the day, we still have resources to pull forward. And that's the key message for you and the public. Despite those circumstances that I laid out for you that happened in 2017, we're ready for 2018, and Portland is ready for 2018.
 We're ready to put those behind us. And here's the context of what's happening within the walls of Rose Festival Foundation. First of all, we've done our own due diligence, reduced our staff some, looked at our cost structure. But we've made a very important strategic decision to embrace and continue to invest in public safety at our events, but also to invest in our core programming.
 Meaning that the public embraces and loves is defined as our waterfront events, our parades, our court program, and what we do from a philanthropic standpoint. That's what is not going to be changed. That's what we'll continue to invest in in 2018. That's what the public is going to embrace. That's what people appreciate. We're going to invest and manage those events appropriately so. Thank you.
 And our charitable impact will maintain strong because those events allow us to put, especially non-profits, on a stage, especially with our parades. So an investment in our core events multiplied with enthusiasm for 2018 and the opportunity it presents.
 coupled with the private side of sponsorship sales, other efforts, we like our chances of turning that deficit around significantly in 2018. It's going to take a lot of work, and it's going to take partnerships from the public, and certainly our continued support from City Council. But that is what we're looking to do. Ultimately, the 2018 goal is to balance the books
 But most importantly, embrace who we are, what you heard today. Embrace that. The power of people. The power of people will connect and continue to do so. Engage stakeholders across our community.
 At the same time, not to inherit any risk. One example is that our half marathon that's been talked about off and on for the period of years here, we've postponed a half marathon. We are not going to be producing a half marathon in 2018. We're going to focus on our parades, our waterfront activities, fleet week, and the court, amongst many other community activities. And most importantly, we're going to embrace the power of human potential. We all see that. It's about asking for support and continuing our support.
 To give you an example, these last two slides just kind of puts in context why this all matters in facts, not just words. Our economic impact continues to be one of the strongest in our country for festival events, last time measured at $65 million. No other organization brings as many people together in the settings of our parades, over a million people, that Commissioner Fish said.
 What doesn't get talked about, the platform for cultural exchange with our sister cities in particular. If there was no Rose Festival, where's the opportunity for our sister cities to come together and celebrate and have a reception and welcome our communities from across the globe? Rose Festival provides that, as well as our commitment to environment through our cleanup program, which has saved the Bureau of Environmental Services thousands and thousands of dollars through our community cleanup program.
 And then we invest in it. You've heard it today through partnerships with you, both in impact fees as well as the Rose Garden store and prior commitments to Portland International Raceway. We're a true partner, but you are the greatest beneficiary. You are the one. The city of Portland and its citizens is this gift that we get to give. So in closing, I just want to reiterate to say...
 that 2018 provides us a great opportunity to rebound in a very big way. I think Portland is ready to rebound. And I don't want to say rebound in a context to show its true spirit, its spirit of connectivity, which it's showing already. And the Rose Festival is that opportunity to put it on a world stage. And we're going to do – the Rose Festival Foundation, those volunteers and staff behind me are ready to deliver for you in that context. Yeah.
 And final fact is, that's great, that's all, that is the plan, but what inhibits those plans? I will share with you this morning in my final comments to say long-term stable funding is always a challenge. It's a rollercoaster ride. It's like Groundhog Day. Every year we've got to raise money, produce the festival, and turn around and raise it all over again, year in and year out. We have to continue to find relevant programming that meets our community's needs, especially at Waterfront Park.
 What do people want to attend? What do they like? And we've got a more short-term challenge. We have to find a home for our floats in the context of float construction. We've been going year to year to year finding a home for constructing floats. That has got to be addressed, and that's a short-term challenge right now because we're still looking for a home to build floats in 2018 in Portland. And then we've got to keep pace with the change in Portland, and we're up for that. That's an ongoing challenge, but we're always up for that.
 In conclusion, thank you very much for this time. I know you had a busy calendar day today, and I just really appreciate the opportunity to visit with you, bring our team up in front of you, and share our commitment to you and to our citizens that we're in it for you. Thank you very much. Thank you. May I have a question? Please. You mentioned the $100,000 that the council allocated in this year's budget. Is that an ongoing allocation or is that a one-time? That was a one-time funding through Mayor Wheeler's.
 budget in 2016-17. Well, colleagues, I think we need to revisit that in this coming budget because we've just heard about the amazing support that the festival gives for the rest of Portland in the millions of dollars it brings in. Thank you. Thank you, Amanda. Mayor, we have two reports before us. I'm going to move the adoption of report in 1243. Do we have a second? And could we please call the roll? You daily?
 Well, thank you for the reports, and I look forward to, oh, we're not in the new year yet. Right. Next year's festival. Aye. Great. I think one of the most important things that was said today is that it's not a pageant. It's not a beauty competition. It means so much, and it's been doing so much for women in Portland for over 100 years, and that's part of the reason that we're such a great city. So thank you very much, all of you. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Commissioner Fritz, I'm reminded of that on a regular basis when we're at public events. And Senator Wydens, the staff person who represents him in the Tri-County area, Grace is a proud alum of this program and has gone on to glory. So another example of a young woman of distinction who got some leadership training and is now kind of a local rock star.
 Jeff, I'm going to save my substantive comments for the next one, but thank you to your team. And I will say this. This is the ninth year, I think, that we've had presentations from the Rose Festival Foundation, and I think this is the best that you've presented, and I appreciate that you wove together the data, but also the human face of this tremendous enterprise that you lead. Thank you very much. Very proud of our partnership. Aye. Siltsman.
 Yes, I was very impressed with today's presentation. I learned a lot. I'm thinking about where does the 54-member board meet? So that's kind of running through my mind. But anyway, that board obviously works very hard because you pull off a first-class festival here every year and the city is certainly going to be a partner next year and into the future. I'm confident of that. Thank you very much. Good job. Hi. I just want to...
 add my thanks. Thank you for the presentations today. They were nothing short of inspirational. And like my colleagues, I learned a lot today. But the important thing here is to, you know, the main takeaway I want people to have here is these are volunteers. These are people in our community who represent the best interests of our community, who care about the community. And as you can see, there's nothing frivolous about this.
 about the Rose Festival. It gets to some really important issues. It gets to leadership. It gets to equity. It gets to lifting each other up in a very positive way. It gets to coming together and supporting philanthropic and nonprofit efforts in the community. It's all great. It's all positive. I'm all in. Thank you for being here to share this presentation. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Mayor, I move the report 1244. Second. We have a motion and a second on 1244. Please call the roll.
 You, Daly. Thank you again. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Three quick points. As Commissioner Fritz said and the Mayor alluded to, you're our official festival, and we will remember that at budget time, and we are true partners. And so when you have a bump year, it seems to me only fair that we step up and see how we can help. Just two of my favorite memories from my favorite event, which is the Starlight Parade.
 I will never forget the year that you honored Clive Charles, and it was the last year of his life. And there was something so magical about the city showering him with love and gratitude. And the second was a personal favorite. I was in a car doing the circuit, and you get introduced about five or six times as you go through the circuit. And you always hope they just get your name right.
 And I'll never forget when we made the turn and we're coming down Broadway and a very exuberant announcer said, ladies and gentlemen, let's give a warm welcome to Randy Leonard. I'll never forget that, Jeff. But it has not gotten in the way of our relationship and my support. We're really lucky to have the foundation. If I would say one thing.
 benefit of this presentation is it is not in your nature to toot your horn all the time. So when we get a chance to get a focused presentation on everything that you're bringing to the city on our behalf, I think it's really valuable. And just like all my colleagues said, we all learned something today.
 It's an honor to be the liaison that gets to work with you, and I'm just proud of everyone who's associated with this foundation. Thank you for your service. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Thanks for all of you who came in. Item 1245, please.
 Authorized conveyance of city-owned property located at 1010 to 1034 Northeast Grand Avenue to Home Forward and funding not to exceed $5,600,000 to its affiliate, Lloyd Housing Limited Partnership, for the construction of a new mixed-use affordable housing development located in the Oregon Convention Center Urban Renewal Area.
 Colleagues, this development with our regional partners at the Portland Housing Bureau, Home Forward, Multnomah County, and my office exemplifies a great regional working partnership to accomplish a common goal, which is to increase affordable housing in our community. This project, a 12-floor mixed-use building, will consist of ground floor, commercial and retail space, and 240 multifamily residential units.
 Additionally, in solidifying our ongoing commitment to creating deeply affordable units, this project will include 20 units serving households at or below 30% median family income. It's my understanding that this property will become the largest affordable housing development built in Portland in the last 50 years.
 In a time when we see so much divisiveness in government across the country, personally I find it very reassuring that we have local agencies that are working together seamlessly to address our community's needs around housing. These strong relationships help us to do big things for people we serve, and this building is a testament on how we're responding to our housing crisis.
 Home Forward is not a typical housing authority, and I'm very happy that we have a partner with the knowledge, the skills, and the capacity to deliver landmark properties at this scale to our community. To give us some further details on this development opportunity, we have the Portland Housing Bureau's Director, Kurt Krieger, here, as well as Home Forward's Director, Michael Bonetour. Come on up, gentlemen. Mayor, can I have a brief opening comment? Commissioner Fish. While our distinguished guests are coming forward.
 We have two members of council that were not here in 2010 when this property was transferred to the city. And there's an important history lesson here that I want to put on the table today.
 because we would not be having this hearing today had an event not occurred. In 2010, as part of the creation of the new Portland Housing Bureau, which in fairness was a core priority of the then Mayor Sam Adams and was charged to the then Housing Commissioner, me, to effect, there was a debate.
 about what to do with all the properties that were in the inventory of the then Portland Development Commission and whether they should be assigned to the city or be retained by PDC. This particular piece of property, because of its location, generated a lot of interest. And just to sort of explain the different cultures that were at work back then,
 When PDC looked at this property through the lens of economic development, not through the lens of housing, what they saw was a luxury hotel or luxury apartments or possibly retail space, but it was high end. And, in fact, the property came to the city with an unfulfilled demand.
 development agreement of some kind with Joe Weston. And Mr. Weston had gone through different iterations, but his then most recent vision for the site was a high-end hotel, a luxury hotel for that site. When it came over to the city, it was covered by the
 strategic plan and the values that the council adopted when the creation of the Portland Housing Bureau occurred and the city adopted a set of principles about how money would be spent. There was nothing in those principles which said that it was a concern of the Portland Housing Bureau to create a hotel or high-end luxury housing. In fact, it was specifically focused on people shut out from the marketplace.
 I won't go into the details, but there was some conflict over that, and there was a little bit of vinegar. But here's the bottom line.
 Because the council ultimately decided that all those properties that were in play be transferred to the city, and because the city established clear guidelines for how that money should be spent, we are here today celebrating, as the mayor said, a substantial down payment on affordable housing in our community, rather than completing a DDA on a luxury hotel. Thank you.
 And that has everything to do with the creation of the new Portland Housing Bureau. And the final thing I will say, colleagues, is it also explains, while as long as I'm on this council, I will never accept backsliding on what we did in 2009, 2010 in creating the new bureau.
 I welcome a partnership between Prosper Portland and the Housing Bureau. I welcome the strategic partnerships with others. But what this teaches us is when the dollars came to the Housing Bureau, they became a matter of concern for low-income households in our city, not economic development, not high-end hotels, not other things which we can debate the merits of, but are no longer eligible for funding through this process. So I just want to acknowledge Margaret Van Vliet,
 I want to acknowledge Patrick Quinton. I want to acknowledge Mayor Adams, who was a champion for creating the new bureau. I want to acknowledge the then PDC chair, Scott Andrews. I had a small role, but it was a collective effort, and it was the council that put the marker down and said, these dollars and these properties will be spent and focused on the needs of people shut out from the market. And we would not be here today had that property not gone from PDC to the city.
 Great. Thank you, Commissioner. That's actually very helpful and I think an important introduction. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of council. My name is Kurt Krieger. I'm director of Portland's Housing Bureau, and it's my pleasure today to describe the financial contours of this project. And Michael Guarnacore, as the owner and managing general partner of the partnership, which is doing the development, will describe how they will operate this for the next 99 years.
 We've got a PowerPoint presentation with hard copies to follow so that you can have backup documents as you desire. As mentioned, this is a key site within the Interstate Convention Center.
 Oregon Convention Center, Urban Renewal Area. And this map shows you the coordinates, Fronting on Grand, Hasolo, and Holiday. This is a flagship site for the Portland Housing Bureau. And as so accurately described by Commissioner Fish, it has multiple competing interests and uses.
 But since the Housing Bureau came into possession of this site, the streetcar was installed. It became a much more walkable neighborhood. And we saw with great interest what was going on with the adjacent Lloyd Eco District, which contains really no affordable housing whatsoever. So we felt it was important to help counterbalance that market rate development with a strong infusion of equity and equitable housing. Okay.
 the uh... within a half a block of uh... of the convention center hotel it will be of dynamic walkable urban environment for many years to come witness uh...
 partnership was crafted, it was really under the leadership of Commissioner Saltzman in 2015. Immediately after the state of emergency was declared with housing and homelessness, the Housing Bureau moved every one of its sites and all of its available money forward in what we call a super NOFA, a Notice of Funding Availability.
 We were all in to help you solve the housing crisis, and our partners responded. Home Forward was one of two competitors for this site. Reach CDC was also in competition, a very capable developer. But they had differences in their approach, which I will describe in a little bit.
 So in early 2016, Commissioner Saltzman selected Home Forward, and this project is important to note that it is jointly underwritten by Multnomah County. For the first time, we braided our funding streams together in the Super NOFA, offered, in this case, Oregon Convention Center urban renewal funds of $5.1 million and a half a million dollars of resources from Multnomah County.
 So it was an unprecedented level of cooperation where they gave us essentially control over their money, and we originated and vetted projects with their involvement. So we're both very excited about this. So your action today will essentially approve $5.1 million in funding for the project. The total development cost is $74 million.
 the result would be a 12-story mixed-use building
 It's important to note that when the site was conveyed by PROSPER, then PDC, to the Housing Bureau, it had a book value acquired in the year 2000 of about $1.4 million. And, of course, in the present day it's worth more. It's worth over $3 million at present. But on the city's books, this is reflected at about a $1.25 million basis. The...
 240 affordable units, in this case 100% below 60% of AMI using the 4% tax credit program, which we can discuss in a little bit more detail, and 20 deeply affordable units at or below 30% of area median income with resident services, which Michael will describe later.
 It's also important that you know that this is one of the projects where we have gone from long-term affordability to permanent affordability. Title 30, which is your policy dictates to the Housing Bureau, says that housing should be affordable for a minimum of 60 years.
 And because of our strong commitment, and in this case, ownership of the land, conveyance of that land at no cost to Home Forward, we have been asking our partners to agree to 99 years of affordability. So this will do that. And so you have more public value, longer-term commitments from our partners as a result.
 This was in part selected because of its dynamic streetscape. Reach had a very good design, also had 240 units proposed, but they were going to have a nonprofit partner anchor the ground floor. In this instance, Home Forward is curating the retail space for sale to a retail operator, a private operator.
 retail operators. So we think in the long term, having a dynamic streetscape with lots of pedestrian activity will help enliven the neighborhood and bridge the neighborhood between the Oregon Convention Center itself and the Lloyd Eco-District.
 Why are we selling it rather than renting it out? That's a question for Michael. They are taking the financial risk on that space, and they are actually paying out of pocket for the tenant improvements. So they have some risk rewards to balance here in their transaction. I think it's in their best financial interest to sell it. Oh, wait. Never mind. Sorry. Yeah, yeah.
 It is important that you know, however, that that was a key factor in the decision, which is how this relates to the street, how it enhances the neighborhood and builds on success.
 We have established a minimum standard of 35% women, minority, disadvantaged, small business in terms of the hard costs. And as I mentioned, the total project cost is some $74 million. So this will have a significant impact on minority and women-owned businesses. And they have committed to LEED Gold. I would note that this project, as I mentioned, is a –
 with bonds and low-income housing tax credits, and Dirk Vander Hart's been tracking the impact on tax credits with tax reform, so it's probably worth mentioning that Home Forward's price from Bank of America for the tax credits is $1.07. Okay.
 The average in 2017 is $0.95. So Home Forward is receiving a price premium of $0.12 over and above the national average, and I think it's worth mentioning that that's worth about $2 million. And it's in large part because of the stability and quality management of Home Forward and the unitary underwriting that Bank of America has applied to this, both in the debt and equity, because they are providing the entire suite of financial services, which reduces costs.
 some cost. What's the value of the tax credit? The total value, it's a $29 million tax credit.
 infusion. $29 million of tax credits. But they're getting the benefit of what, 90-something cents on the dollar? They're getting the benefit of $1.07. So just to put that in context, in the teeth of the recession where we couldn't get the development moved in South Waterfront, when the market collapsed, I think it was down like 70-something cents on the dollar. So it was just not feasible. So that's an extraordinary turnaround and a reflection of the
 of the balance sheet of Home Forward. Yeah. So I wanted to reinforce that because the complexity can be somewhat mind-boggling at times, but this really reflects a stellar project in a stellar location undertaken by a stellar developer with a great team.
 And I think you can be proud of this for many years to come. The next slide describes the total development costs, talks a little bit about the city's leverage. Our investment is leveraging 10 outside dollars in the form of tax credits and tax-exempt bonds. And Home Forward is all in with $12 million of their own resources, plus an allocation of project-based rental assistance vouchers. Kurt, I feel like you just buried the lead, and I want to reiterate that.
 It leverages our resources 10 to 1 with outside and private resources. Because I know there's a lot of back of the envelope scribbling going on now as a result of the total cost that you mentioned in exchange for permanent affordability. So I want to keep that front and center, 10 to 1 leverage. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you for pointing that out.
 The actions before you today, then, in Ordinance 1245 would be to authorize me to execute the final disposition and development agreement and other documents to implement the
 the project undertaken by a limited company created for this purpose, Lloyd Housing Limited Partnership. We would be also conveying $5.1 million of Oregon Convention Center Urban Renewal Tax Increment Financing and $500,000 of money from Multnomah County's Home for Everyone Fund.
 And I would then be authorized to enter into any final agreements necessary to implement the project in substantially the form presented to you today.
 Before Michael speaks, I'd like to recognize that this is a team effort, involves a lot of people, and as alluded to by Commissioner Fish, it involved people that are not here today. But the people that are here today that were instrumental, Jill Chen, project manager within the Housing Bureau, Carl Dinkelspiel, housing finance manager, and Javier Mina, assistant director.
 Well, I'd like to recognize Lisa Gramp with the Office of the City Attorney. These are very complicated projects, and the City Attorney's involvement is instrumental to our success. It's worth mentioning that this project technically does not fall underneath the City of Portland's inclusionary housing requirements. It's a fine point detail, so it's 100 percent affordable anyway. But it's important that you know that it was vested prior to.
 So that summarizes my comments, and Michael Bonacore is here with his project manager and director, Jonathan Trutt. Thanks, Curt. Good morning. Good morning, the Array Alert Commissioners. Thank you for having me. We are thrilled to be here and very excited about this project.
 I remember learning that we were awarded this project. We had just completed one of the largest preservation efforts in the state's history on four of our public housing high-rise buildings on over 600 apartments. And we were giving Commissioner Saltzman a tour, my board chair and I.
 when he congratulated us on being the winner in the competition and asked if we felt like we had the capacity to take on a big project like this. And we were thrilled and said that we absolutely did. And, in fact, this is very much in the wheelhouse of what we do well, large and complex projects.
 We couldn't be more excited to be doing this. Our original proposal, which was awarded, actually had a lower unit count and a lower number of affordable apartments. But today we are at 240 at 100%.
 affordability at 60% and below. And as the Mayor said, with 20 project-based vouchers providing deep affordability, as well as three more apartments at 50% affordability.
 So to be able to increase, significantly increase, the number of affordable apartments and not have to come back to the city for any more money feels like a big victory for all of us and something we're really excited to get in the dirt and start to deliver. And as much as we love doing big projects like this, our role...
 is not just as a competitor for city resources, but as a strategic and funding partner with all of you in the larger effort to increase affordable housing in the community. And we're very careful on both sides to sort of wall off those two roles. But frankly, the more important is that we are that we are a partner in this effort. And we,
 I think that role is critical to leverage the resources and expertise that exists between our organizations. And it's been acknowledged, but I think it's really important to acknowledge again just what a big lift the Portland Housing Bureau did to put all of those resources out on the street en masse like they did in response to this crisis.
 And if I could do anything to change the reality that we were in the crisis that we're in, I would.
 And it's important that while we are, we take every opportunity to figure out how we use our resources together strategically and that we leverage our talents and capacities. And so I believe this project does, and I think our relationship in a much larger sense does that. In this super NOFA, we contributed 100 project-based vouchers to try to get as much deep affordability in all of the projects, whether they were ours or not.
 And the value of those vouchers over the 15-year contract period that they will be committed to provides millions more in resources to contribute towards the effort that we're all making together. So, you know, truly we could not be more proud to be your partner and to be working collaboratively. But we are here today mostly to say thank you for your trust in us to deliver on this project. Thank you.
 So thank you very much. And as you have questions, Jonathan has joined me to be able to answer some of those as well. Thank you. Great. Thank you. I have a few. Commissioner Fish. So I love the idea that the commercial space will be professionally managed, and you're looking to sort of think about it in the context of the fact you've got a hotel across the street, a convention center, and the Lloyd District.
 But there's a cautionary tale I want to avoid, which is what we experienced at the Clifford Apartments. The Clifford Apartments, as you know, has a lot of very vulnerable people in it. And the primary anchor tenant of that building was a package store. And as a result, we were in the anomalous situation of a nonprofit housing developer saying,
 housing to people in recovery and then on the ground floor selling alcohol. But it was a package store selling the high-octane malt liquor and other things. So do we need an amendment, or can I have your assurance that there will be no package store on the ground floor of this building? Jonathan. Yes. Jonathan Tratt, Director of Development for...
 Home 4, I don't believe we need an amendment because it's going to be in all the condo documents that that's a prohibited use. So there will be no alcohol store, no package store in that building. Thank you. And, you know, it's weird that there were some legacy projects throughout the city where he found this situation. But as you know...
 in Morrison became quite a scene because people living in the building were essentially in their daily fix of very unhealthy things and then hanging out. And it just seems to me non-profits should not be in the business of enabling that. So I'm very pleased to hear that. May I just interrupt? So can it have a pub? Is that? I don't think we've precluded the possibility of a pub. Yes or no? Yes or no?
 So a restaurant food is a permissible use within the commercial space. I don't have a problem with a restaurant. I do have a problem with a package store selling turbocharged alcohol that's cheap. The second thing is I forget what standard applies here. So this is being built to what LEED specification? It is going to be LEED for homes gold. LEED gold. Yes. That's our standard, right? It has to be LEED gold or above for anything the city invests in? I believe so.
 Well, just to clarify, the city, in October you adopted a standard, which is a Portland Housing Bureau sustainability standard. Right. It's not, strictly speaking, LEED Gold, but it focuses on indoor air quality, energy savings, and water savings in a way that actually achieves our goals. No, I get it. And there's a big debate about whether LEED is the right. Does this meet our minimum standards in sustainability? Absolutely. It exceeds it.
 And then here's the other thing. We, as our friends at Home Forward know because they were instrumental in this, we made a commitment as a council a couple months ago to add 200 units of permanent supportive housing every year. So I'll be looking to each project that we fund for what's the set-aside towards that goal.
 The 20 project-based Section 8 vouchers will bring, obviously, allow us to bring the rents down. Is it our intent for those to be permanent supportive housing units? No, it's not. So I can't support this unless we actually make a down payment in this project. So what would it take? Is the answer no because we have to put some service dollars in there or you don't have the capacity or both?
 Well, it hasn't been designed with supportive housing in mind. It would need, I think, a significant services investment above what's budgeted for the property. So in fairness, the county and the city have said we have to come up with the service dollars. So the question now becomes what additional steps do we have to take so that those units could be eligible for people that need permanent supportive housing?
 And it's a 217 unit, so we're talking about 20 out of 217. So I would not think it's a huge impact overall. So, again, we have a policy saying we're going to hit 200 and we're going to start looking opportunistically at every project. So this is $5.1 million. And what could we do in the early stages of this project to ensure there are some PSHs?
 And what would you need from us? Well, what I can tell you today is that we are explicitly providing a preference in working with the domestic violence system to house people with these units. So there is a deep services component for a population who will be housed here. It's not just necessarily generic, deeply affordable housing. And that's the programming that we have moved forward with. Under what policy?
 Because we're picking, I mean, there's dozens of populations that require our, so what's the policy that put domestic violence survivors ahead of, say, formerly homeless people with mental illness or whatever? Sure. We have been working for several years now to deepen our very active partnership with the DV system, and we continue to see significant need there. So-
 You know, as we develop projects, each one is a consideration about location and what partners might be available to work with us. And, again, we continue to see this as a significant service need. So I completely support providing housing for victims of domestic violence, but this is the first project out of the box, and we're already experiencing the problem which I anticipated. Thank you.
 which is we are going to lose an opportunity because of some other compelling use. We're not enforcing a policy. And we've got 217 units, and not one of them, Kurt, is set aside for permanent supportive housing. So what are we doing wrong here? Well, I think I would frame it differently. Sure you would. But the question, I want to get to the outcome, not the framing. Right. How do we get to the outcome? So Multnomah County underwrote this project with the,
 the Housing Bureau. And from the very inception, Survivors of Domestic Violence was part of the program, and they were selected on that basis. And I would say that Multnomah County's underwriting was strongly influenced by that connectivity, the linkage that the Housing Authority had agreed to undertake together
 with their domestic violence programs. So the units will exist for 99 years, and they can be infused with service dollars as they become available through the county funding streams. And that relationship exists. The units are going to be there.
 I'm not actually of the belief that we're missing an opportunity. I think we actually have a good confluence of interests that is coming at the right time. When the county has the money, the housing authority will have the units. And frankly, it's going to take a couple years to build. This is going to be a late 2019 project. So as your policy directive to me and Mark Jolin plays out,
 the funding strategy will be in place before the units are completed. Last comment. Commissioner, can I just join this conversation? Because it's within walking distance of the Unity Center, and this project has a resident manager, is that correct? Yes.
 Yes. Yes, so it would seem that that's got services very close at hand, and one of the reasons for the EUNC centre is to have that emergency room where people can get their medications adjusted and go back out into the community. It's not intended to have everybody going into long-term care. So that might be one way to start addressing your concern, which I share. Well, and I...
 I wasn't born yesterday. I understand the opportunistic funding sources. I understand capitalizing on an opportunity that arises because there's some funding available. This is not a criticism. What I'm simply pointing out is that the city has committed to add 200 units of permanent supportive housing to address two-thirds of the people who are homeless.
 This is the first project of its kind that's come to us, and there is not a single unit of PSH identified consistent with the policy the city said would guide our investments going forward. So we've got to figure out a way, Mayor, to make this intentional and institutional, because we're not going to get there if every project has a laudable other goal. And it could be many things.
 The next one could be veterans homelessness. The next project could be family-friendly housing. They're all important. If I could be king for a day, I'd house everybody. But we now have a policy saying we're going to get hit 200 a year, and we're going to miss an opportunity in this project to get one. And what I want to make sure is that people are clear when we're doing our underwriting that this is not discretionary, that we're going to build these in, because if not, we're going to be at the back of the line.
 I know that because I've watched over the years PSH go to the back of the line. And the reason we brought a resolution to council was to have the council say, this goes to the front of the line, so we're going to change. And I'm satisfied that if the county money is taking victims of domestic violence who are at most risk when they're on the streets, we know that, women at most risk, that this is sort of a kind of a PSH. This is a first cousin.
 But this is not what the council has directed has to be set aside going forward. And I can't support another project beyond this one, Mayor, where we don't have someone present to us how we're going to capitalize on a permanent supportive housing unit within this. So let me respond to that because I think you've clearly articulated a need, and I agree with it, and that's why I voted for the resolution around permanent supportive housing.
 The permanent supportive housing strategy is being ironed out as we speak per the resolution we all supported with inclusion from the Portland Housing Bureau. So I've heard nothing that suggests that this project cannot be included under the strategy being developed around permanent supportive housing. I mean –
 Is there anything here that prohibits us once we have that strategy learned? The timing is propitious. I don't hear that. This will be ready. So I think we're in agreement. In fairness, the developer has said there's a different programming purpose that they're going to follow with their project-based Section 8s, and they should be applauded for putting project-based Section 8s. Those are the gold standards, and they get pulled and pushed for all those things. So to put project-based Section 8 vouchers in this building is remarkable.
 but they don't have the dollars to provide the services, and we're not designing the building there with the idea that the services are blended in on some floor for a particular population. And so we are actually missing an opportunity. And I will also say the directive to come up with a strategy was not intended to delay a year meeting our goals. We said in year one we would opportunistically meet the goals. The idea of a strategy is to have a clear sense of how we meet the 10-year goal.
 But it did not prevent us from saying on each and every project we're going to ask to have some contribution. In fact, it was my explicit statement at the time that we were going to do both. Well, as the director has said, this project, we're not going to be going to any groundbreaking this year or next year, and it will probably be in 2019. We don't have the source of funding. Excuse me. Please do not interrupt. Let me finish what I'm saying.
 We do not have the strategy completed yet. We do not have the source of funding identified. And I'm not hearing anything in this testimony that leads me to believe this therefore closes the door on permanent supportive housing in this project. I'm not hearing that. If I'm wrong, tell me I'm wrong. You're spot on, sir. Commissioner Udaile. Mayor. Commissioner Udaile. Obviously, I share Commissioner Fish's opinion.
 concern and dedication to permanently supportive housing, but I do want to speak to kind of the unique need and vulnerability of domestic violence survivors when it comes to housing because we have no-cause evictions.
 A visit from the police to a rental unit, a DV visit, often results in a no-cause eviction. I spoke recently to a nonprofit that supports a small number of community members in housing, both finding their housing, working with them to remain in the housing, and giving rental support. There was one individual in a complex with six members
 that included six residents supported by this organization, who was the victim of domestic violence. The property management company tried to illegally evict this person and failed because she had this organization to advocate. So instead, they have chosen not to renew the six leases for all the residents in that building. So...
 We also have an issue of gridlock with our DV support system with people coming into facilities and not having anywhere to be placed for permanent housing. So I just want to say I agree. I would love to see a commitment to a minimum number of PSH units.
 but that this is certainly a laudable endeavor to support DV survivors. So I've got a couple questions. I know the first, well, I think, you know, it's a wonderful project. Yay, we're getting 240 deeply affordable units for 99 years, but I think the number one question is going to be the price tag issue.
 And if anyone can speak to why that per unit dollar amount appears to be so much higher than, for instance, what we're estimating on developments with our housing bond money. And I understand we've got the units, we've got $3 million for retail, but it sounds like there will be space that's,
 non-residential and non-retail, that the equation isn't as simple as $74 million divided by 240? Can anyone speak to that? What's the real per-unit cost? Jonathan? I can start taking a shot at it. If you take 240 units or divide 74 million by 240, there's a couple things that come to mind. One is...
 I would say that developments typically have a developer fee in it. And what we have in here is a developer fee consistent with the risk we're taking. And that number is somewhere in the $8 or $9 million range, which is what's allowed by both state and local programs. We're donating that back into the building. So that money is not staying with us. It's going to pay for the building. So that's one piece.
 I think a lot about this. I was in the affordable housing world for 12 years at a not-for-profit before I came to Home Forward and take very seriously the idea that we have to be careful stewards of public dollars. So when you look at the total, a whole bunch of financing costs that are in there. There's architecture costs. So what I like to do is look at what are we building for? What is the cost per unit in terms of hard costs?
 That number is closer to $46 million. So if you divide that by 240, what you get down to at either a cost per unit or a cost per square foot is basically consistent with what I hear from private sector developers about what it's costing them to build these days.
 And that's reflective of this superheated market that we're in. You know, I'd also say in the context of affordable housing, I mean, it is the right question. Why is it cost what it costs? You know, Kurt spoke to 99-year affordability. And there are different incentives that I think, whether it's us as a public agency or a not-for-profit has when compared to private sector developers...
 when building part of our infrastructure. And what I mean by that is that our incentive is to build something that's going to be durable and last for a really long time. And you focus less...
 less exclusively or not exclusively on what does it just cost to get the thing out of the ground, but how do you make sensible investments such that your operating and maintenance costs are manageable over the course of the many decades that get you to permanent affordability. So I could dive deeper into the numbers, happy to do that offline, but that's my sort of off-the-top-of-my-head answer about that.
 And just to, I guess, reinforce Jonathan's point, the Housing Bureau funds are not paying for the retail. That is totally on Home Forward's side of the ledger. If we just look at the hard and soft costs, all in, contingency reserves, all residential costs, it's about $67,621,000, which is $281,754 a unit. Okay.
 in a flagship location on the streetcar on a site worth some $4 million. And that does not reflect the value of the land. It wouldn't be included in the tax credit basis anyway. So, you know, we think for the next 100 years that's a good investment. And we're willing to stand by those numbers. So, Mayor, I want to offer an amendment, if I could. And I'm going to read it, see if Kurt agrees with it based on the flavor of our conversation, and then see if I have a second. Okay.
 This would be an amendment to the ordinance. It would be a new subsection C to the now therefore the council directs, and it would read as follows. Within the next year, the Portland Housing Bureau and Lloyd Housing Limited Partnership shall review the feasibility of including at least 20 units of permanent supportive housing in the development and shall report back to council. Second.
 We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Operative languages shall review the feasibility, and any feasibility includes additional resources that you believe the city or other partners would have to bring to the table in order to achieve the goals. I'm just saying. It's not an unfunded mandate. Aye.
 Wheeler. I support this. We're, as I said, already working on the permanent supportive housing strategy with both the county and the joint office. I think it's entirely appropriate to discuss it in the context of a specific project. It will give us a good operational look at this as well. So I vote aye. The amendment's adopted.
 Are you done with your questions? Any further questions on the motion, Commissioner Fritz, and then we'll go to testimony. This is a different kind of preference policy. This obviously is in the Convention Center Urban Renewal District. Some of the money came from there. Is there going to be an attempt to prioritize the historically disadvantaged communities in the area as far as who gets the units? I forget what it's called on the list.
 Preference policy. At the present time, no, Commissioner. The preference policy applies to the interstate corridor urban renewal area and not to the Oregon Convention Center urban renewal area. I realize that there are some historic impacts in that neighborhood due to the urban renewal activities. But right now, the city adopted policy that
 for preference, applies to the interstate corridor or commonly known as the albino area. So I would like you to consider that and to see if there is a way to make reparations for the damage done to the communities who used to live there before the convention center was put in.
 And we all know that there's far more people who need housing than we have available. So I hope that whether it's domestic violence shelter or permanent supportive housing for different reasons, that within all of that there could be a prioritization for folks whose families used to live in the area. Thank you.
 Very good. So I don't want to cut this off. If nobody has a burning question, I want to get to public testimony. And, again, as I said up front, I'm sorry we're limiting to two minutes today because we have a lengthy agenda. We only have about an hour to get through the rest of it. So how many folks do we have signed up? If you could call the first three. I have one person signed up, Mary Seip. Come on up, Mary. Thank you for your patience. Okay. I'll try to be quick with this. Sorry.
 Commissioner Fish, I really respect your concern about the permanent supportive housing. I just want to caution you. Don't throw out the baby with the bathwater. Don't make this go away because of that focus. The way I see it... And I'm not married. No, and I don't think you are. My amendment satisfies me for going forward, so I appreciate the concern. Because I think we need to recognize that these different...
 categories, I call them, of need have different solutions. And this is the solution for those people who pretty much are either employed or living on Social Security and have limited income. And
 And I'm excited to see this because I think there's great need for this. I love where it's located. I like the whole idea. I want to throw out a couple of cautionary things. Director Krieger, I think it's great that we've added –
 77 more units by making this 100% affordable and not having any market rate. However, a caution to that is it does not allow you to convert a unit into a market rate unit when the tenant's income exceeds the AMI. So you need, when you're establishing your guidelines, you need to address that. And from some of the research I've done, I've learned that you can do that up front when you start establishing things. Okay.
 And also be careful about your requirements for eligibility. I just learned recently that in the building that I live in, we have a very nice two-bedroom unit that's been vacant since July. Five months they have not been able to rent that affordable unit.
 because they changed their criteria when Bridge Housing became the major partner and Ed McNamara sold his interest. And now they can't find anybody to qualify for it because of the restrictions that they've put in. One of the things they put in is that anyone who has $1,000 or more in delinquent debt is immediately disqualified.
 People who need affordable housing often have more than $1,000 in delinquent debt, and to exclude them from eligibility for that reason is unconscionable.
 Thank you, Mary. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I think the overall project looks really good, the unit number. Again, my opinion on these projects is quality always lasts longer than the overall price. So you've got to look at the quality of the property overall on long term. So that's just my opinion now.
 A couple issues I had, just again on the land itself, I think that land is quite a bit more valuable than the $5 million mark. You even have in the agreement the title companies put in a $5,600,000 title insurance policy, I believe, on the property itself. So there must be quite a bit higher value there. Now...
 That's not a big concern to me. Where it comes to the land from my position is that I always like to try to recoup the land value back to the city by putting in a due-on-sale clause if this property is ever sold, even try to recoup the money back within 20 years. But I like to try to recoup the money back to the city in some form, and I notice we're not doing that basing this on the benefits to the public alone.
 So yeah, I have an issue with that. And then again on the retail space, I understand you're going to do a condo type commercial sale on it. So my understanding, you would have to do a condo conversion if I'm incorrect on that. You're not planning on doing a condo conversion on the apartment units themselves also?
 Because you're putting a value of developing that retail space at $3 million. You have an option to sell it back to PHB at about $4.8 million based upon a legitimate appraisal. So, again, you're using the term condominium.
 so I assume you'll do a condo conversion, and my understanding you have to do that on the whole property itself, not just on the retail you're allowed to do that. Maybe I'm incorrect, and maybe that can be answered by one of the speakers or Commissioner Salzman. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Wayne Wigness. I was glancing through the document posted, and I noticed there was no standards as to, like, the kind of materials they build with. Now, this is a problem because, you know, culture is inextricable from the habitat that it grows in.
 There's that part of it, and we're producing a plastic culture. I mean that literally and metaphorically. But on the economic side, consider the things we build with. Material science has transformed it all. The tools we build with. The construction industry has been transformed. What used to take a lot longer and a lot more energy to build, nowadays it pops up a lot quicker. Now that's time and energy that the worker used to benefit from.
 But nowadays, that's leverage that they lost. Leverage to say how their communities are developed and leverage to have job security. They used to have three, four years worth of work. The developer used to need the worker more.
 If any of you know about the construction industry, now it's becoming more a matter of who you know. You know concrete workers got beer bellies, you know. So what I'm saying is the Davis-Bacon Act, this premium wage or prevailing wage, it's a red herring from the real issue that, you know, leverage has been lost. And for what? Doing more of the same, it doesn't produce different results. Things are getting worse, not better, you know, economically.
 Economists will tell you that housing has been the leading cause of inequality over the last 50 to 100 years. The options that agencies like Home Forward are providing are increasingly smaller, cheaply made, and yet still overpriced boxes. And that's not going to change things.
 And the metric that you're using, you use mixed family income. They used area median income by that standard. Correct me if I'm wrong, but a bunch of Californians could come in and we're being judged by 30% of their income. How convenient is that? The very definition of what is affordable keeps going up. And they're just thriving off of this. On one hand, we've created a system where people...
 It emphasizes help over options. And on one hand, you've got people intentionally making themselves helpless. On the other hand, you're creating options that are extreme, and it's not going to change anything. Thank you. These are good points. Appreciate your testimony. Please call the roll. Oh, Kurt, did you want to answer the question about the condominium question? Sorry, I forgot. Exactly. Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler, members of council, Kurt Krieger, housing director. This is a two-member meeting.
 So there will be one commercial member, one residential member. All the residential units will be encompassed into one and retained by the LLP created by Home Forward. The commercial condominium, as part of the record, is going to be proffered for sale. Very good. Thank you. Please call the roll.
 Thanks to everybody who's been involved in this. And Commissioner Fish, thank you for holding everybody's feet to the fire on a very shared value of being supportive to people once they get into this housing. I'm going to support this for a number of reasons. One is Home Forward is a superb development partner, and some of the best development in our city has been done in partnership between the city and Home Forward.
 Anyone looking at the PowerPoint I think is struck by how humane and functional and frankly attractive the design is, which is a cornerstone of what Home Forward does. I want to address the question about cost because it comes up every time and we should always talk about cost. It is not a peripheral issue.
 But I just want to, at the risk of beating a dead horse, I just want to reiterate my own personal values. I've sat through lots of discussions in public places where we've talked about building a library, a school, a public plaza, a park. And I've never remembered someone getting up and saying, I object to quality. I object to planning for the long term. I object to putting our values into action. Can't we go cheap? No.
 Can't we find some way of making it look crummy and, after all, we can save a buck? Never heard that with all of our public places. But why is it when we build something that houses low-income people, all of a sudden cost becomes the big issue? Yeah.
 And we should always look at cost. I happen to think that with the breakthroughs in modular housing, we're going to get our housing down to cost where cost per unit and functionality and beauty and everything hits that sweet spot. But, again, we don't usually have people come complain about cost when it's the broader public benefit.
 And we do pay a little more. And I want to compliment Dan Saltzman when he was housing commissioner for defending three values that the Housing Bureau put forward intentionally. One was we build buildings to last. And what's the point of having a 99-year covenant if it doesn't last? And, my friends, a lot of the crap being built in East Portland by private developers has a 15-year shelf life and then has to be rebuilt. So if you're going to build for 99 years, let's make it last.
 Number two, we build it green. We build it green. It costs a little extra in the front end, but we save a fortune in utility costs in the long run. And what did we hear from the panel? Cleaner air, healthier environment, non-toxic materials. Okay, that's something we can all get behind. And here's the final one, too, actually. We build to area standards. We do not accept the premise that the people building our buildings should live in poverty. So it's a prevailing wage project.
 And that's a big question right now, and there's a big fight about whether we should continue to pay prevailing wage. I think we should proudly pay prevailing wage if it means people can actually go home and feed a family. And here's the final thing, opportunity. We're building this in one of the most desirable new neighborhoods in our city. We're not building this out on the corner of some street, you know, at Gresham in the outer east where there's no infrastructure.
 We're building it in one of the most attractive places. And we're going to catch hell from that hotel mayor because they put that rooftop restaurant, and now we've blocked their view to the east. But it's a great location. Low-income people should have the right to choose to live in a great location. So it meets all of our values, and that is worth investing in, in my opinion.
 Finally, I appreciate that the council adopted the amendment I proposed, and I will make that amendment, Kurt, every time something comes forward. And there is nothing more important than providing housing for victims of domestic violence. We're all in agreement that it's not a debate. But I can assure you, because I've been on the council long enough, unless we keep our feet to the fire and seize an opportunity at each development to find permanent supportive housing units, we'll never meet the goal we've set.
 And I'm tired of setting goals and then falling short. So every project I'm going to ask, how many units and how do we pay for it? But this is a happy day. Dan, congratulations for the super NOFA and for shepherding this to this point. Mayor, I enthusiastically support the development team, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Well, this is a fantastic project. I laud all the partners involved, the Housing Bureau, Councilman,
 Home Forward and Lloyd Development, the private developer as well. This really is a great project. When I took over the Housing Bureau as the commissioner, I think in 2013, and we were working on putting together this super NOFA, I recall that this property was slated to just be sold on the open market. So we could have maybe fetched,
 one, two million dollars. Instead, now we're looking at a project that's going to provide over 240 units of affordable housing. So I think we made the right decision to hold on to that property, given all its attributes, and as Commissioner Fish said, given it really is... We talk a lot about building affordable housing in important areas, not just on the outskirts of the city, but high-opportunity areas. Good schools, good transit, good retail. And this...
 This Block 45 has it all, and now it's going to be an outstanding home to hundreds of people. So this is a great project. I'm very pleased to support it. Aye. Hugh Daly. Sorry, I had to step out. I am now in week seven of my mystery illness and had to take some medication.
 So I think my colleagues have probably covered most of the bases. I just want to say this is an exciting and significant step forward in meeting our shortfall of affordable housing, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler. Good work, everybody. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. Just as a housekeeping matter, and because we have so much left, our friends at the Portland Utility Board,
 agreed to set over their report to next week. That's 1267. And Carla has found a time certain at 1115. Is that right, Carla? Yes. So without objection, Mayor? Without objection, 1267 moved to next Wednesday at a time certain. Do we have the time certain? No.
 For 1115 AM. 1115 AM. Thank you. Similarly, item 1259 pertaining to the Central City 2035 plan, I'd like to move item 1259 to 4 PM this afternoon to be read along with the other Central City 2035 plan issues. Unless there is any objection, I don't see one. That brings us to item 1260, please.
 1260, execute a contract with Sunshine Division, Inc., to define roles and responsibilities in support of Sunshine Division's mission of providing food and clothing to community members in need. Very good. And I understand we have Captain Bob Day and Officer Eric Daniels here today. Sir, we're with 1261. I think Officer Toby is with 1261. Oh, I apologize. Sorry, Officer Toby. Come on down. My notes weren't correct. My fault.
 You've been sitting there very patiently. I can support it, though. Good enough. I'm sure he can do just fine on his own. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. I'm Officer Matt Tobey with the Police Bureau, Sunshine Division. And would you like to hear a history of the Sunshine Division? I'm hoping that's what you're hoping to hear from me today. Yes, we're – yes, that's fine. Perfect. So Sunshine Division started really in 1917 with a man named Captain Circle –
 His officers came across, as we often do, people who needed a little extra help, and he started collecting spare change. He kept basically a dish on his desk and collected the officer's change, and they used this money to help provide food for those who needed it on the street, also clothing. Okay.
 1923 is when Sunshine Division officially became the Sunshine Division. It was actually part of the police bureau. It was actually commanded by a captain as a division. And this mission was again to provide food and clothing to those who needed it the most. Fast forward to now, 2017, and I'm actually assigned as the liaison and the coordinator with Sunshine Division. And our mission still is to provide food and clothing to people in the city of Portland. Officers are able to do that in really three different ways.
 We have two warehouses now. We have a warehouse in North Portland, which is our original location and area. And we feed roughly 1,200 families a month through that warehouse and also clothe them as best we can. Two weeks ago, we opened a new facility on the east side of the city, which was in desperate need. Many of our clients had to travel from the east side to the north side to receive services from us. So that's one way that we help people. We also are able to do officers each carry a pass-along card.
 And these cards allow an officer to put their name on it. They can give that to anybody in need, and these people are able to go again to our warehouse and receive food and clothing as a free visit. They can further qualify if they receive Social Security benefits, if they receive SNAP benefits, if they're veterans, widows of veterans, and so forth. They're able to receive at least up to six visits a year through our warehouses.
 In addition to that, each precinct and most of our contact offices, and this is what really makes us unique, is we have emergency food boxes. And these food boxes are roughly 35 to 40 pounds of food, nonperishable food. And what is great is a citizen can call the non-emergency line 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and an officer will show up with a box of food to help them in a time of need. These boxes are also available to officers all the time at their discretion. So if they find somebody who needs it, they can help them out.
 That's really our core mission in the Sunshine Division. Very good. And if I may just state for the record, and what we're actually voting on today is the contract. It allows the commissioner in charge in this case, that happens to be me as police commissioner, to execute a contract with the Sunshine Division, and the contract lays out who is responsible for what. And so that is actually the formal action that we're taking today. Commissioner Fritz.
 So you just said people could call the non-emergency number. You mean the 823-3333? Yes. So I think maybe we should look into that because, as we all know, those calls are also handled by the 911 operators. So perhaps there's a way to have those calls go to the 823-4000 number rather than having people calling that line. Right.
 Yeah, we'd be happy to work with you on that. I think that actually there's a lot of sense to that. Thank you for letting people know that they can request. Yes. So certainly at this point, calling 823-4000 if folks are watching and going to need some help. Thank you for your work. Very good. Any further questions for Officer Tobey? I wanted to ask, where is your new east side location? It's 12436 Southeast Dark, right next to the Fabric Depot, and we're very, very busy there. Great for him. Glad to hear that.
 Thank you, sir. Public testimony? Yes. We have two people signed up, Star Stauffer and Shedrick Wilkins. Very good. Two minutes each, please. Name for the record. Thanks, officer. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. I'll let them go first. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, on the Sunshine Division, great work. I have no issues in that area at all. Continue moving toward the mission that you're trying to accomplish. Now, one of the issues I have on this overall agreement, I just –
 I want to have a clear understanding there's that separation from the non-profit to the police and to the city of Portland. And that's my understanding of what we're talking about today. And one of the issues I had is that I don't mind the – I might have a little bit of an issue on using city vehicles for the non-profit. No, ask.
 I would suggest that we, one of two things, we donate the vehicles to the non-profit and or provide them adequate funding to buy vehicles for their non-profit and do a complete separation for liability and financial risk purposes, which you have stated in this agreement. So I have no issue on them being provided money and or the vehicles in a donation manner. Issue number two is I understand you have a
 somebody on the staff of Sunset Sign Division who is a police officer. Again, just as long as we have a complete separation there on how they're being paid.
 Again, and why I'm talking about this, I had an issue with how we were dealing with Target on their security, on having uniforms of Portland police being used as security for Target, but actually only representing Target at the time. Again, it's just coming down to the equipment being used, complete separation, and just keep it separated from the nonprofit to the city to the police.
 And then I don't have a concern. Thank you. Yeah, that's actually a great idea. I'm going to follow up on that. That makes a lot of sense. Thank you. Okay. I tend to disagree with Lightning. I think that the Sunshine Division is a good way for the police officers to possibly, in a friendly way, go to people's homes, see how they're doing. Police officers can gauge whether there might be some economic problems in a general neighborhood. People are feeding their kids. Make sure.
 You know, I'm not here to spy, but to kind of feel it. So I don't mind the police using police cars for this kind of thing. Thank you.
 Also, I think as a veteran, it's interesting to note that if the Sunshine Division was set up in 1917, then it's possible that they were going into veterans when they were fighting the war and seeing if the money that they get from the Army or whatever, the military, is coming to their families and they're thousands of miles away. So I do see the Sunshine Division as a way to kind of put your pulse on a neighborhood.
 by giving food, but also seeing the kind of people that you may have to use your law enforcement on. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Star Stauffer. It's interesting that Shedrick ended his testimony with what he just said because that's actually my concern. The Sunshine Division, in theory, on paper, seems like a really benevolent cause. However, in a city that seems to be confused about what sanctuary means, allowing officers to use police vehicles that to many people in this city are a show of force, a threat,
 to perform this supposedly benevolent gesture. It's just not a good way to access communities at risk.
 access communities that have undocumented children or parents, access communities of color, marginalized community members that are houseless, people with disabilities who all see these officers as dangerous to their status, their lives, their children, their homes, everything. For them to be showing up in uniform in these cars,
 under what premise, how much are they being paid? What's the status as far as are they being paid overtime? Because if these officers that are being sent out are being paid all this money, it's not really benevolent in theory or in fact. And you can't have these officers showing up in neighborhoods to take the pulse of a neighborhood to find out do we need to send more cops to this neighborhood? That's not benevolence. That's a phishing expedition to target people.
 And people don't want to see these things in their neighborhoods, especially over-policed neighborhoods. So this program needs to be changed so that it is accessible for all. And that's also going back to our sanctuary status as a city. So that children who really need this program feel free and safe to access it, them and their families. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of the things that occurred to me while I was listening to the arguments was that last year,
 we had dozens of people running around in their cars and their trucks delivering food, delivering emergency stuff like tents and all the... And they were using Facebook to call for stuff that they needed, a stove, some outerwear, socks, some stuff for families. And the thought occurred to me,
 You have two warehouses full of stuff, and we have people running around delivering it. Can you get together and have the people identified somehow where the Sunshine or the police are comfortable with them? Like Star, you know Star has done it, you know Mimi has done it, on that level where the police are comfortable and somebody needs something that we don't have.
 That they could call somebody and say, is it in the warehouse? Do you have one? A tent? Something to eat? Sleeping bags? Blankets? Those type of items. It would be a first minor, little bitty, bitty, bitty step to bring the two groups together. Because right now, one is here and one is there.
 So the Sunshine is doing good work. It's got a great reputation all throughout the United States. Bring them together and say, okay, we need a tent. Who can we call? And that's what they do on Facebook. But there's a delay on Facebook a lot of times. And sometimes it's so specialized that we can't find it.
 So this is another opportunity. Just think about that for a minute, and I hope the police are hearing this, and maybe they'll think about it. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Any further comments, questions? Please call the roll. Hugh Daly. Thanks for the presentation. Aye. Aye. Yes, sorry. Go ahead. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Good works on time division, and I definitely know how crowded your existing warehouse in North Portland is, so I'm happy.
 Really happy to hear about the new one in East Portland, and especially since it's near so many people that Sunshine Division serves. So keep up the good work. Aye. Wheeler. A couple of good suggestions here during testimony. I appreciate it, and I look forward to following up. And, Officer, thank you for being here today, and thank you for your patience. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 Item 1261, authorized disposal of surplus Taser X-26 electronic control weapons, holsters, cartridges, and batteries, and authorized the Portland Police Bureau to proceed with donation and or sale of the property. So, colleagues, this is...
 Disposition item, the Portland Police Bureau adopted the use of the Taser International CEW model X26 back in 2005. Taser International seized production of the X26 back in 2014.
 they're going to stop supporting this item, X26, at the end of the year 2019. As of 2016, the Portland Police Bureau transitioned to a newer and safer model, the X2 model, which is quickly becoming the standard.
 As of November 2016, the Police Bureau has 600 to 650 surplus X26 model tasers. About 60 to 70 percent of them are in usable condition and suitable for continued use. And what that means is they're clean, they're fully functioning, and they are undamaged.
 After transitioning to the new X2 model, several Oregon law enforcement agencies expressed interest in our surplus X26 models. Here to discuss more about transitioning the old tasers are Captain Bob Day and Officer Eric Daniels of the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you, gentlemen, for being here.
 Thank you, Mayor. That's very succinct. It covers really what we're here to discuss. I'm Captain Bob Day with the Port and Police Bureau Training Division. This is Officer Eric Daniels. He's our lead in this program.
 In summary, to go with the mayor's comments, we really are faced with this additional surplus of merchandise, and we have three choices. We can just have them destroyed out at the property room, of which we probably have already done so with about 150 to 200 because they were inoperable, non-functioning.
 Another option would be to sell them, but there's a private vendor that does that. We're not comfortable selling to a private vendor because once we release it to the private vendor, we don't know what's going to happen to it next. And so there is also some challenges there in the sense that just because they say they give us, for example, $200 a taser and we've got 500 tasers, that doesn't mean that that's an automatic homeowner.
 hundred thousand dollars and they may say well we'll take 50 of them or we'll take you know 20 and we don't know exactly but that is an option the council needs to be aware of that there is a there is a an opportunity there but i do not support that at this time the final one is to engage with our law enforcement partners around the state there are some smaller agencies that don't have any kind of program at all
 with this weapons system, and I think that it would be beneficial to support them, be good regional partners, as well as agencies that are going to maintain a relationship with the X-26 for the next year or two and are simply going to be in need of replacements and parts.
 and so forth. It was not a reliable option for us, one, because of our size and our need, and two, the X2 that we adopted this past year is a much safer, more effective model for us, more progressive along the lines of our force policy and our teaching, our scenario bus training, et cetera. So...
 It's really pretty straightforward is do we just keep them and send them out to the evidence division and have them destroyed? Once again, the sale option, the retail option, which we don't support at this time, but is an option as well as the preferred method for us would be able to donate them to a handful of agencies that have stepped up and pursued us and asked if we would be willing to do that. So that's the purpose for the ordinance. Very good.
 Officer, anything to add? No, sir. Very good. Commissioner Fritz? Are there other pieces of them that are recyclable? Are they recyclable? Yeah, I mean, if you take it apart, are there things that could go in various different waste streams?
 Well, I don't know exactly what Property Evidence Division has done with them, so I would have to check with them to see if there's a recyclable nature to it. I'm not sure. That's a good question. We'll check with Bureau of Planning Sustainability. They're always coming up with new things that we can do with it. Right. That's an excellent question. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly? Yeah. So if these tasers are unsupported, what use or interest do other –
 law enforcement agencies have in using them? Well, I'm supportive in the sense that you cannot receive replacement parts. You can't have them fixed. You know, for years we would, if a taser broke, we have a, an agreement, we'd send it back. They'd fix it, replace it, et cetera. We could get holsters, cartridges and so forth. And none of that's available anymore. So, um,
 You know, this is kind of like, you know, having an older model car where you can't get parts for anymore, so you try and go out and find other older model cars. Smaller agencies, which only have a fixed number of, you know, tasers, maybe 8 to 10 to 12, you know, it's in their benefit to have 5 or 6 or 8 or 10 on the shelf so that they can either replace immediately or use parts interchangeably. So that's what we talk, when we say not supported, holistically the program's not supported, and they know that, so that's why they're approaching us saying, hey, can we have,
 what you have left over. And it's just a matter of...
 not quality of the item? Correct, yeah. It's just a business decision by the organ and by the company. I mean, you know, it's sort of like buying a new iPhone when they have a new cord now and you have to get this and this and this to go with it. Same thing when we went to the X2, we had to buy new batteries, we had to buy new holsters, new equipment to support it. It's just... A little different than... I don't know what kind of iPhone you're using, but... Well, just as an example. So there's no... There's been no finding of a battery
 product defect in the X2? There's been no recall by the manufacturer of the X2? Anything like that? No, not at this time. We've had them. They're just totally switching out? When did we purchase those X2s? Was it a year ago? 2014. Okay, 2014. My bad. So a little over two years ago now, and continue to have a partnership that's working, no recalls, no issues like that. I mean, why does a company, after only two years...
 Oh, no, it was the X-26. Apple does it all the time. The X-26 they've had since 2004. They stopped in 2014 supporting that, and so they've gone to the X-2 a couple years ago, and that's when we transitioned. Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. Public testimony? I have five people signed up. Very good. Two minutes each, please. Our Joe Walsh, Mimi Gurman, and Nancy Newell are in the next section.
 Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You've all seen the programs on TV where they get all these guns. The cops confiscate all these guns. And they pile up and then destroy them. And one would ask, why would they do that? That's really valuable stuff. I mean, each of those guns runs a couple hundred bucks. And they destroy thousands of them.
 The reason that I was given was they don't want them on the streets. They want them destroyed. And that's what I want you to do. I want you to destroy this stuff. Don't give it away. Don't sell it. Don't pass it on. Destroy it. That's our position. These are instruments of torture. And police have gone up on charges for using them as instruments of torture. So we're saying to you, burn them.
 crush them, put them in some place where nobody will ever even know what they were. Because it's our shame that we have them. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, my name is Mimi Gurman, and I'd like to say that it's a shame that today's agenda...
 list was so long. I have a feeling that we were backed up because Chloe decided to go out for coffee two weeks ago and this is an issue. I'm a citizen in the city and I am self-employed and I decided that in order to testify against this, I had to wait this long because Chloe Udalli decided to play hooky a few weeks ago. Getting to this subject, I agree with Joe. All of these
 and everything else, the entire list should be destroyed. And I also am really upset that questions that are being asked today weren't asked when the cops came for more money, for more bullets, and more gear. These are the questions that need to be asked. Why do you need that? What did you do with the other...
 ammunition that you had, how much is left. Let's do an audit on what you have, which is why you're asking for money, so that we can actually be sure that we should be giving you money for the things that you're asking. And today we have this issue where they have gear that still, even though it might be a little bit outdated, still works. And yet they've been given all new, more money for new gear. Destroy this. Destroy this.
 It should not be passed on to anybody. It's dangerous. Can we just be done with this? Let's ask questions in the future before we get to this place again. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Nancy Newell. My right to speak today for three minutes was removed from me without my knowledge. I had signed up two months ago. I had to wait two months to testify on the Columbia Generating Station. I'm here to protest that right now. It's not, it was never indicated to me I had to sign any sheet or had to have documented from the auditor's office that I had signed up. I don't know what's happening to this council and this handling of public affairs, but public citizens are being shut out.
 and we're in the middle of a nuclear power crisis with a plant that's melting down. And in December, that's what's going to happen with freezing weather because here's the chart last year, and there was no reports on it for five months by 28 public utility owners. That's a form of a taser.
 with us getting cancer, the record numbers in women, breast cancer, and I want to put that on the record, because you're not paying attention to critical safety issues as commissioners of this city, nor did you pay any attention to Enron, and I was confused of being unknowledgeable and not knowing what I was talking about with that corrupt corporation, and you allowed them into this city, this commission. This commission that's supposed to represent the people. So today I'm going to put that on record, and I'm going to say with these guns...
 How dare you? How dare the police department have that choice? With the Trump administration, we don't know where these are going. We paid for it. Do you think that's not on our conscience? Do you think we want to live in a city that would make that kind of choice?
 When we've got all the recycling techniques you could possibly have, we are honored throughout the world, practically, in our efforts to try to recover and use the best ways for any of these materials that are getting rarer and rarer. And we're going to give away to unknowns through the police department? Who gave them that authority? You're the police commissioner. You should never allow that to happen. Thank you.
 And there are smart ways to do this. And for some reason, this city goes down the path, wastes everybody's time. I've been here for hours just to get this public testimony in. Why does it continue? Why does this happen? Why don't you listen to the people that are making sense? It doesn't make any sense to me. Thank you. Is there any further public testimony on this? Oh, I'm sorry, sir. Start at Shedrick.
 Good morning again, or rather afternoon at this point. Star Stauffer, destroy these things. First of all, I'm not really sure why the police felt that they needed to upgrade to a new smarter model of taser. I'm not even sure why any of you are comfortable with them carrying tasers considering they disproportionately overuse them on people with mental illnesses to the point at times resulting in the death of the person.
 And then when it comes to children of color, like Juana says, they're not even used, they just go right for their guns. So it seems like either they don't know how to use them, overuse them, or just flat out disregard them to the cost of 1.8 million dollars now to the taxpayer and people's lives. Literally.
 These tasers do not need to be given to any other city agencies. We don't need to be giving these tasers to people with DPSST certifications so that we can have more cronies for the police in parking garages and retail stores armed with these weapons that have been used to kill people, that can be fatal, have been fatal. And not only that, after a five-year shelf life, can't even be proven to be effective when used. Right.
 in stun mode or firing mode, which is the justification that the police are using to want to upgrade. Not only that, because of the way that the firing happens, with the way that they can deliver the waiting period in the taser, this new taser allows them to fire without having to reload the way that they would have to with the X-26.
 They're just upgrading for a newer, smarter, more fun toy, a tool of torture, so that they can control people with mental illnesses. Rather than actually taking trainings to talk to these people, communicate with them, and bring them down to a level of calm while they're, you know, make them feel safe, communicate with them. Instead, they tase them and torture them, sometimes to death.
 And I'm just wondering at what point is it going to stop? $1.8 million for tasers, $4 million for practice bullets. I mean, what's next? Honestly, wake up. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. City of Portland, a weapons dealer. Not going to happen. Not going to happen. So that's plain and simple. We're not going to be a weapons dealer. It's not going to happen.
 The X26 has had some problems on the trigger. It's been stated numerous times that it has a touchy trigger that allows more time to go without really them thinking it's happening. With that in mind, that is a malfunction of Taser. And my recommendation, again...
 Do not become a weapons dealer at any cost. And the reason is, if something does malfunction and you do happen to allow that to be donated to someone else and they do get hurt, there's no agreement that you can remove your liability at that point. No agreement in the world that you could have them sign. Do not become a weapons dealer at any cost where you're delivering that to someone else and a malfunction can happen.
 You are the weapons dealer at that time. Do not put yourself in that position. Go back to Taser. Explain the malfunction that have happened. And ask them to give you a credit for a certain amount of dollars.
 for the malfunctions that have taken place in the past, and that's why you've upgraded to this new model. Do not become a weapons dealer. I'm sure that Taser will take good care of you when you take those back to them, and they are weapons dealers, and they can accept the liability. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, on this one, I do not believe in tasing people at all. I think it's a form of public electroshock therapy, like the police are running their own little mental hospital.
 It should not be done. I do believe this is a healthy suggestion, that I was bitten by a dog one time that ran out and bit me, and if I had a taser, I would have shot him. I mean, I'm just telling you. Again, I would hate to say that people would say you can't shock a dog, but you can shock a person. So why don't you give them to postal workers or animal control for Multnomah County. I would have tased that dog.
 I mean, it had no business running out in front of me, biting me on the rump, and I would have tased it. And like I say, when you're dealing with a person, you point a gun at somebody, you're dealing with something intelligent. I'm not sure an animal really understands that. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. I have a question if Captain Day wouldn't mind coming back.
 Actually, I have two questions. The first is, do we test the ones that we give or sell to other police departments so that we know that the one that we're giving them is somewhat functional? Oh, yes. We'll go through all of them before we pass them on to somebody else, yes. Yes.
 And so presumably the ones that don't work at all, they go to the recycling or destroyed, right? Correct. And then I see the waiver of responsibility that is part of handing them over. Is there anything that requires the new police department to...
 destroy them once they're not functional, rather I wouldn't want them to be passing it along down the line. Correct. We could certainly have a MOU drafted or some type of, that'll be the next stage, would be to have some type of agreement put in place so that once we pass them on, that they'd make sure that they're destroyed and they're not utilized anywhere else. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 Very good. Any other questions? Please call the roll. I do have a question. And I apologize if this was already addressed, but why did the Bureau just simply not use these tasers for their entire lifespan? Why replace them? Well, because it was...
 becoming too difficult to get them, the ones that we currently had, the H-26s, because they're an agency our size, you know, we have about 800 plus of them. So as they began to break down, it became more difficult to get parts and more difficult to get service from Taser on those. So we just recognized number one, that there's a
 a business side that we can't keep up with because we couldn't get things replaced. So now we had officers who didn't have the system. Second of all, though, going to the X2 in 2014, there's been a few comments made in regards to that. That's actually allowed us to have more control over the application.
 For example, these new X2s have a battery on them that shuts off after five seconds. We've always required an evaluation at five seconds, but this mandates it because the taser actually shuts off at five seconds and forces the officer to reevaluate and reassess. It's one of the advantages. One of the other things that one of the people who spoke commented on
 Yes, it does carry two cartridges so that there is not the need to manually reload, but it's also limited to two cartridges where previously we were carrying three cartridges. So, you know, we believe that it also requires a more thoughtful response, utilization of the resource. So this is just a more efficient model. It's a safer model, more effective, and that's why we went there. Thank you. Any further questions? Please call the roll. You, Daly. So, I'm not...
 or in support of the use of tasers in general. There's no way for an officer to look at an individual and assess whether they have one of many health risks that could put them in danger of serious injury or death. I think that these tasers should be
 until they're not usable and then they should be recycled. So I can't support reselling them to other agencies. I vote no. I move to remove the emergency clause. I second. We have a motion and a second to remove the emergency clause for their discussion. Call the roll on the amendment. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Aye. The amendment passes. This becomes a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please. Item 1262, accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Slap Town Sewer Replacement Project for $8,423,219. Commissioner Fish. Can we read this along with 1263? Please call 1263 as well.
 except bid of Landis and Landis Construction, LLC, for the Concordia Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $4,876,431. Commissioner Fish. Welcome. Scott Gibson from the Bureau of Environmental Services and Larry Pallatt, Interim Chief Procurement Officer, who are going to present us with two bids for our consideration. Scott, take it away. Thank you.
 I'm going to turn this over to Larry, and I'm here for questions. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. I'm Larry Pallatt, Interim Chief Procurement Officer. I know we're running a little behind. I'll go to the short version. For item 1262 is a bid from Morgue Excavation for the Slabtown sewer replacement, $8,423,219.00.
 I'm going to skip the middle verbiage here. It is 4.83% under the engineer's estimate. We had identified the traditional 20% goal. There is a total of $806,000, or 9.5%, DMWSB participation apportioned as follows.
 DBE, five firms at $750,000 doing trucking, saw cutting, and traffic control. WBE, two firms, $31,000 doing CCTV and potholing. And ESB, one firm, $29,000 doing rodent control. Moore Excavation is located in Fairview, Oregon. They are not a state-certified DMW ESB contractor. They are in compliance with all City of Portland contracting requirements.
 The funds are available in the cost center, E1063.C6O. If the council has any questions relative to the bidding process, I can answer those, or obviously there are VES personnel, and I believe Gary Stevens from Moore Excavation is in the audience if needed. Any questions, colleagues? Yes.
 I have one. I know that we do see more exploration quite a lot, and I appreciate you being here again. The next time you come with one from their company, I'd like to see what their usage of disadvantaged, emerging small businesses and women and minority businesses is over time, because I understand that they are doing their own work
 a lot of their own work i'm also interested in how well they're bringing people of color and women into their business and then over time i hope that as they continue with their diligence and as you continue with theirs but to work with them that there will be more participation to get to our goals commissioner would you like that as a report delivered to you specifically or would you prefer that general report in the council i think everybody would probably
 And as I say, not specifically for this one. Right, no, just a chronological history kind of thing. The next time. And indeed, this is the one that sticks in my mind because I do appreciate you coming every single time. That's very helpful. There are other firms that get a lot of contracts from the city, and I think that would really help me to see...
 I'll be making any progress at the time. Okay. I can do that. Thank you. Thank you. Madam President, why don't we also go to 1263? It's another bid report. Let's put that in the record, see if there's any testimony on either or both. Should I read the title? Yes, please. 1263.
 Accept bid of Landis and Landis Construction LLC for the Concordia Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $4,876,431. We welcome back Scott Gibson from the Bureau of Environmental Services and Larry Pallatt, Interim Chief Procurement Officer. Gentlemen. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Landis & Landis for the Concordia Sewer Project at $4,876,431, which is just 1% over the engineer's estimate.
 We had identified the traditional 20% goal. There is a total of $985,000 equates to 20.1% DMWSB subcontractor participation. A portion as follows. DBE, three firms doing $735,000 trucking, traffic control, and sock cutting. ESB, $250,000 doing trucking.
 Landis & Landis is located in Burrellhurst, Oregon. They are not a state-certified contractor. They are in compliance with all of the City of Portland contracting requirements. So if the Council has any questions about the process, again, I can answer those, or Scott is here. Questions? I think that's all. Does anybody want to testify on either of these items? Thank you. Madam President, I move the report in 1262. Is there a second? Second. I think we'll call the roll, please. Thank you.
 Udailey? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Madam President, I move the report in item 1263. Second. Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Gentlemen? Brings us to 1264, please. Authorized short-term subordinate urban...
 urban renewal and redevelopment bonds on behalf of Prosper Portland Finance Projects in Urban Renewal Areas.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council Members. Eric Johanson, City Debt Manager. This first ordinance today authorizes the issuance of short-term urban renewal and redevelopment bonds to fund a portion of Prosper Portland's annual capital projects in six of the city's urban renewal areas. As you may recall, short-term indebtedness implements the pay-as-you-go or cash finance portion of Prosper's capital program. Short-term debt, or sometimes we refer to it as du jour financing,
 allows the city to comply with constitutional requirements that tax increment revenues be spent only on indebtedness. This particular ordinance authorizes a maximum amount of $98.8 million of short-term bonds to be issued each year among the six districts. Each district is also subject to its own annual cap based upon how much revenues are expected to be available for their cash financing.
 This authority provided in the ordinance will expire on June 30th of 2020. Eric, did you also read 1265 with this item?
 Could you also read 1265, Eric, and we'll get to that. I'll go ahead and give some introduction to that. 1265, authorized general obligation refunding bonds through December 31, 2019. And, colleagues, I'm reading these two together because they're directly related. This ordinance authorizes the city to refinance or refund any outstanding GO bonds, general obligation bonds, sorry,
 that meet the debt service saving requirements embedded in the City Council's adopted debt policies. This is an authority that expires on June 31st of 2019. The debt management groups requesting this authority in order to react more quickly to changes in interest rates that present debt service savings opportunities, something we definitely want to take advantage of. Additionally, due to provisions in the pending House and Senate federal tax bills, the ability to advance...
 refund bonds may go away entirely, either as of December 31, 2017, as currently proposed, or in some later date might be included in the final bill. Either way, it is a detriment. If the later date is ultimately included in the federal tax bill, approval of this ordinance may allow the city to go ahead and advance refund bonds within a narrow time window before the prohibition takes place.
 and obviously Eric will be discussing this as well. I think you've captured pretty much the idea behind this ordinance. When we filed it initially, we only wanted to get the additional flexibility to move quickly on these refunding opportunities. After we filed, the tax bills dropped, and we were shocked to find the prohibition on advanced refundings in those bills. They are in both bills.
 So we're not especially confident at the moment that we're going to have that option going forward. We are hoping that maybe Congress will have a different implementation date, something other than the December 31st deadline that we have right now, which essentially says we can't issue bonds in that time frame. So we're waiting to see what comes out of the tax bill.
 If it passes in its current form, we will lose one of our options for refinancing outstanding debt, all debt of the city. Mr. Johanson, I have a question for you. We've heard recently that the consumer price index may be inching north of 3%. We've heard from the Fed they may be considering a rate hike sometime at the end of the calendar year. Obviously, we have unique circumstances locally in terms of financing,
 inflationary housing prices, impact on housing prices, among other things. What do you anticipate will be the interest rate on this debt? We actually have no sale currently scheduled at the moment, but all of the things that you mentioned do suggest we may see an increase in rates going forward. In addition, a reduction in the marginal tax rate,
 is a negative for interest rates on our debt. So I'm mostly familiar with the debt that the utilities float, and it's been under 2%. Interest rates have been under 2% for a while. What's the range that we could be looking at? You know, historically, and we're in a period right now of historically low rates, but, for example, when I started 30 years ago, we were seeing rates around 12%, 13%.
 When we are telling our bureaus to forecast for, say, a five-year horizon, we've usually advised something around 5% as an estimate of tax-exempt rates. And that rate has been very conservative given what's actually gone on in the market. Very conservative. In fact, it's the reason why there's a big delta between the five-year forecast and the numbers that we plug in and the actual rates that the utilities adopt. One of the big factors is that.
 We forecast 5% or 6% on the interest, and it comes in at 1% to 2%. But are we on the verge of getting out of this sweet spot, in your opinion, in terms of favorable interest rates? I think the things on the horizon suggest that that may very well be the case. You know, a lot of things that come out of this tax bill, marginal tax rate reductions, mean that the value of tax exemption is less than it has been historically. So that alone should be something that moves rates upward. Thank you.
 I have a question. Does our government relations team and our lobbyists in Washington know about this concern? And our entire delegation does too? Yes, very much. One member of the delegation is an enthusiastic supporter of these changes, so we have a bit of a quandary.
 Yeah, and I have actually reached out to our delegation, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors is very aggressively pursuing this. I'm also reaching out to that individual in our delegation who's on the other side of this to hopefully persuade that individual that this is actually a good thing for all municipalities, regardless of political strife.
 Any public testimony on either of these items? No one signed up on either. Please call the roll on item 1264. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on 1265. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Please call item 1269.
 1269. 1269. We're going to jump through 66. We're going to get the two second readings out of the way. 1269. 1269. Amend public improvements code sections on penalty for violation, permits required, and permit revocation terms in support of the Bureau of Transportation Right-of-Way Use Enforcement Program. This is a second reading. It's already been presented. There's already been testimony. Please call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 1270. Accept a grant in the amount of $103,471 and authorize an agreement with the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission to increase network capabilities for fire stations. This is also a second reading. Please call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item 1266. Amend Joint Office of Homeless Services Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County to provide revised fiscal year 2017-18 budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Colleagues, in brief, this action improves...
 approves the funding the City Council has already approved in the budget and the fall bump for the Joint Office of Homeless Services. It realigns the federal funding allocation and incorporates the funding passed by the Council in the fall bump. Kurt's here to answer any questions you have about this. Thank you, Mayor. Members of Council, I'll be very brief. Kurt Krieger, Housing Director. There is a variance that I want to note. It's positive variance.
 between what was adopted in the budget and what is now being finalized.
 And as mentioned or inferred by the mayor, the $650,000 add in the fall bump is now reflected here. And because we had to project awards for the Federal Housing for People with AIDS and the Emergency Solutions Grant, we now have final project numbers, and the federal funding actually went up a couple hundred thousand dollars. Very good. Any questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Please call the roll. I believe they left. Good. Call the roll. Yeh-Daly? Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The IGA is approved. Call item 1268, please.
 authorized the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Very good. We have a representative of the Bureau of Transportation. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with Peabody Right-of-Way.
 Agenda item 1268 is to authorize them a domain authority as well as to give the city the ability to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary property rights associated with the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 project.
 The property rights in question are needed for construction of traffic calming features, pedestrian crossing improvements, sidewalk infill, bicycle safety improvements, along the project parameters. And the project will also realign certain intersections for safer turning movements.
 I would also like to add that all effective property owners have been informed about the city's need for permanent and temporary property rights and are invited to attend the reading of this agenda item. If you have any other questions. Commissioner Fritz.
 So I noticed in Exhibit A that almost every one of these is temporary construction easement, but there is the one permanent right-of-way dedication. Could you talk a bit more about that, please? Yes. So the permanent acquisition is actually needed to align the right-of-way. It actually juts out into...
 about 10 feet past all the other property owners' property lines. So we basically need to acquire that to have the sidewalk that would be, I apologize, the separated sidewalk feature. Are you the property owners at the back? You are the property owner, great. So I'll hold my questions in this to your testimony. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions?
 We'll take public testimony. Stephanie Hayes. Come on up. Thank you for your patience today. We appreciate it. Thank you for your time. My name is Stephanie Hayes, and I'm one of the owners of the property in question that goes 10 feet beyond...
 others. It's an old property. It was in 1909. And so my property goes from Jersey back straight onto Lombard. And my partner and I have owned the property since fall 2013. And so we've
 And this is the, we found out this weekend through certified mail about the possibility of this acquisition and this was the first time of us being informed of this. I think that was simply due to the timing of our purchasing of the property since a lot of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 was in development through 2011 through 13, early 2013.
 I've tried to bring myself up to speed on the St. John's truck strategy phase two in these past few days. And over these past four years, my wife and I and our two kids have put a lot of love and hundreds of hours of work and thousands of dollars of
 into our backyard. We have three outbuildings there that we have built. There is a garden shed, a chicken coop, and a big playhouse for our daughters. We also replaced and extended the fence
 along Lombard and completed the mature tree border between our property and Lombard with the goal to minimize noise and pollution from Lombard. In reviewing the proposals, and I realize there's a design.
 For north of Reno, which is just north of our property, because there are some other properties that face Lombard and go directly to the street. And there is a wide right-of-way on Lombard. In my readings of it, it's about 60 feet. And in that area, there's the ability to go inward from the curb to create a sidewalk. My request, and I believe this is...
 before you as an opportunity is to do the same in my section, to go inward from the curb to the sidewalk. I believe in my understanding of the strategy that that would still allow for plenty of...
 accommodation of the other goals of the St. John's truck strategy. It would continue the goal of traffic calming and lane narrowing as it goes into that S curve. I'm told that the possible loss would be on parking on my side. In my reading of the largeness of the right-of-way, I'm not certain that that would happen because there will not be a bike lane in my section, but even if that were to be lost,
 I do not find that as a loss. There are no houses that face Lombard from my section except one on the corner of Reno, and we have had some issues with a lot of abandoned vehicles being in that area, not used commonly for parking by the locals because it is such a busy street. So my hope is that the committee would continue
 consider the opportunity to go inward from the street for a sidewalk rather than the expense and the detriment to my family of having to acquire our property for that purpose. Thank you for your time.
 found out about this over the weekend. Colleagues, I notice it's not an emergency ordinance. Certainly, when we're taking people's property, that's a hugely important thing. So I'm wondering if staff could...
 meet with you on the site and have a discussion before we vote on it? That is planned. At least we're able to meet on this Friday with, I believe it's the director of the project and potentially the project designer. Great. Thank you.
 So if you could do that and then send us all a written comment as to whether you're okay with it or not. Okay. I'd really appreciate that. All right. You can send it to Carla. We're not voting today anyway, so I'm glad that you've arranged for this to happen. By the way, I think it's also worth noting, colleagues, that however this comes out,
 You came to us today and said you just got a notice. You did a crash course, and you made one of the more cogent and thoughtful presentations on an issue. I mean, we're not the ones who currently can resolve this because staff has to look at it. And I know you have a million other things. You said you have kids, so I just can imagine. But I want to compliment you on your preparation because you've come in at the 11th hour and given us something to look at that's important. And you've done it in a very thoughtful way. Thank you.
 And so I just want to note that. Well, I'm grateful to the help of, I reached out to the St. John's Neighborhood Association and members who have been involved in this truck strategy for many years since the public comment period in 2011 and beyond, and they were able to educate me on a lot of these other possibilities that I believe will be in everybody's best interest. Thank you.
 So perhaps now, since we're not voting today, I know for myself that if we move it over to second reading next week, if you were to say that you're not satisfied and would like some more amendments, I would certainly hope that we would entertain those next week. Okay. Would that be all right with you? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Commissioner Udailey. I have a question for staff. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate your being here, and thanks again for your patience. Come on up, Marty. Hi.
 Could you tell me which exhibit specifically refers... It's A20. A20. Okay, sorry, I didn't go far enough. And will this bring traffic...
 closer to the property owner's backyard? It actually, no. Basically, we would be completing sidewalks in front of the property, so the roadway wouldn't be getting closer. It would actually be getting a little further away. And, you know, whatever's discussed with the property owner, it would be helpful for me to have a visual of what she's proposing versus what we're proposing because...
 I'm not tracking the 10 feet from the sidewalk. Definitely, yeah. And this is something, since Stephanie brought this up, the project team has talked about a couple maybe potential alternatives. We don't have everybody on board yet, so we're still trying to figure out some potential alternatives. But like Stephanie had said, there would be loss of on-street parking if we were to –
 bring the curb out and put the sidewalk farther out into the right-of-way. But that's something that we're looking into. Can I ask you something? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm not done. Of course, eminent domain are not friendly-sounding words that I think any of us feel particularly comfortable with. But in the event that that did happen, how is the property value determined?
 So in this case, we would have an MAI appraiser come out and actually value the property along with the improvements that are affected as well. The property owner would also get relocation benefits for the outbuildings that she was brought up as well. And the fence. Yeah, and the fence. Our provided that stuff would be valued in the appraisal. So they would be compensated for it. Okay. Thank you.
 I guess the question, I haven't gone through all the fine print here, but do you want us to hold this up and see if we can resolve this, or is this a discrete part that can be pulled out and the rest moved forward? It would be nice to actually have it move all the way forward together, and I'm hoping that we can kind of come up with a solution. Excuse me, together? Oh, yeah, yeah, together. Do you want it to all go together? Yeah. That's all I need to know. I'm just curious, because sometimes we pull something out,
 Look at it in but if it's all of a whole then we'll just we'll set this over Yeah And I'm hoping again when we meet on Friday we can come up and then also going back to the project team that we can Find common ground on this. So very good
 Anything else? This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And just a reminder, we're setting over 1267 to next Wednesday. Item 1259 will be read this afternoon at 4 p.m. We're adjourned until 2 p.m. this afternoon. Did you say 2 p.m.? 2 p.m. 2. I thought 2, but I thought... I'm not hearing very well today. You're introducing it. It's either on time or 2 p.m.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday afternoon session, the first Wednesday afternoon session, the Portland City Council, November 29th, 2017. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Bish? Here.
 Saltzman. Wheeler. Here. I read the full statement this morning. I'll just summarize it. Treat everyone with respect. There will be opinions that are stated here that will not necessarily comport with your own opinion. That doesn't make it wrong. Thank you.
 And everybody has a right to testify and to be heard and to be respected. So let's create a good, safe, and respectful environment for everyone. If for any reason somebody can't handle that, they'll be asked to leave. If they're asked to leave and they don't, they're subject to arrest for trespassing. Obviously, we don't want that to happen.
 If anybody is here as a lobbyist, council rules require you to please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, that is certainly helpful as well. Traditionally, we do not take testimony on reports. I have made an exception this afternoon, so we will be taking public testimony. Usually we give three minutes, and I don't know, how many people do we have signed up, Carla? We don't have a sign-up sheet. Okay.
 Okay, well, if people would like to testify, find Carla. She's easy to find. She's right there. And we'll make a decision on how much testimony time planned for two, and maybe it'll be three, depending upon how much time people or how many people have signed up. We ask you not to express yourselves verbally. Thumbs up if you like something, thumbs down if you don't. It tends to work really well. So with that, please read the first item.
 Item 1271, accept the 2017 Portland Historic Landmarks Commission State of the City Preservation Report. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. It's a pleasure to bring forward this afternoon the 2017 Historic Landmarks Commission's State of the City Preservation Report. Thank you.
 This commission will be presenting their ninth annual report before council, but this commission has actually been operating in the city of Portland since about 1975, providing leadership and expertise on preservation and on maintaining and enhancing Portland's historical and architectural heritage. This report comes to council at an important time for the city and its historic overlay districts.
 With the residential construction and commercial building industry in full swing, development pressure is increasing, and Portland's older neighborhoods and commercial corridors are under pressure. Our historic neighborhoods deserve the appropriate protection, and the development community deserve predictability that will enable us to meet our density and housing production goals. The Historic Landmarks Commission... Sorry, everyone, I've got a cold.
 continues to advocate for protection of the city's older building stock and for fair and predictable reviews. I look forward to hearing more today from the Commission members, an interested public, and am committed to supporting the Commission in all of its efforts. Commission Chair Kirk Renzetta and Vice Chair Kristen Miner are here to present the report. I, yes, they are. Welcome, Commissioners. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. And my name is Kirk Ranzetta, and I'm joined by... Kristen Miner. Thank you. And there are also most of the other Landmarks Commissioners in the audience today. Great. Excellent. Thank you. If you would stand up just to... Thank you. Karen Carlson, I'd like to call out specifically Karen Carlson. This is actually her final...
 I guess, week or so of being on the commission after eight years of service. So I think it's fairly significant because she has been really integral in the preparation of these reports and made them a heck of a lot more readable and better to look at, certainly, since I've been on the commission. I really want to thank City Council for the— Defend the rules and offer our congratulations. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much for the opportunity to come and talk to Council today about the State of the City report. In the introductory letter, I really wanted to highlight the...
 folks of the city of Portland in their endeavors to conserve the built environment outside of what we do at the Historic Landmarks Commission, outside of what City Council does, and outside of what other organizations do that are dedicated to preservation. It's really the bottom line is that the folks of Portland individually often undertake efforts to conserve our heritage and
 without the expectation of recompense sometimes. And I think that it was important to me to, you know, as my final year as chair, to make sure that that message got sent across to our political decision makers too. Because I think we're at a critical time now where I think that, you know, we need to kind of,
 lift up the folks of Portland to kind of take historic preservation to the next level. And I think that's the primary message of our report this year. I wanted to highlight also that we are a commission of seven members, and we have several new members who have come on the board fairly recently.
 And we continue to change and evolve over time with a great number of folks with very specialized and very high level expertise in the field. I also wanted to
 I have a shout-out to our staff on the commission, both Hilary Adam and Brandon Spencer Hartle, who have provided us with very great guidance over the past couple years, several years, in their service to the commission.
 This is just a very quick and dirty map of Portland's designated historic resources just to kind of give you the impression of where they are located. These are the designated resources, so they include historic districts as well as individual properties. And what you'll see from that distribution is that they are largely centered on the west side, as well as in some of the pockets of districts that we have, such as Irvington and Ladd's Addition and then Westside.
 Also, the other big one is Mount Tabor. But what you'll also notice is that there is some fairly significant blank spots in the city where there are very few designated resources, more specifically to the east side of 82nd and then also south, largely of Division.
 When you look at the distribution of resources, they definitely peter out the further you go away from Center City. Before you move from that, for staff, there's another two miles of Portland below where it's being cut off. So if we could possibly have the, talking to staff, it's obviously not your provision, I'd really like to be able to look at what's in the whole city rather than getting chopped off at Vermont. Right. Definitely agree to that.
 And if I might just add that that doesn't mean that there aren't historic resources in those areas. It just means they haven't been designated. Right. And we'll be talking about kind of the need for the update of the HRI. That's one of the reasons why we'd really like to have it updated is to get a better understanding of what's out there because it's largely not understood at this point.
 Over the past year, we've had a number of different accomplishments with city council's signature. We now have the New Chinatown, Japantown, and Strait District guidelines. We've also provided several correspondence and advocacy pieces to city council as well as to
 BDS and BPS staff on the 2035 comprehensive plan, the DOSA, the residential infill project, as well as several pieces of legislation and rulemaking, including House Bill 2007, Goal 5 rule changes, and some other ongoing legislative work. We've had quite a few public hearings this year. We've had 26 public hearings this year.
 that you'll see the breakdown in the slide. We've also had a commission retreat with city staff, and we were also joined by Commissioner Udalli's chief of staff to kind of sit in and understand some of the range of issues that we've been experiencing over the past year.
 year. Staff should be commended for the number of different cases that they've been experiencing over the past year. It's certainly an uptick over the past several years in terms of the number of applications for Type 1, Type 1X, and Type 2 applications. We've also been reaching across the aisle with some of the other commissions including the Design Commission as well as the
 the Planning and Sustainability Commission, we get together just to kind of understand some of the broader issues that each of the commissions are facing within the development world. And we've also been fortunate enough to be presented or to be working on the Historic Resource Inventory Plan, which was fortunately funded this past year. Can I borrow this? Perfect.
 And now we're going to highlight a few issues, five of them to be specific, and we'll start here with public perception. Now this is an interesting one because over the past year, or maybe a little more, it seems that there have been a lot of kind of unfair accusations lobbied, especially at historic districts, but even preservation as a whole has.
 that it represented people who kind of wanted to just pull up the ladder, that maybe it was keeping out the wrong kind of people. Perhaps NIMBYs, you know, or blocking density kind of clipped out a few headlines just as examples there on the bottom. And so...
 The Portland Historic Landmarks Commission is on record supporting added density in all of our historic districts. If that density is secondary to the historic pattern and the buildings. So it's really the zoning that prevents density, not any historic designation.
 And because of this, we do recommend that the 2035 Comp Plan should include some additional incentivizing tools to promote adaptive reuse.
 We also wish to remind council how important it is for an updated historic resources inventory so that we can even know what's historically significant, especially in areas that have never been surveyed. The last HRI or historic resources inventory was in the early 80s. That was a long time ago. Okay.
 And then finally, cultural outreach and incentives so that we can get historic designation for more modestly scaled areas. It's important for us all to hear these stories. It's not just stories of the sort of more wealthy individuals in Portland that are important.
 The next issue is housing affordability. And this is a very complex issue, but it does bleed into historic preservation, primarily with the issue of demolitions. And there have been a continuing spate of demolitions, especially smaller, older housing across our entire east side of the city. Okay.
 Also, just to point out that it is often the older buildings that are precisely those that are the more affordable buildings in the first place for rent. And we can learn from other municipalities. So I'm citing here one from Chicago who developed...
 a system of incentives and kind of preservation policies to ensure that all of their single-family housing could be rehabilitated and more density could be added, but that specifically all of their... What makes Chicago so...
 so important in terms of their close-in suburbs is all of these 100,000 bungalows, as they called them. So our recommendations here are that, yes, we can definitely learn from other municipalities that we can take these lessons, as well as our own observations that allowing unchecked demolition does not result in new affordable development.
 Can I just make a comment on this? Because I saw in your report, at page 8, there's a little profile of the Brawner Apartments, which is one of the 11 by 13. And it's an excellent write-up. But what is missing from the write-up is how controversial that was when it was actually on our radar.
 And because it's an older building, there was some additional costs associated with preserving it. Right. And so we got into this, you know, quagmire of, well, I mean, you can drive down costs by doing housing somewhere else, as if there was an infinite supply of replacement land, an infinite supply of replacement dollars to build housing, and that there was actually an apples to apples. Right.
 And in spite of some vociferous critics, that building was preserved. And what I find particularly, what I'm particularly proud of about that building is it houses the lowest income, typically most disabled older adults in our community, across from probably one of our premier parks, juxtaposed in the heart of our city. Yeah.
 And to me, that speaks volumes about our priorities as a city, that we would preserve that building and help fund this beautiful park adjacent to it. But cost became a big factor. And some housing advocates were highly critical of the cost of preserving that. And my view was, compared to what?
 Yeah. There isn't some replacement housing two blocks away, and it would cost more to do new. And it is a treasure. That building is an irreplaceable treasure, in my opinion.
 But I appreciate the write-up, and I appreciate the context you're giving us about housing affordability. Okay. Very good. I would definitely agree with you on that particular project and looking at some of the record behind it. And also, it's an example of how...
 public and private sector can engage in projects that increase the opportunity for affordable housing within the inner city of Portland. And why not put some of the most vulnerable folks in historic buildings that engender a tremendous amount of civic pride? So I think that, you know, I think it's a great point. Thank you.
 And before I move to the next slide, I just wanted to make one more point that the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission definitely has talked about and volunteered to be kind of part of a working group to really work on further incentives that prioritize the retention of housing. And these are complex issues. There's no question that sometimes
 It can be cost, sometimes it can be lead paint. There are issues, but we would like to volunteer to be part of a working group to continue to work on incentives. Next issue is really about development and compatibility.
 Compatibility is a critical component of historic resource reviews, which is what we do. And specifically in historic districts, everything within a certain boundary is meant to retain a visual coherency. So it's meant to be understood as a whole visually.
 And that's why compatibility is so critical for most of the new projects that we review in a historic district.
 We have pointed out that height, massing, and volume are a big part of compatibility. And providing maximum heights or FARs that are way above those in a historic district tends to put us in a contentious situation. Because sometimes we have to say no at a fairly late stage in design where a developer might already be counting on achieving those maximums.
 How could that be addressed? How do you see that being better addressed? Well, the first recommendation is that we are asking you to consider lowering some of the heights, especially in central city historic districts, to be a little closer to those of the historic buildings. And also just...
 it's not only lowering them, but making them more uniform within the district.
 Some of those districts, such as the Japantown, Chinatown, currently have kind of wildly differential heights, which really have nothing to do with the historic district and the reason why it is a historic district. So we're looking for uniformity as well as somewhat lowered heights there.
 We don't mind working through contentious issues, but it's best just to limit that. It's important to set the playing field and set expectations. So I hope you'll be coming back in the hearings on that and making your point again. Yes, we will. Can I just make an observation about uniformity? Because there's a whole school of thought that we've been hearing from. Mark Edlin is probably a good example, but there are others.
 and I'm going back many years. The last time we took up the Cast Iron District and some zoning changes. And some very thoughtful people in our community have made the case that having different heights and shapes and uses, even in a historic district, helps enliven places that are otherwise at risk of damage.
 of their continued fate currently, which is too many vacant spaces that are dedicated for parking, and others. And I've struggled with this myself because I completely understand what you're saying in terms of context. And when you look at some of your earlier slides, there's some buildings that really are just an insult to the character of the neighborhood they've been built in.
 But I'm also thinking that where the market has not been very helpful in generating activity within some of these districts, do you create a little flexibility in height and in style to enliven and activate a district? And at what point does that tip into actually potentially robbing us of the historic designation?
 And Mark Evelyn's no slouch, so when he comes in and makes his case, we pay attention. But I'm torn between these competing views. Yeah, I mean, I think that particularly in the Chinatown Historic District, you're dealing with a district where the contributing, non-contributing status is roughly 50-50. And as soon as it starts dipping below that 50 percent mark is when the integrity of the district really gets called into question.
 But I would agree with you that in terms of our consideration of height, we also kind of take into account context as well. So if there are taller buildings within a specific area close to where a proposed development is, that is something that we do take into account. So while, but I think the idea behind uniformity helps to kind of establish expectations in terms of what the developer is expecting when they come in through the door for proposed development.
 But we have been, I think, open to additional height when it's sensitive to context. It's when you see the real disproportionate relationship between buildings is when the issue, I think, of compatibility becomes foremost in our own minds. And there's not anything around it to kind of help it be more of a part of the neighborhood, so to speak. Thank you. I think we can move on. Okay.
 So resiliency and sustainability. Let's see. As we acknowledge and prepare for the potential of a big seismic event, we,
 I think it's worth just a reminder that historic buildings and resources are really valuable. And they're not only valuable now, and some of the reasons for that are those places set the mood and the character in areas of our city. They encourage tourism and affordable housing in some cases. But they're also valuable later and future.
 I have never been through a big disaster myself, but I have done some reading and there are many studies that after a disaster event, those places are what help reorient people and remind people kind of who they are and where they are and to want to rebuild. So...
 We are really asking not only, again, for more funding so that the HRI can really begin to be implemented in areas around our city, but also for better solutions and incentives for owners of URMs. That's unreinforced masonry buildings. Those are a difficult...
 because it does take quite a bit of money to structurally support such buildings. But many of those are historically important, and we should put resources where we can. And then finally, just that disaster planning in general across the city, which we've done a lot of at the city and local level, should include designated historic resources. Okay.
 Could you be a little more specific on that? What do you mean by that? Just help me understand a few more talking points. Yeah. Historic resources get a special consideration from FEMA especially when in a post-disaster event FEMA will come in and,
 try to decide, or hopefully the work is already done for them, which resources should really get their first attention. And if we have our...
 resources kind of hierarchically ordered. In other words, if we've done some of this work to say, yes, look at our HRI. We've surveyed a lot of these areas of the city, and here's where we should really focus on preserving buildings.
 then FEMA will come in and say, great, I see that you've done this work. We can speed up funds to rebuild these specific buildings or areas. Yeah, and I was just going to add, you know, typically whenever there is a disaster and FEMA does come in, they do have contracts signed.
 with a variety of different firms to actually come in and evaluate and assess the impact of a disaster on a historical resource, such as when the hurricanes moved through the Caribbean, a number of different architectural historians actually went to St. Croix, currently in Puerto Rico, Houston, and Florida, because the historic resources are a vital component of their economy. They rely upon heritage tourism as a component of
 of their economy. And I think that FEMA's attention to historic preservation is not only related to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, which obligates them to consider the impacts of their funding on historic resources, but they are also obliged to get people up and running again. And a part of that economics is making sure that these resources survive so that people have a place to visit.
 when they visit. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. Thanks, that's helpful. Okay. So the last component or issue we wanted to talk about today is the recent regulatory efforts through House Bill 2007 and the Goal 5 rule revisions.
 One of the things, and I think it just comes from a lack of experience in terms of trying to work with both city council and legislators on proposed legislation. And one of the things we were, I think, somewhat frustrated by was wanting to...
 be an advocate for the historical resources of the city and to provide city council with solid advice and recommendations concerning the legislation, but we didn't have that connection with the legislature. And I think there was a recommendation from staff to definitely go through the Office of Government Relations so that we don't
 I guess, breach protocol in terms of providing our opinions in regards to a specific piece of legislation.
 And on the one hand, I think we understand city council's desire to be able to provide kind of a united voice behind a legislation coming out of Salem. But on the other hand, we also felt fairly strongly that there was some significant detrimental, potential detrimental impacts from that bill on historical resources in the city. And so one of the things we wanted to explore with city council was an opportunity to perhaps
 provide a bit more of an independent voice when it came to such legislation. That was certainly one of the things that we had talked about as a commission and wanted to kind of take your pulse on because I know that there are other commissions, obviously, in the city that have a wide variety of opinions in regards to legislation coming out of Salem. And we wanted to see how could we best convey our message to the legislature. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. So we all sign an agreement at the beginning of the legislative session saying that we're not going to go down and advocate independently. And what I have found is getting the –
 values and principles into the city's legislative agenda, and then Office of Government Relations is, are your people down there? So we're coming up on the setting of the agenda for the short session. I do think it's unfortunate when, particularly the Portland delegation, gets conflicting advice and doesn't know who's speaking for whom, and it can be very confusing and very detrimental to the whole package.
 So I've certainly learned over nine years that while I may have some very strong opinions, and I occasionally do, as a private citizen, contact my own legislators to tell them this is what I think.
 It has to be very carefully done so that you're not speaking for a commission or the council without coordination. Okay. Well, we would certainly love to, I think, have a dialogue with city council as to how best to work with the Office of Government Relations so that we can better, I guess, understand the pulse of...
 kind of what the city's priorities are when it comes to legislation affecting historic preservation. Because sometimes, you know, we spend a lot of time on these letters we send them, and then we don't always get necessarily a response or a dialogue. We know you guys are busy. But I think it would really benefit us to kind of understand...
 where folks sit, although on that particular piece of legislation I don't think necessarily city council took a position and we understand that that's an option, that on occasion you may not want to kind of enter into that fray and
 Well, the other thing I would encourage you to do is to call our chiefs of staff with your concerns so that they can kind of run up the flagpole and make sure that we know what you want to happen. Right. And occasionally, even quite often, the Office of Government Relations will organize community members to go down and do their lobbying, and I find them extremely helpful. Okay. Just to amplify on that, you really have three bites of the apple. You have the absolute right to...
 lobby the council to put an item in our legislative agenda and prioritize it. You have the absolute right to work with statewide advocacy groups that already have lobbying presence, that there's no shortage of folks that are already down there with relationships. And as Commissioner Fritz said, you have the absolute right as a citizen to speak. The reality is we want to avoid as much as possible conflicting messages, because what happens is leadership contacts us and says –
 We're not sure who's on first. So you may think that there's a benefit. We then get the blowback saying now we're confused, and we have to then sort out the protocol stuff, and that doesn't help your cause or our cause. Right.
 Don't give up on trying to get alignment with us. Okay. Let's see if we can get alignment or some pathway. Okay. But absent that, nothing prevents you from joining with statewide organizations and making the case. Okay. Well, I think that's a great start to kind of developing that better relationship. So we appreciate those comments. Yeah. Can I ask you a question about this funding mechanism for –
 unreinforced masonry buildings. So that's one of your recommendations. Yes. Are you coming to it or do we already...
 No, we kind of covered it under the resiliency. So I have an idea where we might get some money, but I don't want to get sideways with the mayor in this setting. So the question I want to ask you is what thoughts have you come up with? What are some ideas that you have as to where we could –
 find some resources and set them aside. Because I actually think a fund to prevent the kind of demolitions or demolition by neglect and things that we're likely to see is a good idea. Plus, if we have public funding, we can put a string attached to it.
 So if it's a low-cost, affordable art space and someone wants some assistance, we might be able to get a covenant that says you'll continue to offer the space for 15 years or whatever.
 Have you thought about where we could get the resources? We've only had general discussions about incentives, not necessarily targeted for URMs at the commission level. I mean, I think we would be very, very interested to be part of a work group. But the discussions we've had with...
 around incentives have, of course, touched on systems development charges and how those can be kind of targeted towards perhaps owners who keep an existing building and then add more, especially if it's housing.
 I should add that BPS and BDS should really have a collaborative relationship to working on that, on SDC charges. I know that that's kind of been a no man's land for them. But I think that that could be a very effective single incentive.
 Yeah, I was also thinking, I mean, we've discussed, too, kind of the relaxation of some permitting fees as being a component. Something that we haven't necessarily discussed, but which just kind of occurred to me, is that I've also seen low-interest revolving loan programs.
 for certified rehabilitation programs within jurisdictions. So the idea would be able to provide a low-interest loan to a developer to kind of do the right thing for the historic resource where you institute some level of seismic stability in exchange for...
 retaining the historic fabric. Because they obviously have a lot of safety issues associated with them in a seismic event, and there's obviously big-time costs. And so you kind of have to chip away from it. I don't know if there's a silver bullet for it, though. Well, I appreciate the list you've given us because there's some incentives, some deferrals. PDC has a lot of experience with that revolving loan, but that only covers 15% of the city, and so it is not broad enough.
 we have a related challenge, which is of those 1,500 buildings that are currently being looked at, there's a chunk of them that are affordable housing developments that need to be updated, and the funding is not in their pro forma.
 And I guess the question we have to address at some point is, at what point do we consider this a public asset for which public investment is called for? We're having an ongoing conversation about potentially taking over street maintenance. Excuse me, street tree maintenance in the right-of-way. That's a big idea. But, I mean, if we acknowledge that trees provide a public value and we're going to say we're going to do something,
 What's the equivalent argument for preserving some of these historic buildings for the long term that might justify some investment of public resources? It's a question. I think that you can look at it from a number of different perspectives. Certainly there are some intangible things like a sense of place, sense of character, sense of identity that local citizens certainly attribute to historical areas.
 But then there's also some of the kind of more hard economic terms that when you rehabilitate a building, you're typically creating more jobs, for instance, because you're putting less of an emphasis on new building materials. So you're exchanging higher costs. If you were to do new construction, when you compare it to a rehabilitation, you're spending more on jobs but less on materials, right?
 And so there are ways, I think, of providing that economic justification for historic preservation, and in addition to heritage tourism being another component where there is a little bit more of an active, more public appreciation for a resource. Yes.
 where people are coming to Portland specifically to see its unique historic neighborhoods like Ladd's Addition, which is a nationally significant district and which is often paraded around by the National Park Service. Those are the types of things and places that when people come to Portland they want to see a unique environment such as that.
 And then just there's also the straight-up sustainability goals of preserving older resources. And, you know, as a city, we have sustainability goals. And preservation should be a part of that. It should really be, you know, one of many menu options that will help us achieve those goals.
 And we can certainly provide more information to city council to perhaps better illuminate the justification of the expenditure of public funds in such an endeavor. If you'd like to have more information, we can certainly support you on that.
 I'm interested in your ideas, and I think the revolving loan fund idea is also interesting. So it's not a deferral. It's not a grant. It's not a waiver of something, but it's a renewable resource that people can take advantage of. Yep.
 I have so many questions that I think I'm just going to come to one of your meetings. That would be great. Since I've got special privileges. But I did have a couple. Of the 1,442 demolitions between 2012 and 2017, do you know roughly how many of them were of properties that were on that historic resource inventory?
 And I'm sorry to put you on the spot if you don't. I certainly don't know that. Brandon might know that answer. I think if you were to look at the...
 I was trying to figure this out the other day, like approximately what would you expect to see in terms of the percentage of those resources? How, if they were older than 50 years old, they would be prospective historical resources. And my guess would be that probably over 1,000 are older than 50 years old, so they were potential resources. The number of HRI properties removed, though...
 I don't know. I would estimate a couple hundred maybe. We can find that out. I'd love to know. Along those same lines, I just want to say that I'm definitely committed to exploring how to fund a new inventory. And, you know, looking at that in the 2018-19 budget because it's been –
 30, over 30 years, and it's obviously a great concern among the community. I think...
 I'm very, very interested in the conversation about how we balance preserving historic buildings and historic neighborhoods and how we balance that with the need for more density and more affordable housing. And I find that my thoughts and positions often don't satisfy either side.
 The NIMBYs don't like me and the YIMBYs don't like me. Yay. But I will persevere and really look forward to getting to dig into that conversation with you guys. Great. Thank you. Appreciate that.
 We just got a couple more slides and then we'll... Oh, I thought you were done. We can go through them quickly. Yeah, and this is just to kind of wrap up, I guess, in a lot of ways. Our primary priorities and goals are to advocate, obviously to update the HRI. I think you've really kind of captured some of the reasons why. There's planning reasons why, where you want to make planning decisions
 that are based upon the most up-to-date information that you can possibly get. But the HRI also serves as an opportunity for the public to engage in a process that identifies resources that are important to them and not just a consultant, not just the Landmarks Commission, and not just city council. It really offers an opportunity for them to engage with their own neighborhood to learn something that they previously hadn't known in the past and to also kind of put a new set of eyes on
 to kind of see the places where they live in a new light. Because I've experienced that in a number of different communities that I've worked in over the years, and it's a pretty incredible experience to be a part of.
 We've talked about incentivizing historic preservation. Education is obviously a significant component too in making sure that we can provide information to the public that will allow them to make truly informed decisions about the expenditure of public funds and then also to provide leadership when it comes to historic preservation.
 We have a few more slides, but I think we've covered all of them, everything that we need to cover. So I just wanted to open it up, I guess, for a last series of questions or concerns that you may share. I'll share a concern. And then we have a number of people signed up for public testimony, and I'll make sure we hear from folks on that too. I'm involved in three separate processes that need to be collapsed
 into one conversation and somebody up here, maybe it was Commissioner Udaly mentioned it. There are real trade-offs here.
 And I think it's naive for us to assume there are not real tradeoffs. And the hard part here is making and drawing the lines. Where is the tradeoff? And the three separate processes I'm currently engaged in is this process around protecting our historical assets. And I agree with you. I stipulate everything you said in terms of economic value, community value, a sense of center value.
 for the community, all of those things are true. And when I think of our iconic assets, those are our iconic assets, right? But I'm also involved in a conversation around a housing emergency issue.
 And there is often a competition between historical preservation and maintaining those assets. And that is a very real tradeoff. And you showed a slide of a building that was a victim of one of those tradeoffs. In this case, it was the cost of preserving an asset versus the value of commercial space. And the asset lost. And then there's this other very real concern around health and safety, knowing that we are now in a fault zone.
 And many of you were here and had the opportunity to hear the mayor of Christchurch come in and talk about the experience of her community in the wake of a major earthquake and what happened with unreinforced masonry buildings and what that meant for life and safety. And so at some point, these three conversations have to come together.
 and we have to work and help advise this body not to have three separate conversations with three separate outcomes, but one conversation where we work together to do the best job we can to draw the lines and make the right set of priorities. Not all unreinforced masonry should be preserved and protected. Some of it's junk, and it should probably be scraped and could be used for a better and higher use to the community's value. Others are assets that are
 literally irreplaceable and should be preserved and should be protected. And we should have the process in place to do that. And I agree with Commissioner Udaly. I think it's sort of a shame that we haven't bothered to update the resource inventory since I was in high school. That was not recently, unfortunately. And...
 So I appreciate this presentation. I think it's a great presentation, and it's thought-provoking, and it's raising some good issues. So to be continued. I don't know if people have other questions before we get to public testimony. Commissioner Daly. I do want to mention that we do have public testimony on the report, which we haven't been taking recently. But I understand these individuals were invited by BDS. That's correct. So they're invited testimony.
 Yeah, that is why I'm making an exception and allowing public testimony on this particular report. I just wanted to clarify that for the audience. Yeah, just to kind of wrap up what we've already talked about, I think your input on issues around balancing historic districts or mitigating unintended consequences of historic districts with zoning is,
 with smart zoning. Our residential infill policy, which I'm hearing wildly conflicting feedback on, I hope that it's a way for us to encourage preserving older homes while...
 providing kind of a lower impact way to increase density. Other people are convinced we're incentivizing people to just tear everything down. And so I want to make sure that that's not the case, or if it is, that we change it. And then, of course, the whole URM conversation, which is one of the, I think,
 homelessness, parking, and unreinforced masonry buildings may be the most controversial issues that I've faced in my first year here. And I don't know, I was Googling this while you were talking about financing, and you may have already articulated, did you talk about our CPACE program?
 No. Um, so we do, we have the property assessed, uh, program in Multnomah County. It's for commercial buildings. So it only applies to commercial and multifamily of five units or more. And it's for green, uh, and energy efficiency, but they added seismic retrofits. So that's a really, uh, useful tool for some property owners. Um,
 That's it. I want to just respond to one thing the mayor said. You were in high school, I think, when this thing was last updated. My parents were actually debating whether to have another child, so it was a different time. I was in middle school. Not, not, not. I'm kidding. So I've been on the council for nine years, and I just want to acknowledge another dynamic, which is very powerful. Eight or nine years ago, the constant refrain in this building was,
 We struck a deal on the urban growth boundary, and we said we're going to draw a boundary to protect what's on the outside, but we're going to protect the integrity of historical neighborhoods on the inside, and we were going to strike a balance. And actually, the most eloquent person that used to say that on a regular basis here, in my opinion, was Randy Leonard. And whether you like Randy or not, Randy was a historian, and he would go back over the discussion about the urban growth boundary.
 And we said we're going to put this boundary, protect some farmland, but we're also going to make an accommodation to protect the integrity of our R5 neighborhoods. That was pretty standard fare around here. I'm not saying anything was – eight or nine years later, we're talking about revisiting every assumption we ever made about neighborhoods and about what we allow, and we're doing so under the context of an emergency which gives us more flexibility. Okay.
 My only point that I want to add to this is I don't want this to be too easy to reconcile all these things. I think we have competing values that we have to reconcile, but I don't want personally one particular frame to carry the day. I think it's a healthy process to balance these things and to have this debate and then figure out where we go.
 And that may not be shared by everybody, but, yes, we can get clarity and we can rationalize some of these rules. But we're really talking about harmonizing, in some cases, competing values or things that don't quite fit together. And what I find is that it has the effect of making our discussions richer because we're having to sort of balance. And there's no right answer. But it was a very different conversation eight years ago.
 It was fundamentally different, and the urban growth boundary discussion guided a little bit of our view. And now we've opened up just about everything, and times change. But I think that's also why we're hearing so much anxiety from the community, because they're not clear about what the rules are anymore. People aren't sure where we're headed. And there's a growing movement that I think if they had the choice, people would put up a barrier to prevent people from coming into our city.
 And that's not a healthy thing, but it is reflecting and reflects a certain frustration.
 And I would agree with everything that you said, that there really are no easy answers. I think what the Historic Landmarks Commission would really like, though, is to have a voice in these conversations and to be able to contribute our opinions. And that's something we've been able to do
 To some degree, but certainly I also agree with the mayor. Not every building is worth preserving. There are no black and whites here. There is an affordable housing crisis. We recognize all of these things and...
 And I think we'd really like to be a part of the solution. Because I think that I come from a social science background and to looking at quantifiable data so that you can kind of really arrive at a general understanding of what exactly the problems are. Because I think that's where really the rubber hits the road in terms of coming up with a solution, is really getting down to the nitty-gritty and figuring out
 even on these complex problems such as housing, how economics, the market, historic preservation, the environment, all kind of come in and intersect and really developing kind of a... Parking. And parking. And the whole cost-benefit analysis from a public perspective, that if you're expending public funds on historic preservation, is that justified when we're in the midst of a housing crisis? Yes.
 I mean, that's not an insignificant question to ask in terms of when you're allocating funds for one program or another.
 And it's supposed to be that way. We have 19 statewide planning goals, and none of them are more important. Each is their own that has to be considered. And this is an involvement being the first one. So we very much appreciate your coming to give your perspective. And it does allow for intelligent people, for earnest and caring people to have these conversations and figure out some solutions, because I actually don't think there's...
 It has to be one or the other. I think we can do internal conversions of older houses and have three families living there instead of one, for example. We can do accessory dwelling units in the backyard. There's all kinds of things that we can do to add density that doesn't destroy the fabric of the neighbourhood. And I say that with my British accent in a country that literally you can go and see new housing and they're accommodating lots of refugees and growth within the country. And yet it's still...
 It looks like England every time I go back there. And it doesn't have skyscrapers in every city. In fact, most of the multi-story apartments don't exist anymore because there's better ways of getting people to have a community rather than just a place to be sheltered.
 So I think it's encouraging that you have brought to us that, yes, this historic preservation is important. And if we don't preserve them, we're not going to be able to say in 20 years' time, never mind 200 years' time, this is what Portland is all about. Thank you. Thank you very much. We've certainly appreciated the discussion today, and we look forward to working with you all in the very near future.
 Thank you. Great. Thank you. How many people for public testimony? We have 12. Very good. Three minutes each. Name for the record, please. The first three, please, coming up are Heather Flint-Chato, Linda Neddikovan, and William Willingham. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start? Sure. Thank you. Forgive me. I'm going to read a little bit from something I've already written. Okay.
 My name is Heather Flint-Chadow. I'm an urban designer and urban planner and have been doing environmental green building work for the last 17 years. And for the last four years, we've been leading, and I, along with a coalition of four different neighborhood associations and business associations to work,
 foster more community engagement and education around design and empower our community to have a greater voice in the planning process as part of the Division Design Initiative. You're welcome to learn more about that on our website, divisiondesigninitiative.org. So we have been developing design guidelines as part of that process, really trying to have clearer –
 clarification of what our goals and priorities are. So as we've been tracking this, we've identified a lot of critical issues that were beyond just what was happening on Division, but also across the city as a whole. We've done surveys, walking tours, two years of open public committee meetings and things like that. So this is very relevant because a lot of our streetcar era main streets were...
 are not necessarily designated as historic, but provide a really important, rich fabric that is the identity and our sense of place. And I'm very, very concerned, and I think many are, that we are losing our soul.
 that we are losing what makes us the creative cultural hub that has been our legacy of really good planning. This has been our mecca of sustainability, and that is one of the reasons I have loved this city.
 And I have to say, my love affair is wavering at times. I still feel it in many parts of the city, but I feel personally very impacted, as I see many other people. And if you were to go and look at our survey, which we submitted to the city, 300 people responded very deeply.
 deeply concerned about the character and lack of context that our new development is showing. So I want to really just appreciate the work that this preservation report has highlighted and request that you consider that there might need to be something different for our streetcar era historic main streets. This is something that's beyond southeast, but
 Belmont, Hawthorne Division have a very similar character to Fremont and Alberta and many streets in Selwood. So I encourage you to look at the possibility of a different treatment, a form-based code perhaps, a set of incentives that you already heard about. I didn't need to mention them because you already had a great list. But that perhaps that incentivization might also need something different
 not only just for the main street, but an incentivization for the bigger streets, like in our neighborhood. For example, Powell is supposed to be one of our great civic corridors, and in our neighborhood, we'd like to see maybe potentially a shift to maybe pass on some of those bonuses of development there. So I really support the...
 the update to the historic resources inventory on a fast track process because we're losing so much so quickly, and also to give the opportunity to advocate more on behalf of our preservation. So I certainly would be happy to talk with any of you more if you're interested in learning more about our work. Very good. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Yes, my name is William Willingham, and I'd like to speak to the issue of –
 redoing the historic inventory. And I come to you with special knowledge on that matter because I was the historian who did the original inventory 35 years ago.
 Al Staley, who is an architect, and myself did all of the work. He did the windshield surveys. I did the historical research. We then submitted the information to Virginia Faraday, who oversaw the city staff that collated it all and then
 We did the ranking process. We took the 5,000 structures and divided them into three sections. The top 50 ranked tier one, and then about 200 in tier two, and the rest were in tier three. Now, I think there are probably three good reasons why this work needs to be updated, and one other special item that I'll throw in before I go to those three is that...
 We did the work in the pre-computer age, so it was all by hand. And that meant there were no laptops, no software, nothing to really make this usable into the future in the way that it could be used today. The three reasons why I think it needs to be updated is, one, is time. With the 50-year rule, we didn't look at any, since we did this in the early 80s, anything after 1930.
 So that meant we didn't consider buildings that reflected the international style, modern style, mid-century modern, all of those structures that were created after 1930.
 Secondly, as a matter of geography, when we did that survey, of course, East County was still unincorporated, so anything between Gresham and 90th, roughly, was not looked at. And, of course, that's the hotbed of mid-century modern out there, so it definitely needs to be inventoried to get the city structures and buildings treated as a whole. And then thirdly, there's the matter of...
 subject approach that we used. In the early 30s, there wasn't a lot of research material available on women and ethnic and racial minorities. Now we have a lot more data to look at so that we can associate buildings and structures with appropriate significant individuals in those categories. So that alone probably...
 It necessitates a reevaluation to get at the issue of significance. Once you've got the inventory, then you can look at what are the most important items within that inventory that need to be saved. And you can't do that unless you know the size of the universe. So I would say those are basically the reasons that needs to be updated, and I can answer any questions you might have. Very good. I appreciate that. Thank you. Perfect timing as well.
 Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Linda Neddick-Hobin. Thank you for letting me testify on this. I certainly second the comments of my previous testifiers, and I'm very supportive and excited about the content of this report, and especially the strategies outlined. I also want to ask for a more comprehensive focus on the historic fabric along the commercial corridors.
 will be, it's rapidly disappearing. And as you know, the HRI update would help with that. That's obviously hopefully in the works and the unreinforced masonry concerns.
 I'm the liaison to the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association from hand, and of course, those folks have already identified 40 structures that would be likely to lose perhaps all value, given the current situation. I was most, many of the things I was going to say you've already discussed among yourselves already, which is very reassuring to me. One of them being the incentives, and I certainly support the idea of, you know, continuing to
 house, an arts group, but I'm wondering if that same strategy couldn't be used to create or keep affordable housing in those unreinforced masonry structures if a covenant couldn't be made in some cases where there would be a certain level of rent for X number of years in return for some subsidy or revolving loan for the seismic reinforcement. Because I'm obviously aware of the financial tradeoffs.
 I appreciate the comments on advocacy. I get concerned about the way things move through the legislature. Sometimes you don't realize that a particular bill is going to have historic impacts. And so some way that, again, the expertise that we have here can find a way to weigh in on those.
 My final plea is that, as you've just mentioned, you have several tracks going. I've been doing the splits, trying to straddle the RIP discussions and try to get my neighborhood supplied with information from all sides.
 If there's some way that you can do some further kind of convening, I testified on the budget trying to preserve some maintenance for Lads Edition Gardens. People were fine to me the following week when people from Lads testified at the budget hearing. They were booed. And that's just not fair. And there needs to be some way that we can do some bridge building, some better understanding of what's going on here between the...
 the need for affordable housing and the need for some kind of preservation. And if there's anything I can do to help, I will, but somehow there needs to be some higher level of leadership convening this. I don't know what the answer is, but we're so badly split. We're getting in our own way. So thank you. Thanks, Linda. Appreciate it. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please. Our Peggy Moretti, Wendy Rahm, and Jackie on Northeast Mason Street. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Peggy, congratulations. I see the carousel made the report. Yes! You know, it isn't all bad news out there.
 Should I start? Please. Okay. I'm Peggy Moretti. I'm the Executive Director of Restore Oregon, and I'm here to enthusiastically endorse the State of the City Preservation Report as submitted by the Historic Landmarks Commission. And today I wanted just to provide a little expansion on a couple of the issues noted in the report and add maybe a couple of additional remarks of other thoughts for your consideration.
 So my points include the fact that Portland is, in fact, faced with the competing demands of accommodating growth through increased density while also retaining our character-defining historic fabric. It is for that very reason, as everybody has been saying, that we really have never had a more critical need to take inventory of our historic assets.
 We simply cannot make good choices about what to keep and what to let go if we don't know what we've got. So I'll just say that again, reiterating what others are noting.
 A brief point on the residential infill project. I think there's good stuff in there. It's not fully baked, in my opinion. We'd like to see better incentives to retain existing housing, most of which is our more affordable housing. And we'd like to see additional provisions that ensure the compatibility of infill development and so forth. Okay.
 I'd really like to ask the city to use its state lobbying muscle to address Oregon's profound lack of financial incentives for historic rehabilitation and reuse.
 As you may be aware, right now in Washington, the tax overhaul that's proposed would eliminate the federal historic tax credit. And that would mean projects like the PNCA conversion of the old post office federal building would never happen. The Armory Theater that we all enjoy and love would never happen. The Erickson Fritz or the Branagh Apartments we've been talking about, low-income housing projects, would never happen without that. Okay.
 And that looming loss makes it even more important that Oregon ought to have a state historic tax credit, which Restore Oregon has been advocating for for some time. So I really want to make sure that that remains on our legislative agenda. And perhaps a different iteration of that and an additional way to tackle the issues of seismic retrofitting, I would like to suggest that we ought to have a state seismic tax credit.
 The city can't do this all by ourselves. This is a state issue, not just a city issue.
 If we made that a priority on the legislative agenda, I think that would be an extremely smart thing to do. It would benefit both preservation and public safety. A huge portion of preservation costs are seismic retrofitting. And we really can't expect property taxes to carry the burden for everything we want to get done here. We have a small property tax proposal to offset some seismic costs. It is not going to do the job.
 I served on the seismic committee, so I know what we're trying to accomplish there. But I think that many other cities across the state would join with Portland on that kind of an initiative, and there would be a huge economic upside, actually, to doing that.
 I think we've made some comments about preservation and affordability not being in conflict. We absolutely support additional density, the addition of middle housing in older and historic districts, ADUs, internal conversions. There are answers out there, and it's a false proposition that these ideas, these good ideas don't need to be in conflict at all.
 And then there's one final thing. I know I'm slightly over time, but I think there's one thing that would also benefit Portland greatly that was not in the landmark's remarks. We need a demolition by neglect ordinance in this town.
 Many cities, including Salem, use this mechanism to help ensure public safety and prevent the loss of historic resources. If one had been in place in Portland, we might not have experienced the outrageous loss of the Workman Temple building, which, by the way, could have been used for affordable housing, despite what the claim of the developer was.
 And we wouldn't have buildings like the Wong Laundry building, a very important cultural building in Chinatown. That would not be on Restore Oregon's Most Endangered Places list if we'd had a demolition by neglect ordinance.
 So it seems to me there ought to be meaningful penalties for property owners who let their buildings go to ruin and then impose blight on their neighbors and then claim they have no option but demolition. So that's a really practical step we could be taking. And I just want to comment that I hope next year at this time we are all celebrating that we have found a new home for the Janssen Beach Carousel.
 So anything you can do to help us find that new home is much appreciated. And thank you for all your hard work. I know we are dealing with many conflicting challenges, but we need to maintain our humor and get at it. Thanks for your testimony. Peggy, can I just make one comment? You've made an eloquent case for a new statewide tax credit. Can I just offer a cautionary flag and something maybe you can raise with Senator Burdick?
 our experience is the legislature sets an amount of foregone revenue that they're willing to budget and then they score them, they score all these things and it's almost like a zero sum game. You can get a little bit over here but it'll come at the expense of the film and tax credit or something else. And I think you and I would agree that not all these tax credits are the same and they actually shouldn't be put into one basket and then scored. But
 But the one cautionary flag is that's how the legislature views it. And they set an amount of money. They compare them against each other. And then we may be working across purposes on some other tool that we need. Right, right. So just food for thought. I'd like to think that they listen also to the mayors and city councils. And we have an awful lot of folks, I think, not just Portland, though, that really would appreciate this, the need for this. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Wendy Rahm, board member of the Bosco Milligan Foundation and a West End resident. First, I'd like to thank the Council for adopting the robust historic preservation policies in the 2035 Comp Plan. Thank you very much.
 And I'm happy to be here to support all the goals and policies and recommendations contained in this report. I'm particularly appreciative of the inclusion of the West End neighborhood in the Portland Historic Watch List.
 I agree that the West End and the other areas on this list merit extra efforts both to raise awareness and to give better ways to improve our stewardship of these irreplaceable resources that give Portland its character. Among the many solid recommendations in this report, I'd like to highlight a few. I urge the Council to look.
 for funding to support and update the 1984 HRI, just like a lot of other people in the room. The Landmark Commission, I gather, is requesting an additional BPS staff member and seed funding. This is a critical first step in my view. Second, I urge the Council to support the Historic Resource Code Project, which will help us all make better decisions in the long run.
 Third, crafting solutions for property owners to undertake the necessary seismic upgrades and to encourage rehabilitation rather than demolition will be crucial to saving our heritage. One such solution is to support the state rehabilitation tax credits. I appreciate that comment from Commissioner Frist.
 As the report recommends, targeting more modest resources and more modest neighborhoods can minimize displacement of vulnerable communities. One such area is, surprisingly, is the West End, densely populated with affordable housing today. Affordable housing and historic preservation should proceed hand in hand.
 Finally, the Landmark Commission is, I gather, hindered in accomplishing its mission by not being able to advocate on behalf of the city historic resources without some complications. Allowing the Landmark Commissioners this ability will not only empower them to educate the public more effectively about the value of these resources,
 It will also allow them to testify in a timely manner in support of Portland's policies and regulations. Timely advocating should not be impaired.
 So I urge the council to adopt the report in its entirety, and thank you for letting me speak. Thank you. We appreciate it very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Jackie Peterson. I'm the executive director of the Portland Chinatown History Foundation. And I also want to thank all of you for the, I'll use again that word robust, preservation aspects in the 2035 plan. We appreciate it.
 I also, though, want to very much support all of the recommendations of the report today by Landmarks, and we really want to thank Landmarks for all of the effort that it has made and continues to make on behalf of the one historic district that we have in this city that does represent the history and the culture and the memories of one of Portland's major ethnic immigrant groups.
 I also want to say just a few words about the importance of updating the HRI. I mean, in listening to the commentary today, of which there was very little that I could disagree with, I want to sort of return to something that Commissioner Fish said about having lost our soul, or at least concerns about where we're going and how much has changed in 10 years.
 I think it would be really unfortunate to use, I mean, in any way, maybe even not consciously, what appears to be an emergency as a way to kind of junk or back away from policies that evolved over a very long time and very much was the signature of what Portland has been for more than 100 years.
 we really need to think carefully about teasing out the very pieces of this emergency. I'm not sure that even pieces of this are incompatible, but there are parts of it that seem very volatile that do seem to be incompatible, and they seem to kind of reside under the guise of language which isn't, strictly speaking, a housing emergency.
 So I think that we, one of the advantages to the HRI work seems to me to be renewing a conversation on the part of all Portlanders about what do we mean when we say we want to preserve the past, our neighborhoods. What does that mean? Does it mean, is it about architecture only? I mean, is it about the person who lived in that house and we value that person now, even though we've just learned of them and they represent a particular minority? Right.
 you have to think about what is the context? What is the neighborhood? What is the fabric of that place that made that person's life worthwhile, what they gave back to the city? If we keep the house and destroy the neighborhood...
 What does that mean? So I think we need that conversation, this larger conversation, and I thank Landmarks, which seems to me right now to have a very extraordinary group of people serving the city in that capacity, and I hope you will give them greater agency and voice in your deliberations with the state. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please. Our Steve Dottier, Stephanie Whitlock, and Julie Garver. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 We'll just keep it in the same order if you'd like to start. All right. Thank you. My name is Steve Dotterer. I'm the president of the board of the Architectural Heritage Center. And as with many of the speakers, I'm here to support the report and its recommendations. I want to call out a couple of them specifically. One of them is the update to the zoning code to reflect the new Goal 5 administrative rules and the court cases and also the need to fix some administrative issues.
 matters. And I think with the new state administrative rule that clarifies what owner consent means for historic districts, that we can go back and have local historic districts, which we have not been able to have really since 1995.
 And if we have local districts, they're created by, they're recommended by the Landmarks Commission and created by the council. And the council can consider all of the comp fam goals when you make a decision about what to include in it. And you can also, you establish the process, the local public involvement process by which we get there.
 The districts that have been under debate and recently have all been going for national registered districts and you've had essentially nothing to say about them and you haven't been able to look at them from a comp plan perspective. That's not a good way to do long-range planning and I think you now have an opportunity to fix that and I would encourage you to keep focused on that into the future. Second, I want to support the...
 continued conversation about what kind of incentives are valuable, and I think we should be looking at the zoning code, but the financial incentives are particularly critical. I want to thank the mayor for his support of the federal tax credits and hope that that support is successful because it's pretty important, as Peggy pointed out.
 I also want to note that most of the state financial incentives will expire in 2020 unless the legislature acts. And I suspect it's not appropriate to create them exactly the way they are today, which, again, I will say the council has no role in creating.
 applying them directly and I believe that it's appropriate again for the council to make the choices about the designation and whether a resource is worthy to get some of these tax abatements and you know you can consider whether you're achieving your URM goals and your affordable housing goals as well as your historic preservation goals when you give a tax abatement. The way it works now you don't get a chance to say anything about that. So as I think as we look at
 to improving the legislation or trying to figure out new incentives for 2020, we should look at some way of doing that. And then finally, I want to support the HRI, the Historic Resources Inventory Update. Bill gave a lot of good reasons, and as a staff person who actually worked as a volunteer on the 1982 version, I think it's time to update it.
 at this point. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, sir, for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Stephanie Whitlock. I'm the Executive Director of the Architectural Heritage Center. I first wanted to start out by thanking our volunteer committee on the Historic Landmarks Commission for their time and their dedication to protecting Portland's significant places and for their work in preparing this important and thoughtful report on preservation that we heard today.
 Our organization, the Architectural Heritage Center, is honored to be included in the report as a preservation spotlight for the project we administered this year to research and document African American properties in Portland. To give credit where credit is due, the project was carried out by a four person team led by Kathy Galbraith, our founding director.
 Projects such as this one increase our knowledge and understanding of our community's built and cultural heritage, and they're really essential and empowering first steps to safeguarding these resources. So echoing other voices heard today, this is why the AHC strongly supports the commission's longstanding called Update Portland's Historic Resources Inventory.
 The inventory is an important tool and it's a public resource. It serves many purposes, as we've heard about in the report, from urban planning to environmental sustainability. And it also uncovers the rich diversity of our city.
 So like our team's work on African American resources in Portland, the HRI captures places of social, cultural, and historical significance that might not otherwise be recognized as important, and it helps to broaden public understanding of preservation beyond architecture, architecture with capital A, and it really helps us all be more inclusive in our approach to cultural preservation. Thank you.
 And as Mr. Willingham mentioned, today we have powerful new technologies available to us, not just to make the process more efficient and more sophisticated, but as Kirk said, just more participatory and more community building. The city of Los Angeles completed its inventory, and they did a terrific job with some great new open source software. I encourage you to check that out. Thank you.
 BPS has invested in preliminary steps this year to update the inventory, as you know about, which is the great first steps, and we encourage you to continue to build on this momentum. We're encouraged by what we've heard today, so that's really terrific. Finally, as the year draws to a close, we just want to thank you all for your service to the city and your support of preservation. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. My name is Julie Garver, and I'm the Housing Development Director for Innovative Housing. I'm also a board member on Restore Oregon. And I'm here today to support the report and the work of the commission and staff. It was very nicely done and great work over the year. Also, I want to be here to say historic preservation and affordable housing can go hand in hand.
 And there's been a lot of discussion about that. I've spent the last 13 years with Innovative Housing doing it. So we have done seven historic building projects in Portland, three utilized federal historic tax credits. These buildings provide 339 affordable apartments for people and several commercial spaces within our city.
 The scope of our rehabilitation work has ranged from finishes and ADA work to gut rehabs and major seismic work.
 We've heard about the federal housing tax credits and that they are extremely vulnerable and in the tax plan discussions, and I wanted to express my appreciation for Mayor Wheeler making the protection of the federal HTC a top priority for city government relations teams. So thank you for doing that and encourage everybody in the room to express our own individual support of that program too.
 I wanted to also mention the state historic tax credit. Peggy mentioned it a minute ago. We did a project called the Rich Building a few years ago, and it was on a shoestring budget, and we just pulled it off, but it was a small building. It had 34 units and
 and it was really nice building an old town, but we couldn't use federal historic tax credits on it because it was just too small. It didn't have the historic basis that attracted investors to it, and so we couldn't use it. We could have used a state historic tax credit. And so for smaller properties especially, that tool would be really effective. Thank you.
 Also echoing some other thoughts, I wanted to say that finding a source for funding seismic rehabilitations, I think, is going to be really important.
 And I know it's unpopular, but I'm going to make the pitch for some grants. And the reason is because of all the pro formas that I've worked on for historic buildings. Loans are really difficult, especially when an owner already has a loan on a building. You just can't support more debt service oftentimes. Let me just add one other point. In some of the buildings you've done that are in historic buildings,
 properties or unreinforced masonry buildings. The city financed those projects knowing that the buildings had issues. If we're going to come along five, ten years later and set a mandate and we're talking about a community asset that is affordable housing, social housing that is serving our lowest income residents, I think the city has to have some skin in the game. And I'm not shy about calling it a grant. I think it should be a grant.
 Because I know about your pro formas, and you can't get blood from a stone. Well, and I think that's a great point, Commissioner Fish. And we looked at a...
 purchasing a privately owned historic building a few years ago that was on the market, they ultimately decided not to sell. But those apartments were really affordable. Their rents were $500 and $600 a month. And that was privately owned. It didn't have any city money in it. And so there are private owners out there that could really benefit from the grants because if they had to sell that building and do a big project and refinance it, guess what those rents would end up being after that project? Right.
 They would be $1,500 a month and not $500. And so the use of a grant tool for that seismic work would be really valuable.
 The last thing I wanted to close with is supporting what others have said about the creation of ADUs. I like one ADU or even two ADUs property in a basement, in a backyard effort, and the internal conversions. I have personally two ADU properties. They're both basement conversions, and they rent for $8.95 a month.
 And so that's affordable housing. The demolition that's happening in our neighborhoods, often what's replaced is, I think I saw, 148% more costly.
 than the property that was there. So I'd really encourage some incentives for that type of development and a carrot and a stick approach. So carrot with the incentives, make the internal conversions and the ADUs easy to do, and also say before you're going to demolish that property, you have to decide whether it's eligible for the historic register. And if it is eligible, then
 then maybe you say that property can't be demolished. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. I believe we have three more. Is that correct, Carla? Yes. Very good. Fred Leeson, Jim Gardner, and Ian Johnson. Good afternoon. Why don't you go ahead and start, sir? Hello. My name is Ian Johnson. I'm the Associate Deputy State Historic Preservation Officer. The SHPO was invited here to speak today.
 And so I'd like to say a few comments. We're very happy to be here to speak on behalf of the plan as presented to you and to congratulate the city on all the good work it does in preserving some of the state's most important historic stories. The City of Portland is a participant in the Certified Local Government Program, which is a partnership between the National Park Service, our office, and the local government.
 being you in this case, which really helps incentivize and also enable local preservation efforts through technical service and pass-through funds.
 And what's really interesting about City of Portland is how the city has taken a very proactive approach, and I think how it's embodied is really in this report, specifically with the new Goal 5 rule, which now allows for properties to be inventoried without necessarily being designated. The city's effort with the historic resource inventory to go out and look at historic properties, evaluate what's important.
 And I think what's really a model in how it's been approached is thinking about geographic diversity, thematic diversity, looking at different types of resources, but also, and I was able to be part of some of those early meetings, talking about equity. How do we make sure that this is a process that benefits everyone? And I think that's really a great approach the city is taking and one we're highly supportive of. It gets to that question of how do we figure out what to preserve and for what purposes and for whom, and I think that's an excellent thing to...
 Ms. Whitlock talked a little bit about the African American study that's being done, and that's a great example of the type of work that comes out of that very thoughtful approach. I think a real strength of the report, and especially the approach of the city, is the social consciousness in which historic preservation is addressed.
 Specifically, I think in this report, the question of unreinforced masonry buildings and affordable housing, yes, these are preservation issues and it's appropriate to think about and address them in that way. But as the discussion has gone on today, we all realize that there's broader concerns. I think that this report and the Portland Landmarks Commission's approach to bringing all that in is very thoughtful and certainly one to be commended and one we can support.
 We're also very happy to see the emphasis on education broadly, not just the history education, which you would think with historic preservation, but also why do this? Why expend public funds? Why is this something that a city should do? And also the thoughtfulness put into city regulations. What makes sense? How do you do that? So in total, we find this program to be a model for the state.
 that it really integrates a lot of different things and it's the type of approach that we certainly encourage. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jim Gardner. I'm the chairman of the Land Use Committee for the South Portland Neighborhood Association. And I'm here to...
 First of all, to express strong support for the historic preservation report that you received, and I'm especially grateful to the recent legislatures for giving you some better tools and better strategies for historic preservation. Actually, I'm here today to take the occasion to alert you to a problem that has very recently developed with the South Portland Historic District.
 which was actually one of Portland's very first historic districts way back in the late 70s. The neighborhood of Lair Hill particularly, which is part of what we now call in South Portland, after being largely consumed by rampant urban renewal, worked with the city to establish the Lair Hill Historic Conservation District, which was a city-created historic district, one of the very first.
 Within a few years, working with the neighborhood, the city adopted a set of design guidelines that were being used to evaluate new construction and remodeling that might go on within the Lake Erie district.
 In the late 90s, we came to realize that we had only really preserved a portion of the historic South Portland. And so the neighbors working with the city went through the application process and accomplished creation of the South Portland National Historic District. At that time...
 We were told, and everyone within the city kind of assumed, that those design guidelines that had been created for the Lair Hill District would now apply to the larger, full South Portland District. That straddles Nato Parkway, essentially, Lair Hill being on the west side and the newer portion that was brought into the National District on the west side.
 Just in the last couple of weeks, BPS has told us that no, those Layer Hill guidelines do not apply to that newer portion of the historic district that's on the east side of NATO. The reason is those original guidelines had a map, and the map outlined the Layer Hill portion. And so because of that, we're now being told that those guidelines no longer apply.
 Now, over the intervening 20 years, those guidelines have been used as approval criteria many times to evaluate projects on the east side of NATO. A little brief research that a BPS planner did found 23 land use cases, and 10 of those had used the Laer Hill guidelines as the approval criteria.
 We desperately need a new set of guidelines that will apply to the entire historic district. Whether that's simply expanding the boundary of the Laer Hill guidelines or whether that's starting over, either way, there needs to be some guidelines in place. And why the urgency? As you probably know, Metro is deeply into planning for the Southwest Corridor Light Rail Project. And regardless of whether Barber or NADO is chosen as the route, it goes through South Portland.
 and it will stimulate a significant amount of redevelopment, perhaps even far more if NATO is chosen, because there will be a lot of new land available when the bridgehead spaghetti ramps are removed. Before that development gets on the drawing boards or into the pipeline, we certainly need to have in place a set of design guidelines that everyone can recognize applies to the entire historic district.
 The reason for this alert is that perhaps I hope in your budget deliberations or when you start putting together the budget, there will be requests for some staff help to accomplish this. And I wanted to let you know that this will be coming and to very much ask for your support for that. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it very much.
 Last but not least. Yeah, good afternoon. Fred Leeson, past president, Architectural Heritage Center. As a Little League ball player, I was good field, no hit. So batting cleanup is a little bit foreign for me here. This Landmarks Commission report is the latest in a long, long series of excellent, excellent reports. And it's kind of unfortunate to look back at the earlier ones and see how little has been accomplished of the recommendations they've suggested.
 This report gives a passing mention to the Portland Coalition for Historic Resources, and I thought I would talk about that a little bit. That was a brainchild of Jim Hoyer, who many of you remember,
 who realized that we really needed to get everybody in the preservation tent in an ad hoc group working together, the Heritage Center, Restore Oregon, United Neighborhoods for Reform, and all sorts of neighbors that live in historic districts and anybody else who cared about the issue. Our big battle was at the legislature at House Bill 2017, where...
 where Speaker Kotek, the Builders Association, and Thousand Friends of Oregon absolutely tried to eviscerate historic districts and historic design review. To her discredit, Representative Kotek also designed a process that absolutely minimized our opportunities to testify.
 Nevertheless, we took every opportunity we could. We met weekly. We talked to legislators individually. We bombarded them with emails. We took trips to Salem whenever the few, two opportunities we could.
 And in the end, the legislature was quite stunned about the support for historic preservation, not only from Portland, but from Astoria and from southern Oregon and from eastern Oregon. And all the attacks on historic districts were flushed down the toilet. We fully expect that they will come back.
 But they know, I hope, when they do come back, they're in for a fight. I think there is a growing awareness in the city of Portland and around the state about the value of trying to protect our historic resources and the resources that give us a sense of place and make us different. And we hope that the council will help us with that in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. Thank you.
 Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. You, Daly. Well, I think we've already lost a couple of our commissioners, and I know that we already did a speedy recognition, but I do want to take another moment to thank the dedicated volunteers who serve on the commission.
 This commission meets at least twice a month, often for many hours as they review land use cases and provide advice. They are a hardworking group that include, and if I call your name and you're in the room, please stand up, Kirk Ranzetta, Chair, Kristen Miner, our Vice Chair. Don't just stay standing. Matthew Roman, Wendy Chung, Annie Mahoney, Maya Foti,
 And Karen Carlson, who has already left and was already mentioned, is completing eight years of service tomorrow. Thank you for your service, and if we could suspend the rules, I think another round of applause is in order. And I would also like to recognize the dedicated BDS staff who have been increasing in number due to the high volume of applications BDS...
 related to historic resources. I'm really looking forward to continuing this conversation and I'm happy to vote aye. Fritz. Thank you very much for all your work. This is a great report. I was very happy to see in it the moving of the Maurice Marks House came top of the accomplishments. And I want to again thank Rachel Wiggins and Mayor Hales' office as well as practically everybody in mind who worked so hard to get that done. I also...
 I think fondly each time we get this report of Art de Miro and Venerable Properties and the amazing leadership that he showed over the years, which is now evident in the places that we still can love and cherish. And as I said before, I don't think it's an either or. We can do it all. I was married in a church that was built in 1130.
 In fact, there are trees in England that are like 1,000 years old. They're kind of held together with wire, but they're still there. And so we can do this stuff. It's important to make that sense of place, because America being a youngish country in terms of their current population, and then the heritage that we inherit from the indigenous people here, whose
 sacred and wonderful spaces were outside rather than being buildings. We can combine all of that with looking after what we've been given and the stewardship that we're required for it. So thank you very much, all of you, for your work. Fish. Well, I want to thank everybody that contributed to this report. I don't think there was a dissenting voice on updating the 1984 Historic Resources Inventory.
 And I was relieved to learn that the original one was done by a group of volunteers, so it's not going to have a great budget impact, Mayor. And they had the foresight to identify themselves here publicly by name, so I look forward to the same good deal. Really appreciate the volunteer members of the commission and the time they've taken to engage us. I thought this was an unusually thoughtful presentation, good dialogue.
 There's a recurring theme that some people feel that we have these forums, these hearings, and then nothing happens. I hope that's not the case next year because I think you've clearly identified a number of things at the federal, state, and local level that we can do. And I also appreciate that in this time when it's increasingly hard to celebrate any of the wins, it's just the times we live in,
 Everybody thinks that there's, you know, this sort of prevailing attitude is walking through the emergency room, you know, chronicling the carnage. So it displaces the time to actually acknowledge the wins. And there's some people in this room to whom we owe a great debt of gratitude for some huge wins this year. And they were unlikely wins.
 And everything from Morris Mark's house to Jansen Beach Carousel to other things that are located, that are identified here, would not have happened without community members that really extended themselves. So very appreciative of that. I do think the history of a city through its structures and its buildings and other things is very important to preserve.
 And I just want to close by saying that I'm not sure how we reconcile all the things that the mayor identified earlier, but I don't think it was meant to be easy. And I think the challenge is to make sure that every time we go through this exercise, we bring all these values into the equation and balance them, because I fear what we're going to do is start shortcutting and just bypassing certain things, and that would be a shame. So thank you for your good work. Aye. Wheeler.
 Well, first of all, I want to also take some time to thank the volunteer members of our commission. 26 meetings in one year for volunteers.
 That's significant in terms of the commitment. So thanks to all of you who are doing that. This is obviously a time of significant change around historic preservation. The staff of BPS worked with many of you in this room to go down to Salem and lobby for some, I'll call it relaxation.
 of administrative rules that were standing in the way of our historic preservation efforts. And I know that we're working collectively to figure out how to use that newfound flexibility to everybody's advantage.
 And I certainly look forward to seeing the Historic Resources Code project come back to the City Council in 2018. And I look forward to supporting that work as I support the work that we're talking about here today. And I want to say again publicly that I do support
 the revisiting of the historic resource inventory. I think it's essential that we update this document. It's been far too long since we last addressed it, so I look forward to working with the BPS leadership to talk about how we can get the resources to work on that collectively. And I want to thank all of you in advance for volunteering to help us do that important work in the days, months, and years ahead. So thank you. I vote aye. Great report.
 We are recessed until 4 p.m. Thank you. Started, please. We are continuing the afternoon session of the Portland City Council. This is November 29th. Colleagues, today's session is going to be a continuation of the Central City 2035 matter. The Central City will be the first amendment to the new comprehensive plan. Before we get into all of that, there was one item that we deferred from this morning
 due to a lack of time that is directly related to this afternoon hearing. So we're going to treat it a little bit differently. I would ask Carla that we read 1259, have staff present. We'll take testimony on 1259. We'll pass that ordinance, I presume. I'll keep some suspense in the room for you. And then we'll go on to the rest of the agenda. So if you could call the roll first, please. I got it.
 You daily. Aye. Wait, here. What are we doing? You know, we don't need to do this because we just recessed. So never mind.
 I know who's here. I can see, and there we are on TV in all of our living glory. Could you read item 1259, please? Yes. Delay effective date of Portland's 2035 comprehensive plan and implementing measures from January 1, 2018 to May 23, 2018 to allow more time for state review and approval. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. You may recall, or at least many of you will recall, in 2016 the Council adopted probably the most significant update to the Comprehensive Plan in a generation. I should just start by saying my name is Eric Engstrom with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 The plan was originally slated to take effect on January 1 of the coming year. This brief additional delay is necessary to resolve several objections to the plan at the state level. DLCD has been working diligently to review the adopted plan, and we're going to talk about a short delay, but it's a consequence of objections being filed not there.
 not any delay in the state review process. The ordinance that we're going to look at has the effect of delaying the implementation date a few months. We received this afternoon at a request or yesterday, a request from BDS to further amend this ordinance to, to replace May 23rd, 2018 with May 24th at 1 PM on 2018. And,
 So that's one further amendment you'll have to consider today. Many of you recall that the comp plan includes new land use goals and policies, updated land use maps, new zoning designations, a new public involvement plan, and a major refresh of the city's capital facilities plans, including the transportation system plan. So these are the things being delayed. The original effective date was designed for the state of Oregon to allow enough time for them to acknowledge the plan,
 And under state land use law, the state must periodically review and reacknowledge our comprehensive plan. And this is referred to as periodic review. The state process allows an opportunity for people who participated in our local planning effort to object to that plan. The state then reviews those objections and issues an order from DLCD. And we actually expect that order this month on the plan. Thank you.
 The state process gives a further opportunity for objectors to request a hearing before the state Land Conservation and Development Commission and their next meeting where that would be considered is in March of 2018. And so this request allows enough time for that LCDC hearing that we anticipate to happen to play out.
 We expect some percentage of the objectors to the plan to ask for that hearing. This delay would have some impact on development activity in the pipeline, projects waiting for the new zoning that will go into effect. That said, we're recommending that we do make this slight delay because it simplifies the development review process. Should we implement the plan...
 Prior to state acknowledgement, the state imposes some additional hurdles on the planning process that BDS administers, which would complicate development review. And so to keep things simple, that short delay to allow the state process to reach its conclusion is what we recommend.
 We changed a couple things in this ordinance. We made it an emergency ordinance because it has to take effect before January. We changed the ordinance to allow the Title III amendments that create the new Community Involvement Committee to take effect on January 1 so that we can recruit and populate that committee and get it up and running before the plan actually takes effect so they're ready to run.
 And then we added language to disclose the possibility that we could come back to you optimistically if we resolve those objections early. We could come back to you and request to accelerate the effective date. We just wanted folks to know that that was still a possibility. And then this latest amendment is to select a more precise implementation time of May 24th at 1 p.m. And that was driven...
 by BDS because the permit center will be closed on Thursday afternoons, and that just makes it simpler for them. On that same day, we're going to be bringing back some technical corrections to you to adopt to clarify how the things like the NOIDS ordinance and the sign code and the tree code.
 and the Inclusionary Housing Code apply to the new zones that are going to take effect that day. And we don't want to create an awkward situation where there's a time where people can submit permits before those clarifications have taken effect. And so we wanted to take advantage of the day that the permit center is already closed to have you consider those and have the effective date occur. Commissioner Fritz. Why don't you do it at 5 o'clock on a Friday so you'd have the whole weekend? Because.
 Because we need some time after it's effective when council is in session for you to consider those final clarifying amendments to it. And we can't have you do that until it's actually in effect for legal reasons. So we would hear those at 2 o'clock on the 24th? We've reserved some time on the 24th to have you consider the final vote on those amendments, which we should be bringing to you, I would imagine, in February or March for a first reading. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 What happens if somebody gets... So what time does the BDS close? I believe they're closed the afternoon. They shut up shop at 1 o'clock. Right. And do they have any kind of... If you're in line, you get to be seen or not? I would have to defer that to the BDS staff. I'm not sure we want to signal this publicly. Well, I'm just...
 I'm thinking about this because we once, at my suggestion, said that instead of having a deadline being at 5 o'clock on a Friday, why not make it 8 o'clock in the morning on the Monday because the staff were not going to look at it over the weekend, whereas the community would be able to do that. Well, then somebody showed up at 3 a.m. on the Monday morning asking to be able to submit their comments, which obviously the security guard was there. So I'm just giving that example of a...
 Have you looked at all the possibilities to make sure that it's as foolproof or as most capable of preventing the problems that you're trying to avoid? We have not looked at that possibility, but we certainly can. Thanks. So you're offering up or proposing two amendments. The first is the May 24th at 1 p.m. in all of the...
 parallel code and you're also requesting an amendment to make this an emergency action so there's a substitute ordinance so first it is a substitute yeah takes care of all of these items no so first there's a substitute ordinance that was in your packet so you would move and vote on the set open set I move the substitute second we have a motion from Commissioner fish a second from Commissioner you daily call the roll aye
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Substitutes adopted. And then there are amendments that were introduced today. I move the package of amendments, Mayor. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Udaly.
 Is there any further discussion? Just to clarify, basically the amendment is to substitute wherever it says May 23, 2018, to say May 24, 2018 at 1 p.m. 1 p.m., correct. And you've given us the language which will enter into the record. Call the roll. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The substitute is amended. Is there any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Anybody want to testify on this item? Seeing nothing, I'll call the roll on the main motion. Udaly. Udaly.
 I want to thank you for adding the bit about early implementation, if possible, because we are concerned about delays for development projects that are already in the pipeline. With that in mind, I vote aye. Fritz. Glad you've been thinking this through. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. So now that we've gotten that preliminary...
 Work out of the way. We've just changed the effective date, of course, for the comprehensive plan. As you'll recall, we held several public hearings and took testimony on the Central City 2035 plan on September 7th, 14th, and 20th. And then on October 18th, we began our deliberations in earnest.
 All of the items that we moved in second and that day are going to be in the amendments reports that's going to be the subject of the public hearings on January 18th.
 Today, we're going to continue to discuss the items of interest to council members and decide if we want to move and second additional amendments to include in the amendments report. There will not be any public testimony today on these items. And just as a reminder for those of you who are following the process, the public record is closed, which means we are also not accepting written testimony at this point. However, for those of you keeping score...
 The record will open up again on January 5th in the preparation for the January 18th public hearings on the Central 2035 amendments report. So, Sally, you're going to walk us through today's agenda. Thank you for being here. Yes, thank you very much. Sorry, I haven't read the items.
 Read the items. I'm sorry, yeah. And could you please read, we're going to read them all in bulk if you wouldn't mind. If you could please read items 1271, 72, 73, 74, and 75 as a group. Thank you. 1272. Yeah. Yeah.
 Adopt the Central City 2035 Plan, Volume 2A, Part 3, Environmental and Scenic. Amend the Portland Zoning Map and Portland Zoning Codes for Environmental Overlay Zones and Scenic Resource Zones.
 1273, adopt the Central City 2035 plan. Amend the Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Transportation System Plan, Willamette Greenway Plan, Willamette River Greenway Inventory, Scenic Resources Protection Plan, Zoning Map, and Title 33. Repeal and replace prior Central City 2035.
 plans, and documents. 1274, adopt the Central City 2035 plan action charts, performance targets, and urban design diagrams. 1275, adopt the Central City 2035 plan green loops concept report. Very good.
 Okay, thank you very much. So we've organized the agenda for today into two parts. The first part includes items that staff believes that council will want to discuss. And the second part of the agenda is a package of amendments that we believe are minor or technical amendments that we believe that council could move and second as a package.
 So, as you can see, the first group includes a short report on the West Quadrant Plan map, the scenic views, green buildings, river environmental, and bonuses and transfers. And then we also have this set of minor and technical amendments.
 So, Mayor, I was thinking that before we go further, I was wondering if you could ask Council if they are interested in pulling any of the minor and technical amendments forward for discussion. So, colleagues, you have the list before you of the minor and technical amendments. Are there any you'd like to pull out for discussion, or are we prepared to move those as a group?
 I'll accept a motion if there are none that people would like to discuss. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Terrific. Okay. So those items will now be part of the amendments report that we will have a hearing on on January 18th. So today we plan to follow the same process we did on October 18th. And so for each of the proposed amendments, we'll have a staff presentation and
 with some background, and then whichever commissioner was most interested in that item, they would begin the discussion. Most of the items on the agenda today are amendments. There's just a couple that are discussion-only items, at least at this time. Sally, can I just ask a question, just procedural? It is our intent today to go until when? 5.30. Okay. That's ambitious. Okay.
 Can we get all this in between now and 5.30? We hope so. Well, as long as you don't get more interruptions from people like me, we'll have a fighting chance. How much should we talk? I'll save for you. Okay. So should we get started? So the first item is the West Quadrant Plan SAC ownership map. So on October 18th, we presented a map.
 showing West Quadrant Plan member ownership. And at that meeting, Commissioner Frist asked if we could provide more explanation regarding how the view corridors go across the central city and why the heights are so different in different places. So just as a reminder, this map, the orange places are those where height is increasing and the blue are where the height is decreasing and gray is no change.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Mindy Brooks, Planning and Sustainability. Afternoon. So this, we're going to attempt to explain how the view corridors work here. So in the downtown area, we have no less than 12 views that cross this area, and they're all from different elevations up in the hills.
 And so using GIS, we really modeled on a block-by-block basis how tall buildings could get before intruding into any of those view corridors. And this is just one piece of information that goes into building heights. We also consider other policies like historic districts and adjacent neighborhoods, adjacent parks. And, for example, much of the area around the transit mall is to increase in height, except where there are view corridors that limit that. Okay.
 And so just to take it down to the street level and show you how complex this is, this is a five-block area along Southwest Taylor between 3rd and Park. The map on the left shows the increases and decreases in orange and blue. The top map on the right is the existing height limits, which divide all those blocks in half.
 The map on the bottom right shows the recommended heights, which are based on the view corridor. And because the heights were split now, and they won't be split in the future, half the block is increasing a little bit and half the block is decreasing a little bit. And it is small increases and decreases. So anyway, this is just an example of how complicated it is to address views in the downtown area. And I will turn it over to Commissioner Fritz to answer.
 That was a very succinct and eloquent explanation, Mindy. Thank you. So, and this is a summary of literally hours, I know, in preparing this map, and then several hours in explaining to me, to my satisfaction, why each of the lots in this area were up or down. So I asked to have this map made, and then the scenic overlays,
 placed over it. I wasn't at all interested in who particularly owned any of the blocks. I just wanted to be able to understand without any kind of bias, why are things going up and why are things going down?
 I am absolutely satisfied that there wasn't an influence of the committee members on the outcomes because there's no place in that area where it shows something that's incongruent. The only one that I'm still concerned about already has an amendment on it, which is the Morrison Bridgehead amendment.
 and that was not related to the views there, and it's increased. So that's already got some, we'll be discussing it. Great, colleagues, any further questions on this item? If not, let's move on to item C3, that's the views of the Vista Bridge, and Commissioner Fritz, I understand you have an amendment. Mindy, could you give us some background on that? Absolutely. So this is the view from Jefferson and 14th, view of Vista Bridge.
 And last time there were some requests for some additional information, so I'm going to just kind of re-explain what's going on here. The top two images that you're looking at are the existing heights in the view, and the bottom are the recommended heights for the view corridor. The top left shows existing heights of 30 to 45 feet, and the top right shows how that view would change with full build-out.
 The bottom left shows the recommended heights of 75 feet along the north side of Jefferson Street, and then the bottom right shows how that view would change with full build-out at 75 feet. The reason why staff recommended 75 feet is because Jefferson Street is a commercial corridor along a light rail stop, and 75 feet is more flexible and supports the redevelopment of sites such as the surface parking lot, but 75 feet would cause intrusion into the view corridor.
 Because the view of Vista Bridge can only be seen from 14th from the street, and then the view disappears until 18th Street, part of the recommendation is to add a new viewpoint at 18th and improve Collins Circle to celebrate the Vista Bridge. At the last session, Commissioner Fritz, you asked that we look into retaining the existing heights to maintain the existing view of Vista Bridge. So the map on the right...
 puts the existing heights back in place, and the map on the left is the recommended heights of 75 feet. And I will turn it over to you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So I am moving to return the height limits to the existing heights. I'm still keeping that second...
 piece of the amendment of the proposal with the circle, but to return the heights so that that iconic view remains. Is there a second? I'll second. Commissioner Fritz moves this is an amendment. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Any further discussion on this item? Next up is green buildings. There's a number of proposed amendments here. Mindy, why don't you walk us through the amendments, please? Okay. So we will start with eco-roofs.
 So a group of staff from BPS, BDS, BES, as well as staff from Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fish's office have been working on this amendment for eco roofs. And the goal has been to really encourage as much eco roof as we can while still providing space for things that have to go on the roof, like HVAC systems and elevator enclosures, and also to allow space for amenity uses up there, like outdoor seating.
 We have kind of run into three issues that we've been trying to address. One of them is a new fire code that was adopted in 2016 that limits the size of vegetated areas on a rooftop, so some of the amendments are related to that.
 We need the standard to support architecturally diverse skyline. We don't want a skyline of just flat roofs, so we've been addressing that. And also, we need to make sure that there is adequate space for the things that kind of have to be up there. You need the penthouse for the stairwell enclosure and the elevators and so forth. So we've been working through that.
 And I want to give an example of how we've been working through it so you can see kind of how this works. But first I wanted to say that the code that you saw before basically said first on a roof you take out items like HVAC and elevator enclosures and all those spaces, and then on the remaining roof, 60% needs to be eco-roof. The way it's structured now is...
 Everything needs to be eco-roof, but you're allowed that 40% of the roof can be used for a mix of things that need to be up there. So that's how this has been restructured. This is just an example. It's a generic full block. It could be anywhere in the city. Okay.
 With the new code, as we're proposing it, these are the two ways that we see it could kind of play out. The top scenario is you have the mechanical and all that stuff in the middle, and then everything else goes to EcoRoof. And you can see how we've put fire breaks in there to address the fire code and so forth. And you end up with a lot of EcoRoof, right? So it really is maximizing.
 The bottom scenario shows that the code actually allows for that flexibility in that tan space. So that space could be used for mechanical and other things. It could also be used for amenity space. It is a flexible area. But at no point can you go below 60% eco-roof coverage total. And then I just have one other example of this on a half block, how it looks on a half block. Similar...
 here on maximizing, trying to maximize that eco-rough area. So, Mindy, we had a lot of testimony on this particular item, and we had some people advocating for even more stringent standards with regard to eco-rough space. It's my understanding that this, I don't want to call it a compromise, because I think it's
 still pretty substantial. Would this not be the most progressive eco-roof policy in the United States? Yeah, it would. Other cities have eco-roof requirements or incentives, but this is definitely a very progressive approach for sure. Carla handed out to you, I think, or she's handing out now to you,
 another version of the code. So we put in your packet code, but we've continued to work on it. And so Carla's going to give you a version that has yellow highlighted text, which is also on the screen, that is new. Thank you. And I'll just quickly walk through what that is since you haven't had a chance to look at it yet. We added to the purpose statement the three bullets.
 And these are to make it easier when an adjustment comes in through design review for there to be something to judge it against. So it's helping clarify how an adjustment should be considered underneath of this. We also added an exemption for slopes with a pitch that's greater than 25%. You would not have to put an eco-roof on something greater than 25%, although you could if you wanted to, but you're not required to. So those are the two new options.
 amendments that we're putting in at this time. Very good. Commissioner Udaly, would you like to move these as amendments? Yes, I would like to move them. I'll second. Thank you. I'd just like to say thank you to everyone that helped us.
 fine-tune this amendment. I definitely don't see it as a compromise. We just made it make more sense. And I think really balanced our two goals of maximizing the eco-roof space while allowing builder owners and occupants and visitors to enjoy that outdoor area. And I'm just going to quickly list off some of the benefits of eco-roofs.
 For anyone who's listening or remains unconvinced, they significantly decrease stormwater runoff. They help preserve fish habitat. They absorb carbon dioxide and other air pollutants. They cool urban heat centers. And they enhance the energy capacity of solar panels. And I think that you've really gone over all the...
 significant changes to this amendment. The only thing that I want to clarify is this only applies to new development that's over 20,000 square feet in net building area. It will result in a less than 1% increase to the overall cost. And if there is an existing list of exemptions, which would include patio equipment,
 fire aisles, all of that, if we've forgotten anything and that list needs to be expanded, changes can be made through the annual regulatory improvement code amendment project process. Commissioner Fish. I just want to thank Commissioner Daly and her team for sort of convening the various parties to get to this compromise. And let's be clear, we're moving to a mandate.
 This is a long time coming. This is a requirement.
 but this seems like a reasonable compromise in balancing other required and competing uses. And I think everybody that had a hand in working through to get to this point. Yeah, I want to share that same sentiment. I think the standard is very important to address our sustainability and our climate action goals, and that includes clean water. It includes clean air. It includes heat island effects. It includes protecting habitat and water.
 considering where we started with this conversation, I think it's come a long way. And Commissioner Udaly, I want to thank you, and I want to thank your team.
 And I definitely want to thank the Bureau staff for working hard to bring a lot of disparate voices to the table on what, as I said, will now be the most progressive green roof policy in the United States. And I think it's a good, smart one. And I also just want to say anecdotally, I've shopped this around to a number of people that I just know personally who are developers and architects, and the feedback was very positive. Right.
 particularly based on the accommodations that were made for some of these other amenities on the rooftop. And one individual told me that this is where the market is actually going. And I believe you even showed a couple of photos in your presentations of buildings where that is what the client wanted. Mm-hmm.
 So I think this is great timing, and I'm very appreciative of your work, Commissioner. Yes, please. I would also just like to acknowledge local advocates, GRIT, for helping bring this to our attention, and to my staff member, Jamie Duhamel, who really led this process for my office.
 Very good. So moving along, we're covering a lot of interesting areas today. F2, light pollution, Commissioner Fish, did you want to move a light pollution amendment? Yes, I think this is one that Commissioner Fritz and I both support. I'm going to be very clear, Mayor. This doesn't go as far as I would like, but what we're doing is going from the discretionary
 rather they consider the project, to actually initiating a project. I do have concern about the five-year timeline, and I wonder if that's a function of resources and prioritization within the Bureau. Is that – I'm seeing a nod. Yes. And so can you give us a sense of what would be required in terms of council action to move this up in terms of priority? Are we talking about funding and staff? Give us a sense of if we thought five years was a bit –
 If we wanted to accelerate the process, Susan, what would you need in order to meet that? Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And all these were right in the next five years. That doesn't mean it couldn't happen in year two. We wanted to give ourselves a little room so that when we put out our budget annually, you're able to look at all of the things that are on your list and decide which ones you want to put forward. We could...
 put it forward in our next budget as a tradeoff with something else and see if that's something you want to put at the top of the list. Mayor, you have a big say on this. And without getting into the weeds here, there's a debate about how you create the standard.
 and the requirement. And BPS has said they want to go through a process to get to that. There's some advocates who've said that the Council should set a specific requirement
 One way we can, I think, bridge that difference is prioritize a process to get to the standard and then have the council determine when we implement it. But that would require a clear direction to BPS, either with resources or prioritization, that this goes to – that this does –
 get done sooner rather than later, Mayor. I agree. It's very important, and there's been a lot of literature on this in recent months in particular. There's a number of new studies that show that,
 about the rapid global spread of light pollution and what the consequences are. And often those consequences are couched in terms of impacts to humans and to wildlife. And it discusses things like disruption of sleep patterns and the destruction of habitat and
 the collapse of nocturnal animal populations, but it's also important for our energy goals. And so I think it does require a thoughtful approach rather than us just picking a number and hoping we got it right. And so I would support that, and I hear what you're saying with regard to both resources and manpower to back that. Thank you.
 And so, Mayor, I would offer this compromise amendment with the understanding that we would, through the budget process, prioritize establishing the standard and then, with some sense of urgency, provide the resources to BPS to implement a standard. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish and a second from Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 Uh, and then we're getting into F3. This is bird safe. Like the other two green building items. This one implements our sustain about sustainability values and it is flexible. And I'd like to move this, but Mindy, could you talk a little bit about some of the details here? Sure. Um,
 Really what we're doing with this amendment is just moving the details of it into an administrative rule. The standard itself, what is required, the percentages and so forth, would stay in the zoning code. The administrative rule would handle the specifics about materials and glazing and frit spaces and UV materials and so forth. And we think this is important because...
 This is a new field, a new technology, and it's going to change. And an administrative rule is more flexible. It allows for more change. And we can also put more details in the administrative rule to help developers understand it. Is there a – I'm sorry. Yeah, no, go ahead. So that's the amendment. Great. Is there a second, please? Second. It sounds like Commissioner Udaly just beat out Commissioner Fritz on that. We'll deal with that privately. Yeah, they'll fight it out. They'll fight it out.
 Then we'll move on then to H2 redevelopment in the floodplain. Commissioner Fish, I understand you would like to speak to this item and potentially offer up an amendment. Yeah, I'll let staff go first. Okay. So just a little bit of background. I just want to remind everybody that the Willamette River hasn't flooded in a while, but it actually does flood every 30 years about. It flooded in 48, 64, and 96, and this is a lovely picture of the Pearl in 96th.
 And we do expect that flooding will intensify. The frequency will change with climate change. The plan already has an increase in the width of the setback. It applies a new river environmental overlay zone to the river and the riverbanks. And it puts in place a bonus for property owners to choose to set back even further. But all of these requirements and bonus, they come into play at the time of redevelopment.
 Right? And so when somebody redevelops their site, that's when they set back. That's when they can get a hold of this bonus. So we've proposed with Commissioner Fish...
 a new action that directs Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to partner with BES, OMF, the Bureau of Emergency Management, and BDS to explore options to incent people to voluntarily move out of the floodplain and the setback ahead of full site redevelopment. And I think the theory here, colleagues, is – and I have a few other comments and questions, but it –
 it's one thing to say that we typically, these things are linked to development, but given that this is a floodplain and given the consequences, I'm not sure we can afford to wait. And so why not consider an incentive plan to have these buildings removed ahead of any redevelopment? And in fact, in some instances, the removal done ahead of redevelopment may actually enhance the redevelopment and create greater options. So again,
 the amendment would be to explore options around potential incentives to remove these structures and floodplains. So it seems to me that's a common-sense approach. The question we've heard from a couple of advocates that want to go further is,
 and expand this explicitly to the Willamette River Greenway in the central reach. There's been some concern from BPS about this. Can you address that for me? Expand the setback to a wider setback? Yes. Okay. And let me – sorry. Yep, we can talk about that too. So the setback right now in the Willamette River is 25 feet from Top of Bank. It's been that way since 1988. Right.
 And we all know 25 feet is not enough to protect natural resources. It needs to be wider, best available science says that, especially when you have – I'm sorry. I may have misspoken. Okay. The amendment says – the amendment talks about existing structures in the Willamette River floodplain, or essentially. And some have suggested we expand that to include the Willamette River Greenway in the central reach. Yes. Okay. And that is included in here. So it would be the floodplain or the setback.
 is where we would consider these new incentives. And that's in my amendment? Yes. It's late in the day, I'm sorry. That's okay. I have to be clear about what's in my amendment before I offer it. Thank you. So, yeah, so it's exploring the options to incent property owners to voluntarily move structures or parts of structures out of the floodplain or the river setback prior to any full site redevelopment. Colleagues, I offer this as an amendment. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz, second. Second.
 So as you were saying, Commissioner Fish, there was some requests regarding the width of the setback itself. And so you asked that we have just another discussion about the setback. And as I was saying, it was 25 feet.
 And we've proposed to expand it to 50 feet, which really is an absolute minimum for setback of development from the river. For the central city, this is really about as wide as you can go because there's a lot of development that already has happened. We've got most of the Greenway Trail there. So going wider just isn't reasonable in the central city. So the 50 feet is where we have stuck with the recommendation.
 Okay. Very good. And I understand this was just flagged as a discussion item. There's not necessarily an amendment. There's no amendment associated with it. Is there any further questions on this one, colleagues? Very good. Moving on to bonuses and transfers. Rachel and Joe, you're going to walk us through the proposed amendments. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Rachel Hoy with BPS. And I'm going to be working from Table G in your packet. The G is the bonus and transfer table. Okay.
 So the first item, G1, we received a testimony that indicated that the transfer areas that are in the recommended draft, which is a, we call it a transfer within sub-districts, that those transfer areas were not large enough and that we should consider making those transfer areas larger to increase the pool of available FAR and to simplify the system.
 So staff is proposing to, as you see on the slide here, staff's proposing to combine several of the subdistricts in the downtown area into a single, larger, what we're calling a flora area transfer sector. So this area would include the Pearl downtown, Old Town Chinatown, West End, and South Downtown.
 We would keep Goose Hollow, South Waterfront, Central East Side, and Lloyd would be combined with Lower Albina, but keep those areas separate. But we do feel that this new sector does increase the pool substantially in the downtown area and would certainly be responsive to some of the testimony that we've received.
 This simplifies the system, and we also feel that it keeps the areas corresponding to some of the areas that we modeled for the transportation system, and especially pays attention to the regional transportation system. So just to...
 Recap, in your table, Table G, number one, you'll see that this would require zoning code updates that are in your table, and then the map that's shown on your screen here shows the creation of this larger sector.
 So, Mayor, I'm going to turn it over to you if there's any discussion on this particular amendment. Is there any further discussion? I'd like to move this as an amendment. I don't know if people have any further discussions before we get a second. Second. Commissioner, you daily seconds. Any further discussion? I have a question about, it's not the amended part, it's 2A. It says the sending site must not be a historic or conservation landmark. What's the reason for that?
 Because we do have a historic resource transfer. So in the new system of transfers, we've got the historic resource transfer. So if you're a historic resource, we want you to use that transfer. Okay, and you can't get both. Right. Thank you. That's helpful. All right. G2A increased bonus FAR for fee and lieu. Okay.
 And I'm going to turn this over to you. Great. So this G2 has two components. The first is a request to increase...
 the amount of floor area that a project earning a central city and inclusionary housing bonus, a commercial project, an office building, can earn in response to concerns that the cost per square foot in our current inclusionary housing program is high enough that it's going to discourage use of the bonus.
 And the result of that would be that whereas we would just get less resources in for affordable housing through the bonus if the bonus isn't used, and secondly, we run the risk of having central city buildings underbuilt.
 The Inclusionary Housing Program put a fee of $24 a square foot on it. It was determined for that. That fee was determined as part of the study we did to create inclusionary housing, which was an economic study looking at pro formas and the cost of development.
 When we did that study, we looked very closely at the cost of residential development, since that's really the focus of the inclusionary housing program. Our look at commercial development was present, but wasn't as in-depth, and we've had nagging concerns that that cost may be too high. And since we adopted, actually since we did the study in 2016, to be able to do
 To today, the cost of construction in general in Portland have gone up 5% a year. So we think that this proposal that I'll explain next is sort of a good conservative hedge against this concern about the cost of that per square foot.
 The proposal would be this. Currently, for $24, you get one square foot of additional floor area you can build on a commercial building through the bonus system up to a three-to-one bonus for the whole site.
 So you can earn it, you pay for it per square foot, you're capped at three to one. The money that's raised by this goes into the affordable housing fund. We're proposing instead of one square foot for $24, we amend the zoning code in this case for an interim period, 18 months is what we're proposing, and make it one and a half square feet for $24. The impact of that is right to reduce the effective cost per square foot for a commercial building.
 We are limiting the amount of time that we would do this provision so that we can sync it up with the ordinance that requires the inclusionary housing program to be reexamined and recalibrated in three years since its adoption. So we can double check as part of that analysis that this move that we have made here is still calibrated correctly.
 So this is good work, and it addresses a problem that's been identified by commercial developers. And I want to stress it's an interim strategy. This is not a permanent fix. This is an interim solution. And I will, therefore, move this. Before we move it, can we have a conversation? Please. So, Joe, one of the things that we were clear about when we adopted inclusionary zoning was
 is that we wanted a fee-in-lieu process, but we wanted to structure the overall system to encourage units on site, and that's because... for twofold. One is we wanted to capture the bird in the hand. We wanted, as development was progressing, get the units while they were, you know, while the market was hot. And we also thought that we were likely to get more units in high-opportunity areas. And so creating a fund for some later time
 you know, was less certain, less likely to be in a high-opportunity area. And so my recollection, and my recollection on many things these days has been compromised, so you'll correct me. My recollection is that we wanted to create a slight disincentive from people using fee-in-lieu because we thought that the actual –
 on-site affordable housing component, particularly in the central city, was preferable. Could you respond? Yeah, you're absolutely correct. And so that's why this particular proposal only applies to commercial buildings.
 So because to make the system that you just described, Commissioner, work for residential or mixed-use buildings that include a residential unit, we did a very close economic analysis to create that disincentive, to create really the incentive to build the units on site. A commercial building is not going to include units, so we always just had a straight-up fee and lieu for that additional space.
 so that's very compelling that's the whole reason right there here's my second question in a commercial building like this to what extent can we attach other requirements that are sort of in keeping with Portland values like around how the building treats workers or any other thing that the council considers to what extent can we add that as a rider to this program
 It would be a major change in the inclusionary housing program. I'm just talking about on the commercial side. Yeah, and even on the commercial side, because the premise that's at the heart of this whole discussion is that we think there's value in the additional floor area and that we're trying to capture some of that value that we're allowing as a bonus and use that for a public benefit.
 And so the cost, so anything else we add as a rider has the same problem of it will have an additional cost. So we're, in essence, in that case, opening up the old discussion and creating another cost. So we have to treat it that way. Yeah, there's issues with the SEIU proposal that we'll talk about. I think it's next time. But anything we want to add to this list of issues?
 public benefits that we ask in return for a bonus, we should calibrate when we set the price because it's all really a game of setting how much value we can capture, what's the cost of that to deliver, the price of the additional FAR. So when we later come back and talk about the SEIU proposal, what I'm interested in better understanding from you is,
 is where's the strongest nexus between us weighing in on this subject of responsible contractors and some discretionary action that someone would otherwise not have a right to. Great. That'll be great. And it –
 It is somewhat anomalous to me that in most of our policies, we require prevailing wage, area standards, certain kinds of things. But on the sort of backdoor stuff, we don't have a standard.
 Now, there will be some who say it's none of our business and others who say it's precisely our business. But what I'm interested in knowing from your point of view is where is the clearest nexus? Great. I'm glad to talk about that. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, seconds. Any further discussion on this item? Great. Thank you. So the second part of G2 is a request to increase the amount of bonus floor area you can earn in the central city above a 3-to-1 cap.
 The 3-1 cap has been established since the original Central City Plan. And we did not propose changing it in the development of the Central City 2035 Plan. But in examining, researching this particular question, this issue that was put on the table, we believe that...
 We could, as a city, choose to go above the three-to-one cap, and there's just some steps, some analysis we need to do in advance to get it right. Part of the reason that we think it's worth exploring now, too, is more density in the central city is a baseline goal, right? More housing development in the central city supports our goal.
 We just have to make sure that it aligns with the infrastructure capacity and some other things in the central city. And secondly, remember our principle that we adopted with Central City 2035 is
 There's value in this additional FAR if we were to create it, and we want to capture that value for a public benefit, and we need to do the economic analysis to see how much we should be charging for whatever additional FAR you want to put on the table that we think we can accommodate. And then there's going to be the question of where should we distribute it in the central city. So with that, we're proposing – I'm supposed to turn it over to the mayor now, I think? Yeah.
 And so that, Joe, summarized the action. We're proposing an action item for a near-term legislative project in 2018. And in your table has a description of the full action and the work that we would do from developing the options to the analysis Joe described. Yeah. And just to give a little context here, I've had a number of conversations with people who
 who are not comfortable moving this as part of the 2035 plan. They want this to be a data-driven conversation and a thoughtful conversation. So effectively, this amendment pulls it out of that process, creates the legislative process. My view has not—
 I believe the comp plan and the central city plan both call for increased density in the central city. That's the appropriate place for increased density. We're in a,
 a housing emergency, so we know that we need that density. But I also want us to be thoughtful about how and where that density is located. So we're proposing this amendment to effectively pull it out and have a more thoughtful side conversation. And I second that. And Commissioner Fritz seconds it. I don't know if there's further conversation on this particular item. I just wanted to add that the certainty is in the height, and that's why we've had such a lot of discussion on the maximum heights.
 because the bonuses can't go above the maximum height. Is that correct? Correct. The ultimate cap on what can be built on a site is the maximum height. Part of the proposal was just to let buildings go up to their maximum height. We just never designed the system to work that way. It's designed for a different purpose, but more flurry in the central city could be accommodated, and we're interested in going and finding it and putting it into the bonus system. Okay.
 Great. And we would like the transfer system to be continued to be used as a tool. So between the bonus system and our transfer system.
 All right, good. Sally, is there anything else we need to do today? Mayor, we just wanted to say that since we have 35 minutes that we've saved, Joe, would you care to give us a longer treatise on 2035? No. My computer died when you said that, so I think Carla's now editorializing.
 Excuse me, Mayor. Did I forget something? We're just not totally positive that you moved this last amendment. I did, and Commissioner Fritz is second. Yeah. We heard the second, but the move, okay, great. Sorry. Just wanted to be sure we're. I'm told I'm a very quiet person, so. Okay. All right.
 So, yeah, so our next meeting is on December 6th, time certain at 2 to 5. The schedule is up on the screen, so we have that outlined. There will be no public testimony there. We have penciled in a date in January just in case we need it. We're hoping we don't because that's going to be kind of tight with the holidays. We will be publishing this amendments report January 5th.
 The public hearing on the amendments report January 18th, and then we'll be moving forward, and we will have our final vote on May 24th, right after the comprehensive plan vote that you will have it.
 On May 25th. Very good. And I've heard from a number of people that through necessity and through law, this process is somewhat complicated. And it's very confusing to people who are trying to figure out when they can chime in. So I just want to reiterate, January 18th is your next opportunity to chime in in person. I hope we'll do a good job of pushing that information out to the public.
 We will, and we will be sending out a public notice about that hearing. The other thing I want to mention is that we've been trying to keep our website up to date with summaries of these meetings. Where is your website? Where? Bureau of Planning and Sustainability website. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. I'm confused. I thought we had some more to do on open space and transportation system plan. When are those amendments going to be on the table?
 So, no, next, so on December 6th, we have a number of items. It's going to be a much longer afternoon. We have height and FAR, a couple of items there. Some scenic pieces we're bringing back, zoning code and use allowances, bonuses and transfers, and that includes allowing FAR transfer from open space. Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 There's some master plans, some parking, and a variety of other things. And that's all on December 6th? And that's the D amendments on September 6th as well. Table D. Table D. Oh, table, let me see here. So that is just the, that was part of the minor and technical amendment package.
 That you all voted on at the beginning of the meeting. Because that was... The I-5 Rose Quarter, your addition. Okay. Yes, that was part of that package. Okay. And all the other ones that I have... Okay, I'm good. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Good. Very good. Anything else for the go to the order? That's it. All right. We're adjourned. Thanks, everyone. Thank you. My stuff overprepared. Wow. That's quite cool. I thought we needed more time.