Okay. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the November 22nd meeting of Port One City Council. Would you please call the roll? Very. Novick? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Rossman? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone, and welcome. We have some folks signed up for communications. We'll get to that first and then to our council business. Okay.
 We have had a couple requests to pull items off the consent calendar, namely 1303 and 1307. Any other items that anyone wants to take off consent? Okay, so we'll act on the balance of the consent calendar a little later. Welcome, everybody. If you're here to speak on a council calendar item this morning, you probably already have signed up. But if you haven't, there's sign-up sheets outside, and our council clerk can make sure that you're on the list.
 we are going to have a lot of people speaking on the principal item on this morning's calendar, and so we're going to limit testimony to two minutes apiece and ask that it not be repetitive because we want to hear from everyone. If you haven't come to testify at Portland City Council before, you need only give your name. You don't need to give your address. If you're representing an organization, you do need to let us know who you're representing.
 and then we practice the rules of decorum here, and that is that if you agree with someone's point of view and you want to show some support for their point of view, feel free to give them a hand gesture of support. And if you disagree, a polite hand gesture to the negative is okay, but we ask that we not applaud or boo or make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow board members' points of view here. We make exceptions for students and
 visiting dignitaries. So if you are one or both of those things, you might get a round of applause from all of us because we appreciate them and we want to give them some special love. So that's the rules of procedure. Obviously, if someone's disruptive, we'll ask them to stop. And if they're not able to stop or willing to stop, we'll exclude them. But the point here is so that you can all be heard. With that, we will start with item number 1294, which is our first communications item.
 1294, request of Peter Rink to address counsel regarding Eagle Scout project of care packages for the homeless. Welcome back, Peter. It's nice to have you here. Thank you very much. So...
 Last time we saw each other, I informed you that I was going to be doing a care – sorry about that – project, which involved making care packages for the homeless. And let me just say it was a complete success. On September 24th at approximately 11 o'clock to 12 o'clock, I handed out 250 care packages at the Blanchet House. The other – the rest of them I handed out to a nearby fair provided by the Union Gospel Mission.
 We started off by making the care packages in two meetings prior before this date so that we could have every scout contribute in any way, shape, or form. Also, it was kind of nice seeing the reaction of homeless people upon learning that they would be receiving a care package. They felt that there was hope and there were some people caring for the homeless out there. Yeah. Yeah.
 Wow. Peter, I have a question for you. Yes? And thanks. This is your second visit, and we really appreciate it. I appreciate your reporting back. So we're taking a look at the care packet you put together. How did you choose what you put in this?
 Well, I talked to the head of the Blanchet House, and he gave me some suggestions. I talked to some of my family, some of my friends, my Eagle Scout mentor, who has so apt to be here today. They told me what they believe I should add in my care packages. I had my own personal input, and then I got the items, either by donation or by purchasing them. Or a garage sale. Yes, a garage sale. This effort took about a year of his time in multiple phases. Wow. Wow.
 Well, and what else have you learned about Portland's homeless community? You've obviously met a lot of homeless people in this project. What advice do you have for us as a city council and for us as a city based on what you've learned by all this firsthand relationship? Okay.
 Well, what I'd say is that everybody can contribute in one way, shape, or form, in one way. If we all work together, we can all help this homeless problem come to an end at last.
 Well, not just by making care packages, but by doing something for the homeless community, by having your place be open for the homeless people during the Thanksgiving season so that they can have a nice good meal to eat. That's great. Well, you'll be happy to know that we're opening yet another shelter today. It's in donated space from a local business owner who has a vacant floor in his building. His name is Tom Cody. It's called Buckeye.
 the peace shelter too because another local property owner did a similar thing last winter and so other people are following your good advice thank you well i said we make exceptions for students and student leaders i think we should make an exception for you and say bravo
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm so glad to learn about the shelter idea. I think I'll go pay a visit to it one of these days. Good. Please do, and thanks for being a leader. You're welcome. Thank you. Keep it up. Thank you. Good job, Peter. Wow. Nice way to start our council meeting today. Okay. 1295, please. 1295, request of Julie Reardon to address council regarding corporate securities. Do not buy list.
 She can't make it today and apologizes for that. Okay, and that item is on the council calendar next week. So 1296? 1296, request of Steve Myers to address council regarding corporate securities do not buy list. Okay, Mr. Myers, you here? He is here. Okay, come on up, please. Good morning and welcome. Please, yes, thank you. Good morning. Yeah, hello. Hello.
 I'm probably a little nervous. Ah, just having a conversation. But anyway, Julie Reardon asked me to speak here because she's one of the environmentalists that heard me speak up twice in Milwaukee City Hall and a couple other places, and then I made it to the last meeting they had October 21st at the Leighton Darling Medical School, and I used to work at Precision Cast Parts. But the thing is, I was involved in an industrial accident years ago, and it was breaking news. Precision Cast Parts had a fire.
 And what didn't work was their fire alarm and their sprinkler system. And I worked in a walk-in sandblast booth. My only source of air was from that compressor. The compressor totally engulfed in flames. It said a chemical caused it on fire. And because the fire department didn't know there was two people in the building, and there was a guy there from a temporary agency, the company had me working overtime.
 12 hours a day for 13 months. And on this particular day, it was after 5 o'clock, and there was a guy there from a temporary agency they were going to train to work the swing shift, and he was unsupervised.
 He bothered me on three different occasions because his machine wouldn't let him work. And I told him this company made a lot of money, they didn't care about the equipment, to enjoy his break. And then he came over a fourth time, and shortly after he left the fourth time, my respirator totally filled up with a cloud. But only the guy that trained me to work in the machine, there's a grate underneath the machine with spiral grates that recycle this aluminum D zirconia until it's dust.
 He told me if that hose blew underneath, it could back into this Bullard 41 air filter. Its only purpose was to remove moisture. It did not make great, deep, believable errors. They recorded. So when that first happened, I thought that's what it was. And by the time I took off my respirator, there was a black cloud rolling out of it. And there's a fire alarm in your machine to where if you hear it, it's supposed to shut the machine off so you don't breathe bad air. And there was a blinking red light at eye level. It never went off.
 So I'm backing up to the door. This smoke is billowing out of this respirator. And this guy's name was James Ashpole. He worked at Barrett Business Services. They later hired him. He was my witness. When he opened the door, I almost fell out backwards, and I wiped my face off. My face was covered with smoke.
 And then while I was talking to him, that plastic respirator caught on fire, and he told me he could hear helicopters outside. And they walled in our area for noise, and then they put in a big garage door with seals. He peeked out the back door, and he told me there's a fire helicopter in the air, three news helicopters, and a whole row of emergency vehicles, and everybody's standing around talking about a fire. We're both going, what fire? Not even a fire alarm.
 So when he opened up the roll-up door, you could not even see each other in your own hand. Next thing you know, Mr. Ashpole was freaking out. I said, I've been in this department 13 months. I said, the sandblast machine's to your left. We find the sandblast machine, we go to the wall, and in the whole building, the only door that wasn't marked emergency exit on the outside and locked or had battery backup lights was that room. So I told him, we find the door, and the first one that finds the door gets a light, tells the other one to go. So I went outside,
 And he followed me out, and the fire department documented it. They overlooked me and the other fellow. And I went straight to the fire department because my lead and supervisor could care less. And also the fire department said they attended to one person, no casualty. They talked to me later. So I tracked down the plant manager. He later became the vice president. His name was John Erickson. I appreciate you coming and telling us your story because we talk about these things in the abstract, and you've helped make it real. So then they rented –
 diesel power compressor and plumbed it into the remnants of the building and the next day James ash ball reported to his supervisor he could smell and taste diesel fuel
 Wow. And then this company for two and a half weeks anyway. I have to stop you because you've used your time, but obviously you've got an amazing and appalling story. Oh, plus I've got a bunch of stuff on the pollution at Precision Cat Park. Well, do leave any of that for us that you're willing to leave because obviously we're going to be talking about this again next week and your experience is important. And here's a copy of the fire report. Okay. And it's got the incident number, the response number, and insured amount zero. Wow. And then this company...
 I know they allow big companies. It's kind of like skirting a law not to post an insurity bond, but any small company has to post one through an insurance company. Precision Cast Parts is an insurance company, and this is what I pulled up about the insurance. I do have to ask you to stop, but I really appreciate you bringing all this, and do leave us copies of any of that that you'd like, and again, this will be on the council calendar again next week. So if you're able to come back, obviously we can hear more from you then, but we've got to move on this morning.
 Thank you so much for coming. Anyway, have you read all the articles in the Portland Tribune about precision cast parts? You know why they're there? We'll certainly want to read that. And here's an email from Robert Pamplin. Sir, I've got to ask you to stop because we've got to let others speak. But I really appreciate you coming and letting us know about this. And, again, feel free to come back next week when we have this on the council calendar. Well, anyway, when I got hurt on the job –
 This thing here says they're on the noncompliant list because they originally had Sedgwick and James handle my claim. My original accepted cane was clinically induced bronchitis at the time. They had me inhaling diesel vapor mist through a respirator for three weeks after leaving you in a fire where the firemen know the toxins won't kill you. And then here's a list of my medication list I have to take since then. And that's...
 Less than four years ago, the Centers for Disease Control and NIOSH, I got the chemists and scientists to help prove they gave me a really rare occupational disease. I know you've got a lot of information. And they still never paid me. It's not a good company. Sir, I appreciate all the information, and thank you for being here today. I even contacted Aaron Brock. Do let us know anything else that you want us to know before we take action on this next week. Thank you so much. I've got to stop you. I'm the Open Theater Queen.
 All right. Make sure you leave all that information for us, okay? Thank you very much. So we need to call on the next person now, and thank you for coming. That would be – Our company won't take care of their own employees. I understand. And our only defense is it never happens. We appreciate hearing from you, sir. I've got to ask you to stop. I'm sorry.
 Sir, we've got a lot of folks here. Mr. Myers, thank you. Mr. Myers, I do need to ask you to stop now. I'm sorry. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Myers. Mr. Myers. Okay. Okay.
 Mr. Myers, I do need to ask you to stop. Thank you so much. Thanks for coming. All right. Let's hear from Mr. Busaltz, 1297. Item 1297, request of Gary Buchholz to address counsel regarding criminal activity at homeless camp and law enforcement. Thank you for coming. Good morning. Wait a second. She's got to key the mic there. There we go.
 you don't have to get too close to it just it'll be on in a second there you go good morning i'm just going to read a statement that way it makes more sense i'm speaking to you now to address the issue of criminal activity being allowed to happen with near impunity in our neighborhood over the past three months the sunnyside neighborhood experienced what many other neighborhoods have been experiencing for quite a long time now
 A camp was set up on Southeast Belmont and 32nd Avenue, partly on PGE property and partly on city property. Before you sigh and think, oh, another complaint about the homeless, please understand that this is not a homeless issue. There are many homeless living in Sunnyside, living in cars, tents, and sometimes just under a tarp. We as a community feel for these people, have gotten to know many of them by name, and we do what we can for them. This is not about them.
 This is about criminals using the disguise of homelessness to wreak havoc on our neighborhood. We as a community learned that the city of Portland, for all practical purposes, does not distinguish nor recognize that there are two distinct groups of people living on our streets, one that deserves our compassion, our help and support, and one that deserves our vigilance and strict enforcement of our laws. By not recognizing these two distinct groups, we allow the genuinely homeless to be stereotyped as criminals and also allow them to be victims of crime themselves by the same people.
 It took over two months for our community through constant phone calls to multiple agencies, media outlets, and outreach organizations to remove this criminal enterprise from our streets. It should not be that difficult. When $3,000 bicycles are being dropped off and disassembled on the sidewalk, vehicles with either no license plates, no registration tags, or registration that expired three years ago are present. It should not take an entire community to hold meetings, make dozens of phone calls, and several on-air news reports to get the city to act.
 we as community members should not have to keep track of five different incident numbers from five different offices to get the city to understand the problem organ revised code allows for immediate impoundment of vehicles that are operated without license plates yet we were told that a certain dollar amount of tickets needs to be met before the vehicle will be towed for several days the sidewalk was completely blocked along with the canopy erected over it to keep the disassembled bike parts dry
 This is in direct violation of the American with Disabilities Act. Do we as community members need to file suit with ADA every time this happens to get something done? The amount of resources that went into this criminal camp both by community and by the city is unnecessary and unacceptable. The police responded half a dozen times, the fire department twice for two fires that were burning there, PGE security countless times more, all this money that can be spent elsewhere helping the genuinely homeless.
 What can be done? I propose that the city recognize that there are two camps of homeless that, when identified, need to be held accountable for their actions through timely enforcement of current laws. I propose that criminal camps, once identified, be given a single reference number that can be used by the police, Office of Neighborhood Involvement, PGE, and Bureau of Environmental Services, and other city offices involved in these issues to make it easier for communities to more effectively engage the city to deal with their criminal activity.
 Again, we all understand that there's a homeless problem, and this is not about them. These people need protection from the criminal part of this as well. And they're known. They're doing it blatantly out in the open. And we also understand the restraints on police responses. But when it's identified, it should be dealt with
 in a more strict manner with the laws that we already have. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Obviously, you have a prepared statement. If you have a chance to send us a copy of that, because you mentioned multiple bureaus that are involved, the parking enforcement folks at the Bureau of Transportation and Police and Office of Neighborhood Involvement, it would be useful for us to be able to distribute your comments to them. Will do. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Appreciate it.
 Okay, let's take the consent calendar, again, minus the two items that we've pulled off for discussion. Any further discussion about the consent calendar? Let's take a roll call vote then, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Prince? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. All right, now we're ready to move to our first time certain item, which is item 1298. Okay.
 Item 1298, require disclosure of energy performance ratings for residential single-family buildings when listed for sale to promote transparency in housing costs and reduction in local carbon emissions. Good morning. So I'll make some opening comments to set up this discussion, and we obviously have representatives from our Bureau here to walk us through this proposal. Just some context, over the last few weeks we've heard testimony in this Chamber about the
 the environment and about climate change and about the need to take local action. And, of course, we've just considered and adopted amendments to our fossil fuel terminal policy that will go into our zoning code if the council approves that, as I hope and expect that we will in two weeks. The proposal here before us today is related to that because we have a climate action plan
 To put it a little bit lightly, it's not a climate think about it plan. It's not a climate talk about it plan. It's a climate action plan. And I was privileged to vote on the first version of it in 1993 when I was a newly elected city commissioner. And we've been working on those issues for even longer than that, as I think we'll hear from some folks here today. If we're going to get serious about the climate, we have to take local action. And local action is more important than ever. Okay.
 Home energy scores have been a high-priority item in that climate action plan since 2009. This is, in effect, low-hanging fruit for us as a city. What can we do in that long list of actions that need to be taken in cities like Portland? Well, energy efficiency is the highest return on investment of all those different action items that we have pledged ourselves to.
 Home energy scores are a tool that allows local governments and homebuyers to have information at their disposal to know what the energy efficiency of a critical purchase actually is. They help consumers understand the full cost of owning a home. The policy will lead to additional investments in energy efficiency projects that will create jobs, reduce carbon emissions, and reduce energy costs for homebuyers. A win-win-win.
 Again, as I said earlier, local action on climate is more important than ever. Portland is one of the C40 cities worldwide that have pledged to climate action, and the West Coast Alliance of Mayors will again meet next month to talk about what can we do at the city level to actually make a difference when we're not sure what the federal government is going to do at their level.
 So I appreciate the good work that's been done on this plan for many years by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We have our Bureau Director and staff here to talk us through the issues in front of us, including the amendments. Maybe I should introduce the amendments first and then turn it over to you for the presentation. So we have some amendments in front of us. Amendment number one, EFPA.
 amends the ordinance and addresses alternative pathways to exemption or deferral for low-income sellers. It says the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will develop solutions to cover the upfront costs of policy compliance for homeowners who qualify for exemptions or low-income seller deferral.
 Amendment 2 amends the code and gives the director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability the ability to suspend the policy, saying the director may temporarily suspend or modify the requirements of this chapter based on a determination that such requirements are temporarily infeasible due to economic or technical circumstances. And Amendment No. 3 amends the ordinance and requires the Bureau to report on market readiness, saying this, no fewer than two months prior to the effective date of the City Code Chapter 17.108
 the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will report back to the City Council on the market readiness for policy implementation, including but not limited to the number of home energy assessors licensed, trained, and prepared to meet the market demand for the number of daily home listings on the real estate market.
 So, again, Susan Anderson and her staff are here to describe the proposed policy. Then we're going to hear from some invited guests and then take public testimony. We're also later in the process going to hear from the city of Austin because they've implemented a similar policy. This is one case in which Portland is not first.
 And we weren't first in bike share, and we weren't first in this, but often we're a leader, and I appreciate your leadership. So, Susan, please take us over. This is a point of clarification. What is the effective data? Okay.
 this if it's passed the effective date will be January 1st 2018 18 right so hopefully oh so let me move the amendments and see if there's a second for those to put those on the table and then we'll take it away for presentation and obviously folks that are here to testify if you have comments on the amendments as well as on the basic proposal itself that's why we put those on the table at the beginning of council session like this Susan
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Council Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with me here today are Michael Armstrong and Andrea Jacob. I just want to make a few points before I hand it over to them. You'll all remember that last year you adopted an energy score requirement for commercial buildings, and now it's time to do the same for the residential sector. The idea for a home energy score, I think,
 was in the 2009 Climate Action Plan, and the idea behind it, meaning that we needed to work on residential weatherization in ways that only cities can, started with Mike Lindbergh, my boss, back in the early 90s. So this has been thought about for more than 20 years, and now with the real estate market as hot as it is now, we think it's time we really need to move on it.
 An energy score is just like a miles per gallon sticker on a new car or the nutrition label on the food that you buy at the store. And not only have we gotten used to these labels, we've really come to expect them and we rely on them. And that's because clear, credible information is worth something. It helps us to make good choices and to spend our money wisely. An energy score is also a bit like a walk score. And you've all heard about walk scores. It's the label so that people can understand what's
 and find walkable neighborhoods, neighborhoods that have amenities like stores and shops and other things close by. But unlike a walk score, where if you like the house but you don't like the walk score, you can't go and pick up the house and move it to the neighborhood that has a better walk score. With an energy score, if you don't like it, you can do something about it. With the information you get from an energy score assessment, you can make simple improvements that will yield significant savings.
 As the mayor mentioned, some of us have been working on this for a long time, and I've been doing efforts around planning and sustainable urban development and climate change for 30 years now. And this is totally the kind of specific action that really only cities can take. In Oregon –
 Unlike California or Washington, we can't do a more stringent energy code. So California, Washington cities can actually set a more stringent energy code if they want to do that for new construction. And unlike Seattle or Los Angeles or Tacoma or Eugene, we don't own the electric utility, so we don't get to decide what's in the mix in terms of renewable sources in our electricity system.
 So we can do this, though. And also, as the mayor said, we can't rely on the federal government right now to take action on climate change in a big way. So cities around the world know that they have to be the leaders. Yes.
 I also know that this isn't the flashiest project we've ever brought to you. It's not like a big solar project. It's not, you know, electric vehicles and new light rail line and new cool bridge that's for transit and bikes only. But energy efficiency, even though it's kind of boring and it's kind of invisible and it's in the walls and it's, you know, in the attic insulation, energy efficiency is the workhorse. It's the absolute cheapest way to cut our carbon footprint.
 And as the mayor also mentioned, with the fossil fuel export policy, we're limiting supply. And we're also making a big statement for Portland about fossil fuels. But we have to do more than just make big statements. We have to keep working on reducing demand or we absolutely won't meet our goals. Finally, you know, I think in five or six years,
 All of this, I'm convinced, will not be a big deal. Cities all over the world will have energy scores. Others are working on it right now. It'll just be the normal thing when you do an exchange in terms of buying a new home. But we're Portland, and we should be in a leadership position. It's why people move here. It's why people move their businesses here. Being a green, smart, high-performance city is important.
 part of who we are. So I'm going to turn it over to Michael and Andrea, and then we'll hear all the testimony, and we'll be available to answer questions. Great. Thank you very much. Good morning. All right. Mayor and Commissioners, I'm Michael Armstrong with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I think we're set with the slides up there. So as both the Mayor and Susan noted, this is a kind of fundamental building block in the 2015 Climate Action Plan, and, you
 action on climate. Just this weekend, the Economist reported on the latest temperature numbers, and that little red line at the top is the limit of temperature increase that the international community is striving to achieve under the Paris Agreement in order to keep the climate stable. We're eating up all the breathing room we have, and so it's really hard to overstate how urgent action is.
 So reducing energy use in existing buildings is a really key building block of the Climate Action Plan. As Susan noted, we took action on the commercial sector last year with energy performance ratings. That's the red slice of the pie. The blue one, next really big one, is residential, you know,
 Commercial energy benchmarking was Action 1A in the climate plan. What's in front of you today is 1B. This is the next big thing that the city can do to reduce emissions from buildings.
 A similar action was proposed in the 2009 Climate Action Plan, and at the time there was discussion about this is a great policy. We need to be prepared to make it easy for homeowners who want a better score to finance and arrange with a contractor to reduce the energy use in their home. And so that's what led to the creation of Clean Energy Works. It became Clean Energy Works Oregon and today is Inhabit, a nonprofit organization that exists specifically to connect access to financing,
 Qualified contractors get the work done in as easy a fashion as possible. We now have that infrastructure. There are good options for people who want to improve their score to do so. And so at the time, there was caution about moving forward. Until we have this, we now have it. They've helped improve the energy performance in about 5,000 houses since they were created. It's fantastic. We still have about 90,000 houses in Portland that have little to no insulation. So...
 We've made progress. We have a long way to go. And it really does have consequences to household budgets. So your three representative houses, these are not extreme examples. And so you can see the annual energy cost in three fairly typical houses can vary easily by a factor of two to one. So $1,000 a year on the low end, perhaps $2,000 on the high end.
 If you think about our housing stock, it lasts 50, 80, 100 years. That $1,000 difference, a year, year after year after year, and it may not be the household that's living in it today, but some household is going to benefit from those improvements over time. So this really is something we need to anticipate, not just how it plays out today, but how it plays out over time. So this policy then is intended to help reveal the full cost of owning a home,
 It's intended to enable an apples-to-apples comparison, so very much like the miles-per-gallon rating. It helps people understand possible home improvements and advance the purchase. And it also now can give a homebuyer access to specialized mortgage products. FHA, Franny, and Fetty all have FHAs.
 mortgage options that are specific to houses that have a home energy score. So they know whether there's an improvement that's needed or perhaps it's a high-performing house and therefore their energy bills are going to be lower and that gets factored into the mortgage. So we really are in a different position and lots of support in other organizations and institutions to make good use of policies like this. So I'm going to turn it over to Andrea to describe the mechanics of the policy and then we'll keep moving.
 Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Michael. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Andrea Jacob. I'm a manager of energy programs and policy at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So what we're proposing today has two main parts. The first part is that sellers of single-family homes obtain a home energy report, and that includes three main things. A home energy score, which is a number on the scale of 1 to 10.
 an estimate of the total energy used in the home in a year, and then an estimate of the total cost of that energy. And that can be displayed as a monthly figure or as an annual figure. And we want to make clear that the home energy score that we're proposing, as you've heard, is more like a miles per gallon rating. That's called an asset rating. Utility bills tell you about the household and about the past occupant's behavior, but they do not tell you about the house. And it doesn't allow you to compare house to house on an apples to apples basis.
 So, when you look at miles per gallon, you know actual mileage can vary, but you also get a pretty good idea of what you're getting. Asset ratings are considered best practice in the field, and they are based on a very brief physical inspection of the home. I want to also say that we've aligned very closely with the Oregon Department of Energy around state statute and existing rules on home energy scoring systems and practices. Okay.
 The second piece is to disclose the information from this home energy report to the City of Portland and to prospective buyers who visit the home while it's on the market. The requirement would apply to sellers and to home builders in the case of newly constructed homes. And we're proposing that the time of disclosure be at or before the time of listing.
 So in your packets in front of you, you have a sample home energy report. I'm going to walk you through it quickly. We are proposing to use the U.S. Department of Energy's Home Energy Score. That's actually a brand. It's a software tool. This first page is the score sheet. That's the first part of the report. You can see it's a 10-point scale. The average home is a 5. This hypothetical home scored a 3. Its estimated energy costs are $1,600 per year.
 This particular report also shows you what the cost would be if the home were to move to a 7 to get a higher score. So this report's customizable. We can tinker with it. We can make it look how we want. But the idea is that you're starting to see standardization on a very simple 10-point scale that allows that apples-to-apples comparison. So would it list what changes are needed to get to a 7? Yes.
 Excuse me? Would it list what changes are needed to get to a seven? Then I'll get to that. It's the third tab of the report. And is there any way to get to the 10 on that particular house? Most homes do not score a 10. It's sort of the ultimate net zero type of home. So most homes score in the five to seven range.
 So the second tab is really the home facts. This is just a rundown of the existing condition of your home. It'll review the square footage, levels of insulation in your floor, attic, and walls, your efficiency of your heating systems, how much window square footage you have, things like that.
 And then the third tab is really great. This is the recommendations tab, to get to your question, Commissioner Fritz. This is a list. It's basically the roadmap for the seller or the buyer to get to that higher score. And the recommendations are prioritized in order of cost effectiveness. In other words, what are the things you should do first that will save you the most energy for the lowest cost?
 So, moving on to exemptions. Best practice would suggest that home energy scoring policies really limit the number of exemptions that we have, but as a result of stakeholder engagement and public comment, it became clear that some exemptions were going to be necessary. I also want to point out that this policy is triggered when a home is put on the market for sale. So, if a home is not hitting the market, if it's going from a family member to a family member, it's not covered and the policy doesn't get triggered.
 But for those homes that are going on the market, we did exempt those transactions that were legally or financially complicated. And there's a list here, homes that are in foreclosure or short sales or auction, receivership. A full list of the exemptions is on page 5 of Exhibit A. That's the code language. The proposal also gives the director of the Bureau discretion to exempt sellers for other reasons other than these. Also, I know there was an amendment just –
 profit that deals with low income. Yes. So what about low income sellers? I'm going to get right to that. This is the next slide. That's a good question. So also in response to public comment about equity concerns and potential harm to vulnerable residents, we have proposed this low income seller deferral. So the circumstances that would trigger that are listed. So income at or below 60% of median household participation in the program we call LIHEAP. It's the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program.
 participation in free and reduced-price meals. We also give the director discretion to give a deferral for other reasons. The
 in this case, the requirement would transfer to the buyer, who would have to comply within four months. So the amendment deals with this notion that if you get an exemption or a deferral and the score is not then publicly available, like every other home that is going through as complying with the policy, that might allow lenders to do some predatory lending practices against those homes. It might signal that these are homes that are in some kind of difficulty. So the amendment is to direct the Bureau –
 to come up with ways to cover the upfront costs so that everybody can get a score. We'd rather have everybody have a score than have exemptions and deferrals, but we want to create different pathways. So you can get an exemption or deferral, or we're going to try to figure out a way with our partners to cover the cost, which you'll hear is not a significant cost to obtain the score.
 And then what if the buyer is low income? Then they will have the same options to... We've written the code so that they could take advantage of one of the exemptions as well or a deferral. If the point is to help buyers compare between one house and another, what is the point of having it after they've already moved in? This would be at time of listing. So the score goes into the listing as it goes on to the market, not after they've moved in. Right. But if the buyer... Yeah, so it's...
 What we know about buyers is that they are very motivated and that within that first few months they're in the home, they make a lot of changes to the home, and they'll have the report and they'll have the roadmap, and the idea is that they could still go ahead and make those upgrades based on the information from the score. It's not ideal, but it's a way of at least providing that information to those folks. And we don't expect there to be that many of these cases. This is, in effect, your backup plan for what you'd actually prefer, which is get some information.
 foundation or third party or whoever to fund the cost for low-income buyers up front so they get the same information, low-income sellers up front. Right. I think in that case we should take out the – I think that's what we need to figure out is how to get it up front. Right. Because adding a burden to the buyer when they might be, you know, busy doing whatever else they're doing to move into the house, that doesn't seem to make the point to me. Okay. Just one other question. What if it's highly likely that the home is going to be demolished? Right.
 There wouldn't seem to be much point in having an energy score if we know that there are going to be more homes or new homes on the lot. We've thought about that, and we know some houses will get sold and then demolished, but we don't think there's value in creating some kind of exemption, and often the...
 The seller doesn't know what the buyer is going to do with the house, and they don't know who's going to buy it. And so because the seller will already have gotten the score, we don't have a way to anticipate what will end up happening to the house, because it depends on who buys it. We could have a rebate by the demolisher. You have to pay the seller back. It's not a big disincentive, but at least it would be something there, right? Yeah.
 And just one final point on the deferral and the exemption. We are just asking folks to submit notification. There is no requirement that they wait for an answer from the city before they list the home. They can continue with the transaction, so this should not delay the transaction.
 So a little bit about our public process and how we got here today. Mayor Hales asked us to start investigating this very late last year, around December of 2015. So we kicked off 2016 with a research and scoping phase. Kyle Deesner, who's the policy analyst, is in the audience. And he did the lion's share, the majority of all of this work. And we spoke...
 to a lot of other cities. So we looked at energy disclosure policies in Austin, Boulder, Berkeley, Santa Fe, Denver, Chicago, New York, Seattle, D.C. There's a longer list. Just to let you know that there are other cities doing this, other states doing this in different iterations, different formats, but we talked to all of them. We looked at energy efficiency best practices. There is research on this and looked at data and gathering market trends.
 And then the public stakeholder engagement process kicked off in May. And we started with two professionally run consumer focus groups. We were behind the glass. These were people who had recently been in the real estate market or planning to be in the real estate market. We segmented the group by home value, the value of the homes that they were purchasing. So a lower home value group and a higher home value group. Very fascinating discussion. But when everybody put their buyer hat on, almost unanimously, the focus groups were
 Thank you.
 We did do individual meetings. We did go and meet with the Portland Metro Association of Realtors at their place of business. We met with others on a one-on-one basis, and that led up to the release of a public comment draft in September. We had a public comment period for several weeks. We got about 800 comments. Close to 600 of those were from realtors. We then took more. We released a public comment.
 Code language draft in October, took more public comment, and then filed in early November with what you see in front of you.
 To summarize a little bit quickly around the main themes of public comment, as I mentioned earlier, there were a lot of concerns about equity. How does this policy affect low-income and vulnerable people like elders on fixed incomes? The Bureau definitely shared that concern, and I think you're seeing that in the policy design with the low-income deferral, with the exemptions, with the amendment. We want to make sure this doesn't have negative impacts. Thank you.
 We also pushed pause on the rental market. It was our initial idea to have this be applied to single-family rental homes, but we heard clearly from those equity stakeholders that now is not the right time for that, so we pulled that. A closely related concern was housing affordability, this fear that this policy would exert upward pressure on housing costs. So just a couple quick thoughts on that. This is information policy. We are not requiring upgrades at this time. People are paying these energy costs whether or not we shine a light on them, so those costs exist.
 The cost to obtain the score is about $200. It's within reach for most of the people transacting in the market at this time. But the most important point is that energy efficiency is our most cost-effective long-term housing affordability strategy that we have. Energy efficiency lowers the operating cost of a home over the life of the home. And as Michael showed you, you can save thousands of dollars for homeowners or renters should it come to that part of the market.
 We heard a strong preference among realtors for voluntary market for incentives. We don't need mandatory. I just want to note that we have been in a voluntary market environment since 2007, 2008, 2009. The state started looking at this. Less than 2% of homes in Portland have gotten a score in that time. So we just need to substantially accelerate the good activity that's already happened.
 And then, lastly, we did have support in the public comment, quite a bit of it, and in the focus groups, and in the unscientific Portland Business Journal poll that showed 67% of people supported this, but the consumer protection and climate protection benefits are recognized by most people that supported.
 we've talked to about this. So people understand the value of knowing what the full cost of owning a home is. And I'll just sum up two comments from our focus group participants, which I thought were very insightful. One gentleman said, yes, this has to be mandatory. I would never do this if it were voluntary, but I would happily do it if it were mandatory. And the second person said, this policy really helps you see inside the walls.
 And as Susan said, you know, we label, rate, and score everything that we consume from food to movies to appliances to cars, but we just don't have anything for homes, and this fills that gap. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Mayor, I have three. Thank you for an excellent presentation. So the disclosure to the city, what will we do with the data when we get it? How will we track outcomes? And is there a budget ask associated with that? Sure.
 I'll take the last one. There's no budget ask related to this. So we have this as part of our existing budget as a priority. So does that include covering the upfront costs for low-income homeowners? The low-income, well, mostly you're going to have to rely on me and how I've done in the past 15 years raising money from foundations and others to be able to pay for this. I think it's a really fundable –
 you know, investment. And I think that we have a lot of partners who will be, want to be a part of this, but obviously we'll have that in place before this goes live a year from now. So I guess that the, thank you. And the other two pieces are the disclosures made to the city. What do we do with it? And how do we track outcomes? The first piece is we would like to put this on Portland maps where we house...
 Similar information like permit information, permit data, so we think that's a good place for it. We do have an evaluation plan, and the ordinance does direct us to come back in 30 months and report on rates of compliance, uptake in energy efficiency, a range of other outcomes. Second question. Amendment 3 says, Susan, you could come back to us to talk to us about market readiness and other conditions. Okay.
 You know, we had a conversation last year about TNCs, and they have a pricing policy that says at certain times they raise their prices due to market conditions. So we're saying it's roughly $200 an audit, but we're also –
 making a market, and we're not quite sure how that's going to work. So how do we ensure that the $200 doesn't become $500 in the implementation phase? I'll let these guys answer, but I do know that in Austin, the market has settled out, and it's about $125 to $150. So it actually went the other direction, because when you create a new demand, you create a new marketplace for a lot of
 people to enter into that space, and that caused some competition, and the price is now like around $125, $150. So I think you'll hear testimony from some folks in the audience who are in the industry where even today, without the policy, there is the capacity and the number of qualified home energy assessors to do the work. You'll also notice Amendment 2,
 gives the director of BPS the authority to temporarily suspend the rules. So if we learn that prices have spiked, we have the ability, or Susan has the ability, to suspend those rules. So we're trying to protect against that, even though, even today, we understand that there is plenty of capacity in the market to meet the demand. Should we be considering a requirement that the market participants disclose to you annually what their fees and charges are?
 So you can track that rather than getting it anecdotally. I would say that that might be interesting to hear from some of the other testifiers about. And the third thing has to do with Amendment 1, and I appreciate the work you've done already to exempt classes of people, and I appreciate the work you're doing on waivers and deferrals. The thing that I've learned with the utilities, because we have a bunch of programs that offer discounts, waivers, and the like,
 is that in order for these to work, they have to be as simple as possible.
 And so what I want to put a plug in for as you develop these options, please don't come up with a system that requires someone to certify, produce tax returns, go through all this stuff. Instead, let's piggyback off of the existing programs, and that's sort of the flavor that you've already done. And so that if someone's already eligible for a program, a precondition of which is they're low-income programs,
 let's piggyback off of that and figure out the fraud issues later. Let's not have someone have to reapply because the more paperwork at the front end, the less likely that people will be able to take advantage of those things. And I think, um,
 I made a list, which I'll share with you later, of what are other existing programs that low-income homeowners might be eligible for. So I hope we can get as robust a list as possible. And if someone checks a box and they have some reasonable basis for it and they sign a document, that that will be deemed sufficient rather than some kind of certification process. Because that will discourage people from taking advantage of it. So thank you.
 Other questions? Yeah, I'm a little hung up on this requirement. When a low-income seller sells to another person, that that person within four months must complete a home energy audit. I mean, I just don't know how you possibly enforce that. Are we talking about putting a lien on a home as a result of that? So how is it enforceable, and what is the wisdom behind it? I guess it's not leaping out at me.
 Well, the wisdom is mostly around... Well, talk about enforcement first. Okay. What's the consequences to the buyer that does not complete a home energy audit within four months of purchasing a home? So we will... We're not going to place a lien on anyone's house because they didn't get a home energy score, but we will... The...
 buyer will need to submit to the city the home energy score, much as the seller would have done had the seller done so. And so we will be able to look at the list of, we'll know who submitted a score, we'll know which houses transacted, and then we'll know which houses didn't have a score before they listed, transacted, and then we'll know to follow up with them. And so it will be typical of city compliance. We'll notify them.
 Often people don't know or sort of choose not to know. And then we will proceed to sort of escalate the you do need to do this. And so it mirrors a lot of the other enforcement that the city does. But we will have a process of being able to check who did and didn't. Who's doing the actual enforcement?
 BPS will, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And that's part of the program that we need to build in order to make this as easy as possible for everyone to work within. So a couple follow-ups perhaps to that that might be helpful both to Commissioner Salzman and the rest of us. That is, you have done a bunch of research on what other cities have done. It might be useful for us, not now verbally, but in writing maybe, how have other cities handled this issue? And then what has been the enforcement process
 bandwidth or the scale of the problem with respect to the commercial energy benchmarking that we're already doing because that might be a precedent for you know how often is this going to happen right i think i think the enforcement on this one i mean it's a little bit of money and i you know at the average price of a house right now is you know heading towards four hundred thousand dollars in the transaction of you know two hundred dollars for doing this is is is small and i
 It may not be small to someone who is low income at the time of sale. So in terms of actually enforcing it, this is going to rely on a great partnership with the realty community over time. And it's not going to happen unless the real estate agents, of course, just like other things that they have to do on those 94 pages that you sign when you buy a new house or a house. And so...
 My hope is that just like we have other kinds of enforcement issues, that we have partners with all of the construction industry currently, and, you know, with building codes. We don't go out and check every single thing they do. We couldn't do that. It wouldn't be cost effective. It's going to rely on us building a great partnership with the real estate community over time to understand that this is something that's the rule here in Portland. So just to reiterate what Michael said, there's no –
 No envisioning liens on people's homes under this? None whatsoever. Okay. Okay.
 Other questions? Thank you very much. I know we'll probably need you back up for more questions at the end of the hearing. So we're going to open the public hearing, and we have some invited testimony first, and then we'll move into folks on the sign-up sheet. First, I believe we have Senator Michael Dembro and former Senator Jackie Dingfelder here. We'll extend the courtesy to the elected officials and former elected officials in the room. Welcome. And I don't know if there are any others. I think these two are here. They are here. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning. Welcome back. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and council members. My name is Jackie Dingfelder. I'm a former state senator, former policy director for the mayor, and I live in northeast Portland. And I want to thank you all for holding the hearing today on this very important proposal before us. As Susan said, it's truer than ever that the fight against climate change will be won or
 With this proposal, you have the opportunity to take a critical step forward on climate change while enabling homebuyers in Portland to make better decisions for their pocketbooks. At the state, I helped pass legislation that established a state certification for people trained to provide home energy scores. Stakeholders from across the state have now agreed on which rating system to use.
 All the pieces are now in place to move forward to make home energy scores standard practice. Unfortunately, we've seen that voluntary efforts aren't enough, as you've heard from BPS staff. You may be hearing from realtors today who want you to take a go-slow approach. They say they support the city's climate and affordability goals, but oppose a requirement.
 I have good friends who are realtors, we all do, and know that they are sincere, but we simply can't afford to delay. And by the way, this is the exact same argument I heard several years ago when I proposed the same bill in the state legislature. So more than ever, homebuyers need to understand the full cost of owning a home, including the energy costs. Let me share with you a recent example that made me think even more about why this is needed.
 And unfortunately, my trusty Subaru of 16 years is starting to wear down, and I started looking for a new car. And I thought, okay, there's been a huge amount of improvements on energy efficiency. We have new hybrids. So I started looking at new cars and, of course, comparing the fuel efficiency improvements.
 And it occurred to me that one of the biggest choices in our life is buying a home. I know it was for me, lived in the same home for 23 years, but it's a huge investment for all of us.
 But it is one of the least informed choices that we make around energy. And you think about the amount of energy that you are going to use over the lifetime of a house, yet we don't really have good metrics or a way to compare when we're looking at different homes. And so while I was out car shopping, it made me think a lot about how we have this great
 the requirement that car sellers have to disclose fuel efficiency, yet we don't have that type of opportunity for people to make informed choices when they're buying a home. And we all know that energy costs are a huge part of our monthly costs to run our home and make sure that we have a warm and safe environment.
 So we do need to make sure that this proposal can work for low-income sellers. I know that you're working out the details on that. And so I would encourage you to make sure that, obviously, low-income sellers have the same opportunities and low-income buyers to make that comparison. I know that Susan Anderson and her team are very concerned about equity and will work very closely with the council to address those concerns.
 In closing, I just want to mention I spent much of the past year working and living in New Zealand and had the benefit of a global perspective on climate change. New Zealand takes climate change very seriously as well. You probably know they're an island nation, and issues around sea level rise are something that we thought about every day. People look at the U.S., and they're very worried about where we're headed. But they also look at cities like Portland, and they see real promise there.
 Wherever I went in New Zealand, people asked me where I was from. They said the city of Portland. Oh, we look to Portland as a model here in New Zealand and many of our cities. Certainly, I think that's true throughout the world. So more than ever, we need Portland to lead, and this is an important opportunity to do so with a practical and a reasonable approach that helps Portland families and reduces carbon at the same time. Thank you. Thank you. I'll hand it over to my esteemed colleague. Good morning.
 Thank you, Senator. Mayor Hales, Commissioners,
 I'm Michael Dembrow. I represent Senate District 23, that's Northeast, Southeast Portland, in the Oregon Senate, where I also sit on the Energy and Environment Committee. And I'm here primarily to address the potential charge that a program like this really should be a state program as opposed to being dealt with at the local level. I believe that it absolutely needs to be addressed at the local level.
 And to sort of give some background to that, you need to know that the day after the election a couple of weeks ago, I had the dubious pleasure of flying to Washington, D.C. to be part of a conference on energy policy and climate change, that this was, it's a...
 A cohort of legislators from around the country, bipartisan. It's an institute called the Lehigh Institute, the Legislative Energy Horizons Institute.
 sponsored by a combination of funders from the fossil fuel industries, from renewable fuels, from different policy think tanks. And it was, I have to say, the day after the election, it was both sobering, but also, you know, I think ultimately very, very realistic election.
 And the theme that really came through day after day was that the action on climate change really is going to, the action on climate action has been and will continue to be primarily at the local level, whether we're talking about the states or we're talking about cities. Okay.
 And that will be true even more so likely under the new administration. And the other message that came through very clearly was the importance of energy efficiency. Right.
 and that in order to reach our climate goals, states, cities, the country as a whole really needs to double down on energy efficiency. There's been a lot of work that's been done in different states and different locales around the country. A lot of low-hanging fruit has been picked and progress has been made, but there is much, much more to be done. And we heard that the pandemic
 Probably the strongest voice for that was the representative from BP Oil, who was talking to us about the importance of energy efficiency as part of their growing portfolio.
 And, you know, what we also heard, you know, there was, of course, with legislators there from around the country, we all were sort of elbowing as to who's doing good work in what area and what areas. And, you know, we did learn that Oregon as a whole has slipped in the last year or so in terms of its energy efficiency, its standing among the states with respect to energy efficiency. Right.
 So it really is important that we – and we heard specifically about the need to focus on innovative programs like residential scorecards. That was something that was mentioned, again, in a very nonpartisan kind of way, that this is the cutting edge of where we need to be going in terms of energy efficiency. Okay.
 So, you know, I really encourage you to pursue this. You know, just looking at the turnout here, obviously this is a local issue. And having this addressed at the local level allows people on all sides of this issue with concerns and concerns.
 suggestions to come together in a very easy way that really could not happen at the state level. Just as with respect to the country as a whole, we see the states as the laboratories of change where the states can
 try things out and become models for one another. So the cities serve that same function with respect to the states. We heard about Austin and what a model Austin has been
 If that had been left up to the state of Texas, clearly, you know, we would not – Texas is not going to be a laboratory on this issue. But Austin can be, and it can provide us with useful information and models, just as this city will for Salem, for Corvallis, for Eugene, for Redmond, for Bend, for other cities in this state. So I encourage you to move forward in pursuing this program.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Thank you. I appreciate you being here. So we have a few other pieces of invited testimony. Chris Smith is here representing our Planning and Sustainability Commission, our volunteers who help us make policy. Thank you very much. And then we have a video presentation from the U.S. Department of Energy. Chris, welcome. Good morning. Mayor, members of council, thank you. I am Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, here to convey the commission's support for this program. Thank you.
 We reviewed this under the sustainability part of our name, and as such, this was not a formal legislative project for us, so we did not hold a public hearing. We did, however, receive unsolicited input from both sides of the issue. As you can see in the room, there's a lot of passion on both sides, and they were happy to help inform our deliberations. Some of the issues that we discussed...
 in our review included the provisions for low-income homeowners, and I think we were largely satisfied that the program has tools to help them. We had discussion of whether a voluntary program or other ways of measuring this, like disclosing energy bills, would be a sufficient alternative. I think you've heard in the staff presentation why this is a better option than those.
 and I guess I'd leave you with two points. One is that we are the custodians of the Climate Action Plan, and this is one of many steps that are going to be required in that plan to get to our climate objectives, so we think this is a necessary step along the way. And finally, I'd comment on the evolving understanding of affordability. It's been during my tenure helping with public policy in the city that we've come to understand that you can't
 look at isolated factors of affordability. So, for example, you have to look at both the mortgage cost and the transportation cost to really understand the affordability of a home. And I think this is the further evolution that we have to include the energy operating costs in our understanding of affordability. So I think this will help both in the policymaking context and for individual consumers to really understand the affordability of their homes. And I'll leave it at that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
 So we do have a video testimony from Joan Glickman from the U.S. Department of Energy, and I think Michael's got that set up for us. All right.
 I am Joan Glickman, a senior advisor at the U.S. Department of Energy and manager of the Home Energy Score program. The U.S. DOE created the Home Energy Score to serve as a credible national standard for communicating how much energy a home is expected to use and how that home compares to others. The score is based on an assessment of homes' assets that affect its energy use, like heating and cooling equipment, insulation, and square footage.
 By applying standard assumptions about weather and occupants, the score reflects how much energy the home will use under average conditions. Based on 50,000 homes scored to date, we found that homes of all shapes and sizes score across the 10-point spectrum. Older homes are not disadvantaged by the score as we have found no strong correlation between vintage and score.
 Just like a miles per gallon sticker can help consumers take into account a car's long-term operating costs, the score helps homebuyers better predict the true cost of homeownership. Providing prospective buyers with a score can help them better understand whether monthly expenses will truly be affordable. This is particularly important for first-time buyers and those in lower income brackets, since utility bills are a larger part of their disposable income. But the score is more than just about predicting bills.
 It's a way to encourage investment in improving the efficiency of our nation's homes. That's why the score report includes a list of customized recommendations that can save energy and money and often improve comfort. With this information in hand, buyers can insulate the attic or seal the ducts just as they paint and refinish floors when they move in. Some banks will work with buyers to wrap those improvement costs into the mortgage. In fact, Fannie Mae and FHA offer products that recognize the score to encourage efficiency investments.
 The score can also help sellers highlight the investments they've already made in energy upgrades by making these improvements readily visible to prospective buyers. At the end of the day, most homebuyers are going to purchase a home for a number of reasons not related to energy performance, but providing a score helps them better understand what to expect and can prepare them to make smart choices as a homeowner. I'm happy to answer questions as needed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners, for inviting me. She's ready. She's ready to repeat it if we need her to. Thank you very much. Our final two invited speakers are Michael Kohlgrove from Energy Trust of Oregon and Charity Fane from Community Energy Project. So come on up if you're here, and then we'll move into the sign-up sheet after that. Welcome. Is there somebody from Austin that's here? We had some later, but I think we'll hear a testimony first. Not here in person, just video.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. So good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Thank you for the invitation to join you this morning to share Energy Trust of Oregon's experience with home energy scoring. For the record, my name is Mike Colgrove, and I'm the executive director of Energy Trust, an independent nonprofit whose sole purpose is to help the one and a half million customers of Portland General Electric, Pacific Power, Northwest Natural, and Cascade Natural Gas save and generate clean, inexpensive energy.
 Pursuant to our grant agreement with the Oregon Public Utility Commission, Energy Trust does not support or oppose ballot measures, candidates, or matters before the City Council. I am here this morning to provide information on our experience with home energy scoring and not to advocate for a specific outcome related to this proposed ordinance. At its essence, home energy scoring is a way to increase the transparency regarding a new or existing home's energy use.
 We have found scoring to be an effective strategy for increasing the number of homes built at least 10% above code, and in the case of existing homes, identifying opportunities for energy upgrades. Energy Trust first began considering home energy scoring in 2007. Since then, we have conducted several pilots and evaluations and issued energy scores for 10,000 new homes and 2,000 existing homes.
 We have learned how the market responds to these scores and determined that they are effective indicators of how well or poorly a home uses energy. Providing our customers with information and knowledge is a key component of many of our energy conservation programs. Home Energy Scoring provides homeowners or buyers with a transparent indication of a home's energy usage to help inform decision-making about what is one of the largest purchases of most people's lives.
 In the absence of a national federal home labeling policy, ordinance such as the one before you today and programs such as those Energy Trust of Oregon implements may be the only tools available to move housing stocks into a more energy efficient, lower carbon future. Should the city of Portland choose to adopt the Home Energy Score Ordinance, Energy Trust stands ready to help homeowners and home builders comply, much as we did when the city passed the Commercial Energy Performance Reporting Policy last year.
 We have also helped to build market capacity by supporting education and training opportunities for the people who will carry out these assessments and implementing energy efficient upgrades. While we believe there is currently sufficient capacity to service the existing market, we could support additional training to accommodate any increased demand which the ordinance might generate. I'd be happy to respond to any questions now or to provide supporting documentation upon request.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Hales and commissioners, thank you so much for the opportunity to testify. My name is Charity Vane, and I'm the executive director of the Community Energy Project. We at CEP believe that everyone deserves a safe, healthy, and efficient home regardless of income. We help vulnerable and underserved Portlanders weatherize their homes, make critical safety repairs, and we teach people how to do this themselves.
 Last year, nearly two-thirds of our clients identified as people of color, and all of our clients were low-income. CEP strongly supports the proposed Home Energy Score Program. For lower-income homebuyers, knowing the potential heating and cooling costs is essential when considering whether a mortgage will be affordable.
 And while the price of homes increasingly becomes unaffordable to many, making this information public is a particular value to low-income buyers. The energy audits required by the program will provide homebuyers with a list of suggested upgrades to improve efficiency and reduce utility costs. And for homebuyers like our clients, this information will help them to prioritize projects, and it is also an immense value to them.
 some of our clients might also be sellers and as we have you discussed may not have the resources to pay for the required audits cep participated in the equity stakeholder meetings with the city and expressed those concerns with them we feel that they listened to us and incorporated the exemption process into the proposed program we believe the provisions are sufficient to alleviate potential burdens on lower income home sellers
 Finally, like many others, I really want to address climate change. At this time, it's absolutely critical that we move forward with Portland's climate action plan. The proposed program, as we know, will provide homebuyers and sellers with the information they need to prioritize efficiency upgrades. But I think what's even more important to consider is that while we will all benefit as Portland homes become more efficient, we won't all be equally impacted by climate change.
 CEP's clients and vulnerable people everywhere will bear a disproportionate burden to climate change, and we need to think about this and develop programs to address it. On behalf of CEP and our clients, I ask you to support the Home Energy Score program. Thank you. Questions? I have a question for either or both. So one of the things I've learned as a consumer is that from time to time, you know, we're
 reputable agencies that do things like scores get it wrong. The best example is a credit score. And it required a congressional intervention to then get to the point where we have a right to see our credit scores and we get to have some relief. And when it turns out that there's something on our credit score that is an unrelated charge or problem and they've mixed and matched, there's a remedy for getting that cleaned up and have your score fixed. If...
 If a homeowner disagrees with a home energy score or report, what is the recourse for that homeowner? And I'll give you an example. I can imagine a situation where there's two reports that have been generated, a home energy score and a report that has home facts and a standard home inspection that's usually done by the buyer. What happens if you can't reconcile the two and it turns out that there's a mistake on one or both?
 How does that get fixed, and where's the recourse? You might be better at this. Sure. So I don't want to speak for the staff of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, but it's my understanding that any types of discrepancies like that can be taken to the director.
 for resolution. I will say that the Energy Trust plays a role in the quality control aspect of the types of organizations and companies that perform these ratings. So we do have a level or an obligation there to ensure that the folks at least working through Energy Trust maintain certain levels of quality, quality control, and conflict resolution.
 But I would think the specific resolution or conflict would be brought to the division of BPS. So my guess is that when you said that it would go to Susan to be adjudicated, she was breaking out in hives. So let's assume Susan – We're maybe not the best people to – Because I don't think anyone would view that as a satisfactory process. So someone gets their score, and it says –
 It has roof, attic one, some description, and they're like, well, that's funny. I live in a bungalow that has no attic. So somehow this got grafted on. This isn't my house. Or it says that windows have failed and you just replaced them. A million things can happen. And the only reason I know this is because all of us have spent time cleaning up our credit scores, which, by the way, is an important score for credit.
 lots of reasons, only to find out that there's misinformation on it. So because this is a fluid situation and you're going to want to reconcile any discrepancies quickly, what is the official appeal process within your agency to have that resolved?
 Within our agency, so if the project, if the homeowner is applying to energy trust for incentives or anything, the types of improvements they might be doing or working with a specific contractor that's providing the report and they have an issue and we're involved in that in some way, we have a very formal conflict resolution.
 We have a hotline you can call if you have an issue with any of our contractors. You can bring that forward. We review all of those complaints on a regular basis to help ensure and then reach back out for resolution. Now, if we are, like I said, if the project is going to improvement where actual measures are being installed, we are involved on the ground working with, you know, doing inspections and follow-ups.
 I'd also like to add that we provide, I think, something that can help is education around what that score is and what you might expect in an audit. I went through one. It can be very confusing even when you know something about the industry. And...
 People can come and get some free education on what do you look for? How do you better understand what information is going to be provided to you? And we as an organization provide those free trainings for anyone in the community. So, you know, sometimes it's understanding what you're getting. It might not be a mistake sometimes.
 in the audit, you might just not totally understand the audit. So, like, looking for those resources that already exist in the community to understand. And I can also just speak from, as a homeowner, you know, when you're working with whatever contractor that's coming in, they are really responsive and, you know, they can go over it with you and help you. Having that information in advance so that you really understand kind of the technical language makes a huge impact on what you understand in that audit.
 And those resources, like I said, exist already. But as to what the official policy is, I'm a community rep, so I don't know. Well, I appreciate your answers. And I think later on when the team comes back, we'll talk about this is a pro-consumer measure, obviously. And I also want to just make sure that the consumer has recourse if someone along the chain gets it wrong. That's all. And so it's not another hoop without a remedy. Absolutely. Good question. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 Thank you both very much. Appreciate you being here and appreciate you being resources for this work. OK, we are ready to move to sign up sheet. We always extend the courtesy to students and people with disabilities. So if you fit that description, feel free to come up early. I know there's some students here. And then we'll move into the rest of the list. And we'll take Mr. Kelly early on because he has a semi-official capacity here today. Come on up. Good morning. Who'd like to go first?
 I will. Okay, good morning. Good morning. I'm Ella Schreiner and I'm a freshman at Grant High School. I've spoken to you before because I am deeply concerned about my future and the world that all of today's youth will inherit. It is clear that climate change is the greatest threat to our future. Because of that, it is essential that we not only limit fossil fuel development, but that we also take strong, direct action to reduce our carbon emissions.
 Portland has long been an environmental leader, and it is critically important that we continue to take aggressive steps to meet the city's climate action plan goal of an 80% reduction in emissions by 2050. I come from a family that reads nutrition labels on packaged foods and pays attention to fuel efficiency information for cars.
 As consumers, knowledge allows us to make informed choices, and I believe that requiring home energy scores will be a catalyst for both sellers and buyers to make energy-saving improvements to their homes. I live in an older home constructed with a single-pane windows and very little insulation. Over the years, we have replaced windows, added insulation, and upgraded to a high-efficiency furnace.
 it would have been very useful for my parents to have known from the start which energy upgrades would have the greatest impact on our energy bills and comfort we will soon have new neighbors in the house next door in the process of purchasing their home our neighbors to be arranged for a complete home inspection checks were made to determine if the old oil tank had been properly decommissioned whether there were problems with the sewer line if the roof was sound and whether the old electrical wiring posed a threat
 Obtaining information about a prospective home is taken for granted in today's house sales, and it makes perfect sense that homebuyers should also learn about the energy efficiency of a prospective home. I have heard concerns that this proposal would place a financial burden on sellers and that we should move slowly to make changes. However, requiring a home energy score for home sales does not present a significant financial burden for most sellers, and it would promote jobs, green jobs, locally. Thank you.
 Portland already has requirements for energy performance disclosure for commercial buildings, and it is time to turn our attention to residential properties. I hope that you still have the environmental awards my classmates and I gave you at last year's fossil fuel infrastructure hearing, because Portland youth need you to continue to act as champions for our earth. I urge you all to vote yes on this proposed ordinance. I believe it's good for homeowners and important for our future. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Yes, we make that exception.
 No matter whether we agree with them or not, when students come here, we want to say thank you for already being leaders in our community. And yes, you can certainly go in my office. It's proudly decided. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. Hello. My name is Olivia Magritte, and I am an eighth grader at Sunnyside Environmental School. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak with you today. As you know, climate change is transforming all life on Earth, and it has already had observable effects on our environment.
 Glaciers have shrunk, trees are flowering sooner, and plant and animal ranges have shifted. Without action, the impacts of climate change threatens to catastrophically damage our planet. Because of this, we must work to contain and then to reduce our output of greenhouse gas emissions.
 My family regularly consults miles per gallon ratings on cars we might buy, energy guide labels on appliances, and nutrition labels on food. They have taught me that this knowledge helps us as consumers make informed decisions. This being said, consumer labeling on homes is rarely available in most real estate markets. Less than 2% of Portland's 160,000 single-family homes have an energy score.
 This lack of information just doesn't make sense to me, especially when we know that we cannot achieve our 2015 Climate Action Plan goal to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050 unless we majorly increase our energy efficiency and participation in renewable energy activities in the residential category. These energy upgrades benefit sellers and buyers while at the same time reduces carbon pollution.
 Beyond lowering energy bills and greater housing affordability, energy-efficient homes are more comfortable and livable and at time of sale sell for higher. As a youth of today, I am worried about my future in the world that my generation will inherit. What you decide will not only affect America or the city of Portland, but it will affect the entire world.
 fortland has an incredible opportunity to take continue taking action as an environmental leader and set an example for surrounding communities i urge you to vote yes thank you very much well done thank you you guys are awesome morning good morning my name is joe walsh i represent individuals for justice uh we support this measure we are very aware that come january you will be on your own
 You have to do this kind of stuff on a local level because you're going to get no support from the federal level, none. The present administration doesn't even believe in climate change, thinks it's a Chinese conspiracy. You have to do this kind of stuff. You have to look at it and you have to be a little careful. We're a little concerned that the homeowners apparently are going to pick up the bill on this.
 Why doesn't the utility people get involved in some of the payments? They're going to make a lot of money. I just looked at my electric bill in a one-bedroom apartment. It was $100. Now, we do have some unusual things. I have an oxygen that goes 24-7, so maybe that's part of it. But I was kind of stunned at that, and it went up about $20 from last month. So the oxygen is not...
 One of the problems, because it's been there for eight years. Again, let me congratulate you. We are so worried that the young people are not going to become activists. And you just make me smile, both of you. And I know I fight with you guys on the council, but this is something that we can agree on. You have to do it on a local level.
 You have to figure out a way, even if it may be illegal and the state will get angry with you, do it anyway. You've got 40 lawyers. You know? You've got 10 paralegals. Do it anyway and say, come and get us because we're on the side of the angels on this one. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Other students and anyone else wants to take that courtesy, come on up. Thank you. Good morning. Hi. Welcome. My name is Emma Swanson, and I'm a senior at Wilson High School. My mom has always advocated for the environment, and all my life she and my dad have told me to turn off the lights, take shorter showers, don't blast the heat. In my environmental science class, we discussed the importance of small actions, the thousand small actions that people can take to make things better in our community. Okay.
 and have an impact on climate change. I read the home energy score policy, and it seems like a good incentive for people to make their homes more energy efficient. That's a really good thing. This recent election has left me feeling a little helpless, like I don't have a voice. I'm only 17, and I can't do anything to make a change is not the mindset that I want to become familiar with. I want to have a voice, I want to be informed about important policies, and I want other people to have a voice as well.
 This policy is an example of where it is really important where people have the best information about their homes. I know that I would want to know, and as a voice in my local community, I think it's important for consumers to have accurate, transparent, and consistent information about the homes that they're buying and living in.
 I am the voice of a millennial, and you guys are making the decisions that are going to impact my future and the future of my peers. This energy scoring policy is something that I value and I think is an important step forward in creating a sustainable environment. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. My name is Amalia Silverheart. I'm 16 years old. I'm a junior in high school.
 And as has already been said much more eloquently than I can, it's imperative that we take action on climate change and reduce Portland's emissions. I think this proposal is an excellent way of doing that, in part because it will raise awareness for this. People who wouldn't necessarily be thinking about the effect that their home, their daily lives have on the climate and the environment will be given the information to do so. And I wanted to remind you that
 I'm young. It is very likely that I will outlive all of you, and I will suffer the effects of climate change in ways that you never will, that you can't imagine, and so will people all over the world. So please support this and continue doing everything you can to reduce Portland's emissions. I know I will be. Thank you. Eloquently said. Thank you.
 Okay, so let's move on forward into the sign-up sheet with Mr. Kelly and two others off your list there, please. Another volunteer who overdoes it in the number of hours he gives our city. So let's call the other first two on the list in addition to Mr. Kelly. Justin Wood and Evan Swanson. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I didn't know I'd have to follow some really incredible kids. Sorry about that. It's going to be hard to hold a candle to them. So act locally, jobs, carbon, comfort, and health are my main themes. I'm not going to – I think we've already talked quite a bit about acting locally and its importance. Jobs.
 The Eastfield that set up Clean Energy Works Oregon and now inhabit, I think was the most impactful, powerful jobs creator in our state in the time of the Great Recession. Those jobs need to be continued. They have been great jobs, jobs that are family wage, jobs that provide benefits, jobs that provide entry level, and then opportunities in the construction business
 I know in my company people have moved from our energy retrofit division onto other jobs in our business. Carbon and climate change. The average savings that we achieve in a project, an energy efficiency project, is about just over three tons of carbon per year per house. That kind of impact counts up. And when you think about...
 all the years that that house is going to have an impact, it really makes a difference. Comfort and health.
 I think sometimes we miss that, but I had an energy retrofit job done in my own house, and I marvel sometimes at just how much more comfortable it is, just less drafty, more comfortable, but more importantly, health. Jackie Dingfelder referred to New Zealand. There was a study done in New Zealand. They've done hundreds of thousands of homes. That really speaks to the health issue that I think sometimes we don't talk about enough, but
 What they found in New Zealand was things like 40% less missed school days from the children living in a home that had an energy retrofit and had their home really transformed from a health perspective. Less hospital visits, less...
 Those hospital visits and less missed days of work for the parents in those homes. I mean, really, I think a big impact. There's some studies going on in Oregon and in the country right now that I think will bear that out here. This is common sense. I would like you to just imagine for a moment if you were proposing an ordinance to require that auto dealers could no longer disclose the mileage per gallon, how many people might be in this room.
 It would probably result in some objection. And finally, I think you're going to hear from my compatriots at the homebuilders that this shouldn't cover new homes. And I'm just going to say that a good portion of the homebuilding community in Portland believes
 are building homes well beyond the base code and those builders i'm pretty sure would want to have the opportunity to disclose the fact that they were doing that and have somebody from outside of their firm demonstrate that fact so i just if this is common sense we need to do it thank you thank you very much good morning good morning mr mayor member of the council um
 My name is Justin Wood. I am a builder here in Portland. Our company name is Fish Construction. I heard Mr. Kelly and others talk about this being common sense, but I'm going to ask for what I think is a common sense approach, and that is to consider exempting new construction. Everything I've heard from today talks about the benefits from this program, and not one of these benefits would apply to new construction. In your own climate action plan, the climate action plan addresses existing buildings. It doesn't talk about new buildings. Okay.
 Also, there's been several comparisons to the City of Austin. The City of Austin exempts homes for the first 10 years of the program. They don't require it on new construction either. You ask yourself, what is the end game for newer homes versus older homes? When you get a report on an older home, it's going to give you a list of repairs that you could potentially make to have the home score higher. That report on new construction would show you virtually nothing. New homes built to code in the state of Oregon are going to routinely score a 9, if not a 10, when they're just built to code.
 So there's not going to be that big of a differentiation between a house built to a code, which might score a 9, and a house built to a LEED certification, which might score a 10, whereas an older home might be a 2 or a 3 or a 4, and there's a huge difference in what you can achieve from it.
 If the goal of this is to just inform homebuyers as to what features are in their home, every new construction home that's built in this city, the plans are marked with the insulation, the furnace, the water heater, everything that's put into the house. Those plans are available on Portland Maps. They're part of the permit process. They're inspected by the city to make sure that they're there.
 Lastly, I just want to point out that there are other agencies that do this as well in the state. The DMV doesn't require cars that are five years old to have an emissions test, newer than five years old.
 And the only other last thing I'd like to say is, it was mentioned earlier that this was taken in front of stakeholder groups. To the best of my knowledge, this wasn't ever taken in front of any home building groups. I also sit on the Development Review Advisory Committee, and this never came before DRAC for their input as well on how it would impact new construction. So on that, I just want to close and say happy Thanksgiving to all of you.
 Thank you very much. Justin, quick question. If I were in the market for a new home and I was interested in a home that your company built, where would I go to get the information? Okay.
 to verify the energy efficiency of that home? And what's the path of least resistance? Because one of the things we're trying to do is create a uniform system, apples to apples, and we want it to be easy for the consumer to access this information. So where would I go if I wanted to get that information if I'm considering buying one of your homes? Well, as of today, a couple different things you could do is, one, you could look on the plans. And I realize not everybody is technical enough to want to look at the plans and see what's in their house.
 But most of us, when we list our homes, we list the energy features that the home has in it, whether it's a 95% furnace, a high-efficiency gas, water heater, various other things, and that's always part of the listing. Most of us also, if we're using a
 A realtor will come up with some type of a sales flyer that talks about all the energy efficiency features of our home as a sales tool. The only thing I'll say is I think there's a step maybe that could be in between here that we're not currently doing that we could, where you could assess, like I said, most new homes come in at a 9 or a 10. You probably could score the home very easily just by saying,
 any home built to code in the state of Oregon is a nine. And I'm guessing that somebody who's an expert in that could verify that, and you could just say that a home built to code is a nine, or whatever the number might be.
 I just want to say from my point of view, the idea of uniformity has some appeal, and making it as convenient as possible for the consumer has some appeal. So having to look at plans and maybe bring some technical expertise in to help with that doesn't make an impression on me, at least. But if there is a streamlined way of getting a score, because it's a new home –
 and you think there's a way to do that that might result in a less expensive process or a streamlined process, I'd be interested in that. But I'm less interested if it requires the consumer to go pull plans and talk to other builders and do due diligence because the goal here, just as I don't want to spend a lot of time when I'm buying a car talking to a bunch of people, I want to look at the sticker on the windshield and have apples to apples. So if you'd consider that.
 Thank you very much. Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Evan Swanson. I'm a mortgage professional with over 14 years of experience here in Portland, as well as a concerned property owner. I'm here to voice my opposition to the mandatory energy audit.
 There's no doubt that the proposed ordinance is well-intentioned. I, along with others in this room, share in the goal of reducing carbon emissions. That said, like so many other well-intentioned measures, this is stocked with unintended consequences that will negatively impact the ability of homeowners in the city to fairly and openly transact property. According to a 2016 CoreLogic report, roughly three out of four transactions in the state of Oregon involve some form of financing.
 As a result, three out of four homes are scrutinized by bank underwriters and appraisers. As a part of their due diligence when evaluating collateral for a loan, bank appraisers and underwriters routinely review information listed on Portland Maps to gather information. It is my understanding under the proposal that this security, or excuse me, the energy audit will be posted on Portland Maps as well, and herein lies unintended consequence number one.
 In an instance where the publicly displayed energy audit suggests any adverse conditions in the home, the underwriter and or appraiser will be required to cross-reference the public information to make sure that the property meets minimum property requirements as set forth by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA, VA, or other applicable underwriting guidelines.
 In the event where the underwriter appraiser deems the property fails to meet those requirements, then the bank will demand required repairs as a contingency of completing the financing and therefore completing the sale. I will also be submitting a letter from the chief appraiser of the largest locally owned appraisal management company here in the region that solidifies this information.
 In some instances, the buyer and seller may be able to negotiate the required repairs without threatening the sale. However, there will be instances where the buyer and seller is not willing to spend the additional money or is not financially capable. In that case, the sale will not take place unless the seller can find a cash buyer, in which case they will likely offer a much lower price. Thus, I believe the proposed policy is unfair to low-income households who are less likely to have resources to maintain.
 the property or do required repairs. I understand there are deferrals in the measure, but as we've talked about, the lack of a publicly displayed energy audit will trigger unscrupulous people towards predatory marketing efforts.
 I also want to quickly address the fallacy of the miles per gallon comparison. I can guarantee you that if you required a car manufacturer to send every car to be tested for miles per gallon, we could see that the economies of scale wouldn't apply. This is a much different requirement. Thank you. Thank you. And you're going to submit some written – oh, folks, we only clap for students, so he's –
 The question, and that is, you're going to submit your written testimony as well? Thank you. Dan, go ahead. I'm just curious. Do you have any idea what kind of a score would correlate with a lender requiring minimum repairs? It's a good question, and because it's a new policy, I can't say. My concern isn't so much the score would be the initial trigger for an underwriter appraiser to open up the report,
 and then possibly when they open up the recommendations tab and it says that the furnace is not working or working at low capacity, it's going to be gray area. So I don't know with certainty, but I certainly think it's going to open up the possibility in certain situations. But isn't that information generally available in a home inspection? The home inspection is not submitted to the bank as part of loan application. So lenders typically do not see the inspection. We get the appraisal.
 So, but there is certain information must be disclosed if there's a health and safety issue. Correct. And that's already built into the underwriting, which is why sometimes certain kinds of repairs can be mandated in prior or closing. Correct. And...
 So what evidence do we have that this problem, this is a problem in places like Austin and other places that have this requirement? I haven't consulted with those areas. Wouldn't that be the first place we want to look to see whether there's been any impact on lending in a city that actually requires this? Sure, absolutely. And I can see, you know, this is probably a minority of cases, but the problem is it's going to happen to the most vulnerable households in our city because they are the ones who are not going to have the resources. Right.
 so maybe you call the city of Austin and how are they going to even know that how do you track transactions that never happened and in that case maybe there's a few but the bottom line is it's a few that's happening in our most vulnerable part of society your experience is that the logical the unintended consequence would be that there'd be a requirement of some kind of fix prior to closing or an adjustment in how much financing is available
 No, that the transaction would not be able to happen because if the property doesn't meet minimum property requirements, then it can't transact under conventional financing. And I would just ask – But our code doesn't say that – we're not – we don't prescribe what – we haven't set minimum property requirements through our code in terms of what kind of energy efficiency you have to have. Correct. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, FHAVA, have those guidelines that are available online. Okay.
 Okay. Well, this is very helpful information. Obviously, we do want to see your written follow-up as well, and it might even call on you as a technical resource. Happy to do that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay. Let's take the next three, please. Next three, please. Christian Ruspe, Jan Zuckerman, Kim Croft-Miller,
 They'll be followed by Jan Leo, Kim Hayworth, and Phil Norman. And let me just announce we have two sheets. The support opposed. I'm reading three names at a time, and then I'll alternate sheets. Switching back and forth. Okay, thank you very much. Good morning. Whoever would like to go first. Good morning. My name is Christian Rusby. First of all, thank you for your great work in supporting our citizens. Thank you.
 I apologize for my speaking impediment, but this is very important to me. I put a home last year with my wife and I've sunk tens of thousands of dollars into it to bring it to modern energy codes. We would appreciate having the score to help evaluate even roughly how much work needs to be done to bring it up to modern energy codes. Climate change is driven by burning fossil fuels.
 So home heating and driving automobiles are side by side as having large impacts that make the planet hotter. Our children deserve to choose their impact on the planet they're inheriting through knowing with an energy score.
 So thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Good morning. Good morning. My name's Jan Zuckerman. I'm an educator, small business owner, and mother, and I feel proud to live in a city that understands the urgent need to respond to the climate crisis. The Home Energy Score is yet another positive step in ensuring that Portlanders take our part in cutting carbon emissions.
 As citizens, we overwhelmingly support no new fossil fuel infrastructure, and this requirement asks us to walk our talk by incentivizing homeowners and buyers to make energy-efficient improvements. As a homeowner, I understand the responsibility that I have in impacting the environment with the decisions that I make.
 When my husband and I helped our daughter buy a home, we had concerns about the energy, use, and costs involved. The realtor could only provide us with a heating bill from the previous owner, which gave us very little information. It was very frustrating. The Home Energy Score allows homeowners like myself to be more informed, decision makers, instead of victims of surprise. But more importantly, the score is a win-win situation, giving homeowners and prospective buyers the opportunity to make a difference.
 the power of knowledge, ability to cut costs, and encourages investment in clean energy. The true beneficiaries of this requirement and other steps we take to curb our energy use, however, are the children that will be here when we are gone. Since November 8th, my three children and many of my former students have turned to me for solace.
 With permafrost melting at unprecedented rates, we are already rapidly approaching a tipping point in which the Arctic would change from a carbon sink to a carbon source. Each step towards implementing the Portland Climate Action Plan provides our youth with the momentum and hope to continue to make progress on even bigger issues to combat climate change.
 Years ago, Charlie and Vicki Hertel had a dairy farm in Tualatin Valley. When they were mandated by environmental agencies to move their operation away from the West Dairy Creek, they could not afford to relocate. Instead of giving up, they transformed their dairy into Sun Gold, an organic farm keeping alive their family tradition of caring for the land. This was no easy task. It took hard work, determination, and willingness to change with the times.
 Not everything has to solely be seen as a cost. Oftentimes change is an opportunity in disguise, and that's exactly what the Home Energy Score provides. The benefits greatly outweigh the costs. Like Charlie and Vicki, we must be willing to change with the times. We understand.
 We owe it to our children and all life on this planet to do whatever it takes to protect them. Tomorrow, when my family gathers together, we will thank the Standing Rock Water Protectors for sacrificing everything to protect our precious earth and for reminding us that we should be doing the same.
 A home energy score may seem like an inconvenience to some, but in the big picture, it is exactly the kind of environmental justice action our city must say yes to. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Kim Croft-Miller. Thank you so much for hearing our discussion today. I'm here as a homeowner who has suffered the unintended or the consequences of not having such a measure.
 We bought our home 17 years ago. It's a 1940s house. We had three small girls at the time. We woke up one morning and it was a cold house and the heat was gone. That first bill was $1,000 that we didn't really have. That continued on that way about every four months. Our house, it turned out, was an energy sieve.
 And we didn't really know, we learned the extent of it as the years went on. And there's nothing so stressful as a surprise, right? We had to do a deferment or an extension on our taxes. We had saved for taxes. We knew about taxes. We just didn't know that this kind of thing was possible. A couple years ago when our home was retrofitted, energy retrofitted by inhabitant,
 We learned exactly why. They pointed out all the areas that were so bad. But one of the big shocks was next to the fireplace, there was a place we kept the wood. And it turned out that in that compartment, there was no ceiling to that. And so it was open all the way to the attic. And the attic was uninsulated. So my husband and I just...
 felt sick when they showed us this, because basically it was just flowing out, you know, through years and years of thousands of dollars. And I just felt like it would have been so wonderful to know that, to know what it was going to cost, and so we could prepare for it. So I'm just here to say please support this measure. Thank you very much. It was a very useful story. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Okay, let's take a minute. Can I just ask the clerk, how many other people do we have testifying?
 We have about 16. How many? 16. We're going to ask folks to again. We originally in our calendar budgeted this for, I think,
 and that means we have a lot of people we may be inconveniencing mayor can we do a little um yeah so yeah so we're gonna what we'll do i think is go till uh maybe 12 15 and then take a break and again we want to ask people obviously we want to hear from you but if you can avoid being repetitive we've heard great testimony so far so i don't think we have been yet but uh please do if you think someone's already covered your point and you are willing to yield that would be helpful as well now we of course we want to hear from everybody but what it effectively means is
 Morning Council is now going to shift to Afternoon Council. If anyone's here on any of the next items, we're not going to get to them before lunch. That's right. I think we'll probably plan on continuing the rest of the morning calendar until the beginning of our 2 p.m. session. Do we have the appointee to the CRC here? I don't know. Do we? I don't. Is the appointee here? Citizen Review Committee?
 Yeah, we may need to take a break and deal with that. Yeah, I mean, if they're here, I'd hate to have them come back after lunch. Yeah, okay. If we have an appointee here, we'll take a break for that. Let's take some more testimony, and then we'll do that before we break. Okay? Good. Thank you very much. Let's take the next three, Sue. Yes. Jane Leo, Jason Trombley, Phil Norman. They'll be followed by Michael Heumann, Sam Pastrick, Alan Lee. Good morning.
 I think you're first, Ms. Leo. Thank you, sir. Good morning. I'm Jane Leo with Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors, and I'm here on behalf of the 8,000 members of the association to encourage you not to adopt this flawed, costly, and intrusive ordinance. We support the efforts to reduce carbon emissions and energy usage in the city, but we do not support this proposal.
 When I look at the ordinance, I question, is the city intending to create a home-buying tool, or is the city intending to create a program that will meet its carbon emissions? If the city is attempting to create a home-buying tool, it's unnecessary. The city does not have the expertise or the knowledge to understand all the nuances that go into selling, financing, and buying a home, and that are constantly changing. Thank you.
 The city does not have a role in a financial transaction between a buyer and a seller. If the intent of this proposal is to meet the carbon emission goal, it won't. Such a mandate impacts only 4 to 6 percent of Portland's single-family inventory, leaving the remaining 94 percent completely untouched. If the city is intending that there be audits to know energy efficiency, it should be incentivizing programs for all homes, for all homeowners, whether they're buying or selling.
 It cannot be ignored that this program will place a demand on the general fund, despite the report that was given to you. In 2015, more than 13,000 homes transacted that would have been under the ordinance's requirements. This number does not include the home put up for sale and then withdrawn. It is unrealistic to assume only one FTE will be needed to track the homes for sale and screen the exemptions.
 As I said, instead of attempting to regulate people's behavior, the city should instead be focused on education and incentives to increase energy efficiency for all Portland homes. In fact, the U.S. Department of Energy and Energy Trust have free online do-it-yourself home energy programs. And finally, in closing, I challenge the city's interpretation of, excuse me,
 of ORS 496, or 469 rather, in that the ordinance says that the city director will make the energy score available to the public. ORS 469 specifically states that the scores will not be published by homeowner name or address. This was done to do no harm. In closing, I encourage you to vote against this ordinance as it's currently written.
 I have a quick question, and thank you for your letter, and it makes all the arguments that you have presented to us. Your members represent buyers and sellers, correct? Correct. Obviously not in the same transaction. We've heard some testimony as to why this might create complexities for a seller, but why would this additional disclosure be bad for a buyer?
 A PSU did a study in 2012 that said that having an energy audit did very little to change the behavior of how a person lives in the home. Education to reducing energy usage had better results than an audit. So for the buyer to know the score is not going to necessarily change their behavior or the level of energy used in that home. Also, with our older construction that was built to code at the time,
 short of doing a total remodel to the studs, some of the energy upgrades cannot be done. There are certain things you can do. You can put more insulation into the attic. You can insulate the crawl space. But that's not going to be comparable to a newer home. So this, to me, it's an apples to oranges comparison. When a buyer looks at the energy score for one home and the energy score for the next-door home,
 they're not necessarily going to be comparable depending on years built and energy efficiency upgrade made. Plus, the buyer has the right to, one, ask for the audit, negotiate for it if it's important to them, and secondly, through the home inspection, and I believe you have recently participated or been subject to a home inspection, you know that much of the information that is provided in an assets-based energy audit is provided in that home inspection report. Okay.
 So my second question is, if there's a discrepancy between the information in the home inspection report about energy efficiency and the energy score and report that's the subject of this matter, how do you recommend that be resolved? The property disclosure form is in state statute. It's applicable no matter where you are in this state. Okay.
 And that subject, you have to sign that under some kind of penalty. Yes, and you also have the right as a homeowner that you don't know. That you don't know certain things about the house, and that's totally possible.
 But getting to this question, you have your disclosure, which has some information. You have some of it's required by law. You have an inspection, which the buyer may request, and depending on how diligent that person is, they can find a lot of stuff. And then you have this report with a score. What happens if –
 Let's assume there's information that can't be reconciled because either someone made a mistake or there's a difference in opinion. How would you propose we resolve that problem if there's a discrepancy between any of those three disclosures? Well, first of all, I don't think the city has a role in that. And secondly, that's up to the buyer to decide what.
 how they want to go forward on the transaction if there's a discrepancy. If that's the case, and I've heard a lot of evidence, a lot of testimony about how this might impact sellers, doesn't at least sort of in the cup half full way of looking at this, isn't that more information that then empowers the buyer to make a more informed decision? I mean, you may argue that it's redundant information or unnecessary or there's a cost. I understand that. I've read your testimony. Yeah.
 But since your industry represents buyers and sellers, isn't more information for the buyer generally a good thing? We are finding that our buyers are more and more self-educated, and they are coming into it with information. They don't need the city to be –
 demanding, being intrusive into their transaction. That's a philosophical disagreement about whether it's mandated or voluntary, or whether it's voluntary. So, Jane, I know you were consulted during the development of this, and I understand your position, and I want to follow up particularly with the staff on the point you raised most prominently, which is the question about disclosure, you know, of the information on the map.
 don't need to do this now, but later it might be helpful to us if you could, through your national organization, let us know of elements in some of the other cities' programs that you think are an improvement over what's in front of us. In other words, if it's do this, do that,
 do nothing or do something else, I understand your first recommendation is don't do this. But if we're going to do it and we haven't yet gotten it to the best practice that you and the National Association of Realtors, given the experience in Austin and Washington, D.C. and these other cities, we would appreciate hearing from you about, well, if you're going to do this, fix that. And you've already obviously highlighted one of those things. I would appreciate hearing from you on that subject. Thank you.
 If I could just add to that very quickly. Please, yeah. In the city of Austin, for those of you that I met with or that your staff were available to me, I dropped off a list of the city of Austin's exemptions because those show that the city of Austin, by allowing exemptions for work already done, for remodels that were Energy Star, for houses that are being rebuilt, for houses that are newer than 10 years and built to code,
 they are coming closer to meeting their goal because they are exempting work that has been done from being under the mandate of an audit. So to me, that moves you closer to meeting your goal rather than being immediately punitive with a financial charge. And the ordinance reads that the director has the right to levy fines if these are not – if the energy scores are not reported. Okay.
 Okay, good. That's helpful. Thank you very much. Can I piggyback on one other thing? Jane, you're often in the position of coming before us and saying either that a proposal is a bad idea or sometimes you couple it with you think it's either illegal or subject to some kind of override. In your letter, you make...
 you make a case for why you think it's a bad idea on behalf of your members, but you don't say that, you don't suggest that we don't have the legal authority to do this. So am I reading this letter correctly?
 I challenge the legal authority to post the information on Portland Maps or any public website where it's tied to the homeowner's name and the homeowner's address. And because of what the state law is on that? Correct. And the Oregon Department of Energy administrative rules. All right. Your paragraph, fourth paragraph, deals with that specifically. Thank you. We'll check that out. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of the commission. My name is Jason Trombley, and I'm a community member. And I had not intended to speak this morning, but listening to the presentations this morning, I was thankful that a person who had signed up for testimony yielded their spot so that I could share information today.
 I'm currently a member of the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon and also an active member of the Coalition of Communities of Color. And so it was important for me to understand kind of the complexity of what this process or this proposal will impact on low-income families and particularly communities of color.
 And so for me, the biggest takeaway was getting a sense of, you know, in particular that APANO never received information on this proposal or was, at least from my understanding from staff, their staff this morning, that they were not engaged in earlier steps of the process. So for me, my biggest concern is that while some organizations or community members are saying that this is a potential benefit for local government.
 low-income families or communities of color, the very organizations whose sole charge is to empower these families to get them to the table were never consulted. So I'm hearing from staff at APANA that they weren't consulted. I have to explicitly ask in your name of the work around racial equity and equity for the city, what organizations were not included at the table in the development of this process? So as a community member, in the name of equity, this
 Truly, given the work that you're championing, it's really frustrating to me, and I hope that as you're working to develop this proposal and land on an official vote, that you're more inclusive of communities who you are saying that you're working to better serve. We'll check that. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Phil Norman. I do superior weatherization, and I want something a whole lot better than this. I want checklists that the homeowner can continually update with the things that he does or hires done,
 not having to continue to rely on and pay out to an auditor. Odds don't work. They have a very low return in getting work actually done. This is dealing with a failure by Energy Trust over the last 10 years or whatever to accomplish weatherization. We're down to maybe 1,500 homes weatherized a year out of $200 million today.
 that's collected with the public purpose fund. We need a whole new program where a checklist maintains the list of important things to be done in a home, including roofs, plumbing, and wiring, and for all those critical repairs to be dealt with by upfront financing. People get a report. They can't deal with it. It doesn't get done. We need upfront financing for everyone. Thank you. Thank you all very much. So I do want to...
 sorry i know you're going to no i didn't have a question i just noticed that we forgot to say that people could come up if they're caring for a small child and i see a small child whose parents are desperately hanging on yeah come on down we're going to take this other item briefly and then return to this but we'll extend that courtesy i did forget to mention that thank you commissioner chris okay so i'm going to temporarily close this hearing and move to another council item because we have somebody here as a volunteer who uh is
 willing to be appointed to important work. So we're going to take up 1299. 1299, appoint Andrea Chiller to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review Division of the City Auditor's Office. Okay, come on up, please. Thank you. Thank you for waiting as well.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. I want to thank you for taking us a little out of order. This is a really important issue you guys were dealing with previously. I'd like to speak a little bit about Ms. Chiller. Justine, put your name on the record, please.
 Apologies, Mr. Mayor. Constantine Sevier, Director of the Independent Police Review. I am here to present Ms. Chiller to you for your approval to serve a three-year term on the Citizen Review Committee, which serves as an advisory body to the city auditor and the police commissioner on police oversight issues. Ms. Chiller, as you can tell by the packet provided to you, is an outstanding candidate who will provide a community voice on a very important board.
 Thank you. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, Council. Do you have anything you want to add? Obviously, you're here for questions if we have them. I'm just excited to serve. I think this is a great opportunity. I'm really excited to have been selected to serve the community in this way. We depend so heavily on volunteers to do the work of the city, so thank you for being willing.
 Questions for Ms. Chiller or Mr. Sevier? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Thank you, Council. We may have people here that want to speak on this item. Let's give them a chance to do that. Two signed up to testify, Dan Handelman and Charles Johnson. Okay, come on up. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales, mayors and members of the council. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and we're always happy to give our two cents about the Independent Police Review Division and the Citizen Review Committee. Thank you.
 um we don't have any objections to ms chiller's appointment i just want to point out that she's a former attorney which now i've lost count of how many people in the crc are former attorneys she worked both as a public defender and assistant d.a which is you know we've always encouraged that people should see both sides who sit on the crc we are not as many people think anti-police we are anti-police misconduct and um the crc has been
 Proving themselves to be able to make good decisions based on the evidence that they're given at their hearings. We're having a lot of discussions about this at the stakeholder group that you set up to try to move forward the auditor's proposal, but...
 I think that if you attended, or I know, Mayor, your staff attended the first meeting, I think the scope of the stakeholder group is too narrow. If we're going to change the system to be less Byzantine and meet the standards that the DOJ is expecting, I think I'm hoping that you can open it up. Particularly, there are parts of the existing ordinance that you're going to be considering that also need discussion other than the two that you've limited us to. So I'm hoping that you can consider more recommendations from that group.
 moreover, three members of the Citizen Review Committee were sitting at the table at the last meeting, and there's only one member of Portland Copwatch sitting at the table, and I didn't think that was very equitable. And one of the issues that came up was the question of,
 how do we populate those panels that the CRC is going to be hearing cases in? And our proposal at CopWatch has been to include members of the Police Review Board citizen pool. And when I brought that up, one of the members of the CRC shook their head at me because they
 the people who were interviewed for those roles weren't told they might have to sit on some board other than the police review board. And I think if we're going to be open to change in the process, we should be open to changing the process. And if the people got interviewed based on the old system, they have to be aware that a new system is coming in. Okay, thank you. Yeah, that issue of the scope, I appreciate you raising that. We'll look at that. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Bridge-Grain Johnson. And I think...
 Ms. Chiller may exceed some of the qualifications of people already serving on the CRC, but there's really no better context than right now to talk about the scope of the work of the CRC. And, of course, the main reason the CRC exists, regardless of what its technical charge is, it's to help improve community confidence in the police, primarily by having an avenue for citizens to look at alleged misconduct
 and pass judgment on that conduct. Now, within the CRC, which, as Mr. Handelman noted, may be more weighted towards lawyers than even our legislature in Salem or even the Senate or the House of Representatives, we're beginning to have structural problems. When people who get arrested are not the same bell curve profile of normal Oregonians, meaning we hyper-arrest minorities...
 And they go to a CRC, which does not really – it's composed only of successful establishment people who have never been in challenging positions with law enforcement. And we're making that situation worse and worse day by day here in Portland. We've had close to 100 people be no-complainted by the district attorney
 morally, some of those people should stand in a long line of 100 people at the Independent Police Review and move that forward possibly to the Citizens Review Committee. So Ms. Chiller, I don't want her to reconsider her volunteering, but there are some problems we're having societally generally here that we need to work on side by side with Ms. Chiller and not just in the context of the CRC. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Wallace. I represent Individuals for Justice. We oppose his nomination not because of the person that's involved. It's because we ask ourselves this question. We have very bright people in this room. We have one lawyer that's present. There's another lawyer that's absent, AWOL. And we have a lot of lawyers in the room. Why are we in such a mess?
 Why do progressive, bright people, and why are we in such a mess? Our police department is still under investigation. COAB is almost non-existent. They're trying to survive, and you guys are trying to kill it. And yet we keep doing the same thing. You know the cliche? You keep doing the same thing over and over again. It's a sign of insanity if you expect a different result. And you keep doing it over and over again.
 There should have been, and there should be, on every committee and every commission a lot more public input. We get them here at your city council where you don't want to embarrass them. So we're really handicapped of people that come here to volunteer their time, good people, and we oppose them because of the protocols, because of what you do, not what they do.
 So we're asking you not to make any more decisions unless you redo the public input of who this person is, why they want to serve on the committee. We want to hear that, and we think we deserve that. And also, I'm telling you, dropping it down to two minutes of testimony in the main event today is obnoxious, and it is just arrogant. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 All right. Anyone else on this item? So then it's a resolution. We can take a vote, please. Prince. Thank you for volunteering to serve. Prince. Ms. Schiller, I just was looking through your application, and a couple of things jumped out at me.
 One of them was something you did in law school that we encourage residents of Portland to take advantage of, which is you went on a ride along with a police officer to get a firsthand sense of how officers, in this case in New Orleans, handle their job. It is, in my experience, one of the best ways to learn about policing on the ground, community policing,
 And I'm pleased that you did that. I also want to quote something you said at the end of your application because I think it speaks very highly of you and your values. You closed by saying, we are all better off when we can hold each other accountable for our actions and having members of the community weigh in on these difficult questions gives the community a voice and ultimately helps the police serve and protect the public. I think that's very well said, and I think we're lucky that someone with your background
 and your values is willing to take on this important assignment. And today I'm very pleased to support your application. Thank you. Aye. Councilman. Thank you, Ms. Chiller, for your willingness to serve. And I was impressed with your detailed responses to all the various questions of the application. You put some thought into it. So thank you. Aye. Thank you, and good luck. Aye. All right. Thanks very much, folks. Now we'll return again to 1298 and continue down the list there.
 Yes, and we have some families with young children, so we're going to show them the courtesy of giving them the chance to speak with behavior under control and much appreciated by Mom and everyone else. So thank you. Very impressive. Bring them up for a civic lesson. Get extra credit just for showing up with this crew. Thank you. Oh, we've lost a quorum. Sorry, we're going to get somebody back in the room here in a moment. Okay.
 Why don't you tell us who you brought with us? Hi, I'm Kendra Van Notte, and this is my three-month-old Alexander, Vivian, and Thomas. And we are actually visiting the beautiful city of Portland from Bend, Oregon today. Wow. Well, that's great. Well, welcome. I'm sorry we momentarily lost the ability to do business here as soon as we reacquire one or more of our colleagues who probably will be back quickly. That's really great that you took the time to come, even though you don't live here. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah.
 Thank you. Well done. You've been behaving very well. There we are. We're back in action, so welcome. Please proceed. Hello. Hi, I'm Kendra Van Notte. So thank you for having me, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you.
 We're visiting today from Bend, Oregon, and we came actually today to testify for the energy performance score. We believe that Portland really has an opportunity to lead the state in this measure, especially for someone like somewhere like Bend, Oregon, which is the fastest or second fastest growing metropolitan area in the state. I think that Portland leading the charge in this will help us in Bend, Oregon,
 consider an option very similar to this. We've already passed a climate ordinance. Our city council did earlier this fall. And so I think that having you folks pave the way here on a state level can really make an impact for those
 on the east side, because we value energy efficiency in Bend. I work with homeowners as well as students, AmeriCorps programs, educating them on the importance of energy efficiency, energy retrofits, energy audits, doing mock audits with AmeriCorps teams,
 And I think this is just a really great win-win, and I really applaud you folks for leading the way here in Oregon, and I hope you vote yes on it today. So thank you. Thank you very much, and thank you for coming with your family. Thank you. Okay, anyone else with young children that would like to take that courtesy? If not, we'll go back to the list, please. All right, next please. Michael Heumann, Samuel Pastrick, Alan Lee. Thank you.
 They'll be followed by Michelle Gila, Steve Strode, and Terry Parker. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, and thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. My name is Michael Heumann. I'm an epidemiologist in environmental and occupational public health at
 and I'm also here today on behalf of the Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good, or MACG. I'm here today to voice my strong support for your approving and rapidly implementing the proposed policy. I think this is really critical and long overdue. Energy savings, operating costs, reduced operating costs, and jobs –
 are not the only benefits of this policy. Energy retrofits also result in benefits for human health and for the families who live in these dwellings, and I think it's an important consideration that we pay attention to. Today's energy efficiency measures are,
 more effectively control airflow in homes, removing moisture that can build up in otherwise uncontrolled air flows in homes that can lead to mold and mildew problems, which is associated with increased breathing problems for the occupants, such as asthma, as well as more frequent respiratory illnesses. This is also linked to an issue of what we call part of the social determinants of health.
 especially true for low-income families who have to decide between making needed repairs in homes doing the weatherization work or even buying food and having to make those decisions puts them in an unfair position and so we know that oftentimes low-income people
 to tell the kids to put on, or the elderly to put on another jacket and live with an uncomfortable situation as opposed to the health improvements that were alluded to by Tom. Hold on.
 Hold on. By Tom Kelly earlier today. So this policy is an important first step, but I urge you to go very quickly after its adoption on to meet the next step. And that is because this is so important for low-income families that I think that it's critical that we also extend this policy in the very near future to home rentals, especially multifamily homes.
 situations where the homeowner or the building owner does not bear the cost of the heating and cooling, but the tenants do. And this is really going to be critical to find incentives to help make that transition happen.
 And because I'm over time, I'll stop there. But thank you very much. Thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Sam Pastrick. I'm here with Oregon Citizens Utility Board. I made some strategic cuts in perspective time, so I'll try to get through pretty quickly here. So CUB is an advocate, consumer advocate, and longtime energy efficiency champion. We've supported this concept for years and years and years.
 Basically, what it comes down to for us is that purchasing a home is one of, if not the single most important investment either an individual or household can make. Therein, CUB believes that homebuyers need good information. They need good information about this investment to make smart choices.
 A score, an energy score is a prime example of, you know, this good information. So a home like any building, it's a system. It's a system of components. And to improve the system, you need to understand it. And that's really important. That's really the primary goal of this policy. So offering homebuyers clear information to improve their decision-making ability, it's just, it's good public policy. It's common sense, really, from our end. Okay.
 You know, I think I'll close basically by saying that the city of Portland and the state also, you know, we have a really long track record of accomplishment leading the fight against climate change. And this proposed policy is another, you know, important leadership example. And this has already been said, but I want to say it again. You know, with mounting uncertainty around the future of climate policy, at least at the federal level,
 It really is now probably more important than ever, in CUB's opinion, to continue that policy leadership at the local level through the City of Portland. So thank you, and I encourage a yes vote. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Alan Lee. I've been working in the energy efficiency area doing research and doing consulting work for about 30 years now. I worked on the first building energy codes in California. Okay.
 and been working and looking at rating systems similar to the kind of program that you're talking about here today. A lot of the arguments you're hearing against these approaches are the same ones I've heard on and on again and again from the billing community and the real estate community, and time and again they've been shown to be invalid and that the market adjusts.
 It's really critical, I think, to look at the residential sector because it is about 20% of the greenhouse gas emissions in the city. And without tackling both the new and existing buildings, I think it's really no hope for the city to actually accomplish its goals.
 I worked with the city about six or seven years ago, the first time that this attempt was made to try to get a residential measure in place, and we ran into a lot of the same arguments. I think it's great what the Bureau has done to take back the information to look what's possible
 been done in other cities around the country to examine the asset rating score as well as the energy bill disclosure approach. And I think they made a wise decision to go with the asset rating score. There are cities, Boulder, for example, that applies it to new construction in Santa Fe, at least just from a little research that I did. So it can apply to both sectors. And I think compatibility across...
 New and existing buildings is really important. And existing buildings' sales are about 10 times what the sales are of new homes. So it's not going to work just to single it out and apply it to one portion of the housing market.
 The asset rating approach is something that's becoming more and more common through the building codes. Actually, there's an energy rating index that's becoming incorporated in the national building model codes, and that's something I think will be very compatible with what's being proposed. So I urge you to adopt this policy. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Okay, let's check the next three. Thank you.
 Next three, Michelle Fila, Steve Strode, Terry Parker. They'll be followed by Tim Miller, David Vanthoff, and Ashley Henry. Okay. Good morning. Good morning. If you're ready, go right ahead. Okay. All right, thank you. So, Steve Strode from Portland. I'm also a realtor. And thanks for allowing me to speak here this morning. So, while I'm here to voice my opposition to the proposed mandate, I wanted to be 100% clear that I
 really support the 2015 Climate Action Plan.
 And our industry has done an excellent job of educating the consumer when it's in their best interest. Home inspections are now commonplace. In cities like Portland, sewer line inspections are now the norm because we want our consumers protected. More recently, radon inspections are now the norm, and they've been the standard of practice in our transactions. Why? Not because the health department told us we should do it, but because the consumer outreach and education works.
 We are the trusted advisors in the transaction, and as regulations have made transactions more complex, we are trusted even more. You know, I look around the room and I saw all the right-to-know stickers. Absolutely, we have a right-to-know now. It's part of the transaction. We can write things into our inspection addenda that ask for things like this. So that right-to-know exists. We 100% support the right-to-know.
 A troubling premise with the whole proposal is that consumers, without additional bureaucracy, don't see the value or importance of energy efficiency on its own. That's totally false. Consumers are rational. But they know when they are buying an older home that they have to make improvements and updates. Their home inspections give them that roadmap already. Thank you.
 But right now our pocketbooks are just stretched. We are in a period of high home prices and buyers who buy older, non-updated homes typically make improvements when their pocketbooks allow. One project at a time, one thing at a time, they take it off. So an energy score really will have no practical effect. Moreover, after the first incremental change, that score is immaterial.
 So for that reason alone, the score should never be placed on public-facing sites like PortlandMaps.com. Others will use that data, such as appraisers, which was spoken to earlier, or realtors looking to complete market analyses. But that data will be unreliable, and valuations will be skewed. And with the income exception in the proposal, the city will be making sellers tell the world on Portland Maps their income level. That has no business being on a public-facing website.
 So we've already heard about the unintended consequences. I can skip that paragraph that Evan talked about. And again, I agree the goals to reduce emissions are essential, but this doesn't set metrics for accountabilities as well. It criticizes the free market for prior attempts...
 but also relying on the free market to make the right decision going forward just by giving this information. So I encourage you to vote no. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Mr. Stroh, can I? Yes. You said that somehow this requires an income level to be disclosed? Well, if you're qualifying for the exemption, you will not have the score on the site. I'm sorry, you will have the score on the site. You're telling the world I'm income disadvantaged.
 Thank you. We'll check on that question because this issue of disclosures has come up quite a bit. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, thanks. Good morning. Hi. I'm Michelle Gilla. I'm a realtor here in Portland as well and also speaking to ask you to vote no on this mandate. I'm a huge proponent of climate goals and making those goals very important in my own life. I've had...
 energy audits on all of the homes that I own here in Portland. In the interest of time, Steve, Evan, Jane have all made most of the points I was going to make today as well. I would say that my experience with them, with the audits themselves, is that they do become obsolete pretty quickly. And so one of my questions on this mandate is,
 If you have, when, at what point prior to a sale is this mandatory? If you have a buyer who buys a house, they're relying on a score that a seller had done two years ago. The buyer turns around and sells and is using that same score again.
 At what point are we in a problem situation with disclosure to the next buyer? And, of course, I worry about myself, my business, my role in passing on information that may not be valid anymore. And my other large concern is as well the poverty situation being posted on a public website. People take advantage of poverty all the time. We don't need that for our homeowners.
 I would also like to say that I would like this removed from the real estate transaction altogether. I think that we need efficiency focus for all our homeowners in Portland, not just those that are transacted. Thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you. Terry Parker, Northeast Portland. As we all know, the city genuinely conveys its appreciation when the federal government or the state passes legislation that includes unfunded mandates.
 Sarcasm aside, that is just what you are proposing here for people that, for whatever reason, want to sell their homes.
 Just like with a new car or appliance, it may make sense to require a home energy audit or score on a new house when the builder can claim a tax deduction. However, just like when purchasing a used car where the fuel consumption can vary from the original mileage sticker or a used appliance that has no sticker, any home energy scoring responsibility for the previously lived-in homes needs to be the responsibility of the purchaser as opposed to the seller-homeowner.
 Most banks require an inspection of property to get a loan. Any energy scoring system should be part of that inspection, not something separate and not dictatorial unfended mandate assessed on the homeowner's seller. If the city council chooses to become a dictator in this realm, the city also needs to cover the cost to individuals and families for any associated fee that comes with the mandate. If the buyers of previously lived-in homes are responsible for the inspection fee recouping the money,
 from the city can be done by allowing the same amount to be deducted from the property taxes following the purchase.
 What is being proposed here is yet another government dictatorial mandate, required fee that will hit people of modest middle-class incomes the hardest. Blue-collar workers who see their jobs going away, the incomes not keeping up with inflation and taxes, fear the trend for more government intrusion regulation and fees continuing, and therefore likely voted for Trump. The bottom line is,
 Problem here is a growing number of people that are being squeezed in between the bread of the affluent and entitlement sandwich. This includes senior citizens on fixed incomes that feel their views are no longer representing government. The city needs to fund any home energy audit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Next, please. Tim Miller, David Van Topp.
 Ashley Henry. They'll be followed by Cynthia Chase, Rick Dodge, Jeff Papazian. Ashley? Oh, okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Tim Miller, and I lead a nonprofit called Inhabit. You've heard of us a couple times today. We help people improve their homes. Inhabit strongly supports this proposed policy for climate, health, equity, and job creation benefits, but I'm also here due to a personal experience. I was really troubled to read alarmist and unfortunately incorrect information promoted online. The message about this policy said,
 The bill is being pushed through with laser speed and will possibly require costly repairs to comply with arbitrary standards. The Oregon Association of Realtors and your local Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors have spent thousands of dollars in our attempt to inform the public. There are some misleading issues in there. Was this pushed through with laser speed? No. The Bureau already explained the timeline and all the work that went into this. Would this require costly repairs? No. There are no repairs required in this policy.
 Does this policy use arbitrary standards? No. The policy uses U.S. DOE standards improved by state law through 2801 and other work. So these misconceptions created fears and likely prompted many of the concerned people that are here today. So the policy should not be stopped by misunderstandings or misinformation, certainly. Number two, I'd like to mention that we talked about making sure that this doesn't have a negative impact on lower-income members of our community.
 Let's also bear in mind that this actually can create an opportunity for wealth building for many members of our community. The FHA, the VA, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac all have lending solutions for lower income folks to be able to make investments in their home, and many of those are tuned to energy efficiency measures to provide extra benefits.
 Finally, the notion that this information is the same as you would get in an inspection is simply not the case. A typical home inspection doesn't address all these energy issues, and it's not being done by a certified energy expert. So the policy certainly should not be killed on those misconceptions. For the sake of efficiency, continued progress toward housing affordability and stability –
 And other benefits, I urge you to support this policy. Since you have a lot of expertise in this, let me just pose a question that I'm still thinking about. Yes, sir. A home inspection turns up in the report a notation that the windows have failed.
 which would be relevant to energy efficiency. Okay. The energy audit does not so fine, or vice versa, and you have a discrepancy, because that's an example of something that could be found in a home inspection that might be relevant to the energy score. What is the consumer's...
 option in terms of reconciling a discrepancy of that kind. Right. So the consumer will have one of the important distinctions between the inspection and this work, this energy assessment, is that it's essential that the assessment happen at the time of listing, not later in the process at the time of inspection, because
 The assessment has to be part of the consideration for the buyer. That makes it part of the consideration for an appraiser, and that's what builds it into the value of the home to address the market now. If we don't do assessments until later, it'll be 10 years from now until those energy assessments will become part of the market. So to your point, though, about a difference between an inspection and an energy assessment, inspection is more likely to point out a broken window, but it's not going to tell you that it's a single-pane inefficient window.
 If there's differential information there, the homeowner would have already seen the incorrect information if they disagreed with it at the time of assessment early on. So that can be corrected through the process of listing their home and working their home and getting this report as part of the buyer's consideration set.
 There are a number of quality control measures baked into this policy. We can't use the U.S. DOE score unless we have policy or, sorry, quality control measures baked in. The Joan who was on the video requires the 2801 law locally here in the state also requires levels of quality and certification for the inspectors.
 There's also data review required of these scores so that we can look across the scores and see that my friend Dave over here, who's an assessor, let's pretend, is scoring everybody high or mischaracterizing everybody's windows or doing something out of the norm. So there are data-driven quality control measures as well to drive quality and assurance into this system. Great. Thank you very much.
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Dave Vantoff. I'm the Acting State Director for Climate Solutions, and thank you for letting us to come in and testify in support of this important policy. As you've heard, I'm a member of the Climate Solutions Committee,
 The importance of local and regional leadership on climate change has never been greater. Over the next four years, there's going to be just an increased heightened focus on the needs for local action. And so for the city of Portland to be taking a leadership role on something, you know, this has been done nationally, but this is the first, I think, real stab at it in the Pacific Northwest region.
 As we just heard, hopefully it will be a beacon for others to see that this works, it makes sense, and people want it as it becomes more utilized.
 You know, we want to thank Mayor Hales and council members for your great leadership over the last couple years. The fossil fuel infrastructure policy is a huge step forward along the same lines of kind of showing the way that a jurisdiction can hopefully build support well beyond its borders more regionally. As Senator Denver, I think, noted earlier,
 The need for energy efficiency focus is very high right now. The state has done some good stuff on renewable energy infrastructure. We've passed renewable portfolio standards at the state level to try and increase renewables in our system. We've been working on energy efficiency for a long time, and a long time had been recognized as national leaders on energy efficiency. But that really is starting to erode and go away, as you also heard.
 Just on codes, there's misperceptions that Oregon is still a leader on energy efficiency and codes. We're not. We're falling behind. And that's a focus at the state level where we're trying to work with allies to empower cities like Portland to be able to have increased energy efficiency in the codes. We need to take a major step forward on that for new construction.
 But for existing buildings, homes, this is just a really important tool for increasing awareness of how energy impacts people's budgets and their bottom line. And just providing that tool, we've seen from some of the jurisdictions that have the short term that we've seen where it's been in place, it has resulted in an increase in energy efficiency investments in homes and an improvement of the quality of those homes.
 So I think it's got a proven track record. The costs are very, from the sale of a home in the Portland market right now, seems to be very reasonable in terms of how to integrate this into the system. And we just strongly support moving forward with this policy. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Okay. Take three more.
 Next up, please, Cynthia Chase, Rick Dodge, Jeff Papazian. They'll be followed by Kelly Haynes, Jeff Cole, and John Morris. Good morning. Hi. Okay, submit written testimony. Thank you. Go ahead, please. My name is Cynthia Chase. I've been a real estate broker in Portland, Oregon, for 18 years. My primary business is residential, and my primary business area is the city of Portland, where I also reside and own rental properties. Okay.
 I've been active on the Sustainability Committee of the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors over the last couple of years. I'm not a climate change denier. I believe in making properties more energy efficient and have systematically done that on the property we live in and the properties we operate as rentals. I often recommend energy upgrades to buyers as they look at properties. I never have recommended energy efficient upgrades to sellers as I know they are looking to sell and that those upgrades will not directly benefit them.
 I do not see requiring sellers to provide an energy score to buyers as part of a sale as a good idea. A new property owner is very often not in the position to do energy upgrades at the beginning of their tenure in the property. These reports may well be shelved until later, as in much later in the home ownership process, and may well need updating, which means more costs to that property owner. Instead, I propose that the City work on these very admirable goals in different ways, and I have a few suggestions for that.
 One, instead of a requirement for sellers, why not approach buyers as new homeowners with education and incentives after the sale is closed? Two, why not help current homeowners complete energy upgrades? I would especially like to see us focus on our elderly, low-income homeowners who pay energy bills on drafty houses. Why not focus more resources on helping them?
 Three, new homeowners and long-time homeowners often struggle with wanting to have good-looking yards and not using chemicals. We could help them by offering more education and, again, some incentives for doing more sustainable gardening, which can include growing fruits and vegetables and using more natives in our landscaping. Several organizations exist to further these goals, including Master Gardeners through the OSU Extension Service. I'm a new Master Gardener this year, and...
 partnering with them to reduce greenhouse gases through gardening would be a positive change for our city. Number four, I'm about 60% serious here. Here's an out-of-the-box suggestion. Why not ban gasoline-powered leaf blowers in the city, reducing pollution and noise all at the same time? This time of year, it's an especially apropos idea to improve our city.
 Let's not get stuck in one way of thinking to solve these problems. Adding an energy score in real estate transactions seems easy and helpful to some, but I'm not one of them. If it's mandated, real estate brokers will work with our sellers to do it, but I don't think it's going to produce the change you hope. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Morning. I'm Rick Dodge, and I am a realtor also and have been for 30 years.
 And I'm an early baby boomer and feel that since this has come about, a lot of discussion has been made with the public. And I have an electric blower to tell you where I'm at. But the sentiment out there is that the government doesn't have a right to know.
 The buyers do. They agree. And I wish today as a form that we have that we give to prospective buyers of all the inspections, just a myriad of inspections that they can have on a property that would cover everything that we're talking about today. And if I'm wrong, somebody can come correct me on this. And I get the feeling here that...
 There is perhaps another way of doing this. And Dodd-Frank gave us plenty of regulations to empower consumers. And as the loan officers has mentioned before,
 The issues that are involved with buying and selling a house are a big burden on a lot of people out there already, let alone an energy audit, which seems to have what I feel are some, can be problematic. And I personally have used Energy Trust because they have an incentive
 Through their marketing and education, which I think we don't see enough of out there, is the way to go on this instead of the intrusion that, again, this is what the public that we're talking to every day is.
 They're sick and tired of being sick and tired. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I appreciate my two minutes or maybe less than two minutes of fame. My name is Berenice Lopez. I am a business owner of Home Energy Life Performance Group, also known as Help Group Inc., a home performance contracting firm. I also own a company called Moving Ready LLC.
 is a residential general contractor that specializes in getting homes ready for sale or for rent, ready for the market. It might be worth noting that I'm also a licensed real estate agent and a property management agent. So I'm here today as a very strong supporter of this policy. My company alone since 2008 have retrofitted and saved energy on over 1,700 homes.
 more than half were low-income families or medium-income families, and created more than four full-time sustainable jobs. So like you said, Major, home energy scoring is a win-win for all. See, some realtors here in this room might argue that this policy is unnecessary, costly, intrusive,
 and burdensome. And I get it, because we have to do a little bit more work ourselves in order to list a property on our MLS. But it's really simple. All we need to do is invest time and educate themselves and ourselves realtors in more important issues about listing a home, rather than focusing in what is the latest granite that is in style, the new trendy wall color, or hardwood floor finishes.
 What could be more sexy than talking about fiberglass insulation versus cellulose insulation or the U-value of windows, right? So passing this home energy score policy will support efforts that will promote, number one, business growth. For those businesses like my business, which I can see several of my people that I know that have businesses here today, we employ people of our community.
 will promote long-term opportunities and family-supporting wages with benefits, better opportunity for skilled laborers. It will also promote and encourage consumers' awareness in energy efficiency, indoor air quality, health and safety issues in our community.
 It is our civil duty as residents of this amazing city of Portland, regardless of our professional background, to make our community better, and Home Energy Scores will help do that. So I thank you, and I hope for your support. Thank you very much. Thank you all. So again, let's do a process check. I'm planning to break at 1225, and the question is what time we would want to return.
 Are we returning on this subject? We'll see. I think we probably have heard most of the testimony that we're going to hear on this. I have some comments on this.
 I know we're going to try to get a few more people in. We do have a notice in the afternoon schedule, Mayor, we had that placeholder for compliance. We don't need it anymore. Which we don't need. So we could come back at 2 and pick up the regular agenda, or we could come back at 2, do the hearing, and at 3 pick up the regular agenda. That's probably right. Tomorrow is Thanksgiving, so we are going to lose people. We're not going to be meeting tomorrow. No, I mean we'll lose people later. People are going to be leaving early to get to travel today. Okay.
 So my preference would be that we take a skinnier lunch and come back and finish the regular agenda so that by 2 we can hit the hearing and be done. Okay, so maybe just break from 1230 to 1? How many still want to testify? Okay, we're not going to make it to 1230. I have to leave at 1230. Can we go to one minute? All right. So one option is go to one, but just the three of you without me.
 You want to do that? Yeah. All right. I think people have already waited a very long time. Okay. If we've got three members of the council that are willing to continue to 1 o'clock, let's do that, and then we'll break. And I will have to leave at 1230. And then when do you want to resume the regular agenda? I think you're right about taking up the regular agenda at 3 p.m. after the 2 o'clock times or immediately following the 2 o'clock times. Okay.
 How does that sound? That sound good? Okay, so we will continue hearing people. Again, my apologies. I will be leaving briefly for half an hour from 1230 to 1, but let's go on. And Mayor, can I also just say, if we're moving to one minute, we often find that people who have three minutes can say the same thing succinctly in two minutes. We've also found people who have two minutes can speak succinctly in one. Well, we have to accommodate a lot of people today, and the point is,
 Please do not interrupt.
 The thing that's most useful for us, we don't make decisions based on 100 people testified this way, 60 people testified that. What we're looking for is arguments that maybe haven't been raised. So don't feel that you need to repeat the same mantra, because we're smart enough to understand that the 10th time we've heard that theme. But if you have a new argument that you think hasn't been raised that you want us to grapple with, please frame that, because then we have a chance with –
 with staff later to come back and say, give us some feedback on that. So we particularly appreciate new issues that haven't been raised because that informs our decision. Thank you. Let's go forward. Next I have Jeff Cole, John Morris, Robert Hammerly, followed by Diana McCready, James Waters, Kelly Hartnett. Good morning or good afternoon. Welcome. Morning.
 Go ahead. Go ahead. Go first. Okay. My name is John Morris. So we're going to one minute? We'll try to go to one minute. Please try to be succinct, everybody. Go on. Okay. My name is John Morris, and I'm a Northeast homeowner and small business owner here in Portland. I'm here representing the Northwest Energy Efficiency Council. We represent a number of businesses that do energy efficiency work in Portland. Okay.
 The council supports a proposed action by the City of Portland to institute a mandatory energy asset scoring system for residential properties. NEEC is a non-profit industry association. Just to make sure it's clear. There's no more time-honored business principle that you can't manage what you don't measure. This is particularly true when it comes to building energy use. Energy performance metrics help make the otherwise invisible concept of energy use and make it apparent and actionable, right?
 As a longtime proponent of energy benchmarking and disclosure, which has been successfully adopted and implemented by the City of Portland, NEIC believes that a similar system will provide widespread benefit when applied to the residential housing stock. I'll conclude with a comment that I've been doing energy awareness for consumers for 12 years. They spend about 18 minutes on average per year on their utility bill. This bill will help them. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilmembers. Just give us your name again. Robert Hammerly. I operate a heating and cooling company here in Portland, and the three points I want to make are one,
 One, I want to attest to the volume of new home buyers who are floored by their unexpected heating bills in their first year of the home. We've had some homeowners attest to that today, and we get scores of these calls every winter. And a lot of times, it's a true financial impact that they might not be able to
 make their mortgage payment because of the unexpected heating bill. Second, I want to counter the –
 argument made by the Realtor Association and the mortgage broker. Basically, when you boil their argument down, it's public information is bad because it might gum up the works. And I think if you gave them the opportunity, they would probably want to throw home inspections out the window as well because that might gum up the works of the transaction. Okay.
 And then three, volume. I've heard an argument that there's not enough people out there to perform these scores. Our organization has presently approximately 10 individuals certified to do these scores, and we would be happy if we get a market signal to invest and grow a division of more people doing these scores. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Thank you.
 Diana McCready, James Waters, Carrie Hartnett. Maybe two more. Daniel Moreau, Paul Grove. Sorry. Okay, that's fine. Come on up. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Carrie Hartnett, 2017 President of the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors.
 I've served on the Green Advisory Board at the National Association of Realtors, and I also hold the Earth Advantage Broker Certification. I have 12 years of experience in real estate as a licensee. I'm a proud single mother of a 16-year-old at Benson High School and a homeowner in Northeast Portland. I'm offering this testimony in opposition of the pre-listing home energy score proposal on behalf of our 8,000 members. We definitely support the goal of reducing carbon emissions. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 Every day, though, home sellers struggle to sell what is often their largest financial asset, and home buyers are stretching to make the down payment and closing costs. If the city adopts this proposed mandate, you'll be adding an additional burden to the seller, and in some circumstances, unnecessarily, as you've heard, this information is similarly found on the inspection report that we personally, I always recommend.
 The proposal requires settles to pay for energy audit score before they can list their home for their private property. This is private property for sale to the city. We already know that it's going to be published or proposed to be published on websites such as Portland Maps. This is intrusive. In addition, by publicly posting the score, 35% of Portland's single-family homes built before 1940 will be disadvantaged because of the score that will be lower than a newer property.
 If the city's goal is to reduce carbon emissions, I encourage you to incentivize homeowners to make energy efficiency improvements to their home rather than mandating an unnecessary piece of paper that will not do that. On behalf of our members at PMAR, I encourage you to reject the proposal in front of you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Nick Crowder. I'm a broker with Keller Williams Real Estate and a resident of Portland. I've been in brokerage for 10 years.
 The thing that I see that's frustrating is that this is a right to know. I see these stickers everywhere. Buyers right now and for my whole career could get the utility bills and know the exact cost of what the previous owner was paying to operate utilities in the home. So this information is known in very specific form, not in an abstract of a score. Because a score doesn't tell you exactly what you're going to be paying
 I can tell you after helping 500 people in my career buy or sell real estate in Portland that unfortunately this is not part of the buying decision for 99% of the people. And I'm saying that from my experience as one of the top brokers in this town. If the buyers wanted to know and there was a financial incentive to have a public record of this as an incentive to a buyer to buy that house over a different one, sellers would already be doing this on their own and promoting this as part of their marketing of their home and that simply isn't happening.
 It also bothers me that this could cause delays. We hear a lot about that it's only $200, but right now we're experiencing huge increase in costs on appraisals because we do not have enough appraisers to keep up with our market. And I expect that exact same thing to happen with this program. Again, with Kerry, I suggest that why don't we incentivize all of the people of Portland to create more efficient homes as opposed to punishing the people that are trying to sell their homes today? Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Grove won't take offense, but I have to leave. No offense, Mayor Hales. Members of Council, for the record, Paul Grove with the Portland Home Builders Association. I will heed your advice. I will be brief. We have submitted written remarks. You can read at your leisure. And testimony has already been discussed today about exempting new housing. Our sustainability manager will also be testifying to this as to the reason why. I appreciate staff's effort in this. I appreciate the spirit from which they are coming.
 on the proposal and taking the time to discuss this over the summer. So with that, I will conclude. Thank you. Well, I have a quick question for you. In the report that we got, it says that BPS considered exempting new construction homes from the legislation.
 It goes on to say that, however, after research in energy costs, the Bureau found that energy costs can vary significantly between a code-built new home and a high-performance new home, and this demonstrates there's still need for disclosure of energy efficiency even in new homes. How do you respond to that? Thank you.
 Mr. Fish, you know, I probably am not in a position to give you an answer today, but when our sustainability manager comes up, and she has worked closely with this with our home performance council, who build and meet and exceed this, I think she could provide you a better, more detailed answer to that. Or we accept something in writing after that. And we certainly can follow up in writing. Okay. Thank you all. Next three, please. Next three, please. Don McOdram, Ron McOdram.
 Dowell and Danny Kelly. I don't see anybody coming to the table. You want to try the next three, Sue? Oh, we got one. Next two. Next two. So I just got a message on behalf of the pro side that is that we're going to, we've organized amongst ourselves to limit the number of testifiers so that we can expedite through this and avoid repetition. How about one more name, Sue? Holly Brown. Holly Brown.
 Okay, great. Welcome. Just give us your name and you each have one minute and there's a clock in front of you there. Hi, I'm Jana Gastelum, Climate Program Director at the Oregon Environmental Council. I wanted to answer a couple of things that have come up. We bought a home three years ago, and despite knowing about what energy scores are and having a realtor who also supported them, I asked for one during the process and was told I couldn't.
 could not get one because it was a very competitive market. It was a seller's market and as a buyer, I couldn't get a score because it was an extra, something additional and it would have made our offer, made our bid less competitive. So I was declined this information.
 So I'm still facing childcare costs and have to do monthly budgeting. So I did call the utilities to try and get a sense of what those costs would be. But I have no way of knowing if that's based on occupant use or the home performance of a building. I'm now facing this next year $30,000 of childcare costs. And so monthly bills really do make a difference.
 An asset rating provides good information that you can make sound financial decisions on, and without a mandatory score that includes all houses, you can't do that cost comparison. And lastly, on the climate, any action that can be taken has cumulative impact when it comes to energy efficiency. If we had had information up front, we could make home improvements early on. That makes a tremendous difference for the climate. And so those little things do add up over time. So I urge support of this. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi there. I'm Hillary Barasa, and I'm a realtor in Portland. I do most of my residential real estate in Portland. I do not believe that I've been spoken for yet today, even though there's been some numbers thrown around for large numbers of realtors. I believe that Portland is such a leader, and this is something that makes me so proud to be a part of. I've watched this group put together this policy with tons of thought. They've taken a lot of the feedback. I hope
 urge all the realtors who are opposed to this to continue to speak your voice because they've been so positive in incorporating those concerns. I think that we have to base the decision on facts, and the facts seem to show that it's going to help us
 get to where we want to be with our climate change goals in Portland. I personally have done hundreds of transactions in this city, and I've never had an appraiser look on Portland maps and come back and create a problem with the transaction with something that they found there. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Ma'am? Thank you. Good morning, afternoon. My name is Holly Braun, and I represent Northwest Natural. We are strongly in support of this policy as a mechanism to help transform the residential energy efficiency market.
 As a utility, we seek least-cost energy resources to keep rates down for our customers. The current voluntary offering is excellent, all the incentives we have today that have been spoken about, but they only appeal to the innovators and early adopters in the market transformation paradigm.
 This 2% of the market requires expensive incentives in order to act on energy efficiency, but a policy like this that is intuitive, educational, and really level-setting has the potential to truly transform the understanding of the home residential market. I think in time this would nullify the need for expensive incentives.
 This program will potentially save ratepayers millions of dollars and save dramatically more energy than we do today by creating market demand for high-performing homes. This policy is a natural next step in the market transformation paradigm, and we urge you to support it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Happy Thanksgiving. Thank you. Next three. Daniel Moreau, Caitlin Horsey, Laura Kovach.
 I see one person coming up. Keep going. Chris and Philip Mandel. Are they here? Keep going. Keep going, yeah. And then Amrose Shapiro, Rio Marquez Hammett, Craig Acker. How about keep going? Janet Gastelum. I think she just testified. So we need one more name. Hillary Barasa. Yeah, she just testified. I'm sorry. I couldn't keep up with the names. Faith.
 Graham. How about, who has, raise your hand if you haven't testified. All right, ma'am, why don't you come forward. We'll just start bringing people forward. Go ahead. Yeah, one. Thank you. Yeah, come on up.
 We'll start with you in the middle since you were here first. Just give us your name and you have a minute. Okay. Hi, I'm Caitlin Horsley. I'm with the Portland Home Builders Association. I am our sustainability manager. As Paul let you know, I'd be coming up here. As the sustainability manager, I work closely with our Home Performance Council, and our mission is to foster sustainable building knowledge, education, and application in this industry and within our membership as well.
 We definitely, as a group, have had some robust conversations around this, and we applaud your efforts in not only putting the appropriate value on the work that we do, but also further educating homeowners on the cost of homeownership and operating costs.
 However, to get to the point and go into some of your remarks before, we do not support the use of the Home Energy Score, the HES, the specific score that you're choosing for new construction. And the reason behind that is if you talk to builders in my group,
 they would say that their homes are already a 9 or a 10. So there's really no incentive for them to be pushing that envelope like they've been doing in past years to do even more efficient things and save us even more energy and help our environment even more so. So why would we want to use a score that dissuades them from doing even better than they already are? If I can just ask you a question, where is it written?
 that a new home equates to a 9 or a 10 on the home energy audit scale? It's not written, but they get their homes scored, right? So they usually use an EPS, the Energy Trust EPS, which is a local score that most of my builders use. But they can also get an HES very easily, and they are always a 9 or a 10, usually a 10. Thank you. Go to your next question.
 Thank you, counsel. My name is Annie Rose Shapiro. I'm a commercial realtor with Workspace Commercial and a residential realtor with Urban Nest Realty. I support the energy audit, and I don't feel my voice has been represented here today. Our job as realtors is to educate and guide our clients as they make the biggest financial decision of their lives. We need this data to uphold our most sacred, if you will, mission.
 This allows us to guide buyers, sellers, and also current homeowners with hard data that will let them know what the return on investment is going to be when they sell. As we accumulate this data, it will help us learn what this really means. It's not currently valued in the market. 2% of houses are scored, and that makes that data meaningless because there's nothing to compare it to.
 The most important and impactful part of this score is that every single real estate transaction will include a conversation about sustainability and environmental impacts. As realtors, we are the experts in buying and selling for many of our clients. Housing is a leading source of emissions. Thank you.
 They depend on us to educate them, and this allows us to fully integrate this conversation into our day-to-day lives. It's important. We can't rely on messaging and incentives that only reach those who are already converted. Okay, thank you. Ma'am? Hi. Good afternoon. I'm Dr. Theodora Tsongas, and I'm speaking today on behalf of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility.
 We support the proposed amendment to the City Code on Residential Energy Performance Rating Disclosure. This action will help the City meet its objectives to reduce carbon emissions and reduce energy use of all buildings. We support this because it's a common-sense part of the package of actions we must take to meet objectives of the Climate Action Plan and other City resolutions. If we are to address the contributions of buildings to carbon emissions, we must include residences.
 This is a good way for people to understand and address their own personal impact on carbon emissions. Climate disruption is the most important issue facing humanity. We need to do our part to reduce our contributions to it. We are taking steps in other areas to reduce carbon emissions to meet our climate action objectives. This is one of the domains we must add in order to take responsibility for and reduce our own impacts on climate change.
 Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility supports this proposed ordinance. Thank you. Thank you all. We have some more people who want to testify. Come on up. Take the first three to grab chairs.
 Okay, go ahead. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. My name is Jamie Duhamel, and I'm here to speak on behalf of Commissioner-elect Chloe Udailey, who strongly supports this home energy score policy. Chloe Udailey definitely supports everything that's been said today, especially that it will stimulate our economy by providing jobs at local solar, HVAC, plumbing, insulation, and other related local businesses. Thank you.
 Commissioner Lectue-Dailey also supports a requirement for landlords to perform assessments and achieve a minimum level of energy efficiency on rental units. Landlords and tenants would both benefit from energy cost savings, and we all would benefit from associated decreases in carbon pollution.
 Furthermore, the city should develop a property-assessed clean energy, or PACE, financing mechanism for residential buildings as it has for commercial buildings. PACE loans have funded over a billion dollars of energy efficiency and renewable upgrades to residential buildings in California alone. Thanks again for the opportunity to testify. Thank you. You've also been selected as the Commissioner's new Policy Director. Is that correct? Correct. Congratulations and welcome. Thank you very much. I look forward to working with all of you.
 My name is Peter Tofalvi. I am co-owner of Abacus Energy Solutions. I will limit my comments to issues that didn't get enough comments. Inspections don't typically include energy-related information. Inspectors are not trained to understand how the different energy-related systems of a home work together, how well or how poorly they work, and they don't include that information in their reports.
 I bought a house. I knew what I was getting into, electric ceiling heat, but I still didn't know how much it would cost to heat it because there was no heating bills available from the previous owner. Only after the purchase did I learn that it will cost me $300 to $400 a month to run that electric ceiling heat in the winter. So I had to take another loan to change the heating system in the house. In my opinion, the opposition from real estate professionals is short-sighted.
 They focus on the added cost and forget the benefit to them, which is this will be one more way to differentiate their products on the market, one more way to advertise differences in their products, to create excitement about features and benefits of a home. This is why real estate professionals on the East Coast first opposed and embraced the energy score. I am sure they will do that here, too. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Brian Simmons. I'm testifying today as a homeowner, also a landlord locally. I am also the former senior vice president of one of the country's largest energy efficiency consulting firms that has its largest presence here in Portland, named Clear Result. I obviously support this program and this initiative. One of the things that I'd like to point out is that
 The state of Oregon has done something that a lot of other states haven't done in the station, which is to actually have a market-based initiative to support these types of scores and these types of audits. Many of the contractors that you saw here locally, their jobs were created because of this. They also integrate the score along with the measures being adopted. You can look to Boston where there has been a failure, where the utilities did the score, and then market had to do the work.
 on adoption post the audits being done. And then you look in this market, we've had a higher uptake in work where audits have been accomplished. I think the nice part about a score is that we'll also add consumer behavior initiatives to this effort where we have seen uptakes in commercial environments with that as well. I'm going to provide some written testimony because I know time is limited, but I did want to come up and make those points. Thank you very much. Okay.
 Who's left? How many? Okay, are you the last three? The one in the back. Last four? Thanks for hanging in there today, folks. So these are the last four people that are going to testify today. And we'll start with you. Thank you.
 Thank you. I am one of the low-income homeowners that people have been referring to. My name is Sherry Pelsma, and making a home purchase was the biggest financial decision of my life, and not coming from a background of other people who had owned homes, the process was incredibly intimidating. There were so many things to consider that required inspections helped me to navigate priorities.
 And I come from the energy world and so insisted on learning about the energy score, for lack of a better term. But my brother, who's also a low-income homeowner, had a bad inspector and he had a bad realtor. And he ended up in a money pit situation when it came to energy.
 I decided to make energy upgrades instead of the more sexy kitchen remodel upgrades. And I would also like to know that when I sell my home, which is going to be the core of my retirement plan since I don't get retirement, that I will get rewarded for that in equity and the sales price at the end, which I think this score would help accomplish. Thank you very much. Sir? Sure.
 Go ahead. Ted Gleickman, Oregon Sierra Club. I will not recapitulate my fascinating testimony, which is being provided to you in hard copy.
 But I will say a couple of things quickly. We strongly support the excellent work that BPS has done on attention to low-income issues, and we would look forward to engaging on that going forward. The testimony today has made it very clear that that must be a top priority for 2017, because this information does need to be public information, yet BPS's
 people must be prevented from any predatory action affecting them. So there's a tricky balance there, and we'd like to help on that as we can. A couple of fallacies that have been presented. Delay is a fallacy. Energy Trust made it clear that the number of auditors available is adequate now, and more can be quickly added to the market, and that that will not likely raise costs, given the Austin experience.
 The obsolescence of the report is a fallacy in that if a homeowner doesn't have the money to do anything, then they will still have a valid report by not doing anything until it's time for them to do something. These things can be worked on and updated. BPS is attentive to all of that, and they provided ample attention to that.
 the exemption and deferral issue to deal with specific situations. Finally, efficiency and conservation are overlapping but distinct sets of issues. They are not the same thing. Efficiency does not necessarily include conservation. And that's why starting with deep weatherization is so important. Thank you so much. Thank you. Sir? Commissioners, thank you so much for this opportunity. I'm here as the Executive Director of the Home Performance Guild of Oregon. My name is Don McOdram. I...
 I'll petition you to afford me a few extra moments as I've asked many of our extra speakers to forego their testimony in lieu of my… MR. Sorry, we're going to hold you to one minute because we have other – we've got to bring staff back up too. MR. I understand.
 We, as the Residential Energy Efficiency Trade Association, we are at the forefront of every single energy efficiency program as it relates to homes in Oregon. And we are building science practitioners. So when we look at these home energy scores...
 We know that this is really to address you, Commissioner Fish. We know that we can rely on multiple tiers of quality control and training and certification to ensure that we've got accurate scoring. We strongly support this as a two-tiered strategy. It's both to insert the energy costs into the purchase process, but it's also to have the score in the hands of the buyers when they're in the most likely position to make upgrades, which is in the first three months of their sale.
 Lastly, I think that this is going to be the single greatest thing to increase energy literacy of the general public. I think that has not been mentioned, and I think that that's a really worthy cause. Thank you so much for this hearing. Thank you. Okay, we have one, maybe two. Okay, you're the last two. Come on up. Okay, so go ahead. Just give us your name. You just have one minute, and there's a clock in front of you. Thank you, Commissioners. This is Roger Kainu. I'm an analyst with the Oregon Department of Energy, and part of the House Bill 2801
 Energy Task Force. We have a stakeholder panel that's been developed by the state of Oregon to bring all of the framework together for home energy performance scoring. And I want to make a key note here about performance. Home energy scoring could be seen as just a list of assets within a home. Performance deals with how those assets interrelate and interact. It's a building science.
 and really needs to be taken a look at. You know, it's not just a list of all the assets that are there. It's how they interrelate together and create a performance, which in the end creates a score. That's what the HES with the United States Department of Energy builds for us. So an assessor goes out, takes track of all the assets, puts them into a software, spits it back out, and it becomes a score of that residence. Thank you.
 So with House Bill 2801, we developed a stakeholder panel, an approval process for each scoring system. We have training requirements and licensing of all the assessors, and there are assessors out there available. Outputs of the work have been state-approved scoring systems like the Energy Trust of Oregon, the USDOE model, HES, and the HES-RF.
 And then we moved into certification licensing of the assessors, the technical capability that aligns with the U.S. DOE at a national level. So it's not just an independent sort of scoring system. It's across the nation. I also want to be able to mention that.
 Utility bill analysis is one way of getting information, but it's very inaccurate. It's been going on for 30 years that I know of. Customers call utilities and say, hey, what did the energy bills look like? You may have a family of five living there for years and all of a sudden a family of two moves in. How does that compare? Okay, thank you very much.
 I need to ask a question. Sorry. So is what we have before us the kind of performance score that you were mentioning? Absolutely. So you support it? Absolutely. And could you just tell me a little bit more about why isn't it just adding up all the assets and turning out a number? Well, if you have a leaky duct system in a house and a very expensive high-performance piece of heating equipment, the outcome of that performance is much lower than if you have a high-performance system.
 heating equipment with a very well-sealed, tight duct system. But wouldn't the leakiness of the ducts be part of the audit? It would list that that is part of an asset, not as a system. It doesn't compare and pull together the interrelationship of those two individual items. Okay. Thank you very much. So you're supportive of what we have had? Absolutely. Thank you. Okay, William.
 My name is Barbara Kerr, and I'm speaking as a concerned citizen. Very quickly, I'm juggling my notes around here, trying to pare them down. As a teacher, I know that the best way for people to learn is from real-life experiences, and so knowing the energy efficiency of their house or their neighbor's house has a lot more impact than glossy brochures and any list of statistics ever will. Okay.
 The report could help to clear up misconceptions about energy use of houses because it would be real-life information, such as that old windows must be replaced. We now know that repairing rather than replacing can have a far lower carbon impact rate.
 uh... oftentimes and you house maybe built a code but still have features in it that use a lot of energy that the people may not understand your hot tub your extra large open spaces et cetera and uh... in the bigger picture
 giving them the carbon footprint of their house and being able to compare it to what may happen, the carbon footprint of tearing the house down and building a new one, can really educate our public on the long-term benefits of carbon footprint of saving our existing houses. Thank you very much. Okay, let's bring staff back up. I know we have some questions. Just to proceed your check, I mean, do we have some amendments in front of us? Yes. Yes.
 Are we prepared to act on those amendments now, or do we need more time? We'll see where the questions go, I guess. Let me raise some questions. And then is your goal to have this come back for a second reading next week? Yeah, I think it was intended to come back December 7th because the mayor is out next week. That gives us more latitude. So I'm going to just put the questions on the record, and I don't need answers right now in light of the time. What I would ask is...
 just a written response to these questions early next week or next week, at the holiday weekend. Number one, on the question of whether we exempt new construction, could you amplify on the commentary that's in the council document about the difference between code-built new homes and high-performance new homes? We've heard from a number of people saying,
 and Dan got at this in one of his questions, that the new home construction is close to the top of the scale. So I guess the question is, why do we disagree with that? What's the range that we anticipate? And why do you believe we should include new homes? I'd also be interested in knowing why Austin exempted new homes, just as a policy matter. Number two...
 If you can guesstimate for me how many transactions you anticipate in the first year into this program would involve low-income homeowners, because there are a number of questions that have been raised, particularly around people's privacy and potentially triggering predatory practices. And one of the things I'd like to know is if it's a small enough universe –
 Could the city partner with the utilities to create a voucher that offsets the cost so the person gets the score but doesn't have to pay for it? That seems to me to meet our objective while reducing, and since Northwest Natural and others seem to be so bullish on this, could we partner with the utilities to cover that cost? I'm assuming it's a manageable universe of people that would otherwise. It's about 5%. About 5%? If you can quantify that, but I'd like to know what that would look like. Yep.
 Because my preference would be to have everyone play, but if someone can't afford it, to find a way to offset the cost. And I think that balances privacy and whatever you've identified as the needs here. Thank you.
 Susan, at some point I hope you do come forward with a proposal to ban gasoline-powered leaf blowers in my new apartment. I hear them every Saturday morning. I'm starting about 6, and it's annoying in terms of the sound, but when reading about the environmental impact, I'm not sure why we shouldn't be banning them. And then on the question of how you – and the alternative, how you –
 structure the deferral waiver exemption program. Again, if you could drill down a little bit and just see, have we captured the universe of people who are already covered by a program that would give them an exemption where all they have to do is check a box and sign it and not have to produce tax returns or other things? And finally, those are all my questions. Thank you.
 Thank you. Some of mine are similar. I'd like to know, is there possibly a default choice for new construction, that it's just built to code, it's this score, and they can apply if they want to, to show that it's a high performance? Presumably you would know what the codes are and what kind of a score you're most likely to get.
 from the testimony i'd be kind of surprised if it's a nine or a ten all the time and so i'd like to have that um looked into um i don't support having it posted on portlandmaps.com or any other public what i think it's it's fine to post it on the um sellers um description of the house but as far as having it required to be on a government website i just don't i don't think that that's very helpful um so i'd like to propose an amendment for that at some point
 Also, the question was raised about how long the score is good for. If it's mostly based on the structural assets of the house, then again, could the seller default, say, this is what it is, this is what it was, I haven't done anything else, be able to put it forward? On the other hand, if they want to show that they've done all the repairs, that they could then ask for a new... They could get themselves a new audit.
 I don't support having buyers required to get it within the first four months. I think that people often have to... I mean, when I moved into my house, I was busy trying to figure out how to get the coat hangers put up and all kinds of other things, not thinking about how can I spend even more money on this house. So I would like that removed. And potentially, one of the ways to get around the issue of if a seller can't pay and if a buyer...
 at the transaction time, I mean, you always... You make your offer contingent on the inspection turning out all right. Perhaps they could also make it contingent on the audit turning out at a particular number, and at that point, the seller... I mean, the buyer could be willing to pay for the cost
 just like they pay for the cost of the inspection. And so that could happen, or otherwise they could initial at closing that they've waived their right to do that. I think that's a way of maybe helping people
 you get the information that they need as home buyers, but you don't get the inspection done until you've pretty much set your heart on a particular property. So I think that we need to have mechanisms that, as the listing of the property, that's when buyers can best do the cost comparison. If you've already set your heart on a property, paid for the inspection, and then yes, you've got around the issue of unexpected expenses,
 I just don't know that that's going to sway the thing. I just want to clarify that that four-month thing was only for the low-income proponent. Other than that, everyone is being required to do this as the seller before the home is listed. Right. No, I understand that. But I just don't think that's very helpful to the buyer to then be required to do what the seller was not able to do.
 Why would? No, the buyer won't have to do this. We were only suggesting that as part of a response if the seller was a low-income seller and not able. It was in the presentation. Is what you're suggesting, Commissioner, that in the cases where a low-income seller qualifies for the deferral, so they wouldn't get it, you're suggesting in those circumstances
 the buyer doesn't need to get it. That transaction happens without a score. Correct. Okay. And the buyer initials to say so rather than having to come back to you four months later saying I have or I haven't done that. Understood. I think those are most of my concerns. We did hear, I appreciate hearing from Commissioner Electew-Daily. That's very interesting.
 good to have her perspective here. I think there was a lot of discussion about equity issues and particularly the concern that landlords would pass on the cost to renters and even might be the cause of more no-cause evictions. So I really...
 I appreciate the thought that's gone into it. I do finally have to say that the financial impact and public involvement statement in this is possibly the best I've ever seen. It's really inclusive. I do appreciate the testifier from APANO saying that his group and others may not have...
 feel that they've been that engaged. And so certainly we need to be aware of that. I'm glad you came to make that point. And I think you all have shown me over the last four to eight years that we're always aware of what public involvement is and how we can do better. But I did appreciate having all that documented. It made it very much easier for me to figure this out. And we should acknowledge Kyle Deesner, who did the work on that. I had a couple of questions. And Commissioner Fish has a couple additional questions.
 I guess I'm also, I too am wondering about new construction exemptions, the testimony about the ORS 469, whether that prohibits us from disclosing. And I also, I guess I do share a policy concern, similar to what Commissioner Fritz just articulated about putting any information associated with a name on Portland maps or anywhere. And then there was a testimony, I guess I'm wondering about the timeliness of audits too. So-
 I think Ms. Gillo raised this issue. So suppose I'm a geek and I want to go out and get a home energy audit just because I want to know what my home is. And I get it, and I decide not to do anything about it. And then I decide to sell my house two years later. Can I use that home energy audit as the – so give us some discussion on that. And then –
 And then also the question, which you can answer in writing, is multifamily, sale of multifamily units, is that covered or not covered under our commercial or residential policies? Currently not covered. Commissioner Fish? So I missed two questions, and then I'm going to move the amendments. In your impact statement for the council, it lists public involvement, has a public involvement statement, and it says that you reached out to organizations representing communities of color and tenants, organizations,
 organizations representing homeowners with low, moderate, or fixed incomes, and affordable housing advocates and program implementers. I would say, in light of the APANO testimony, could you just tell us in writing which groups you reached out to that qualify for that, that are covered by those categories? And second, we had one or two people testify that this could alter the underwriting. Now, we know that underwritings become a lot tighter because of federal law,
 among other things. And so I'd like your feedback on that. In Austin, for example, did they have an experience with underwriting becoming more stringent and requirements around addressing energy efficiency being worked into the financing and the closing requirements, yes or no? Or what is the evidence that
 this disclosure in and of itself is going to change the equation in terms of underwriting and what banks require at closing. And with that, colleagues, I'd like to move the amendments as a package. Okay. Is there a second? I can second that. I'm also going to make some more amendments. Yes, the three on the table. And so I've moved and seconded. And by doing so, this allows us to vote on these when we come back on the 7th, and it doesn't preclude us from –
 or in the future modifying them or proposing new amendments. But Amendment 1 does address this question of solutions to cover up-front costs of policy compliance. That was something I raised in my question, because my preference would be to have everyone play but have some way to offset the cost for those who can't cover it. Two, it would give Susan or her successor or designee the right to be involved
 temporarily suspend or modify under certain circumstances, and three is a report back to council prior to the implementation. So I move all three. Okay. Moved and seconded. Please call the roll. Aye. Mr. Fritz. So I'd like to move an amendment similar to number three, that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will develop a process to streamline scores for new construction, at least on the same timeline as number three.
 So no fewer than two months prior to the effective date when they're going to come back to us anyway. So I'm not clear. What would your amendment do? It would be to develop a process to streamline the scores for new construction. Okay. Yeah, I guess procedurally I just want to check with us because I'm hoping that the information we get back may serve as a basis for potential amendments I would bring forward on the 7th. And I realize that would require another reading, but, you know, we've still got time to do that. Or we could slap an emergency on it. Yeah. Okay.
 I mean, I think some of the questions I have are along with the same questions you have about new construction. Yeah, so would you just prefer to wait to do that? Yeah, I'd prefer rather than trying to do it today and needing all three of us to support it. Let's get the information back from staff. And if we need to vote on new amendments on the 7th, let's do it on the 7th. Okay. So my other one, so there'd be one on the streamlining for new construction, and the amendment 5 would be not posting on Portland online. Oh, Portland maps. And I'm just wondering why was that included in the proposal in the first place?
 Pardon? Why was the posting it on PortlandMaps.com part of the procedure in the first place? Without disclosure, this policy falls apart. It needs to be visible. We could put the requirement on the realtors to put it on the listings. Yeah. We chose not to do that. Why? We thought that would get an even less warm reaction than we got. Well, they're required to list what school district they're in and what the property taxes are, so I don't really think that this is all that much different.
 Give us some more information on that. Yeah, there's another complication here because if you're requiring that this information be shared with the city, I assume it becomes a public record. And then, as Commissioner Salsman pointed out, then you've identified people who are low income and make them even more of a target for predatory home sales. Unless we get a score for everybody. So we'll explain all this and we'll provide it back to you before you. Okay, and we are recessed until 2 o'clock. Thank you very much, President.
 So what else is important?
 good afternoon everyone uh and welcome to the uh afternoon november 22nd session of the portland city council would you please call the roll here fish sure southman here here thanks everybody we have a time certain item we're going to take that first and then we're going to return to unfinished items from this morning's session so we will do the time certain item number 13 15 first and would you please read that item
 Item 1315, appeal of LRS Architects, Inc., against Design Commission's decision to approve with conditions, specifically C.1 and C.2 corner building element, a new one-quarter block, 12-story residential building located at Northwest 14th Avenue and Northwest Raleigh Street. Thank you. This is a quasi-judicial land use hearing, so I will first have our city attorney make some procedural announcements, and then I'll ask for disclosures from the council. Thank you.
 This is an on-the-record hearing. This means you must limit your testimony to material and issues in the record. We will begin with a staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first, and we'll have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes to speak with Council. Thank you.
 The principal opponent will have 15 minutes to address City Council and rebut the appellant's presentation If there is no principal opponent the council will move directly to testimony from persons who oppose the appeal after supporters of the appeal Conclude their testimony again after the principal opponent the council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal again Each person will have three minutes Finally the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal the council may then close the hearing deliberate and take a vote on the appeal and
 If the vote is a tentative vote, the council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If the council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before the council. Just one little bit more. Sorry. Sorry, I didn't see. Several guidelines for those who will be addressing council today.
 This is an evidentiary record again. This is an on-the-record hearing. Excuse me. The evidentiary record is closed. Again, this is an on-the-record hearing. The hearing is to decide only if the design commission made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented it.
 This means you must limit your marks to arguments based on the record compiled by the design commission. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the design commission. You may not submit new evidence that was not submitted to the design commission. If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. The council will not consider information and it will be rejected in the City Council's final decision.
 If you believe a person who addressed City Council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence that is not in the record, you may object to that argument. Finally, under state law, only issues that were raised before the design commission may be raised in the appeal to City Council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised before the design commission, you may object to Council's consideration of the issue. Lastly, the applicant must identify constitutional challenges to the conditions of approval.
 Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. Okay. Thank you very much. All right. First of all, we need to ask if there are any members of the council that need to declare a potential conflict of interest on this matter. I would just –
 State that the Portland Housing Bureau, which I oversee, is a major investor in this project, but I haven't met with anybody about this particular design issue or appeal. I have none. All right. And are there any ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside the hearing or visits to the site to discuss or put into the record?
 Okay. None of us have, other than Commissioner Saltzman's declaration about the Bureau he supervises, there are no conflicts of interest or ex parte contacts. So let's proceed then into the hearing with the staff report. Okay.
 Good afternoon. I think it's on. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor, council members. My name is Grace Jeffries. I am BDS staff. I am the design and historic review team. If you want, you can slide that whole box a little closer to you. Oh, this. There you go.
 I'll give you a little bit of background about the site. It's a quarter block site, 10,000 square feet. It was an existing surface parking lot. It's located at the intersection of Northwest 14th and Northwest Raleigh. It's located in the Central City Plan District and the River District Subdistrict and the North Pearl Subarea. The relevant approval criteria are the Central City Fundamental and the River District Design Guidelines.
 Images of the context. This is a view looking at the southwest corner of the site from Northwest 14th. The red brick building to the right is the Ramona. The one-story building to the left is to be replaced soon with a three-quarter block mixed-use development called the Broadstone Reveal. This is a view looking at the southwest corner of the site from Northwest Raleigh. To the right is the Ramona, and beyond is the Abigail, both of which contain affordable housing.
 So to provide some context on the small site plan, the red indicates the proposed site. The yellow indicates the location of the building in the photo. So across the street to the south is the Ramona. It's a six-story brick affordable housing project built in 2008 for Pearl Family Housing. One block to the east lies the Abigail, a six-story brick and metal panel affordable housing project built for bridge housing in 2013. One block to the southeast lies the Parker, a six-story brick multifamily housing project
 built in 2012, and diagonally across the intersection will soon be the recently approved seven-story brick and metal clad mixed-use proposal, the Broadstone Reveal. These six to seven-story brick and metal clad buildings create the emerging urban warehouse context that this proposal will reside in. So the zoning for this site is EXD, which is the central employment zone with the design overlay,
 The base floor area ratio is 4 to 1. Additional FAR can be earned through bonuses and transfers. The base height is 100 feet, and unlimited height is possible through design review. This is the design review proposal. It's a 12-story building. It contains 93 affordable units. There's a retail space on the corner, 15 auto parking, and one loading space on the ground floor. The proposed height is 129 feet, 8 inches, to the top of the parapet.
 There's 100 feet allowed, so the 29 feet 8 inches above that is a request through modification review. The FAR proposed is 10.52 to 1. There's a 4 to 1 FAR allowed on the site. They've earned a 5 to 1 bonus and they are doing a historic resource transfer for the remaining 1.52 to 1 FAR. These are exceptional requests beyond the base zoning.
 Five additional reviews were requested along with that design review. Four modifications and an exception to ORA window standards. So the review criteria for those, for modifications, are twofold. The first is the proposal will better meet the design guidelines. And the second is that the proposal is consistent with the purpose of the standard. For exceptions, the criteria is that the proposal will meet the design guidelines. So for the first modification, which is to the height,
 At the DAR's, the Design Advice Request Hearings, the applicant was advised that for this large modification it would be critical to demonstrate how the proposal better meets the design guidelines, especially those related to the context and coherency. The second modification is to allow reduced size for four of the parking spaces. The third modification is to allow reduced spacing of the wall-mounted bike racks. The fourth modification is to allow a reduced size for the loading space.
 and the exception to the Oriel window standards, though a 12-foot maximum width is allowed for Oriel windows. The proposal includes a 29-foot, 11-and-a-half-inch-wide Oriel window on Northwest 14th and a 31-foot, 4-inch-wide Oriel window on Northwest Raleigh. I'm sorry, could you pause for just a second and define what an Oriel window is? So it's a window projection over the right-of-way.
 And is a window like that added for aesthetic reasons, or does it actually increase the square footage of the unit? I think in this case it does a very slight increase in square footage, but I think it was done for aesthetic reasons in this part. We can speak to the applicant. What's the purpose of having a limit on the length of Oriel windows? Yeah.
 I think these are... Get a little backup here on that. You've asked your head of town, but I didn't think of it before. Okay.
 I can help with that. Tim Herron, Bureau of Development Services. The limitations on Orioles projecting into right-of-way came out of an agreement with BDS and the Portland Bureau of Transportation to kind of limit that amount of privatized floor area above public space. And so the power given to the design commission in any case where an Oriole projects wider than 12 feet is discretion and whether or not that width has been mitigated enough through other aspects of the design. Thank you.
 So just in practical terms, Tim, why is it a matter of public concern? Because it's private space above public right-of-way, so it affects shadowing over right-of-way. It can affect volume of building mass over right-of-way. A more literal extreme example are sky bridges.
 where it triggers a – Just don't say that in front of the mayor. Yeah. Next thing you're going to be talking about drive-throughs, and he's going to break out, and you're going to completely lose it. Well, I use that as, obviously, the extreme example of where we do regulate projections over the right-of-way. Some are more nominal, like –
 smaller balconies that are open air, canopies into the right of way for rain protection. So I'm asking this because I'm learning, not because I'm arguing the point, but I mean, the last time I was in San Francisco, it seemed like part of the whole design motif of the city is these punched out areas that, quote unquote, intrude into public spaces. And depending on their height,
 and their function, I didn't necessarily view that as an intrusion into public spaces. Yeah, and again, just to be clear, in this particular case, the issue really wasn't about whether a design commission wouldn't approve an aural window. It was more about how it was composed and how it inhabits that right-of-way space. We regularly approve aural window projections at different types or sizes through design review that go beyond the standard, but some of that is just a...
 creating that nexus to the design guidelines and seeing if it's an appropriate architectural response, as well as one private building area that extends over the right-of-way. So is it fair to say that in this particular area of our review, we're talking about subjective judgments about aesthetics and design and things like that as opposed to other more objective factors? Correct. Thank you. Appreciate the pause for definitional clarity.
 So in terms of the process, there were three voluntary reviews held, design advice requests, April 7th, May 12th, and June 6th. At all three of those, there was feedback regarding concerns with the ground floor design, the materials, the coherency, and the contextual response. The required design review as well as the optional reviews were submitted on September 22nd, and the appeal is October 21st, 2016.
 This is a couple of illustrations just to show how the project did progress through the process. Some of the concerns expressed by the commission at the DAR meetings were addressed somewhat in the design review proposal. The design and program at the ground level evolved to better activate the street frontages than the initial schemes.
 While typical quarter block proposals in the central city typically have greater ground floor activation than this proposal does, the applicant felt that this amount of parking was critical to their particular affordable housing program. Above the ground, the commission still had concerns about the contextual response and the response to the coherency guidelines, especially at the important and prominent corner element, and in particular the oversized rotated aerial windows.
 The Commission encouraged the applicant to relate to the existing and newly emerging urban warehouse context of the Ramona, the Abigail, and the Broadstone review across the street rather than the freeway overpasses as described in their narrative. Above changes illustrate the design evolution between the voluntary DARs and the required design review. There are some clear changes between the first and the second DAR. However, the changes later on are less obvious.
 So the design review approval was approved for a type 3 design review with modifications and exception. Conditions of approval A through I were added so the proposal could meet the applicable approval criteria. In particular, conditions of approval C1 and C2 were added so the proposal would meet the guidelines related to coherency and contextual response. A4, A5, A51, A511, C4 and C5. These conditions of approval C1 and C2 are being appealed.
 These are the seven relevant design guidelines, including the commentary specific to the issues. I won't read through those, but you have a copy of my PowerPoint. So the City Council alternatives include deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve with conditions the requested Northwest and 14th Raleigh design review with modification and exception reviews.
 or deny the appeal and uphold the Commission's decision with modified conditions and findings to the requested Northwest 14th and Raleigh design review with modification exception reviews. But because this is an on-the-record case, any modifications must be based on evidence that has already been contained in the record for this land use review. Third option is to grant the appeal to remove the conditions of approval C1 and C2 of the design commission's decision to approve with conditions the requested 14th and Raleigh design review with modifications and exception reviews.
 If, however, the council amends any of the design commission's conditions of approval, the council are advised to ask the appellant to sign a time extension today, today's hearing. So are there any questions for me? Any particular, not so much a question as maybe a little illumination. Were these issues...
 at all ventilated in the three design advice request discussions, or did the issue that's now under appeal only emerge later in the process? No, these issues were from the very beginning, and the proposal slowly made changes along the way, but the commission noted pretty strong concern very early on that they needed
 especially contextually, didn't feel that the proposal was fitting in as well as it could to meet the applicable design guidelines. Okay, thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much. Stand by. We'll see if we need you later in the process, and we'll move on then to the statement from the appellant. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Let's get your PowerPoint there activated. So do they have this in front of them? There we go.
 Okay. All right. I'm going to start. Good afternoon. I'm Sarah Stevenson. I'm Executive Director of Innovative Housing. Thank you for your time today. We are here to appeal two conditions imposed by Design Commission on a 93-unit affordable housing project that you've heard we're developing in the Pearl neighborhood.
 I'd like to preface our presentation by recognizing the important role that design commission and design standards play in our city. As a longtime developer in Portland, we know the value that they add to our city's landscape, and we're familiar with the process that is required to obtain design approval. Indeed, we began working with design commission in February in an effort to use the new type 2X design review process that was made available to affordable housing. We incorporated many design changes as a result of the guidance that they gave us at the two different design advice hearings.
 We were simultaneously working with the Pearl District Neighborhood Association's planning committee. We met with them three times and received some very good input about the project that resulted in substantive changes to the building's design. I believe we all, Design Commission, the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, NIHI, and our design team, worked together in good faith to make this project the best that it could be, with positive results.
 In August, we received the Pearl District Neighborhood Association's support for our design. We've given you a copy of the letter that they wrote supporting our design as well as this appeal. In September, Design Commission also approved the project, but with conditions. We agreed to all but two of their requested changes. The two elements about which we disagree come down to a subjective difference of opinion regarding design aesthetics.
 We prefer a building with a strong differentiated corner and alternating bays, and I say bays, they say Orioles, we're talking about the same thing, that interact with the multiple levels of the nearby bridge and freeways. Design Commission would like us to combine the bays into one large element and wrap the same exterior pattern around the entire building. We have agreement that these various elements meet applicable design standards, but we differ about where they appear on the building.
 Is it clear in what you're seeing which drawing we proposed versus which one comes with conditions? It's on this, too. Excellent. Thanks for blowing it up. Excellent. So design matters, and we want to build the best building that we can. But just as important to us right now is budget. We are asking you to allow us to proceed with our design because moving the bays to the top of the building alters our structural plans and costs more to construct. Okay.
 Portland is in the midst of an affordable housing crisis. This project will create 93 units of affordable housing. Forty of those will have project-based rental subsidy and be set aside for families experiencing homelessness. These families need housing now. Redesigning the exterior of the building and its structural plans to accommodate the changes that Design Commission has requested will take additional time and money. We've spoken to the Portland Housing Bureau about this. They do not have additional funds for us.
 We are already struggling to contain costs in the current construction market. Pricing at our 50% DD set came in at $1.35 million over budget. So we're in the process right now of cutting out everything that isn't essential. We put dishwashers and all common area furnishings and outdoor furnishings on the add-back list last week. That means we've cut them out of the budget and we only get them back if we have enough contingency at the end of the project to afford them.
 In this pricing environment, we expect to see further cost increases when we go out to bid with a full permit set. We're very good at managing complicated budgets, but the current construction market is very challenging, even for very experienced developers like IHI. This is why we cannot afford any more design changes that increase cost. We've made several of them early on, including increasing the size of the lobby, increasing storefront glass, and adding commercial space.
 we estimate that the changes we made in response to requests from the design commission planning staff and the neighborhood association resulted in an additional three hundred thousand dollars of cost to the project they were good changes and we are glad we made them but at this point the project is not able to absorb any more costs related to design redesigning to meet design commission's conditions will add 160 000 in known costs to our budget we just don't have it
 What we have is a design that has the support of the Neighborhood Association, honors the site's industrial and cultural history in both its design and materials, demonstrates a diversity of design and creative energy that will speak to our new residents and create a welcoming space for them to call home, strongly relates to its current surroundings without mirroring the design of adjacent affordable housing, and is desperately needed by low-income and homeless families struggling to house their children.
 Please help us achieve finality on design so we can continue the hard work of cutting costs and getting this project built. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Alex Salazar. I'm principal of Salazar Architect, a small Portland-based MWESB-certified firm specialized in the design of affordable housing. We mostly work with low-income communities of color. Besides practice, I also occasionally teach architectural design at Portland State University and have previously taught at University of Oregon.
 What I love about affordable housing is that residents come from diverse backgrounds. As in my own family, they often have one or two immigrant parents who bring with them a diversity of design sensibilities. In all these communities, there are artistic traditions in architecture, painting, and textiles that use repetitive patterns and bright colors and strong forms. Similarly, what is fascinating about the Pearl District's
 Long history is that there's immigrants who settled near the rail yards, not just Europeans, but African Americans, Chinese, and Japanese workers and families. Our two-bay corner design is a nod to this more diverse history of the Pearl. We want to use strong forms to create a sense of excitement and inspiration in the urban streetscape as a way to symbolically connect families of affordable housing to the history of the Pearl. This theme runs through the interior design of our project and how we're thinking about bringing artwork into the lobby and community areas. Thank you.
 I lived near the site up until about a year ago. Formalistically, the building is in response to the urban context. This edge of the Pearl has many metal-clad buildings and is surrounded by the 405 freeway, which creates a lot of shadows and noise that makes the area feel marginal and disconnected from the rest of the Pearl. The two bays pick up on the lines of the freeway and two levels of the Fremont Bridge, but they also lower the bay to a pedestrian level where it can be seen and also pick up on the surrounding context.
 For the bays to work, we kept the cladding at the corner as one color. This allows the bay to be more distinctive and different. And much of the energy and dynamism of the building is because the double bays create movement in a sense of connection to the built structures that surround it. And so from our team's point of view, having two bays is the central feature of the design. It responds to the urban context, day or night, while symbolically connecting folks living in affordable housing to the Pearl District's more diverse history. Thank you.
 Can I ask you a question? I get the difference in the bays. I guess the other thing that I note in the two pictures is under the design commission's conditions, the window treatment below the bays is consistent with the other window treatment, and under your proposal it doesn't have the two-tone.
 What's – I would just be interested as the designer as to why you made the decision to have just a monochromatic color under the bays as opposed to the two tones that are adjacent. Sure. I mean, the building really – there's three parts to the massing. There's the massing that faces 14th Street.
 There's the corner with the rotated bays, and then there's the massing that faces south on Raleigh. And at the corner, in order to have the bays be more distinctive, we kept the cladding, which is all metal, whether it's the dark color or the light color, to be monotone so that the bays themselves feel more strong and punchy, to be honest. That's it.
 Makes sense. And the other question I had for you is two of the four sides of this building don't have windows. That's not before us right now. But why did you make that judgment? Does it have something to do with what you expect is going to follow in terms of development? Yeah, that's at the property line. So we're built out the full quarter block. So buildings will eventually be built up right next to our building. There's either one story or parking lot on the other quarter blocks? Yeah.
 i'm sorry what's on what's occupying the other portion of the block at this point uh go ahead um one side is a vacant um lot and the other is a one-story industrial one one and a half story industrial building so you would expect projects with similar mass and far to be built on the remaining we would
 One of the reasons I raised that is that in the end game on Bug Clark Commons, we got a criticism that there were no windows on the north side of the building that you saw when you came off the Broadway Bridge. Right. And that was just part of the design. So we ended up putting LEDs disguised as windows on that side. So it just created...
 uniformity, but they're not actually windows. Right, we did bring around, and that was kind of part of the question and answer on our formal DR process, and we brought the same kind of metal panel system and trim work so that it has some texture and stronger feeling to those faces that will eventually be covered up, but we're spending money to try to make it look nice in the short term. So could you put the clock back to three minutes, please? Yes.
 Thank you. You used up some of your time in this session, so keep going. I was keeping track myself. I'm Trish Nixon with LRS Architects. Let me see if I can advance slides and talk at the same time.
 LRS and Salazar Architect have worked together using an integrated design approach to provide IHI with a vibrant building design that will be a source of pride for both the neighbors and the residents. The feedback we have received from the Design Review Commission as well as the neighborhood and the planning staff have really contributed to this overall success of the design as presented to the Design Review Commission on September 22nd.
 As Sarah mentioned, we had intended originally to utilize the new Streamline Type 2X process when we started. But as we moved through this process, it became clear that there were some differences of opinion in some of the stronger elements of our design that we felt were important to keep. Because of that, we went ahead and had a second DAR and then a separate work session with three of the commissioners, hoping we could come to an agreement on the design direction. Thank you.
 Since the differences remained, we elected to go ahead and proceed with a Type 3 design review process. As Sarah also mentioned, we did have three additional meetings with the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, and we have the full support. Their full support is the building as designed. I think each of you were given a letter that we just received from them a couple of days ago with that support. Okay.
 During the final hearing, design review staff presented a modified version of our design that was not created or approved by the architects or the owner. This action is what led directly to the conditions we are appealing. The project has come a long way from where we started, and the design team has made many modifications requested by design commission. In the slide in front of you, what you see on the left is the design as we started with, and these are...
 What Grace showed you, what we started with, and then on the right is the design as we submitted it to design review. Just to go through briefly some of the changes that were incorporated, we made revisions to the ground floor to provide a significant amount of active use along both 14th and Raleigh. This included a large commercial space on the corner, a much more generous lobby, and a bike lobby.
 We calmed the pattern on the building by softening the contrast in color between the silver and gray panels and Concentrating the orange and colors to the slot and the corner bays We modified the window colors to work more closely with the adjacent metal panels and added larger window trim elements to increase articulation we added an additional rib in the metal siding to add rigidity to the panels and
 We moved the brick base to each end, dropping the window sill in order to allow for a more expensive glass storefront. We added a larger canopy at the storefront, and we changed the rear facades of the building, as Alex mentioned, to a pattern that matches the street facades. We have agreed to incorporate all conditions with the exception of the changes to the corner that we are appealing to you today.
 While we feel that many of the requested changes have made for a stronger project, they have also come at a cost to what is already a very tight budget. Accepting this final change will not only reduce the vibrancy of the design, it will require redesign work, costing the project more money and time, as well as an increase in construction costs.
 Should we stop because we're at our 10 minutes? No, go ahead and wrap up. We interrupted you enough that I'll be... All right, I was just going to conclude by saying thank you for your time and your consideration of all of the issues that are involved in our appeal. As you've heard, this comes down to a difference of opinion about two design choices. One of the options presents a real increase in cost to an affordable housing development that is struggling to stay on budget.
 We're appealing to you, our City Council, to ask that you prioritize affordable housing over aesthetic nuance and let us move forward with a project that will provide crucial affordable housing for families who need it in Portland today. Please approve our design without the additional conditions imposed by Design Commission. Thank you. Thank you. A question I have, others may have questions as well, but I understand the...
 I understand your point about the impact of requiring now more design work. That costs money. I get that. But aside from the design cost and the process cost or time value cost, is the...
 design commission's condition of a single Oriole segment inherently more expensive from a construction standpoint than two? I would think that two would be more expensive. It shifts the weight-bearing load of the building, so it requires a different structural. And we've been told by our contractor that it does increase construction costs. Even though you have to do that, in effect, twice in the design as you've proposed it.
 For some reason, when we showed them the new plans, or not the plans, but the new picture, and we asked for, we got our structural engineers' analysis of what the structure changes would be when they gave those to the contractor, the contractor said this comes at a price tag of X. And it's- Are those two images that we're just seeing, they're exactly the same building envelope and height?
 Is that correct? Right, yeah. It's really interesting because I think that your design makes it look less tall, whereas the design commission's kind of makes it look skinnier and taller. Okay, other questions?
 Thank you very much. We may have questions later, but that's a good presentation. Thank you. Are there individuals here to support the appeal? We have two individuals signed up, Crystal Stinson and Julie Garner. Please come on up. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. So I'm Crystal Stinson, and I'm here on behalf of
 IHI in a sense. My name is Crystal and I moved to an IHI building back in 2007. I had decided to leave a domestic violence relationship that I was in for many years as a teenager. I was living in my new apartment for about 30 days when I was in a pretty severe auto accident where my car was totaled.
 I think less than three months later, my boss passed away and I lost my job because the business went under. In January 2008, less than six months after I had moved into the IHI building, I was at a loss. I had no job, no car, no direction. I went to management who referred me to the resident services coordinator onsite at our low income apartment housing.
 And she directed me to Emma. My intention was to give my 30-day notice. I had a good rental history and I didn't want that to go down the drain.
 Emma listened to me that day. She helped me find employment and provided me with services to get my rent paid. She also talked me into going and getting my GED, which IHI paid the $100 to get the testing done at Mount Hood Community College. That was in 2009, and I'm proud to say that in 2015 I graduated with an Associates in Business Management from that same college.
 I became a mother in 2012. I started using the other services that IHI provides, such as Harvest Share, which is a thing that you do with the residents and other people in the community where you can get free food once a month. My child gets jackets every winter. They provide school supplies and backpacks for all the children on site. I've also participated in other programs with them that directly impacted my life.
 Last year, I was made aware of a management opportunity at the complex I reside in. And that management opportunity was provided by IPM, the management company at one of IHI's buildings. I started a job as a part-time manager there, and I've been working there since early last year.
 get to see and work with people every single day that come in and are in need of housing. I get to see that individuals are not just in need, they're desperate. We very rarely have any openings because of the massive rent increase going on right now in Oregon.
 Without IHI, I can tell you that I would not be standing in front of you today. I can tell you that I've lived in many apartment communities, and I just haven't ever had the opportunity that they gave me.
 I really am here to stand before you and ask you that you allow the housing project proposed by IHI to move forward. They've done great things for me, and I currently reside and work in the same apartment that I moved in back in 07. So it's definitely something that I feel has been a benefit in my life and for my families, and I'd like that opportunity to be available to others. Thank you very much. I appreciate your testimony. Thank you. You're welcome.
 My name is Julie Garver. I'm the Housing Development Coordinator for Innovative Housing. I'm here today because Patty Gardner from the Pearl District Neighborhood Association is out of town. She wanted to come on our behalf for the appeal, but she couldn't, and so I'm here to read her letter into the record. This is from the Pearl District neighborhood.
 Planning and Transportation Committee, Deer City Council, the Pearl District Neighborhood Association met with the developers of this project multiple times to talk over the design direction of the project. In all of those meetings we found the
 design team to be very responsive to our thoughts. They doubled the size of their project to maximize the existing FAR for low-income housing. They moved their play area to a safer location. They reworked their ground level to sensitively react to the adjacent streets, and they simplified their facade to become a more cohesive, unified project. We voted to support this project with no reservations in August.
 After all our discussions, we were dismayed to read the approval letter that incorporated conditions applied to the project by the design commission. Specifically, condition C is very troubling to the PD&A. Condition C asks for redesign of the facade. Not small changes, but big changes that majorly affect how the project looks.
 From a process point of view, the use of such a major condition is very troubling. First off, it is such a specific condition that it raises the question of who is the designer, the design commission or the project architects. Secondly, it is a dangerous precedent to approve the building with such a major change without anyone seeing the final design to understand if it is even a good idea. No one, not the design commission or the public, will have seen the final result before it goes into permit and becomes irrevocable.
 This precedent undermines the design review process in regard to public participation. It also damages the relationship of the Design Commission to the design community. We urge you to strike Condition C from the approval letter and let this project move forward. Regards, Patricia Gardner, Co-Chair, Pearl District Neighborhood Association Planning and Transportation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you both for taking the time to come. Thank you. Anyone else to support the appeal?
 Okay, so then we'll turn to the opponents of the appeal, and obviously starting with if there's someone here from the Design Commission. Yes, there we are. So I'll hear from our Design Commissioner first, and then anyone else on that side of the debate. Welcome. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Jessica Molinar, and I am here to read a letter to you that was composed by the Design Commission this morning.
 Design Commission approved the Type 3 proposal for an affordable housing development at the intersection of Northwest 14th Avenue and Northwest Raleigh Street on September 22, 2016. The proposed design required several modifications to the development standards of Title 33, an exception to the city's encroachment standards, and several conditions of approval. This is an exceptional amount of peripheral activity for a relatively small project.
 It was driven by the applicant's stated need to move through the entitlements process as quickly as possible to not place a land deal with Hoyt Street Properties at risk and the design commission's desire to help the applicant succeed in both the short-term development schedule and the development pro forma and the long-term, the mission and the urban design response. Throughout the Type 3 design review process, Bureau of Development Services staff and the design commissioners did as much as was within their power
 to fast track the proposal, solve problems collaboratively and creatively, and to not create undue burden. It has been the intent of staff and the commissioners to help the applicant put a shovel in the ground as quickly as possible and to deliver a building that contributes appropriately to our city's urban fabric. Modifications and exceptions are typically granted if they better meet design review requirements.
 In this case, Commission recognized that some of the requested modifications and the exception did not better meet design review requirements, but would provide, number one, more housing due to increased building height, and two, nominally larger housing units due to the increased floor area provided by the Orioles. And I won't read through all of the modifications. Thank you.
 The approved exception to window projections in the right-of-way allows the applicant to construct unusually large oriole windows to a lesser design standard. The city encroachment standards currently limit the maximum length of orioles to 12 feet and require side windows on the projection. The exception extends the allowable length to 30 feet and eliminates the side window requirement. Large orioles are not supported by the design commission and are expensive to build, but the applicant considered them necessary to achieving their architectural vision.
 Conditions are a tool used by design commission to strengthen a proposal's response to one or more guidelines and are typically made with the understanding and support of the applicant. Conditions are not uncommon, but a great number of conditions is generally an indication that a design has failed to satisfactorily address our city's design guidelines. I'm not going to read through all the guidelines. Thanks.
 These guidelines address the spectrum of design issues from basic building functionality, B6, developed weather protection, to massing and scale, to character. It's significant that the proposal fell short across the width and breadth of its response to design guidelines. It's the Design Commission's decision that the proposed development does not need to be a model citizen, but it does need to demonstrate a willingness to participate in civic life. The proposal does not merit a less than even-handed application of our city's design guidelines.
 Residents of publicly supported affordable housing buildings deserve the same benefits all other Portland residents receive, to live in a building that doesn't stigmatize its residents and that is part of a vibrant, thoughtful, and deliberate urban infrastructure. Thank you. Actually, could you go into the design guidelines that the commission felt was not met? So A4 used unifying elements. Do you want me to read the list? Sure.
 Just the ones that this case turns on. Obviously, you had an iterative process on some other design elements of the project, like ground floor retail, where, if I understand this case correctly, you got to yes. Yes. But so the second Commissioner Fritz's request, the design criteria that you think support the design commission's
 recommended conditions versus what the applicant would prefer okay it's specifically in regard to the yeah the masking change the masking issue I mean so right I think the two biggest issues were context and coherency and that is ultimately why and I'm sorry what was the last text here and see yeah okay so right out of the right out of the criteria
 By the way, if I just may note, Mayor, this often gets lost in these kinds of hearings where so many issues have been resolved and we have a very narrow issue before us. But I made some notes, Commissioner, while you were speaking about strengthening designs around functionality, massing, scale, character. One thing that has struck me as I've been following the evolution of this project and the presentations from both sides is that
 taking out the narrow question before us today, I think the design commission has strengthened the design significantly. So now I think we're left with just one piece. But as I – and I'm not a skilled professional in this area, but looking at the evolution and the – I think the process that you've gone through has resulted in a –
 and a better building. And this particular, while I haven't visited this site recently and therefore had nothing to disclose by way of ex parte, this is a very important site to me because I had a hand in the fields, Ramona, and originally greenlit the Abigail. So it's in an area that I know well, and it's, I think, important that this design honor the space and the purpose of the building. Thank you.
 Again, without prejudging this question, I think the Design Commission has helped to get a better building. Yeah, I agree with that. I think the process is working well. You're spending a lot of time on these cases. I appreciate volunteers doing that. Okay, other questions? Thank you very much. Any individual opponents of the appeal?
 Chair, I have a motion. All right. And I move to grant the appeal and remove the conditions of approval. Wait a minute. I think we have to give another note. Is there any reason for a rebuttal still? No. The record is complete. All right. The record is complete. Sorry. Go ahead. In this process, we need to put a marker down and then have a discussion. So I move we grant the appeal and remove the conditions of approval, C.1 and C.2. Second. Further discussion? Second.
 Okay, I think we might be ready to vote on that motion. A tentative vote to be supported by findings at what time? Well, so staff can speak more directly to the specifics, but at this time there is a 120-day waiver that has not been granted with a deadline looming. Assuming, Mayor, we can get an agreement on that on the record? Given that we're about to vote on it, is that all right with the applicant? I see a nod. I see little nods. Yes, big nods. Thank you.
 Okay. So then, yeah, so then just go ahead and close the record. All right, so we're going to close the record and take a vote on the motion, and then we'll set a date for findings after we see if we have a majority support for a motion. Okay. All right. Let's proceed with acting on that motion, please.
 Obviously, when you get into design, it is a matter of aesthetics and what's appealing to one person versus another. Most often, I defer to the Design Commission because I'm not an architect, nor do I play one on TV. On this particular one... Thank you, Mission Commissioner. I always like to catch the jokes. LAUGHTER
 On this particular one, there's partly the issue it's an affordable housing project and that if it's just close... I mean, if it was an absolutely awful design, I would certainly support the Design Commission. But on this one, I do think that there's merit in both of them and I do think that the findings about embellishing, identifying areas have the coherent corners. And especially when looking at the initial design to what you've come to, I think it...
 it does better match it. So I'm going to be very glad to support the appeal while also honouring the good work that the Design Commission is doing. I don't have much to add to that because, as I said earlier, I think the Design Commission...
 did great work to get to the revised building design proposal. And now we're asked to choose between two visions that to me are very, very similar. If I had to just pick one based on my own aesthetics, I think the applicant's massing is actually more appealing than putting everything higher up. But I, too...
 generally defer to the design commission on these things. And the only reason that I'm going to make a rare exception in this case is because this is clearly not an objective measurement. This is subjective. And while I have great respect for the work that our volunteers have done, and I am grateful that they got us to this point, I'm persuaded that the applicant's proposed building design meets the applicable test. So I will support the appeal. Thank you.
 councilman i appreciate the letter from the design commission i appreciate the design commission's efforts uh renewed efforts to go to great lengths to get projects uh done quickly particularly affordable housing projects as it is very critical as we all know and i do find you know just as a lay person and i look at these two alternative designs like i don't know they both look nice to me
 But one has a cost difference, and so I will go with saving this project money and getting it done sooner and voting to support the appeal. Aye. Aye.
 Yes. Well, we do have a disagreement among friends here between those of us who don't play architects on TV and people who are actually professionals on the commission. But I agree with my colleague's statements here. I want to just make a couple of additional comments that are more in the way of reflections than necessity for this record. One, you know, I've served on the council for 14 years.
 probably one of the biggest surprises is it in the last four during a time of incredible growth in the city we've had a very very small number of design review cases at City Council I mean I think it's less than five it's at least so few that I can't I can't remember the last one before this one and that's to me is remarkable and a remarkable testament to both the quality of our design review stat standards the good staff work that's being done by the Bureau and the good service that's being done by the Commission
 One of the things I worry about is the fact that many of these projects are having three and four hearings, both for the fatigue of the commissioners and the time and cost to the applicants. But anyway, if the indicator of failure is lots of city council appeals, it looks like we're doing okay. Secondly, one of the reasons I support this appeal is that I think one of the foundational assumptions about our design process
 guidelines is that the first 30 feet of the building really matters a lot and that's where the interest for the pedestrian needs to be and I think the applicant did a good job of articulating the building in such a way again improved by the design commission process especially about the retail spaces so that the ground level presentation of this building to the community is is a good one and I appreciate the good work that's done by the applicant and their and their architect and also by the Commission finally
 although I'm I like Commissioner Novick who's not here I've always been a defender of the public right-of-way if if the Oriole or Bay window is is up three or four stories up as these are I don't I don't perceive a an invasion of the right-of-way anywhere near like I would if it was obviously in the first or second story so I don't think that there's any significant danger to the integrity of the right-of-way it's been created by this so principal disagreement among people that are all doing great work aye
 Just before you gavel us out, I want to also thank you for working with the Neighborhood Association. That's certainly very compelling when you get such, obviously that you've made changes in it in response to the neighborhood, as well as getting their goodwill. So thank you very much. Yes, we're here. Okay, so the appeal is tentatively granted and the findings will come back. It shouldn't be difficult to produce findings for this, I would think. A couple weeks? A couple weeks, yes.
 Is it possible to make this a final decision today? Yeah, I don't know if we need findings. The findings right now reflect why those criteria are not satisfied. So they need to be… You need to change the findings. Yeah. Kim, you don't have anything over the next few days. They're trying to beat the storm on the mountain right now. Yeah.
 No, what we need to do, I briefly discussed with the applicant before the hearing. I don't know that they have their own attorney to rewrite the findings. That's something that we can do, but that's going to take us at least a couple weeks, obviously, given the holiday. But given the decision of the commission, that doesn't affect the building permit issue. I'm certainly comfortable with that. But essentially, I guess we'd be looking for December 7th.
 That's the next Wednesday. That's the two weeks. Two Wednesdays out? Yeah, that's a reasonable one. I think we can do that as a placeholder. If staff's able to do that, yes, we can help with that.
 But if they're on a schedule to proceed with the project, they could get foundation permits and proceed. Execution, there's permits that we can let go. And given the council's direction and the only appellant being the applicant, I don't think we'll see an appeal of council's direction. It's not going up from here. Yeah. Okay. Thank you all. Thank you. Thanks very much. So from the clerk, return December 7th, regular agenda. Time certain. Okay.
 That can be regular agenda. Okay. Yeah. It's a pro forma matter in this case. Okay. Thank you all very much. All right. Let's move back to the remains of the day agenda that we did not complete. And I'm looking for my calendar in the pile. Hang on. There it is. Okay. We had a couple of items pulled from consent.
 i don't know how or by whom they were pulled uh first was 1303 i'll let sue get caught up as well item 1303 amend code to set procedure for returning evidence found property and safe keeping prisoner property okay i don't think we have a we do have a presentation on this come on up please who pulled this i'm not sure oh and i'm sorry my notes are have gone
 Can we see if anyone here is present and pulled it, Mayor, because we may not need a full presentation. Yeah, I don't need a presentation. Oh, I'm sorry. Someone here, did you pull this? Did you want to speak on this item? Okay, then go ahead and give us a brief presentation, and then we'll give you an opportunity to speak. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Jason Luce. I'm one of the deputy city attorneys. I started a few months ago, so I'm not sure if I've met all of you, but this was one of the first projects I was given. Frankly, I think it was something that had been sitting around for a while and –
 I thought it would be a good idea for me to get introduced to the police bureau and meet some people. What this is is just cleaning up the section of code. In the early 2000s, I believe it was 2001 or 2002, the code was amended. At the time it was amended, the safekeeping of property and prisoner property were...
 out of the code. The Portland Police Bureau, through their evidence manager, Ty Routley, had a procedure in place for holding and returning this property, and they've been using that procedure this whole time. This is just codifying that procedure. So it's not changing anything.
 Could you just tell us what the procedure is, please? So the procedure follows the same as any other property for the most part. So for safekeeping of property, that typically happens when they get called, there's like a mental health issue and there's guns in the home, and the individual will ask that the police bureau take the guns until they
 until that crisis is resolved or just for safekeeping. So they'll hold onto those guns for 60 days, at which point if it's not returned or if they haven't come to get the property after the 60 days, they'll destroy the weapons. Prisoner property is similar. They have 60 days to come and get their property. This is...
 Something they've always done, and this doesn't change it. It just codifies it. So this code governs property that's been held or seized by the police bureau, not by the Multnomah County Jail, right? They have their own procedure for when someone is booked, right? Correct. Okay.
 This is just if our police officers are, for some reason, seizing a weapon or other property, this is what's governing that. Correct. And you've not really made any substantive changes in those. This is more cleanup. This is just cleanup, correct. The only changes are in seizure of weapons, where you've deleted a number of things. You've deleted a bunch of material about weapons, but there's a simple statement now remaining about...
 seizing and taking possession of deadly weapons and then maybe disposed of by the Bureau in a manner provided by law. Correct. The weapons ordinance had been somewhat dated. If you'll note, before these changes, it did have procedures for selling the firearms, which is something that the city no longer does. That's good. I suspect that what others might be interested in is the previous part of the...
 about what happens when other property is taken by the police and how people can get it back. Right, and that hasn't changed? It's not changing. The language that's there is as it was. Correct. Okay, other questions? Okay, thanks, Mr. Luce, appreciate it. Thank you. Would you like to speak on this matter? Anyone else that would like to speak on this matter, come on up, please. Okay.
 Yeah, you're... I was arrested... Just give us your name, please. I'm artist Laura Vanderlin. I was arrested on...
 October 5th for, I don't know, no reason at all. You had me arrested here for, yes, you did, had me arrested for trespassing in a public meeting, and I was leaving, and I got arrested. And during that time, the police grabbed my phone, snatched it out of my hand, and didn't identify themselves and pulled me out.
 they kept my phone for 30 days over 30 days i didn't get it back until november 16. on your ordinance it says that that they will do their very best to get in touch with property owner nobody got in touch with me i had to keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling keep calling
 You take property. I was arrested another time for the same exact reason, the same way that I was arrested here at the public Portland building. And my phone was taken. My bag was taken. Let me show you my bag. This bag right here is a backpack. And it's taken to another warehouse. It's not even kept with me.
 Portland does this thing where they let prisoners out, prisoners that have been arrested falsely and prisoners that have been arrested justly. They have this thing where they let you off on your own recognizance. They know immediately when they arrest you if they're going to release you on your own recognizance, almost practically immediately.
 But they send your stuff away because they say they don't have any room in their property room. Both times, when I was leaving the jail, there is a man who sits in a cubicle that watches CNN. He sits back like this, watching CNN, and there's no bags in that property room. And you're talking about jail now, right? Pardon me? Is that the jail? Yeah.
 That's the jail. That's not our property. See, that's the problem right there. There's all this bureaucracy. How is somebody supposed to know how to get their stuff back? My stuff gets sent to another place, right? I'm going to be released on my own recognizance. I was not released until after midnight. The only thing I got back was my phone the first time, and everything else was taken, my car keys, my money, everything was taken, and I'm released after midnight, no transportation. Okay?
 available for me to get home. That's just so like, I don't know, for a city that purports to care about the community and safety, it just does not seem a safe thing to do to people. And to take their bags and send it to a warehouse that is not easy to get to and that closes at 4 p.m.? 4 p.m. People go to work. I mean, I
 There's a guy that sits in that room. You keep talking about not having any money. There's a guy who sits in that room for property. There's no property there. There's no property. He gets paid, I think, over $30 an hour to watch CNN and really absolutely do nothing because what I was told was they don't have enough room.
 And what I saw walking there, twice walking through there, were empty, empty shelves. One empty shelf after another, after another, after another. This is not just housekeeping. You're crossing off an entire page, an entire page of words. That's not housekeeping. I'm a good housekeeper. I know how to housekeep. You know what you're doing is you're sweeping dirt under the rug. This needs to be looked at.
 Your property, the way you take property and what you do to prisoners is completely flawed and needs to be redone. What you're doing is not just housekeeping. You're not just cleaning up. You're not editing a word that's misspelled. You're taking off an entire...
 One entire page is completely crossed off. Every sentence is crossed off. Every sentence is crossed off. Let me respond to you if I can. Yes. You've raised some legitimate points.
 points here actually I do think this is housekeeping because the part that's been crossed off is all the old language about weapons has nothing to do with the kind of property that you're talking about yeah it's property let me respond and I think the way we that we deal with weapons is appropriate you've raised some some legitimate issues one I think we've not made it clear to you or anyone else it sounds like we can do a better job of that
 about what the county's procedure is at the jail versus what the police bureau's procedure is. No, no, they're two separate governments. It's a cop-out. Yeah, and you just like, you hurt, you, you. I'm trying to give you an explanation. I got arrested by the Portland police. I got arrested here. All right, we know. You know. Thank you very much. Your time's up. All right.
 Excuse me, but it is. Your time is up, Ms. Vanderlund. It is. We need to leave now. It says set procedure for returning evidence, found property, and safety. Vanderlund, I tried to give you some information. Prisoner property. It doesn't say here guns.
 It says prisoner property. And you take bags, you take property, and you take it someplace else, and you leave people devastated without their things. I have a way to call somebody to pick me up, but there are many people that don't. You took my phone for over 30 days for no reason, and I didn't get charged with a crime. You let us respond. I think we can give you some help. I appreciate you bringing this up. In fact, I'd like to get the attorney back up to ask some of your questions. Okay.
 And actually, you're right, because I've heard about the letting people out at midnight from others as well. And I wanted to respond that you told me that you didn't block me. I do know that you don't block me, but you do block a lot of other people. Thank you. So could you come back up and respond to this?
 I'm concerned about the strike. Instead of having this whole page of procedure, all we've got now is the weapon may be disposed of by the Bureau of Police in a manner provided by law. So how is somebody supposed to know what that manner provided by law is?
 Mayor and Commissioner Fritz, in speaking with the evidence manager, Mr. Routley, his concern was that the procedure has changed over time, and there's been times where the council has wanted to, for example, sell shotguns and rifles. Yes.
 and then there's been other times where they've wanted to not sell them. So this just gives them, both of which are legal, they can dispose of them, they can destroy them, or they can sell them. So this gives them the option to do that without having to go and change the code. So otherwise, if the council wanted to go back and change their mind again, I guess, then we would have to go and do a whole code change. So this just...
 By saying that they can do it in a manner provided by law, it allows you to give them direction without having to go through a code change. With all due respect, that doesn't tell me what the laws are. And what's been deleted...
 Now it just says if it's unlawfully or used unlawfully or used for an unlawful purpose, it may be disposed of. What's being deleted is if it's found that it wasn't possessed incorrectly and it shall be released to the property owner and how they go about doing that. So how is the person who believes that a gun or a weapon has been taken not for the right reason, how are they supposed to know how to get it back? Okay.
 They would get it back the same as any other property. So there is a section of code in here for property rights.
 Um, and this, this one that was special for weapons, it was for the most part redundant as weapons are generally treated the same as any other property. So let me make a suggestion here. Um, we've heard this item. I don't think there's anyone, anyone else wants to speak on this item. Um, it's not an emergency ordinance. Let me ask that the police bureau and the city attorney flesh this out with an, with a memorandum to the council that explains, um, the,
 what is meant by maybe disposed of in a manner provided by law? Whose law? State law? Our law? What does it say? Let's answer those questions. And then secondly, I would also like some clarification from the police bureau and the county to respond to the issues that Ms. Vanderlund raised, which is what is the procedure for property surrendered at the county jail? I think the person you were talking to is the person there. I don't know. And then what's the procedure for the city jail?
 Where is that property stored? I think we could all use – I don't know all those details. I'd like to know them. Can I add two things to that? We'll just kind of finish up what I was talking about because, yes, I agree we need that because I've heard of others being released after midnight without their keys, without money, and I think that's really of concern. It's got to be addressed. So if you could find out what the process is there, please. Yeah.
 Yeah, and the Police Bureau, it's not all on you. We can ask the Police Bureau to flesh that out with a memorandum to us, and then we can decide if we want to act on this. Commissioner Fish, do you have some other ingredients? Yeah, the two other things that I'd like to, that are part of, I think, encompassed in what the mayor's requested, but just to drill down a little bit. If someone is arrested for a misdemeanor offense, so that we're 99% certain they are going to be released,
 Are they treated differently? Why don't we treat the property in that case different than someone who is arrested pursuant to a serious felony where the likelihood is they are going to spend the night in jail? That's number one. I think that's a very valid point. And if you come back and say in 99% of the cases under this kind of arrest the person is released, then I think it becomes even more compelling that they can't get access to their property right away.
 whether the gentleman's watching TV and has spaces or not. I mean, it ultimately is for the county to figure out how to store it in a way other than that warehouse. The second thing is the examples that have been selected of a phone. You know, phones are now actually pretty required. I was in New York recently, and the first thing I did is I got out of a cab and left my phone, and my life flashed in front of me because we are tethered to our phone. And a wallet, obviously, money, and keys. But what about medicine?
 What if you're a diabetic and you have some medicine in your bag? Is there a protocol where even if your stuff is stored? ASL. Even ASL. But so I'd like to see – I'd like to also drill down a little bit on those things that are not kind of discretionary things that may be part of your personal property. I mean, I'm less concerned if someone's book or extra pair of shoes or something, but if it's an essential –
 and I think a wallet, a phone, and medicine might be essential, then I'm not clear on a misdemeanor why someone has to jump through that hoop. And I don't think it's satisfactory to say that you're released at midnight, but the hours don't match the availability of accessing your property. So as the mayor said, we may not have direct control of this. Let's get a memo that explains what the...
 the current situation is because we certainly have some influence over how this might be done in the future so i'll make sure that happens i'll direct the police bureau to produce that prior to next week's council meeting we'll also make it public so people that are interested in the subject can see if we've gotten answers on that question or not may i make a suggestion sure
 We have a holiday tomorrow, and we don't have work on Friday. Can we set this over two weeks? Sure. Let's make that two weeks instead of one. I'd like to have a chance to read the memo. Next week is busy. Good idea. I very much appreciate you raising this issue. Thank you. Thanks for raising it. So, okay. Counselor Clerk, let's set this over until December 7th. Schedule a second meeting on December 7th, and I'll make sure we get the memo well before that. Thank you. Okay. Let's move to the second item that was pulled, which is 1307. 1307.
 Accept a grant in the amount of $15,000 from Kaboom Play Everywhere Challenge for Sitton Elementary and George Middle School walking school bus stops. Commissioner Novick's not here, and I'm not sure why this was pulled. And Lightning pulled this one. Oh, and I don't believe he's here. All right, then let's take a vote then on this emergency item. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Zaltzman. Aye. Aye. Okay. Regular agenda item 1309.
 1309, authorize application and accept a grant in the amount of $100,000 and appropriate $67,000 for fiscal year 16-17 from Oregon Impact or overtime reimbursement for participation in DUII high visibility enforcement events during federal fiscal year 2016-17.
 Okay, Sergeant Barnum was going to be here but is now not able to be. The purpose of this is to authorize us to apply for and receive these grant funds. Obviously DUII enforcement is very important given the rate of traffic violence that we have had in the city, now doubling the rate of homicides otherwise, appalling statistics. So that's why this is before us and that's why it's an emergency ordinance.
 Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's vote, please. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hale? Aye. 13-10. Okay.
 A claim of Tinka Stoica in the sum of $18,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Mr. Buehler, good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm John Buehler with the Risk Management Office. This is an ordinance to settle a lawsuit versus the City of Portland brought by Tinka Stoica. The lawsuit arises from an arrest that occurred on August 5, 2014.
 Most of the facts regarding this event were really not in dispute to Portland. Police detectives went to arrest Ms. Stoica on that date on a charge of hindering prosecution.
 According to the two detectives, they asked Ms. Stryka to come out onto the front porch, and she did so. They advised her she was under arrest, and when one of the detectives began to put Ms. Stryka's hands behind her back to apply the handcuffs, she tensed up and pulled away. The detectives told her not to resist, and she then placed her hands behind her back, and the detectives were not aware of any injury to Ms. Stryka during the arrest. Thank you.
 According to Ms. Stoica, when she opened the front door to the detectives, one of the detectives grabbed her by the arm and then grabbed her right hand and twisted her right thumb, injuring it. And she claims that she did nothing to resist the detectives. Ms. Stoica, through attorney Jenny Clark, eventually filed a lawsuit against the city and against the two detectives. She claimed injury to her thumb, including approximately $9,000 in medical expenses. Okay.
 The claim also included a civil rights claim that would have included attorney fees if she was successful in the lawsuit. Risk management and the city attorney's office attempted early settlement efforts in litigation and were successful in reaching an agreed settlement of $18,000. And both the risk management and the city attorney's office recommend that this ordinance be approved. Thank you for that explanation. Any questions?
 Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay, then let us take action, please. It's an emergency ordinance. Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Hale. Aye. And 1311, second reading. Thank you.
 The Bureau of Transportation to allocate five hundred thousand dollars to the Portland Parks Foundation for construction of foot bridge over Burnside We'll call please. Hi I
 Amend provisions relating to possession of cannabis in parks to conform to state law. Got the word right. Roll call, please. Thank you. I've learned it's actually more complicated than I thought, but I appreciate you amending it in this case, and I'm told by Ben Waters it's fine that we're amending it in this case. Okay. Aye. Fish? Aye. Southman? Aye. Hales? Aye. 13-13. Hales?
 1313, authorize a contract and provide payment for the construction of the Sandy River engineered log jam placement project at an estimated cost of $2,300,000. Roll call, please.
 I wish Steve was here because he'd be making something of the fact we've gone from a footbridge over Burnside to marijuana and now a log jam. There must be some musical accompaniment to this. Aye. All's met. Aye. We had an excellent presentation by your bureau on this and had some fun at their expense of government at great expense actually creating a log jam. We're supposed to be getting rid of them. Aye. I sold a house recently with a lot of deferred maintenance, and I noted that –
 Living in that house for 20 years perfectly prepared me for public life. Okay, 1314? Authorize a contract with Seabree HMF, Inc., for the refinance of the Headwaters Apartments. I'd like this returned to my office, please. So ordered, without objection. And we have nothing left in the afternoon, right? Happy Thanksgiving. Can we take just a second on Thanksgiving greetings? Let's do, please. Well, I just want to say...
 I'm thankful for living in a city with colleagues like you who work hard right up until the holiday to do the public's business. And I've been putting an awful lot on this council calendar, so I want to say thank you to all of you. And also just seeing these young people in this chamber, I am thankful to live in a city where the next generation of activists, elected officials, and other good citizens are actually already showing up here. That's what's on my list.
 Yeah, I also appreciate very much all the good things that we've done. And especially this time, I think it's – I know it's very important to be counting one's blessings instead of dwelling so much on the challenges. And so it is good that we're able to gather together as the family of Portland and in our individual families. And I wish everybody a very happy Thanksgiving. I'll just add that –
 this is the very busy part of our season, made even busier with the very aggressive agenda the mayor has placed on the table. So I would also like to just acknowledge all the city workers who are working so hard to do their regular assignments but also allow us to meet the demands of this council, which have been significant. And I wish everyone a healthy and happy Thanksgiving. Thank you all, and to you as well. And we are adjourned until next week.