meeting in the Portland City Council would you please call the roll here here here good morning everyone thank you for your patience we have a full council calendar this morning beginning with a couple of communications items we
 I have one request to pull an item from the consent calendar so far, which is item 1216. Any others? Okay. So let's then move directly to communications items 1212. 1212, request of Terry Light to address council regarding policy on houselessness. Terry, are you here? Good morning. Good morning, council. Good morning. Good morning. I wanted to thank the council.
 for voting a few weeks ago to stop any new infrastructure for fossil fuels in Portland. I commend you on that. And also thank you for allowing the Hazelnut Grove to continue to exist here. This is my new home. And congratulations on your ability to be invited to prayers. I will see you there. I'm being invited to go there as well as Representative Reichsreiter.
 And in this moment in time here as we're dealing with houselessness, I want to look and really commend to everyone this really important idea that everything has to change. We have a climate crisis. We have everything coming together as a crisis. And one of the biggest crises we have in our country is what individual people can do. And we'd like to figure out how to govern the shift that has to happen. We have to have a change of heart. We have to have a change of heart.
 of how we have our structures. Our structures are not working for us. We have a city council here, and I recognize your intent to protect the houselessness, to help people, and yet the police are still sweeping people.
 the steel bridge has been swept we've seen several people come up to hazelnut grove saying they were sent here the cops are saying they are going to come up and live there we are already way over double capacity so thank you for the party parties thank you for the garbage help this is really helpful our community is continuing to be really peaceful we look forward to your visit um and i understand that you're a city council you don't have
 You're supposed to have control over the police department, and I could see it doesn't necessarily be so. In my experience in organizations, you're a city council, and that's all you are. You have other entities that have their own things, and governing and security makes sure everything happens. It's difficult, and we'll recognize that. And that's because our structure is wrong. It's like you have to teach people to be grown-up human beings and connected to the planet and connected to their hearts and knowing what's right from within. Yeah.
 and have those people make those decisions from that place. Having power over does not work. As we see with this last thing, not everybody saw what happened to Barry Joe. He asked for an ambulance. He asked for a human being for assistance, and what he got was police in uniform. That's power over. That's saying he's going to be violent, so we have to prepare for that violence. So let's act like he's going to be violent, and then you're going to get violence back. If you treat people like animals, they're going to act like animals.
 You treat people like human beings who have free choice and creativity and genius, which we do. Every child is born a genius. What the fuck happened to us all? We're acting really stupid, but it's our structures. It's a structure of fear. It's a structure of we have to follow the rules instead of our hearts. And we had several teachers come over and over and over to our civilizations trying to teach us. St. Francis is a really powerful teacher. Jesus is a teacher. Muhammad's a teacher.
 But our hearts are the most important teacher. Do we have the courage to follow the heart? And that's what I have to ask everybody. There are the rules and our structures, but we as human beings have to take courage and treat each other and deal with our relationships to each other and our planet. Thank you. And our houseless folks are our neighbors, and everybody knows that. But we get all caught in our hods. Our black and yellow and indigenous neighbors, they're people and human beings, not...
 Not those labels. Thank you so much. Thank you very much for coming today. Terry, just one second. As a representative of Hazelnut Grove, I want you to know about the water situation at Overlook Park. We were able to get it turned back on. However, it's going to freeze this weekend, so we're working on a strategy.
 Tim Crail, my chief of staff, is waiting outside. We'd like to talk to you about that, to work with you on how we can provide services. My understanding, Mayor and Commissioner Saltzman, is that the warming shelters will also be open this week. Yes, they will. From tonight through Sunday. So we hope that people will be able to get inside, at least for the very cold weather. And I also want to invite any human being who's listening to this that they have the option of opening up their doors and opening up their back doors or their backyards.
 You know, we as human beings have that choice. We just need to make it. We have the courage to make that. Reach out to another human being, treat them as a human being, and you'll get a humanness back. We are definitely going to be looking at all kinds of new strategies. Thank you very much for your partnership. Thank you. Okay, 1213, please. 1213, request of Krista Barron to address council regarding houseless issues. Good morning. Come on up.
 Hello and good morning everyone. My name is Krista Barron. This is now the second time I've spoken before all of you. I'm from New York and I've lived in Portland before coming back in January. I'm here to talk about some issues like needing more showers and laundry facilities for the houseless. You know there's tons of soap that I've received
 but no water or place to bathe. Public bathhouses or bathtubs wouldn't be a bad idea. I feel we need these things because it would help to not spread diseases like head lice and, you know, like athlete's foot and body lice and other stuff. I feel that if people, if anyone is in need, a desperate, smelly need, we should help them and not hurt them.
 I also, before I finish talking about these hygiene issues, wanted to say that this isn't the only state with these issues. It's all over. And where I live, there has been few showers and no public bathhouses and few services that allows people to do laundry. The public needs a place to fulfill their hygiene requests without feeling cramped.
 Please create more showers. Yeah, we really need that. Thank you, and thank you for listening to me again. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Okay, let's move then to the consent calendar before we go to our time certain items. Again, just to pull 1216 if there are no others, and there are only two more. So let's vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. No, sir. Aye. Rich? Aye. Fish? Aye. Alton? Aye.
 Aye. Okay, thank you. Now item 1215.
 1215, establish a tax on the demolition of certain residential structures in the City of Portland. Okay. As staff comes up, let me just reset the context for this. This is continuing a council discussion that we started at a public hearing on October 14th. Obviously, we see a lot of growth in the city, a lot of positive change that comes with that growth, like jobs and parking lots getting redeveloped.
 as mixed-use buildings, and fewer abandoned houses, though that's another issue that we need to take on. But I'm, like a lot of people in Portland, less happy with what's happening to our existing housing stock in neighborhoods and the demolition of great old houses being replaced by much larger, more expensive houses is a problem not just for one house at a time but for the very character of our neighborhoods.
 the average difference between a house that was purchased and demolished and the house that replaced it is nearly $300,000 so this is not the provision of new affordable housing by any stretch So our goal is to reduce the number of dope demolitions to try to preserve more houses that are in repairable condition and to generate funding
 the first new funding for affordable home ownership that we will have created since the council made a commitment to do more in housing funding. Mayor, can I just, on that point, we have adopted an amendment saying the funds will go to the HIF without condition.
 Okay, that's right. And so that we hope that what will happen as a result of this tax is that we'll see a diminution in the number of demolitions and that we'll see new revenue flowing to that HIF fund, as Commissioner Fish just mentioned.
 So we have some invited testimony in panels here this morning, and we also have amendments. So I would suggest that in our usual way we take up the amendments first and then invite our panels and then invite public testimony. So I have Jillian Detweiler from my office and Thomas Lanham from the Revenue Bureau here to walk us through the amendments that I want to propose, and I know there are others from the council. Jillian, is there anything I've left out in the bigger picture here?
 okay so let's move to amendments last month's hearing persuaded me that the tax would be less effective if it provides a rebate for increased density so I'd like to eliminate that rebate there are some other ideas I know that we'll discuss today in terms of changes but I think in each case we should try to err towards simplicity make this thing as simple and understandable as possible
 There are some other possible amendments that we should think about extending the effective date to allow Thomas time to develop administrative rules. Think about owner-occupied houses.
 I know Commissioner Fish has some interest in dealing with the question of houses that are being demolished in the floodplain by our own Bureau because they're in the floodplain. So let's take up each of those issues in turn and talk first about the amendments, which
 which I think we have in front of you. If we don't, we'll get you copies. First, to eliminate the density rebate, and then secondly, to change the effective date. So I would propose those amendments, amending 6.08.055. Mayor, do we have copies of the amendments? Do we have those, Jillian, for everyone? I gave copies to Sue. So let's make sure Sue distributes those. Okay. I have a question.
 No. There's one. That's just the one that we just amended. We'll just take a moment to get this ready. You have a complete set? Oh, yeah, I've got one. We just have the one. We don't have the others. I can make copies if you want. These will be the new amendments, not in the packet. Right. So, yeah, this first thing this morning, I brought ten copies of the amendment that Mayor Hales is referring to that would eliminate the density rebate.
 And then prior to the hearing, I brought an amendment that would change the effective date to allow sufficient time to develop administrative rules. I don't have either of those. You don't have those? What is the proposed effective date? The proposed effective date is March 1st, and that the tax would apply to any demolition not applied for before February 29th.
 Wouldn't that encourage a spate of demolitions? One way or another, if there's an effective date at all, there's probably going to be some demolitions filed just before the effective date. So I think that's a reality, no matter where we set the date. I wonder if there's a way to do it as in – well, never mind. I've got it here. Thank you.
 Okay, so give people a chance to look at those. And, again, I would move the amendment to 6.08.055, the demolition tax rebate section, to...
 Remove the paragraph that says the Portland Bureau of Development Services shall develop guidelines for persons to apply for and obtain redates of up to $25,000 for subsequent housing development that increases the number of units. Remember, this tax only applies in single-family zones. So if somebody's tearing down an existing home in an R1 zone, there we go. Actually, that's the amended amendment. That's the amended amendment. I think it's still the same. No, it's not. What's different? Oh, okay, yeah. Wait.
 As we had a little time before council, we don't want to encode that the Bureau is going to develop the guidelines. The code should say that there are guidelines and that we're going to allow the rebate. So it's just a ref— Oh, up above. Yes. Okay, in the paragraph above. Okay, so now that section would read, Subsequent housing development following demolition that qualifies as affordable housing is determined—
 by the Portland Housing Bureau applying the criteria established in Section 30.01.095 may apply for and obtain rebates of up to $25,000, subject to guidelines developed by the Portland Housing Bureau. So that's the affordable housing rebate that remains, but the rebate for tearing down one house and building two would go away if we approve this amendment.
 Got that right. So I guess I'm now confused. No, this is just the affordable housing one. There should be a second amendment that would take out the rebate. I also have a proposed amendment. Well, I'm going to second that one first. Right. Okay.
 Yeah, that's the crossed-out language. How many amendments does the mayor have? We'll do his package first. Two? Let's call that the mayor's package A. Oh, I see. And what are those two amendments? The one I just described, which removes the provision that provides a rebate if you tear down one house and build two, and the amendment that changes the effective date from January 16th to March 1st,
 and the filing date by which someone must have filed a demolition permit prior to the imposition of the tax, moving that from January 15th to February 29th. So I'm just marking this. The first one has to do with the demolition tax rebate, so we'll call that Mayor 1? Yep. And the second has to do with the effective dates, and we'll call that Mayor 2? Works for me. So I'd move those two amendments. Second. And just a clarification.
 This isn't the line. What your staff and I worked on during the break wasn't to amend this bit, so I'm wondering, is it the... Let's take that up as a second. No, it's a question about this. Is it the Bureau of Housing who's going to develop the guidelines or the Bureau of Development Services? The amendment...
 Mayor that Commissioner Fish is calling Mayor 1 doesn't touch that first paragraph. I think Commissioner Fish is suggesting we treat that as a third or as a separate amendment to amend the language regarding a rebate for affordable housing. So, Mayor, why don't I offer Fish 1? Okay. We have Mayor 1, Mayor 2. Let's do Fish 1, which is the BES exemption. Amend...
 section 6.08.050 a to include a new subsection 3 as follows properties purchased by the city for restoration purposes that are in the floodplain or in the reasonable estimation of the director of the Bureau of Environmental Services are at risk of future flooding I'll second that just want to make sure I understand the way that one would work just reading the language so in in both cases
 these are properties that have been purchased by the city. They're either in the floodplain or they are at risk, right? But in all cases, they're owned by BES. That's correct, pursuant to a willing seller program for the purpose of removing the structure and doing floodplain restoration. Right. So there is no replacement home, and therefore, in our view, no reason to trigger the $25,000 fee. Right. I get it.
 Okay. Now, Commissioner Fritz, I think you wanted to also amend the – you talked about another amendment. I think there may be up to three competing amendments on the affordable housing exemptions.
 Okay. I think Commissioner Novick has one, maybe Commissioner Fritz, and I have one too. All right. Well, let's get them before us. This is so complicated, isn't it? Let's get them in front of us so we can understand the difference between them. So, again, the one that I've moved and Commissioner Fish seconded is Mayor 1 simply removes the exemption for taking down one house and building more than one house in a single-family zone. The second one changes the effective date. The third one, Fish 1, 11.
 provides for an exemption for the Bureau of Environmental Services for houses that the Bureau has purchased or that the city has purchased for purposes of floodplain mitigation. So we've got that one. Those three are on the table. What's next? I've got two amendments, Mayor. Amendment 1 is...
 would establish a tiered structure for the demolition tax, in effect, related to the price of the replacement structure. I think that what we've heard the most complaints about are somebody tears down a house that's compatible with the existing neighborhood and builds a million-dollar McMansion instead. But –
 Having a flat $25,000 tax that relates to any demolition means that if somebody's tearing down the dumpiest house within three blocks and replacing it with a $350,000 house that's the same as all the other houses in the neighborhood, the same tax will be paid as if somebody's knocking down a $400,000 house and building a million-dollar house. Right.
 So my suggestion is that if the sales price of the replacement structure is equal to or less than 100% of the median Portland sales price, so in other words, they're not contributing to any more unaffordability than the market, the rebate would be 100% of the tax. If the sales price of the replacement structure is more than 100% of this median Portland sales price and equal to or less than 125%, the rebate is 75% of the tax. If the sales price of the replacement residential structure is more than 125%,
 or at medium Portland sales price and less than 150%, the rebate is 50% of the tax. So in other words, if the sales price of the replacement structure was more than 150% of the median sales price, then the whole $25,000 would be paid and there would be no rebate. Steve, I'll second it for purpose of discussion, and I have a question. So how does this prevent a scenario where an insider purchases the home
 to trigger the rebate and then places it on the market and sells it at the fair market price? An insider – okay, explain to me how that would work. Family member, the developer. I mean, someone does a proxy purchase to get the rebate, and then a week later determines that the house wants to put the market on the house, so sells it at below market value.
 to a proxy person to get the rebate and then puts it on at whatever the full market is? Well, my understanding is that for the existing Portland Housing Bureau affordable housing SDC waiver, that I made my staff ask yesterday whether there's any guard against that sort of insider dealing for the SDC waiver. And we were told no, that the Housing Bureau hasn't considered that a big enough problem to try to come up with some way to avoid it.
 That's because we have a robust system of oversight annually to make sure people have
 but we have mechanisms for doing oversight and covenants including uh depending on the program either a 10 or 60 year covenant which is actually baked into the into the deed and it's just multi family right it's not for us there's a single family there is a single family home ownership limited tax exemption also but there's significant restrictions that apply and significant oversight
 I'd certainly be open to suggestions as to how to have some prophylactic measures. I like this in theory. I'm concerned about administrative ability. I guess I'm also concerned legally that we may be in a more vulnerable place if it's based on the sales price of the house than if it's the price of the home.
 a flat tax, but I'll wait for the city attorney to apply on that. One thing I want to say about this is that
 If what we're trying to do is deter demolitions, then having a $25,000 tax is more likely to deter a scenario where you pull down a $200,000 house and replace it with a $350,000 one than one where somebody is planning to sell the replacement house for a million dollars. Absolutely. That's why I like the idea in theory. And from the beginning, we had hoped to have this be more graduated than flat, but veered towards a similar approach. Doesn't this –
 I'm just thinking out loud here, because I very much appreciate the spirit of your amendment, but doesn't it work better when we're dealing with non-profit providers who are in the business of building long-term affordability into single-family, so either through a land trust model or something else, and then we have the existing mechanisms, and doesn't it work less effectively in the private market?
 That may be true, but my concern is the fairness and sense of the overall tax. And I think that if you're saying that you're going to have a $25,000 tax that applies to any demolition, no matter who is or what the structure is being replaced by or what the price is, I think that's a serious problem. I mean, we need to remember that there are
 three parties to any transaction which involves somebody selling a house to a developer, the developer knocking it down, and somebody else buying it. You've got Helen, homeowner, dastardly developer, and Bobby, buyer.
 And if Helen homeowner is living as the WS house in an up and coming neighborhood and wants to cash in and make some money for her retirement and it's not too much cashing in because the replacement house is only going to be $400,000. I am worried about applying a $25,000 tax that will affect both Helen homeowner and Bobby buyer, who is somebody who's buying a $400,000 house rather than billion dollar house.
 I think that it tends to be an assumption that Dastardly Developer bears all of the tax, but I think that, in fact, the impact of the tax will be shared by Helen Homeowner, Dastardly Developer, and Bobby Beyer. And I'm much more concerned about the impact at the lower end of the scale than the higher end of the scale. And isn't it also the case, Commissioner, that if Helen Homeowner decides to spruce up the house so she has a long-term asset, we actually think of that differently than if she's selling it?
 Yeah, but Helen, the homeowner, might not have the money to spruce up the house. Mayor, I guess – I have an amendment to that one. Well, let's continue with the discussion of this one. I want to ask –
 But, yeah, I mean, I think both Commissioner Fritz and myself have amendments that are all related to the same topic, and I don't think we need more than one of these versions to emerge. Let's get the other ones on the table, and then I'd like to ask Julian and Thomas to comment on them. Actually, can I just put my second amendment on the table, which would be Novick Amendment 2, which would say,
 say the Revenue Division shall study and report to Council by June 2016 about options for administering and enforcing an exemption to the tax for existing owners who plan to occupy the new house for at least three to five additional years.
 And the reason we're asking the Revenue Division to study this is that Mr. Lanham has said that this is a concept that should be explored and we shouldn't run it out there without sort of our due diligence. I think that, again, there's much- people are much less concerned about an existing homeowner
 tearing down their own home and rebuilding it. I mean, what we hear about is that the original homeowners would have been horrified at this monstrosity that was built when they sold the home. I think that there is less of a concern about an existing homeowner doing a demolition and then living in a house, putting a mouse they'll have to live in themselves. So I'd like to explore this concept of an existing homeowner exemption. But given Mr. Lanham's
 warning that it's a complicated issue. I'd rather address it now simply by asking them to study it. Is there a second? Somebody second that? Second. Okay. I have a simpler amendment. All right. So, all right, we've got that one on the table. Now it's yours, and then we'll... We can go to Commissioner Sossman's. Okay, Dan, are you ready? Yeah. So my amendment is I think we're all operating in the same spirit here, and that is an exemption for...
 uh affordable housing and what i'm proposing is we simply follow the the guidelines the housing bureau already sets for the home ownership limited tax exemption program where we determine every year or the council determines every year a price a sales cap price in order to qualify that a home must sell for or less in order to qualify for stc waivers and property tax exemption for the purchaser and so it simply ties
 the rebate to that sales price cap that Council sets annually. Right now, currently, the sales cap is $291,000. All right. So I'm going to second this. And, Dan, I have a question. A question has come up in some correspondence we've all received about whether this should be structured as a rebate or a waiver.
 And obviously the difference is primarily whether the purchaser nonprofit, let's say, would have to finance the rebate, excuse me, the demolition fee in anticipation of getting it back. What are the arguments on either side of that, structuring it as a rebate versus a waiver? Okay.
 Well, I've simply been operating under the paradigm that we're talking about, which is the concept of a rebate. I mean, the point you make about a waiver versus a rebate is a good point. I think it applies to everything we're talking about here, though. We've had some folks in the affordable housing community just argue that a waiver is cleaner, and they have a track, particularly when it's a Habitat or a Proud Ground or someone that we know has a track record of
 doing this kind of housing, but if you do it as a rebate, they have to finance the cost up front and then apply for the rebate. So is there any reason administratively we wouldn't just make it a waiver versus a rebate? Yes, there is. Thomas Lanham with the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services says,
 So, the issue there is that an event would need to occur subsequent to the assessment date of the tax, and we don't really and truly know that the triggering event has occurred until after the fact. So, putting the exemption at the front end is a little more difficult administratively.
 I'm not quite sure I would do that. I would also add I haven't actually seen the language of your amendment, Commissioner, so I'm not. Well, could we delay the collection of the tax until the closing so it has the effect of being a waiver? Sure.
 Commissioner Gillian, Detweiler Mayor's Office. I think that is possible, and I think that's something that could be worked out with administrative rules. Shannon Callahan on Commissioner Saltzman's staff indicated one of her objectives in referencing the HALTI program is that it is a program that
 affordable housing developers apply for prior to actually developing and starting construction. So we would have those commitments in place quite early in the development process, and it would at least, I think, give us the opportunity to shorten a period of
 where the $25,000 might have to be carried. And I'd like to find a mechanism that treats it as a lien or some other way, suspends an actual cash payment where we have that affordable housing commitment. So it's your preference. We haven't seen Commissioner Fritz's amendments. Let's get that on the table and get a little larger review of this. And actually, Commissioner Saltzman, a friendly amendment to yours, which is,
 The rewording that was suggested in Mayor No. 2, this Section 608.055 is actually the code. So a statement such as the Portland Bureau of Housing shall develop guidelines is more what goes in the ordinance rather than in the code. So Mayor 2 reorganizes the code and says what the rules will be from now on. So your amendment needs to be incorporated into Mayor 2. So that's just a...
 So I'd like to offer a friendly amendment to Dan's, to Saltzman 1, because it sounds to me like it's six of one, half dozen of the other, and we have to work this out between now and when we finally – Actually, I wasn't quite done. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. It says that they're going to develop guidelines, so I don't know that we actually need to set exactly in stone what those guidelines are as part of the code-writing exercise. Okay.
 It says to obtain a rebate, and I'd like to actually clarify that the guidelines they'll develop have to do with a waiver and not a rebate. I would just add the language we're using in Exhibit A is actually not a waiver but an exemption.
 That would be, it would be the exemption chapter. Exemption. I'd like to make a friendly amendment. So instead of, wait a second, that should read exemption in the third line of that, rather than waiver, rather than rebate, right? Rather than rebate. Okay. Just to be consistent. If in the course of administrative rulemaking you come back and say there's some other reason why we can't do it, let's take that up, but let's state it as the council's intent. Okay. Okay.
 Is my friendly amendment accepted? Yes, I think so. Is that okay with you? All right. Thank you. I'm sorry I don't have this written down because there was a miscommunication between the mayor and myself as to who was proposing this amendment. But it's an amendment to 608058.
 zero zero five zero exemptions and it would add to a the demolition tax shall not apply to we would add number three demolition permits where the applicant is the homeowner as of March 1st 2016 assuming that we change the effective date
 So what this does, instead of Commissioner Novick's amendment that they have to promise to live there for three to five years, it just says for people who currently own their property and own their property as of March 1st, if they themselves, not the person they sell it to or the developer, but if that homeowner wants to apply to demolish their home and build a new one, then they get to do that without having to tax apply. Second. Right. No, that's a separate issue, and I agree with it, I think.
 that wasn't processed into that other amendment because it's a discreet issue, but I agree with that. Is that labeled Fritz 1? Fritz only, yes. Well, I guess my question would be, given Mr. Lanham worked with Commissioner Novick on saying we need to study that issue because there could be, I don't know, machinations that we don't desire to occur,
 I guess I'm curious to know what your comments are on Commissioner Fritz's proposal. Well, the problem with that is then if they're going to do a study, there isn't then the exemption as of March 2nd. So a homeowner like what you did hear from two homeowners I think came into the hearing saying that they were planning to do this, basically renovate, completely demolish and start over on their property. They wouldn't get to do that until we've done the study.
 Commissioner, Thomas might want to address it. It is simpler to know when somebody owned a home versus trying to document whether or not they both intend to and actually do live in a home for five years into the future. I think that's...
 It's a simpler matter to document when that home was acquired by the person who is applying for the demolition. It may be simpler. It also is not inconsistent. I mean, I don't see why current homeowners are entitled to consideration that future homeowners are not. So we could adopt Commissioner Fritz's amendment and also adopt mine.
 So other – I'm going to suggest, actually, that we take testimony and then later act on our amendments since we've got some disparate views. But we know what the issues are. The issues are should the tax apply to situations in which somebody is tearing down one house and building two? Second is what should the effective date be in order for it to be a successful rollout and operation of the Bureau? Third is should we –
 exempt houses that the city is purchasing because they're in the floodplain. Fourth is how do we deal with existing owners? Well, maybe I'm not fourth, but – and then what about –
 What about reflecting affordability in the amount of the tax or the amount of the rebate, which we have a couple of different ways to go? I think I've captured the issue, so I think it would be useful to have both our staff reflect on the amendments that we have in front of them, maybe come back at the end of the public testimony, and two, hear from people that are here to speak on do they think we should approve some version of these amendments, and then we can return to a little bit of a work session and act on those amendments at the end of the hearing.
 That sound good? Yes, and I've reorganized the three amendments on Section 608.055. Why don't you hold that language until the end? So we've got these conceptually in front of us. Any front-end comments about that now, Thomas? I'm comfortable with all the amendments except to NOVIC 1. I've got some concerns about administrability that have already been covered.
 And the other one, I just want to make sure I'm clear, Commissioner Saltzman, I've got your language here. As amended by Commissioner Fish, you would basically go in there and then insert, instead of rebates, exemptions. Correct. And I'll confer a little bit on the sideline here on that question. It assumes you otherwise meet all the requirements of the HALTI program. Right. I just need to piece together how we might structure that as an administrative rule. Okay. Thank you. Before the two of you leave –
 I know there were some questions about the roles of the Revenue Bureau or the Revenue Division versus the Bureau of Development Services in setting rules. Do we have that all? Is that clear in our minds? It's clear to me. I wasn't aware there was any question. Similarly, I had heard third-hand there was a concern, but I have not heard that concern before.
 from the parties who intended. And we've agreed that if there's a conflict, the Water Bureau will break the talk. If it all doesn't work, they lost it. Okay. Mayor and Jillian. I can get my proposed consolidation and see if it works. Yes.
 A question about the density issue. Are we going to hear from anyone at Planning and Sustainability about the impact of the deletion of the density exemption? There's Planning and Sustainability Bureau staff here, so we can do that as needed at the end. Okay.
 Okay, so I have a couple of invited panels, and then we have some people signed up to testify. So let's hear from our two panels. The first one is Alyssa Kruger, Al Ellis, and Steve Elder, and Margaret Davis. So bring up another chair if all four of you are here from United Neighborhoods for Reform. Thank you.
 Good morning. And that giant microphone box does slide around, so if you need to get closer to the microphone, slide it towards your colleague. Okay, Sue's providing it. Good morning. Who'd like to start? I'll start. Okay.
 So I want to read something, but I also do have something to say to your thing about the replacing the $200,000 home with the $400,000 home. Most developers use a three times formula. So in order to build a $400,000 house, the home they would have to purchase would have to be priced at about $125,000 to $130,000.
 There are no homes in Portland that are $125,000 to $130,000. So that's just not going to happen. There just isn't a profit margin on the private market. So I just wanted to point that out, that you can't buy vacant land in the central city for that price. So that just by nature of what is available on the market, that just isn't going to happen. So I just wanted to point that out.
 So, my name is Alyssa Eisenstein Krueger, and I'm a real estate broker in Portland, and I represent many first-time homebuyers in Portland. And I am pleading with you to do something to curb the wanton destruction of our viable vintage housing stock.
 We are losing our starter homes to the greed of builders who see dollar signs. If builders, developers are going to make profits at the expense of our citizens, access to affordable home ownership opportunities, then they need to pay into a fund to help offset that cost. Demolition tax isn't perfect, but it's something. The most affordable home is the one that is already standing. And once these homes are demolished, they are gone forever, taken out of service forevermore. By charging developers $25,000 for each home they demolish for the
 purpose of helping fund affordable housing efforts, this at least creates a revenue source to help families stay in Portland who are otherwise being priced out from both rental housing and homeownership, and addresses the cost of the loss of affordable housing to our rapidly changing community.
 Housing prices over the last year in Portland have risen the third fastest in the entire country, right behind Denver and San Francisco. The latest Case-Shiller Housing Price Index shows that Portland Metro home prices increased on average of over 10.1% from September 2014 to September 2015. Looking at data for our closer-in neighborhoods, this increase is probably 15% or more.
 At the same time, wages have remained stagnant and rents have increased in the double digits over the last year as well, which means potential first-time homebuyers who are renting are having an even harder time saving for a down payment. With no affordable homes to buy and rents out of reach, where are these families supposed to live? Revenues generated from the demolition tax could help the families with a down payment or rental assistance so they can continue to live in their neighborhoods.
 And it isn't just small starter homes that are being demolished. The home at 3416 Northeast Alameda was a gorgeous Tudor that was well-maintained and had
 Gardens featured in Sunset Magazine. It was on a double lot, and in May of 2015, Everett Custom Homes purchased this home for $815,000 cash, $36,000 over the list price of $779,000. The home was recently demolished, and the lot was split into two lots. Last Wednesday, Everett put the two now-vacant lots up for sale at a list price of $500,000 each.
 Perhaps if there had been a demolition tax in place, that home would still be standing. In the Hayhurst neighborhood, 3015 Southwest Idaho was a 1949 ranch-style home that Everett purchased in March for $210,000. They demolished the home with the plan to subdivide the property. Last Wednesday, Everett put that lot up for sale for $500,000. Thank you.
 and last but not least 7850 southwest 30th avenue was a 1941 built home near multnomah village that ever purchased for cash for 398 500 in may last week they listed that empty lot for 400 000 and
 Had there been a demolition tax, then perhaps these homes would still be standing. So the demolition tax would also hopefully serve as a deterrent for land speculation, which clearly this is. Everett Homes and other developers are demolishing homes as fast as they can to get to the land underneath.
 Thank you. Do you really think that if they're making $100,000 on demolishing and then selling it off again within a few months, why would $25,000 make a difference to them? Perhaps they wouldn't have demolished it in the first place. They're clearly not making a profit on these things. They went in there, probably got overextended. Nobody really knows why, but had there been another $25,000 added to the cost, perhaps it would have saved the homes, knowing that there would not be a profit.
 My name is Al Ellis. I'm a Beaumont Wilshire resident and co-founder of United Neighborhoods Reform UNR. All four of us are on the steering committee of UNR. I want to thank the mayor for inviting us to give testimony this morning.
 The three main objectives of UNR's demolition development resolution, which is endorsed by nearly half of the city's neighborhood associations, closely mirror three of Mayor Hale's stated objectives for neighborhoods in his State of the City speech last January.
 One, preserve neighborhood character. Two, facilitate affordability. And three, reduce the number of residential demolitions. UNR believes the proposed ordinance to impose a $25,000 tax on demolition of single-family homes and single-family residential zones, subject to the amendments that you're going to be considering, is consistent with the aforementioned objectives and warrants your support.
 The recent Oregonian staff editorial characterizing this proposal as a NIMBY tax couldn't be further from the truth. NIMBY stands for Not in My Backyard, the implication being that residents who applaud the mayor's initiative are somehow only interested in preventing demolitions on their own blocks, but could care less if demolitions take place elsewhere in the city.
 Clearly, the goal of this tax is to discourage destruction of viable homes throughout the city in every residential neighborhood, and in accordance with Mayor Hale's amendment, number one, not to reward developers who would destroy existing homes affordable to average buyers for the purpose of profiting from construction of million-dollar replacement dwellings under the guise of increased density.
 The Oregonian editorial also cites aesthetic objections of neighbors as a primary justification for this tax. While the building of a house that is three times the size of the house demolished certainly runs counter to the comprehensive plan stated objective of preserving neighborhood character, the primary target of this disincentive tax is not the size of the replacement houses,
 but to preserve the existing houses. And where the tax is not successful in deterring demolition, the tax revenue will be used to help fund affordable housing programs, which is only fair since every demolition is, in effect, a cost to the neighborhood in terms of livability and health. In conclusion, this is more than just a vote to impose a tax. It's an opportunity to send the message that,
 that willy-nilly demolitions in our neighborhoods for the purpose of building million-dollar replacement homes with little or no regard to existing residences or the need for affordable housing is not what Portland is all about. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Who would like to go next? Good morning. My name is Steve Elder, and I am here to speak on behalf of the mayor's suggested ordinance and the mayor's amendments to it.
 I live in northeast Portland, where I immigrated some three years ago from my native Texas. Since I have lived in Portland, I have been designated by TriMet, the transportation company, as an honored citizen. This entitles me to half-price bus tickets. It's a good thing.
 I have also been designated by the Oregonian as a NIMBY, who would impose my own aesthetic sensibilities upon some poor developers who are just out to try to make a buck. I plead guilty as charged. In preparation for this presentation, I came upon a newspaper account from the year 2008
 in which then city councilman Charlie Hales said, you can still build an ugly house in Portland, but we're going to make it hard for you. The issue then, as you may know, was the snout houses, which are bungalows with two-car garages where the front yard usually goes and no discernible front door.
 a leading developer said that Charlie was our former lobbyist and he is a traitor to his cause. We're all becoming a bunch of socialists. And it passed. And as for my research, it passed primarily for aesthetic reasons.
 And right now, the city is talking about the issue of demolishing houses and replacing them with or refilling their lots with excrescences that blot out the sky. And I'm saying...
 There is aesthetic justification for disallowing such a thing, but you don't need to stop there. Just listen to what all of my other neighbors are talking about, about asbestos, about affordability, about lead, about tearing down, about all of this gamut of things that are on the table.
 So what the commission is looking at now is quality of life, is desirability of being in Portland. And that's why, as I said, I submit that the council should adopt the ordinance as amended. And I would point out a couple of things. And I would ask that the commission not...
 weigh the ordinance down with obfuscatory amendments and technicalities which would make it very difficult to enforce. And in suggestion to the notion of possibly escalating or varying the amount of the pinprick of the tax regarding how much it's going to be replacing, I'd say if the council is going to consider such things,
 then if the council would consider escalating the bite of the tax to maybe raise it a little bit more. In other words, escalate it both ways. Consider escalating it both ways. And in view of the...
 My neighbor, Ms. Eisenstein-Kruger's suggestion that people are tearing down houses and putting the lots up, you know, is being real estate speculators. I say, good. We have it.
 Thank you very much. Sir, what would you think about limiting the tax to instances where the demolition is demonstrated to have been, in fact, willy-nilly and the replacement house is a judge to be an expressence? Good work. The first time those have been defined in law. Thank you very much. Good morning, Margaret. Good morning. I'm Margaret Davis. I live in northeast Portland, and I work with United Neighborhoods for Reform, or UNR.
 UNR, whose work is endorsed by 43 neighborhood associations, supports the demolition tax as a way to maintain and fund viable, affordable housing while also better distributing the costs of trash and build development. The loss of housing is real, exacerbated by developers now eliminating homes to merely put the lots on the market, this during a declared housing emergency. Whatever happens with the tax, we need to do much more.
 Because of severe public danger related to the release of asbestos and lead dust during demolitions, UNR proposes a temporary demolition moratorium until the city can craft rules on abatement, comply with the new state law on asbestos, and effectively protect the public from exposure to hazardous materials.
 At meetings of city staff and federal agency personnel, we have seen with dismay how slow and difficult it will be to manage uncontrolled hazmat during demolitions. Let's give them the needed time and the incentive to safeguard people and the environment. Maybe even go up to Vancouver, Washington or any other city there and see how they do it.
 In September, Oregonian reporter Fedor Zarkin looked into the release of hazmat during mechanical demolition in a multi-part series. He found huge gaps in oversight of demolitions that allow lead and asbestos to be visited upon unsuspecting neighbors and surrounding properties. Think about the kids who live near a demolition and play on the swing set, then eat a snack afterwards without washing their hands, thereby ingesting small particles of lead that...
 the Centers for Disease Control says has no safe limit in children. Imagine the asbestos fibers embedding themselves into people's lungs later to bloom into serious illness. Demolitions occur almost daily, and the exposure is exponential. Have you consulted legal counsel as to the city's culpability when all these serious illnesses present themselves? After the Oregonian stories and our visits here, you can't say you didn't know.
 A moratorium sounds like scary stuff, but it needn't be. The law is on your side. Under the Portland City Charter, a key responsibility of city government is to ensure public safety. And I have a citation here in your handout. A demolition moratorium is legally defensible and morally responsible. One grounds for a moratorium, according to state law, is that it demonstrate a compelling need, including prevention of irrevocable public harm from development.
 It has been hard enough watching our great neighborhoods that we created, plundered, and turned into profit centers for short-term investors. It has been unconscionable to watch our neighborhoods turn into poison centers where we cannot eat what we grow, breathe deeply, or play safely. As you consider demolitions and their irreversible effects and a moratorium, we urge you to be brave, be responsible, be our leaders.
 Thank you for your service to your constituents. Happy Thanksgiving. Thank you all very much. Thanks for coming. Okay, we have a second panel. Ruth Adkins from the Welcome Home Coalition, Tim Pitts from Think Real Estate, and Fred Leeson from the Architectural Heritage Center.
 Good morning. Ruth just pushed the button on the base of that microphone and away you go. Thank you. There you are. Good morning. For the record, my name is Ruth Adkins. I'm here today representing the Welcome Homes Coalition, which is an organization of 115 area organizations working to increase dedicated funding in the Portland metro region to build, preserve, and support affordable housing. And we're here to strongly support the proposed demolition tax.
 Obviously, this new tax alone cannot fix our affordable housing crisis, but it is one more tool in our toolbox of revenue and policy solutions toward an equitable Portland where everyone can find a place to call home.
 As you know, Portland still needs an additional $50 million annually to build back the missing 25,000 affordable homes. But this proposed tax will be our first permanent and dedicated revenue stream for Portland's Housing Investment Fund, or HIF. So that's very exciting.
 We support the mayor's proposal to include all demolition, single-family homes, including lots where additional density is planned. To exempt more than 60% of demolition would significantly reduce the revenue and the community benefit of the policy without creating any new affordability.
 Each demolition of a non-condemned home that is replaced by a market rate housing represents a lost affordable homeownership starter home opportunity, even when density is added. And, of course, in this context, density does not mean a large multifamily apartment building, but we really feel like this helps level the playing field for those first-time homebuyers. So we do agree that the tax should apply to all demolitions of single-family homes. Thank you.
 If I may comment in regard to some of the many amendments that are on the table, obviously we strongly support the exemption for nonprofit housing. I really appreciate that being put forward, and we're sure that our city staff can capably work through the complexities of figuring out how to make that work, but we really appreciate the intent to not add to the already high costs of providing affordable housing. We need to reduce those costs wherever possible in that burden. So I appreciate and hope that you will approve that amendment to exempt
 nonprofit housing and potentially, of course, privately developed housing that includes affordable units. In terms of the start date, we are in a housing emergency, recognizing that there needs to be a balance when new policies come in. But the concern would be that folks would do a rush and capitalize before the extended deadline. So from my perspective, it should be a moratorium because of the emergency on demolitions until we can get the rules worked out and get this in place.
 In terms of the current homeowner piece, certainly appreciate that there may be some homeowners who would be planning to demolish their homes, but I think for me and for the coalition, the larger concern is really that speculation by developers. That's the bigger concern that this policy would address, and I don't know what would stop a homeowner from taking advantage of their exemption and then turning around and selling it to a dastardly developer.
 So additionally, we would love it if the tax were, the language were clarified so that it were per unit, not per building lot. In other words, if a fourplex is torn down, the developer should be charged for the loss of four homes, not one, especially since those smaller multiplexes are really one of our few remaining affordable options in Portland. Okay.
 And we also would love it if the currently existing loophole for partial demolition, where you tear down almost, but not entirely, the whole building, if there's a way to close that loophole, that would be an even better policy.
 So on the whole, we're very happy to support this new policy and really appreciate your leadership to seek new and dedicated revenue streams to permanently close the gap on our affordable housing shortfall. It's a great first step for the Housing Investment Fund and a good step forward for housing equity in Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ruth. A question of clarification. Does this tax apply to multifamily dwellings? I don't believe so. In its current form, Julian might be able to help with that, but.
 Yeah, just in terms of the density goals, this doesn't apply to that. So I think that's why we're okay with it.
 Well, it's an interesting question that I wanted to talk about some more later because one of our problems, of course, is demolition of larger multifamily structures that could be preserved and continue to be affordable. So that's an interesting concept. Yeah, good point. We'll get staff to respond to that, too. Thank you. Ms. Atkins, on the subject of needing other tools, there's just one potential tool that doesn't exist I'd like to run by you. We now have a state, I think it's a constitutional amendment, that prohibits any real estate transfer taxes.
 Last year in Portland, about 2,000 houses were sold for over half a million dollars. So even if you only applied a 2% real estate transfer tax to those houses, you'd raise $20 million. I've asked some legislators if they'd be willing to send something to the voters saying, would you be okay with real estate transfer taxes and only apply it at homes that sell for over half a million dollars? So I'm curious if you'd join me in furthering that suggestion. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 Thank you. Thank you. Would you turn your microphone off, please? Thanks. Tim, good morning. Thank you. I'm Tim Pitts, and I'm the owner of Think Real Estate. It's a residential brokerage on the east side, and I'm here on behalf of many of my colleagues there and throughout the real estate industry in Portland. The past couple of years have been scary, frankly, for us. We've seen rents and prices skyrocketing. Houses are being demolished.
 And a lot of us have a lot of concerns about the direction of the city, and I think that the demolition tax would really address a lot of these issues. My two biggest concerns are that we have an extreme lack of affordable housing and that we're allowing too many of our historic structures to be torn down. So I really think we're –
 fooling ourselves and thinking that we're building a better city by letting so many historic homes be torn down throughout the city. I think there should be stricter regulations, and in cases where someone wants to demolish a functional structure, they should pay a large fee.
 Builders are claiming, I guess, that the houses being torn down are not houses that anyone would want to live in. But I see many houses come on the market and sell only to be torn down. And in almost every case, these are houses that could have been remodeled and could have been lived in by future residents. I've remodeled houses myself. I've bought...
 The first house I bought in Portland was a former drug house off North Mississippi, and it was in terrible condition. And we could have torn it down, but we renovated it and kept it as a historic structure in that neighborhood, and I'm glad that we did. I think –
 Many, many of the houses, as I've said, that are being torn down certainly could be inhabited by future people. And clients would rather have these vintage homes. So a lot of my clients want new construction for one reason or another, but the vast majority of Portlanders want to live in vintage structures. Sadly, the way the market is, buyers can't compete with builders for these houses. Time and time again, buyers get beat out by builders that can offer cash, quick clothes,
 and people that want to buy a small, modest house with all the money that they have and fix it up over time, they're simply beaten out because the seller wants the best deal possible or they want the most sure thing possible, and so they go with the builder who can say cash, no contingencies, knowing full well that they're just going to tear it down. So I think that a $25,000 tax, while it might not totally prevent that, would level the playing field a little bit and allow homeowners or potential homeowners to actually get into houses that are affordable and in scale with the neighborhood.
 I know builders also say that the old houses are inefficient in terms of energy usage, but when you look at the fact that they're often tearing down a modest appropriately sized house and building a monster house in its place, you really lose the efficiencies. You can't tell me that it's good for the environment to tear down a perfectly functional house and
 and put the entire house in the landfill. We're not talking about deconstruction. Nobody's deconstructing houses right now. They're just knocking everything down into a pile of rubble and putting it in the landfill and building a big, energy-efficient house that sells for often well above $500,000. So $500,000 as some measure of a transfer tax would be crazy at this point, because $500,000 is quickly becoming the new entry point for a modest bungalow in Portland.
 So, I think that we really do need stricter controls for demolishing houses. We need affordable housing. Rents are going crazy. People are not going to stop moving here. Rents are going to continue to accelerate. Prices are going to continue to accelerate. And if we don't do something, then quickly, people are not going to be able to afford to live in the city that they've lived in. So, affordable housing definitely needs attention. And this, to me, seems like a very neat, tidy way to address these two issues.
 quickly regarding the one amendment about homeowners being able to tear down their own house. I know that it's tempting to say that you want to have exemptions so you're not punishing people that actually own their house, but often builders are buying houses off market, and so if you have a provision where if the homeowner applies, they don't have to pay the fee, there's nothing that's going to stop builders from partnering with homeowners
 under a contract, tearing down the house, building a new house, and then the homeowner is the one selling it and paying a huge profit to the builder as a partnership, but they're going to avoid the $25,000 tax. So I think that if you have some provision like that, I would strongly encourage you to have a three- to five-year period where the homeowner has to inhabit it to eliminate that scenario from happening, which is a little bit harder. You put a lien on the property, something like that, but I think that would be very necessary because that would be a super easy loophole to exploit. Thank you.
 Thank you. Helpful. Good morning, Fred. Good morning. Fred Leeson at Bosco Milligan Foundation. We own and operate the Architectural Heritage Center at 701 Southeast Grand. We strongly support the idea of the tax. We believe that it will help maybe in some cases tilt a homeowner or developer towards a renovation rather than demolition. You actually get a better bang for your buck economically rehabbing a house than you do starting over.
 We are grateful to the mayor's office for proposing that the density exemption be removed. That had the capacity to gobble up the whole thing. A couple ideas we had is that the fee should be levied on the tax lot, not just a house. If there's a situation where there's more than one tax lot involved, it's going to be one house. That does happen in some neighborhoods. We also like the idea and would suggest that the,
 The revenue generated, because it's coming from single-family neighborhoods, should be limited to programs and rehab opportunities in single-family neighborhoods. Just something to think about. Commissioner Novick, I'm concerned about the tiered tax, because we know Dastardly Developer will gain the system. They gained the system back when we had the K-1 exemption, where they would buy a home on a double lot, come in and get the automatic...
 permit for one house, build that house, then divide the lot and build the second house. So you got two for one, and they had eliminated the delays. I say that in criticism, but it's also extremely human to try to game the system, and people will game systems. We firmly believe that the most affordable house is the house that's already there. If you're looking for affordable transportation, you don't go to the new car showroom. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Okay, let's move to the sign-up sheet please and take public testimony from others are here We have 14 people signed up would Clinton would Gary Whitehall They suck and John matter Nesky, please come up. They'll be followed by Terry Parker Steve Messler and lightning good morning Yeah, if we could hold the testimony to two minutes that'd be helpful because we had a lot of people signed up But try to be brief. Good morning
 My name is Clinton Wood. I actually work at Esco Corporation as an engineer. And my husband and I adopted a two-year-old, and we live in Gresham, Oregon, and hope to expand our family here.
 The number one reason why we haven't moved to Portland is not affordability. It's actually suitable family housing. There is just simply a lack of suitable family housing that meets our needs and a lot of family needs. The city's grown over 200,000 people in the last 50 years. And in that same time, there's 30,000.
 less school-age children in the city. And we're moving out to the suburbs not because it's too expensive in the city. We're moving out there because the housing needs in the suburbs meet our needs. This new construction that everybody thinks is a monstrosity meets our needs. It accommodates larger families. They attract families with children, which can...
 in turn, provide more children to attend public schools. They generate higher property taxes for the city than the existing home that's on there. That's capped by Measure 5. They provide a safer and healthier environment that these people here even admit that they're full of asbestos, lead...
 Radon gas leaking into the basement and dumping stormwater into the city sewer system. They're also more energy efficient. Tearing down homes and gutting them just fills up the landfill just as much as tearing down a house. You call these eyesores, but you have no problem building up apartments and low-income housing in the name of affordability. These demo fees only are going to increase the cost for my family to move into the city. It's not making it affordable for anybody. Okay.
 I'm going to come in and buy a lower-cost housing and displace somebody with a lower income out of the city anyway, and you didn't solve anything. I don't know. Is that meaning that's the two minutes? It means you've got about 30 seconds. Okay. So...
 what i'm trying to get at is you guys need to attract families like me and the housing that's out there simply is not suitable or meeting a lot of family needs this new housing is you guys have a lot of social programs that you want to fund and you should be funding it through higher property taxes that this new construction pays for all right i guess thank you very much okay good morning hi my name is gary white hill bazuk and i've been a real estate broker in the city for over 25 years
 i'm here today speaking on behalf of a number of my clients as well as several of my colleagues we find this proposal to eliminate the exemption for multiple units of disservice to this city we currently have a housing shortage a balanced real estate market is one in which there exists a six-month inventory of homes on the market we currently have less than two this proposal will only add to this imbalance thereby making housing even less affordable
 We have two large groups of people who are either in the current market pool for homes or are about to enter that pool. I speak of the millennials who won't be content living in their 600-square-foot studios on Division forever. They will be looking for affordable homes, hopefully in the city. I say hopefully because if we don't fill that supply side of the equation, I suppose they'll be looking in Gresham or Hillsboro or Milwaukee.
 The other large group is the baby boomers who wish to downsize. Not all of them wish to reside in condos in the Pearl or South Waterfront, so where do they go? Vancouver? Any constraint on supply not only puts upward pressure on prices, but also hurts the economic fabric of the city. Impacts include loss of revenue to local businesses as people move away, less jobs for the construction industry, and lost revenue to the suppliers of products and services to these workers.
 Additionally, there will be a loss of revenue and the decrease of property taxes that fund services for the entire state. Other unintended consequences, sellers receiving $25,000 less for their homes because developers will argue to homeowners that this proposal just devalued their home. Another consequence will simply be an increase in home prices. Developers will just simply pass this additional cost on to the consumer.
 It does not seem logical that if one buys a single home on a 10,000 square foot lot and because of zoning is allowed to build anywhere from four to ten new homes, thereby adding more to the supply side, that they should be taxed on this. We as Oregonians value our farm and forest land and do not wish to see our urban growth boundary expand to levels that would create unfettered growth. The city claims that one of the most critical livability goals is to increase density.
 if density is the goal and prices are already high and supply is low why is the council considering placing yet another constraint on infill and applying more upward pressure on home prices i realize people are angry and that a number of older homes have been torn down that could have been saved but do not allow the outlier to become the norm and the basis for this proposal
 In closing, and I speak for many who could not be here today, I must take issue with the City Council selecting the day before a large traditional holiday as the scheduled time for this important public hearing. It is disingenuous engagement. Though I have no doubt that this proposal was initially well intended, it is ill-conceived, will fail on many fronts, and will not bring the desired results. This is a critical issue, one that deserves far more discussion and redesign. Thanks.
 i just want to make sure you understand um this this tax would not apply to a situation r1 r2.5 no no just like the great project you built in my neighborhood mixed use over retail that's yeah that's that's commercial untouched by this tax but what about underlying tax lots single family zones is what we're talking about
 So single-family zones, R5, R7, R10. Okay. So not R2.5, not R1. Okay. Thanks. Sorry. But I don't think it applies. 2.5. Sorry, it does apply to 2.5. It does apply to 2.5. It does apply to 2.5. Not 1 or 2. Not R1, not R2. Those are multifamily zones.
 for now so it's about 2.5 mixed use zones i mean that that project you built in my neighborhood would be in our new zoning but it's true but it's still a mixed use zone i understand but in our 2.5 it's a 10 000 square foot lot you're still adding four units potentially yes all right so do you support the money that going into a dedicated fund with the housing investment fund absolutely and and by the way we're not taking a vote today so yeah we're not voting today i think it's the second or third hearing we've had on this issue so
 No, I've been here. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is John Medernuski. I'm here representing a local architecture firm and a client in particular. I have a couple questions.
 kind of clarification um items so we have a project that has been delayed for a while um and we got approval um for demolition of what's the firm you represent oh a william trip architect um small residential firm so we the project's been delayed we have the demo permit it's since expired
 So we're wondering if the client isn't able to start construction before February 1st or March 1st, whenever the start date is, would we be okay with the demo permit that has been issued previously, or would we need to reapply?
 again and have a current standing permit at the start of time? I believe the answer, we'll get that answer, but I believe you'd have to reapply. Okay, so it would have to be an active permit. Okay. And then we have two dwelling units on our site, on one site, so I think it's been brought up earlier, you know, if that would be $25,000 or $50,000. As it's currently proposed, the tax would apply to each house demolished. So that would be one thing.
 It would apply to each unit demolished, not to each unit built. Okay, gotcha. So it would be $50,000 in our case. And then the last thing, we had a lot of talk about a lot of numbers and taxes and all that, but I was wondering if there's ever been mention of more of a human element. If you're applying for your demo permit, if you can say, you know,
 we're doing and here's how it's going to benefit the neighborhood is there some kind of panel who could review that and on a case-by-case basis um give approval or denial no we're not setting that up oh yeah i appreciate this suggestion but that'd be pretty unwieldy for us yeah thank you very much thank you all okay
 Claire Carter. Oh, excuse me. Terry Parker. Steve Smessler. Lightning. You'll be followed by Claire Carter, Diane Minn, Peggy Moretti. Morning. Go ahead. Just push the button on the base of that microphone there. Morning. My name is Steve Smelser. I used to work with you, General. Good to see you, Steve. Years ago. I'm a home builder. I've spent my whole career since 1970 building primarily affordable housing.
 It's what I do. Over those 40 years, 45 years of building homes, there's been all kinds of fees increased, systems development fees, rule changes, and I have yet to see one that has made housing more affordable. Every one of them, all they do is drive the cost of housing up. This fee will do exactly the same thing. Existing housing prices follow new construction housing prices.
 And if new housing construction prices go up because I have to pay a $25,000 fee to tear a house down, existing housing prices will rise the same. That happens everywhere in the world, and that's what will happen. When I buy a house, and I have bought two in Portland and tore them down, nothing in the last five years, but I have in the past. And I didn't build million-dollar houses. There may be some million-dollar houses built, but I would bet most of them are not.
 But when I buy a house down, I bought a house down, I tore a house down that was not energy efficient. It was not structurally safe for earthquakes. And it was probably full of lead, which isn't safe for kids living in those homes. And we built a new house that's energy efficient, has all the latest energy efficient appliances, no lead, and it's engineered seismically to be safe in an earthquake time. That's what we do.
 The last thing that I want to say is the city has blighted areas that you want builders to come in and rebuild. To make it cost $25,000 extra to tear down a blighted house might be a disincentive to come in and do that, and those areas then remain blighted.
 Thank you. May I ask you a question? Yes. What would you say to those who say that presumably developers are already selling their new houses for as much as they possibly can and that they wouldn't be able to tack the $25,000 on top? It'll have to add on top. I mean, builders aren't going to build houses and take a loss. I mean, they're going to get what they can get for the market. Just as the existing homeowner, when he sells his house, he gets what he can get.
 You know, they want to call, they call builders greedy people and stuff, but every homeowner does the same thing. You know, they sell the house for what they can get. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Terry Parker. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander speaking as an individual today. Okay.
 Portland's single-family home neighborhoods are under attack. In addition to working-class neighborhoods being torn apart by proposed upzoning in the comp plan, throughout the city, livable single-family homes are being demolished at an alarming rate. The city of Portland is facing a new problem.
 The average cost of a new house that replaces a home torn down is 2.4 times more. Many of the homes being torn down are considered to be affordable starter homes, some of them fixer-uppers. Reducing the housing stock of these starter homes also reduces the opportunity for lower-income people to invest in a house and obtain some wealth through the equity of property ownership instead of just continuing to pay rent.
 Moreover, diversity within single-family home neighborhoods suffer when there is an absence of affordable starter homes. Most of the new replacement houses fall into the category of either a narrow skinny box or an out-of-scale monster box with a porch super glued on the front side. In most cases, the footprint of these new cookie-cutter boxes interrupt the backyard and or front yard ribbons of green that add quality of life in most single-family neighborhoods.
 Moreover, the unique historical qualities of neighborhood character and architecture that make Portland an appealing place to live is lost when the only new single-family home comes in the form of various sized boxes. Much has been said about the Portland neighborhood.
 single-family home neighborhoods that have disappeared, including those where the Veterans Memorial Coliseum now stands and in areas that have been part of urban renewal. The city needs to preserve single-family housing stock we still have. It must be affordable to all levels of income, including families just starting out, the working class, and senior citizens on fixed income.
 Assessing a demolition tax is a good start to reduce the obscene number of demolitions taking place, but not the entire answer or complete solution to the problem. As an individual and as a member of the UNR Steering Committee, I fully support the implementation of the demolition tax, the amendment that eliminates the rebate for constructing two houses for one demolished home, and the testimony supplied by UNR. And I would also like to add one other thing that,
 I have a concern about the homeowner not paying the tax because the homeowner could likely be scamming the system with the developer, joining forces with the developer. So I agree with Steve in this case, Commissioner Novak, that there needs to be some sort of –
 policy that the homeowner must live in the home for a certain period of time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I think the ordinance should be adopted as amended, but I'm going to state my concerns is that I still think that $25,000 is too high. I'd like that to be reduced by 50%. And again...
 When the real estate brokers are doing a lot of business with the developers on building new homes and selling the homes, you real estate brokers can discount your fee and make up the difference on this issue, which will go to the Housing Investment Fund. Again, on the HIF, I don't want any limitations on where those funds can go. Of course, to affordable housing is the main priority.
 Another concern I have is people selling the houses in the neighborhoods. Why don't the neighborhood associations get together with them and say, why don't you put something in a covenant or something in an agreement that states you don't want this to be demolished and only will sell it to somebody that wants to rehab the property? The sellers have that ability to do that. And if the neighborhood associations get together with them, why not implement that?
 What I don't want to see, again, is the developers restricted, impeded, and sent away, because we do need new houses being built, as the gentleman stated, for his family, and that's an option that should be out there. We should not restrict him from being able to look at those kind of houses. So, again, from my position, I think this tax is too high.
 And the brokerage houses should step up also on the additional amount that should go to the HIF fund. And if they don't want to, don't deal with the developers. Just have the developers sell it out themselves and let's just cut the brokers out of the deal at 100%. And maybe they'll understand that if they want to step up to the table today and say, hey, let's not let the developers build the houses, but hey, if they have a million-dollar home they just did,
 then I want to get in there and get that commission. Well, that's kind of a double standard. So stand by what you say. And a lot of sellers out there, I think, would be open to not allowing the house that they are selling not to be demolished. But they also have to understand up front.
 You need to talk to your broker and have that put into some form of agreement, whether in the listing agreement or have an attorney draw something up to make sure that happens. Thank you. Thank you. Lightning, can I just clarify something? Yes. Because it just seems like there's still some lingering doubt on this proposition. And I just want to once and for all clear this up. The current proposal before us that's already been amended. Yes.
 It states clearly that any revenue will go into the housing investment fund without any restrictions. Okay, very good. For any purpose, the commissioner in charge wishes to spend it without restriction. Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, next three, please. Next, please come up. Claire Carter, Diane Lynn, Peggy Moretti.
 Good morning. Go ahead, Diane, while the others are getting settled. Good morning. Diane Lynn, Director at Proud Ground. Thank you so much. I'll try to be even longer than two minutes because I think I'm here to suggest that you're going in the right direction with this tax. It really could be, as Ruth said from Oregon on, I join her voice in...
 This effort to create yet another source, another tool in our extraordinary effort to deal with this crisis we have here in our wonderful city around affordable housing. No tax is ever going to be universally embraced by the community. We all know that. But tough choices have to be made. And I think this is a source that could be really an additional very helpful tool for us.
 The only thing I would like to add briefly this morning is we really do need to start to plant the seeds of permanent affordability every chance we get. If this money could be applied, at least in some ways, it doesn't have to be exclusively applied. I appreciate Commissioner Fish's effort to expand our choices. Thank you.
 We do need to talk about establishing permanently affordable housing. So 10 and 20 and 30 years down the road, we're not facing these similar issues over and over and over again in neighborhoods. So we're going to be working diligently with our partners at Habitat for Humanity, Proud Ground, to promote housing.
 homeownership as a real opportunity for the use of these funds, how you amend this exact public policy. I give you...
 you know the best of luck and finding the right the sweet spot but please do uh support this tax so we can uh apply it to some very important investments in ideally home ownership and other affordability efforts in the city so just just to your point i think we should uh we should be more flexible in renewing our multi-program if we can get an extra 10 years under the program i think we should have an agreement with the county to do so i think
 The 60-year affordability covenant generally that we require in a number of our programs is about right, so that's, for me, the gold standard. And if Commissioner Saltzman decides that he wants to use a portion of the HIF to do land banking ahead of affordable home ownership within our community, I think that would be a splendid use of this money. The one thing we don't want to do, though, is start having –
 that we put into this fund with strings attached, then it becomes less the flexible tool that can be used for a whole array of purposes and more an accounting nightmare. So that's the only purpose behind keeping it unencumbered. But I personally think that you have a number of compelling claims on that money for things around homeownership. Can I just add, please, that the goal is to keep the money in the home ownership.
 should be permanent affordability in a perfect world, together with all those other measures, the Holton and other exemption programs, still the price point is really too high for people making 60%, 70% of MFI in the community. So I'd add that point. Good point. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. Would you like to just push the button on the base of that microphone and we can actually hear you? Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Claire Carter. I live at 6156 Southwest Nevada Court, Portland. I'm here to testify as a draft representative about the proposed $25,000 demolition tax. The Development Review Advisory Committee, for the uninitiated, is a council-appointed group of 17 individuals that include all sectors of building and development community within the City of Portland.
 We represent a broad array, including neighborhood coalition, land use committees, minority construction professionals, environmental conservation, green building, low-income housing developers, public works permits, small businesses, citywide neighborhood interest groups.
 historic preservation, frequent development review customers, design professionals, large developers, large construction contractors, home builders, major facilities, landowners, home remodelers, Portland Planning Commission, and land use professionals. Seventeen people that represent the broad array of interests that are involved in development in the city of Portland.
 The draft first heard about this proposal in September, and at the September 17th meeting, we voted to submit a letter to the mayor's office expressing disappointment that there had been no involvement in this standing city committee in developing or reviewing the idea of a demolition tax.
 The DRAC met last Thursday at our regular meeting, November 19th. We had a full agenda and it included Jillian Detweiler from the Mayor's Office. Thank you, Jillian, for showing up and talking to us about the demolition tax as it is currently proposed with one of Mayor Hales' amendments but not the array of amendments that has been proposed this morning.
 Lively discussion followed. The DREC voted unanimously to oppose the proposal.
 And we submitted a letter to the mayor's office stating our reasons. I have the letter. I don't know if you've all had the opportunity to – okay, so I'm seeing nods. Okay, the opposition – I'll try to finish up. Opposition, as detailed in the letter, is based on four main concerns. The first is the proposal attempts to use the demolition tax as a one-size-fits-all response to many concerns expressed by neighborhoods and special interest groups, including developers.
 The larger issues that need to be addressed are housing affordability, planning efforts to increase residential density, loss of neighborhood landmarks, cohesiveness, character, and the need to replace substandard housing stock with safer code-compliant housing. The proposal does not directly address any one of these issues. Thank you.
 Two, the process of developing the proposal was not inclusive and did not involve key stakeholders, including the development community. Since stakeholder involvement was limited, I suspect the proposal pleases none and offends all more than offering solutions. Three.
 Three, the proposal will negatively impact housing affordability by adding $25,000 to the cost of housing built to replace demolished structures. That is a basic truth. You know, you can kind of try to tiptoe around it any way you want, but it's going to be $25,000 on top of the cost of housing. And fourth, the proposal was developed at least in part to address the demolition crisis.
 And I would say, having been on the inside of this issue for quite a while, is there really a demolition crisis? You know, we have numbers, but we don't really know what they mean. The analysis has been limited. Is the city really undergoing loss of housing that is higher than ever before? I don't know. You know, is this the crisis? Really? Yeah.
 So, the Development Review Advisory Committee really would like to see this proposal withdrawn, and we would like to see larger involvement of the community in crafting a proposal that meets the needs that are expressed. And what I've been hearing this morning is interesting.
 Housing affordability in the city is a huge issue. The council needs to step up and needs to look at finding long-term solutions to this issue. Thank you. Let me get you to wrap up. Thank you so much for your time. I appreciate your attention to this important issue. Thank you very much. Good morning, Peggy. My name is Peggy Moretti. I'm the director of Restore Oregon, a nonprofit that works together
 to pass forward Oregon's historic places and promotes livable communities. I do want to take a second to wish you a happy Thanksgiving and express our thankfulness for your service to the city.
 We've been tracking the growing demolition epidemic, and we do believe it is an epidemic just by the escalating numbers that we have tracked. We've participated in several task forces and proposed practical solutions that will curb the demolitions going on while allowing for needed growth. Our staff is currently serving on the residential infill project, the deconstruction advisory group, have participated in draft conversations, and the seismic advisory group.
 We support very strongly the proposed demolition tax for two primary reasons. It provides a very important disincentive to counterbalance what the accelerating market forces are doing to spur the 400-plus single-family residential demolitions that we will experience this year. We think this tax will slow the pace. It won't eliminate it, but it will slow the pace of demolitions, allowing the residential infill project to do its work.
 to redefine the single-family zoning code in a way that will retain neighborhood character. The second reason we think this makes sense for the city is that the demolition attacks
 tax aligns with our sustainability goals. Every time a building is demolished, we're throwing away tons of materials, craftsmanship, history, and the embodied energy that has already been expended. It should hurt to dump that much into the landfill. It has been well documented that it will take decades for a replacement structure to offset the energy thrown away and the energy expended in the new construction. Thank you.
 Some have questioned whether it's appropriate to label what we're experiencing as a demolition epidemic. Commissioner Novak said that to me last week. But it does meet characteristics of an epidemic in that it is currently uncontrolled and that the fatalities, I would put quote marks around that, have a very permanent impact on the community.
 We think the money raised from the demolition tax will not of itself solve our affordability housing issues, but even if only half of the current 400 homes that are demolished end up paying that tax, that is $5 million towards this very important goal of affordable housing. And, of course, we hope some of that affordable housing will be created in historic buildings. Thank you.
 The current situation is costing Portland a lot in the form of waste and landfill, loss of affordable starter homes, the release of hazardous materials, and the loss of neighborhood character that makes Portland Portland-like.
 It may well make sense to revisit this tax in a few years, and we might even suggest some amendments in the form of waiving the tax for a house moved, a house that was relocated, and perhaps reduce it for deconstruction. But right now, the demolition tax offers an important and effective disincentive and gives our neighborhoods a fighting chance. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all.
 Okay, thanks. Give me you too. Thank you. Okay. Hmm. We have five more and Call first three Michael Dowd Cameron Harrington and Paul Grove and then they will be followed by Charles Johnson and Jane Leo Go ahead and take that. Yeah, go ahead. It's the center seat there that we don't have to use that other microphone. Yeah, go
 I'm Mike Dowd. I'm an architect. I oppose this tax as proposed. I am sympathetic to neighbors of developers tearing down good houses and replacing them with incompatible spec houses. But this proposal needs exemptions to avoid punishing people like me due to the assumption that all demolitions are bad.
 Before saying anything else, I'd like to ask you to please exempt, again, at a minimum, one, people who have lived in their homes. I mean, for me, it would work if you've lived there 10 years. I've lived in mine 10 and want to replace their own homes for themselves. And most importantly, number two, houses in flood zones, especially my Miles Street neighborhood area.
 There's very few people in either of those categories, but it would be very unfair if those are not exempted. Please look at the photo on the last page of what I've submitted. That's my neighborhood in the 96 flood area.
 Moving on, I wrote three lists in the testimony. Seven reasons a tax is unfair, ten situations that should always be exempted, and five things that should happen instead. I also added five situations that are ironically being ignored here. Please read those before voting. Today I'm here as a homeowner who definitely will lose $25,000 that I don't have unless you make exemptions.
 Ten years ago, I bought my house for my family with the goal of replacing it with my dream home. It's under 800 square feet, poorly designed, poorly constructed, in poor condition, and in a flood zone. It has no quality or integrity. Its problems cannot be solved through remodeling, even if the design and structure allow feasible remodeling, which they don't.
 Flood regulations would trigger removing the entire basement, tearing out the foundation, building a new liquefaction-resistant foundation, raising the living spaces above flood level, and bringing the house up to current codes. My neighbors are in the same boat, or boats if you don't exempt us. It's assessed far lower on its land and is only a quarter the size of the nice new homes nearby.
 In fact, if you read my list of ten situations that should be exempt from this tax, my house meets every one of those. To protect our neighbors, also, the zoning already requires that we go through Greenway review and design review so any new house will be compatible. Okay.
 I object to having my affordability knocked down by $25,000 that I don't have to punish us for a positive demolition to pay for someone else's affordability. Plus, since the home's value is almost entirely in the location, not the structure itself,
 I'll still be the one paying the tax if we sell it because nobody is going to pay anything near what we paid unless they can tear it down. And since they'll need $25,000 for that, they'll offer that much less to us. Summary, 99% of homes in Portland can be added on to or remodeled.
 don't punish me for being in the other 1%. We want to be left alone to achieve at our own expense what others in this room already enjoy. Please read and consider my exemptions, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for yours. If you did that one plus the flood exemption, I'd be happy. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. Hi, good morning, commissioners. My name is Cameron Harrington. I represent Living Kali, which is a collaborative effort of four community development organizations in the Kali neighborhood, Verde, NEA, Hacienda CDC, and Habitat for Humanity.
 Our first major concern, which we relayed to you in written communication you've already taken care of, which was to add an exemption, an upfront exemption for demolitions that will result in affordable housing. I had a number of really impressive points I was going to make about that. I'll skip those since you've already taken care of that. Our second point is that –
 on an issue involving the utilities. And prior to taking testimony, we adopted an amendment which cured the problem. But the person was so eager to go after one of my colleagues that he read his comments and attacked the person who had amended it successfully, if it mattered, because he had to get it off his chest. And you might have guessed Commissioner Leonard was down the receiving end. But it was quite a moment. So I appreciate your comments. I'll save you from that. I'm sure there were excellent points, though.
 Thank you. They were appreciated. So our second point is we strongly support the amendment to remove the rebate in cases where density is added. The intent of having that rebate in the first place presumptively would be to encourage increased density, which is a goal that we support. However, this rebate is completely unnecessary to achieve that goal. It is in situations where density could be added
 that demolition is most likely to take place already because there is the highest profit margin to be made by the developer. So they're already going to do that because that is how you maximize profits is by knocking down one house and selling two or three or four.
 So we don't need to also give developers a $25,000 public subsidy to do the thing they were already going to do. That's just a misappropriation of public funds, and it also would limit the revenue brought in through this tax by 50 percent, the Oregonian tax.
 reported that half of the demolitions that have occurred in the last two years have resulted in increased density, and we would be foregoing millions of dollars of revenue for the Housing Investment Fund if we leave that loophole in place, which, again, is a completely unnecessary loophole. And our third point is...
 the ordinance needs to be clarified to make sure that this fee is being, this tax is being applied per unit that is demolished, not per structure. If there's a duplex or a quadplex, that needs to be really clarified. And in our communication with the mayor's staff, it sounds like that is still ambiguous. No, the way I read it, if you look at the definitions, it says that residential structure means a dwelling unit.
 Yeah, and I raised that question with the mayor's staff, and...
 It would be great to really clarify that point as the administrative rules being put together. And we're also very concerned about potentially pushing back the deadline to March 1st without having some intermediate step to hold back on permits being pulled right now. We saw what happened when there was a lag time in the 90-day rent increase, which
 I mean, I was one of those renters whose landlords took advantage of that lag time to jump in with a rent increase under the gun. So it shouldn't take three months to figure out how to implement this new rule. Thank you very much. Good morning.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioners, for the record, Paul Grove with the Home Builders of Portland, or that dreaded D word as Commissioner Novick referred to earlier. I've handed out my testimony. I won't read it. It's there for you to look at at your convenience. It closely mirrors the testimony we submitted back in October with the added policy concern or consideration around the removal of the density rebate.
 Again, rather than go through my testimony point for point, I want to highlight some issues or items that we've heard and really focus on some consequences, frankly unintended consequences that may be a result of the proposal before you.
 I think the first thing I want to highlight is the testimony that we've heard from economists on the issue around, does a $25,000 tax achieve the goal of dissuading a teardown and impact affordability, in particular the quote-unquote McMansions that folks have voiced concerns over? And we've heard previously in October the answer was no. Moreover, the economists stressed that
 that the tax could result in a potential hardship for less affluent neighborhoods. I think it's something that Council has to be mindful of moving forward with respect to this. The second thing I was going to note, but there's been a robust discussion today, is around those not-for-profit developers, the Habitats and others, building in and around the SDC waiver line. And I think whatever we can do to encourage their ability to move forward,
 you know, with those types of projects, the better. And we know it's a hardship for them to carry the cost of the tax and the additional financing. I think the same ultimately holds true for smaller builders that are building in and around the median home price as well. It's a very real consideration, and there are fewer and fewer that are building in that range.
 The third thing I wanted to note is, and you heard from previous testimony in October, the retired gentleman from North Portland, he and his neighbor were worried about the impact to their nest eggs. And similar to the cost of a home and the $25,000 being shifted to the purchase price, the same would hold true for that individual property owner.
 And the owner-occupied piece really quickly is very compelling testimony from the young pregnant woman and their couple looking to do a remodel, could not afford that, wanted to do a potential tear-down and rebuild, but found the $25,000 prohibitive. The last thing I want to note, and you heard testimony today around middle-class workforce-type housing, is very real consideration with respect to this tax.
 The last thing with respect to the Home Builders Foundation, I know many of you are very familiar with the work that they do around transitional housing for women and children. Part of their model, as you know, involves the potential tear down of a home. So I would ask council that for those not for profits, in addition to building around the SDC waiver line that are on the front lines of the housing emergency providing transitional shelters and other types of housing that we don't have an unintended problem.
 consequence or impact to the work that they're doing at the end of the day, because I think it would fly counter and negatively impact their work. I have a couple of questions. I really appreciate your focus on affordability, and I actually share a number of your concerns that you raised.
 that really relate to the zip code, where these are happening, and general affordability. And I appreciate your support for the exemption language on the nonprofit affordable homeownership. But maybe it's because we don't have a lot of great data that there's some confusion in this debate. I'm just curious. I have anecdotal evidence about demolitions that are occurring in Northeast.
 And almost invariably, they're homes that once were affordable being replaced by homes that are now completely out of reach. And in fact, every demolition within three blocks of my house is a home that once upon a time a police officer and a nurse could afford. And now I don't know who is affording these homes that are coming in at $850,000, except people that have cash from the sale of their prior home and are taking advantage of historically low interest rates.
 Where in the city are you seeing evidence of demolitions where homes are being replaced by developers with homes that are affordable to police officers and nurses? Because Randy Sebastian was in here, and I appreciated his candor. He's a prominent developer, and he's in the forefront of these demolitions, and he's building $700,000, $800,000, $900,000 homes. And God bless him if he can find someone to buy those. Where are we seeing demolitions –
 leading to replacement homes that are affordable for cops and nurses? Well, Commissioner Fisher, I appreciate the question. I'll give you one quick example that comes to the top of my head. I know that Mayor Hales has seen the complex. We did a tour, and the mayor graciously provided a lot of his time one day, and we could show a variety of different homes. One of the projects that we showed him was a teardown, I believe, around Southeast 77th.
 And it was one home torn down, replaced with cottage cluster development, six new homes, all around the $335 price range. So I think that would be an example that immediately comes to mind of a teardown replaced with increased density at a very affordable price point. So there are those out there. Now, for increased data, I mean, I can certainly try. Are they the exceptions or the rule?
 I don't have an answer for you at the moment. I think the data, actually, we've got the data line by line for all the last three years, and the data shows that's the exception. It's a wonderful exception. But as I mentioned earlier, the average difference in price is $300,000.
 between the purchase price and the sale house, the for sale house. That's the difference. That's just the delta. That's not the underlying base. So it's a wonderful exception, but it's an exception. And so I guess it goes to the point, though, because we have – and I have my share of qualms with this proposal. I'm not trying to mislead you here, but –
 It does seem that we use a very elastic definition of what's affordable housing sometimes in these debates. And I guess I'll put it to you as I'm interested just from a policy point of view. Does imposing an additional $25,000 on a transaction where the house is going to be sold for between $700,000 and $1 million, does that work against any definition of affordable housing goals in our city? Okay.
 You may disagree with the policy. You may disagree with the tool. But is there any conceivable affordable housing goal of the city that that offends? Well, Commissioner Fish, I think. Particularly because we've been preempted from other tools we might think are more strategic. And some of our greatest critics have prevented us from using other tools, which in my mind are actually better tools for a number of reasons. But our hands are tied because they have more influence in Salem than we do.
 So on this one, does it offend an affordable housing goal to add $25,000 if it truly is a pass-through to someone buying a house between $700,000 and $1 million? Well, you know, I would suggest, Commissioner Fish, that the issue can be looked at in two lenses. You're talking about housing affordability and affordable housing. And so if it's an affordable housing goal and does $25,000 offend the notion, I apologize, I'm not quite understanding. One of your members –
 who's thinking about tearing down a house and building a bigger house, has to add $25,000, decides to add $25,000, see if they can collect an additional $25,000, in other words, pass this cost through. And in my neighborhood, by the way, people are strategically listing prices at a ridiculous number, and then there's a bidding war that goes above that. So we're in an uncharted territory in terms of what people are willing to pay, apparently, at this high end.
 Does it offend any affordable housing goals that I know the Foundation cares about and we work on? Add $25,000 to the cost of a house that's otherwise going to be selling for $700,000 to $1 million. And again, I'm struggling with the question. I apologize. And maybe that's just me in the moment, not quite getting my arms around it. But again,
 But the 25,000 path to support the program or the policy objective that we're talking about today, I mean, or – I guess maybe it's the end of a long month. We all have council hangover from the big rush to get everything done this year. But you make a compelling argument to me when you're talking about at the lower end of the housing market. Yes, sir.
 Unfortunately, I'm not seeing many examples of demolitions where developers are replacing $300,000 bungalows with $325,000 bungalows that are affordable.
 And so what we're seeing is, and the data suggests, is we're seeing a huge bump up in price, and people therefore are building bigger homes, and they're serving a different market. And I'm not here to question the market, but I'm just wondering, since the argument that is used against this is somehow, even at the high end, it works against affordability, I just want to question that, because between $700,000 and $1 million,
 I'm not sure the conversation should be framed around affordability.
 because already people demonstrated they have the resources to buy a very substantial house, and I'm not sure it makes a big difference. Sure. I apologize for just struggling on the spot with the question. I think, one, with respect to the data, and I don't have the numbers in front of me, and I'm not going to question what the mayor and others have in front of them, but I would like to ultimately follow up and see what that looks like. Actually, Mr. Grove, can I throw something out here? My staff informs me that –
 the average value of the replacement home in the past couple of years has been around half a million dollars. So that suggests that greater than $35,000 is unusual, but that $700,000 isn't always what it is either. And so then to the other piece around the large-scale homes and the issues around affordability, and is this counter, I guess, to the affordability objectives? And again, I think you hit upon a –
 important point though oftentimes in terms of what the market is going to dictate with some of these new homes that are being built. But I would also suggest though that what is more affordable, two homes at $425,000 or one home at $850,000? And I think there are certainly instances where you have two homes at $425,000 and to me that is a much more affordable proposition at the end of the day. And I get that and you therefore disagree with the Mayor's amendment.
 take that density piece out, and that's clear. Well, at some point, because the home builders have worked with us on lots of affordable housing initiatives, your foundation does amazing work, I'd be interested in continuing this discussion around things we can support together. And I appreciate that this is a tool that you don't support. And I'd be interested in what tools we could support. And again, most of them seem to be preempted.
 by the state legislature. And I'd love to find something that you and I could together go to Salem and agree as a tool that we should use for affordable housing. Thank you very much. Actually, Mayor, I've got a couple more questions. One is how often do you see a demolition resulting in more density in single-family zones, which is all we're talking about here?
 Yeah, Commissioner Novick, we had some data pulled for 2015, and this is older data. It's around end of September, early October. What we had seen, and these were where development was planned and identified, and we saw 165 teardowns replaced with approximately, I want to say just under 300,
 new homes. So I think that's about 175, 180% increase at the end of the day. So if that gets to your question.
 The other question is a little off topic, but the issue of asbestos. I mean, I too have been concerned, as one of the previous testifiers said, concerned by the Oregonians reporting that it sounds like DEQ isn't doing a very good job enforcing the asbestos regulations. And I'd appreciate, maybe not today, but at some point, if you have any suggestions as to what the city could do to protect people from asbestos while the state's trying to improve what they're doing. Certainly happy to follow up.
 thank you all very much okay let's click the last two and then we'll call staff back up charles johnson and jane leo come on up okay when was the last time you were you bad at cleanup wants to back clean up go ahead charles good morning commissioners uh for the record my name is charles johnson and i just want to slightly quote mr commissioner fitz of commissioner fish and but then take it out of context uh
 He said he was not going to question the market. Markets give us cool stuff. Markets also give us child labor, pollution, worker deaths. So I know Commissioner Fish will, in the right context, question the market, even if it's just real estate, because the real estate market is seen in the Journal of Commerce, and it's seen when you walk down Fifth Avenue. Fifth Avenue in New York,
 and now Fifth Avenue, Southwest, and Portland look the same. They're full of buildings that have homeless people sleeping in front of them. That's a small part of the affordable housing thing. I know we have some things coming online, hopefully tonight and tomorrow night, to start addressing that problem. But I'm not sure how much honesty and candor has been in some of this testimony. We know that there are...
 Well, first of all, there's no progressive taxation at all when it comes to real estate speculation. So those people already have a huge pass. So primarily I want to tell you, pass this. Get it on the books. Then listen to the people, and you'll find that the tweaks that are much more important are going to make it progressive and deterrent at the high end. Yes, there might be some small changes,
 anecdotal stories of small homeowners who had some problems. I have confidence in y'all that you can properly interpret the legislative intent for this and that small homeowners won't be hurt. Small homes will stay available and on the market at an entry level. And you can adjust this so that when somebody buys a $200,000 home and demolishes it and replaces it with
 something that comes up to five foot one inch of every lot line and is three stories tall, people can at least look and say, well, at least it's contributing to the community beyond the same property tax rate that I'm paying because they have a hell of a lot more capacity to pay property taxes. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Jane. Morning. Good morning.
 To be very honest with you, I'm not really sure what I'm testifying on here. It's been amended. It's a little bit of a moving object. But I'm going to ask adhering to my original testimony that I prepared but will not be submitting in writing to you because I've amended it so many times. I'm asking you not to adopt the ordinance before you that it is fatally flawed and it will result in negative consequences for.
 For the record, I'm Jane Leo, Government Affairs Director for the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors. Every day our members work with the residents of the city to help them achieve their goal of homeownership. Through our Realtor Home Foundation, we provide grants to our community partners such as Hacienda CDC, Habitat for Humanity, NAYA, so they can build housing for their clients who want to be homeowners. Under the proposed ordinance, we...
 the city would be moving the goal of home ownership further out of reach for the city's residents of all incomes. The ordinance under consideration is in conflict with the city's own policies and negatively impacts those non-profit builders I mentioned, but also those who are building under the city's what is now called the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. They would be liable for this tax and I ask that they be exempted. I'm asking that you retain the
 the density exemption specifically. And, Mayor, I'm a little bit confused by a comment you made, but I'm asking that the density exemption be retained, especially in areas such as what we see on the east side of Portland where the underlying property is two or more tax lots. So allowing the builder to build on those three tax lots, two or three tax lots, and allowing them to be exempt for the one going down and more housing going up.
 You know, repeatedly I've heard city staff sit at MPAC and MTAC meetings at Metro and say that the city can meet its density requirements and that development should be at minimum 20 units per acre. Without allowing density and giving bonuses or some sort of incentive for those densities, you're detrimental to the own comments made before Metro's committees.
 Also, I am in support of the homeowner exemption and I look forward to working with you on that. There has to be a way in which a homeowner has an opportunity to rebuild their house and create a dream house, whatever that dream house may look like. In closing, I would ask you not to adopt the proposed demolition ordinance. It's an attempt at a universal solution where one size doesn't fit all.
 and in my last few seconds i want to say that to commissioner fritz's comment or her question of one of the previous speakers what's the response when they say that the builder is gaining profit i would ask that the city take a comprehensive and holistic look at all the fees it places on a building permit as to what it can do in that regard to reduce the price of housing across our full spectrum
 Thank you. Actually, that wasn't quite, that wasn't what I meant, whether I may have come across that way. My question is, aren't developers and sellers already maximizing the amount that they can possibly sell the house for? The market will always place a limit on it.
 But for the developers, whom I do not represent, that was your previous speaker, but every business owner has to still go home and feed his or her kids. So they need to operate on some level of profit margin. Right, and I'm not disputing that. I'm trying to elicit a comment on that.
 whether or not this $25,000 will be passed on to the buyer or not, and whether we have maxed out on housing prices here in Portland or whether there's still some room to put them up still further. To that point, if I may, yes, the cost will get passed on to the buyer.
 in one form or another. ECO Northwest and DHM recently did a presentation, actually over the summer months, of many of your city bureau staff were there, including your own staff, Mr. Mayor. And one thing we heard was this city has become and continues to become a city of the very wealthy and the very poor. The person in the middle is not able to afford to be here. And you heard one of the previous speakers make a comment on that.
 So, yes, costs get passed on, and that's where it raises a concern that that first-time homebuyer is not going to be able to afford that additional $25,000. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay, so let's call our staff back up, please, Jillian and Thomas and anyone else that we need. Yes, Tom, come on up.
 and address questions, and then we can walk through these amendments and take action on them. I think there was some work done on one of them. Yes, there was. Mayor, is it still your intent to get through the whole agenda today before we move on? Yeah, I think so. There's not that much left after this. I think we can probably address these amendments in 15 minutes. Can I start with some questions? Sure, please. Jillian.
 I've offered an amendment that deals with the situation of a city acquiring a property in a flood zone with the intention of demolishing the house. And Mr. Dowd, in his very thoughtful handout, raises the question of houses in flood zones where it's not practicable to remodel the house to address code issues and other needs, where someone may be required –
 essentially take it down to the foundation, fortify the foundation and rebuild. I don't quite know how to address that today, but is that something that we could, it seems to me to be a discrete universe of homes in areas where we know there's flooding and certainly
 If he lives at Willamette Park, we know even with the new pump station we're building there, there's still going to be flooding. Is this a discrete area that we could take a closer look at and think about some changes down the road? Yes. I'm loathe to legislate on the fly here, and we do have an effective date here, but I would ask that on that one, my bureau –
 and your bureaus sit down and talk about that case. It seems compelling, particularly where it's an instance of a property owner that's going to remain in the home but has to do that to address flooding issues. And there are some areas of the city where that, I think, is acute. So I just want to flag that as an issue of concern. Okay.
 Is it your intent to come back to council in one year with a full report on the impact of this legislation and the data? Is that going to be proposed as an amendment? My recommendation is that we come back in one year or less. And the point at which we would come back in less than one year is when we bring forward the
 at least the first package of zoning code amendments that will come out of the residential infill project, because I think the council ought to look at, one, how the demolition tax is working, and two, how we're trying to shape infill development through plans and policies in addition to tax code. And it would be good to do those together. Yeah, and if this does pass, I would very much like to see a report and a presentation of the council within the one year. Mayor, does that need to be done?
 I think only or formally I don't think you do that formally will make that commitment to make sure that that comes back to Council thank you other questions May we could start with having Tom address Commissioner Novick's Desire for the view of the planning girls Tom Armstrong Bureau planning and sustainability I think What you face is a balancing of two values the density
 exemption within the single-family zones and the added lots that we get from that are actually a Small part of our future growth that we're planning on it's probably less than 10% of the 120,000 new units in the next 20 years and you offset that with the affordable housing fund revenue that you're generating and so in terms of how we meet our future growth projections and
 You know, I think that the Affordable Housing Fund can go a long way towards helping us meet and create that affordable housing that offsets anything that we would lose because of the deterrent of a few infill lot splits.
 This might be a question better addressed to your co-Armstrong, but I'm curious about the carbon emission impact. Obviously, there's carbon used in destroying a building and building a new one, but...
 there's also i mean if you're destroying a leaky old building and replacing with two type ones that are near transit where people are likely to not drive then i would think that there is a significant carbon benefit so i'm just curious if the bureau has done an analysis of whether on balance eliminating the density exemption will be a carbon plus or a carbon minus
 I'm not aware of that, especially, again, in the single-family zones. I know more so in the commercial mixed-use and multifamily zones, you do get that much bigger bump in terms of carbon savings there, but we could bring something back on the tradeoffs in the single-family zones. Mayor, I have to say, this is, I think, a pretty important issue because –
 we are concerned about the demolition of the planet as well as the demolition of houses and a major argument for our density policies is increased density results in fewer carbon emissions because when people live closer together then it makes transit more viable it makes it more likely that a grocery store will spring up within walking distance etc so i think that
 we really need to have some analysis of the carbon impact of this proposal. I think that can be managed. I think, again, there's a larger context of how much density we're going to provide for in the comp plan citywide, and that that's where the big impact is. But nevertheless, it's worth having that research done. Okay, other requests or questions for staff?
 And then you've got a revised amendment here for us. Can you walk us through that, please, Thomas? There you go. Can you hear me? There you go. There we go. Thank you. So the proposed amendment, I think, gets to the heart of Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish's desire to not make the low-income housing a rebate structure but rather something closer to an exemption. So the proposal would be to entirely strike 608-10.
 6.08.055, renaming it Demolition Tax Exemption instead of Demolition Tax Rebate. And then I can read through this language if we need to do that for the record. I believe you have a written copy in front of you. Go ahead and read it into the record, Thomas. Following the issuance of the demolition permit, the owner may apply for and obtain a temporary abeyance of the demolition tax assessment on the basis of subsequent development of affordable housing at the property.
 The Portland Housing Bureau shall adopt administrative rules for qualifying, in this first instance of the word exempt, I would strike from this amendment. Okay. So it would read, the Portland Housing Bureau shall adopt administrative rules for qualifying affordable housing as exempt from demolition tax using criteria under either
 Section 30.01.095 or the Homebuyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program, because I understand there were two proposals here. So that's a choice we have to make. A choice the council needs to make, correct. And then continuing, if the subsequent housing development qualifies as affordable housing under the Portland Housing Bureau's administrative rules, the director, that would be the revenue director, shall determine that the demolition tax
 But no demolition tax is due. So this is, in effect, a rewritten version of Commissioner Saltzman's. Exactly. It gets to the intent and just a lot more comfort in terms of administrative. And my mayor, too. Is that right? And then there's another final piece of this is that subsequent housing development does not qualify as affordable housing. The director shall determine that the demolition tax assessment is due and payable. Thomas, the virtue of Commissioner Saltzman's amendment was it's very straightforward and clear.
 The virtue of this is apparently has your blessing, but it is a little harder to read. Just for the record, why would you prefer this somewhat more convoluted approach? What's the benefit? Well, the language is more convoluted. The approach actually isn't more convoluted. However, the language we had before really tried to offer an exemption for
 an action that's taken after the assessment. That's just not the appropriate way to structure that. That really would have been more of a rebate. So that's why we got the term, you know, abeyance in here. We think it's an abate assessment. The assessment's still there, but we're going to obey it until such time as the Housing Bureau has validated that the activity that we wanted to see occurred at that point. And does that –
 The nice thing about an exemption is it takes that cost off the pro forma. What's the timeline between the abeyance and the ruling? The timeline really would be geared on how quick the developer could complete the demolition of the subsequent building of the new housing. So the timeline isn't set. And you note we were silent as to timeline here because I didn't want to get into a situation where developers rushing to complete a build or otherwise –
 I'm trying to meet an arbitrary timeline for us, the city. So the concern, I just want to make sure we're all on the same page. Obviously, if the council wants to provide this exemption, and I hope they do, then it has to be the timing of the granting of the exemption has to be aligned with an event that triggers the exemption. And so your language is designed to better align those two? That's correct. Okay.
 So walk us through the choice of using 30.01095 or the HALTI standard for what constitutes affordable. I'll speak on behalf of the HALTI, the Home Ownership Limited Tax Exemption. Perhaps Julian can speak to the other one. To me, the HALTI is very straightforward. The council sets the home sales price cap every year, and we'll be doing that, I think, next month again for this coming year.
 And it's a well-established program known by the development community, known by the nonprofit community, and I just think it's a known commodity with a pretty clear determination of what the price cap is, in this case, above or below which a rebate or an exemption for the demolition tax would apply. I mean, the only thing I would add is...
 We started out floating with the Housing Bureau, the idea of SDC waiver. I think they just didn't think beyond that. And since this has come to Commissioner Saltzman's office, they've looked at this broader range of programs and landed on the HALTI, and I think that's perfectly fine. Okay. So I think I'd prefer that approach, too. My preference is it be as broadly construed as possible.
 And so I just would hate to pick one today and find out that it was unduly limiting. Oh, I thought you were intending for us to pick one. You'd say we could. Well, we are. Yeah, we are. You know, direction to the Bureau would be. So which one is more permissive? I'm sorry. I'm not sure if I'm following that. We don't have a copy of 30-01-095 because it's not part of this proposal.
 The most permissive approach you could take would be to entirely strike everything after using criteria in that sentence, Commissioner. Yeah, because they're going to do administrative rules, which we'll look at to review. Oh. So then the modified language would be the Portland Housing Bureau shall adopt administrative rules for qualifying affordable housing as exempt from the demolition excise tax, period. I like that. I mean, you can go that way, but then you're asking us to create a whole new set of rules where we already have –
 You're the commissioner in charge of housing. You can create the administrative rules however you want. I've heard you to choose from each shelf. I think we're giving you a lot of power here, Doug. Most liberal construction. I'm just trying to keep it as simple as possible. As simple as possible. Tie it into an existing program. You get to choose as simple as possible. You get to choose. That way we're giving you the option to pick the broadest possible. You're being railroaded into getting more power here. This less complicated proposal balances out my earlier comment. Let's strike. Let's take that and delete. Commissioner? Commissioner?
 Commissioner, before you go much further on this, there is a question of legislative delegation in terms of what are the criteria that will help to guide the Housing Bureau in establishing this exemption. I think, Council, we've got that. We have that as the legislative intent. That doesn't belong in the code. We've made it clear we want him to be as expansive. There is a requirement by the courts under the concept of legislative delegation to give some guidance to the Bureau. Okay.
 We're giving him the broadest possible grant of authority, and he's going to come back with proposed code. Well, how about using – This would develop administrative rules, which would occur outside of coming back to council. So how about then instead of striking that, we said using criteria under 30.01.095 and or home buyer limited tax exemption. Would that satisfy your concern? How about –
 Using criteria such as 30-010. There we go. Fine. Okay. I like that. Fine. I get what we're trying to do here, Thomas. It, again, lacks the clarity of Dan's, but if it's the same intent and we're giving him the broad authority to craft the rules with you to create the largest possible exemption for affordable homeownership, then I support this. That's exactly what it would do. And, in fact –
 The Commissioner and the Housing Bureau would entirely promulgate that administrative rule. We would make it available on our website, but that would be entirely up to housing. Okay. So is that – We would still enter that. Would you withdraw Assaultsman 1 and offer this?
 i'd be happy to this is the right time commissioner salsman withdraws his original amendment and offers this as a substitute is there a second second but i think we need to read into the record numbers one and two because i don't know that thomas did that already right so numbers one and two below b that we just modified says if the subsequent housing development qualifies as affordable housing under
 Portman Housing Bureau administrative rules, the director shall determine that no demolition tax is due. And two, if the subsequent housing development does not qualify as affordable housing, the director shall determine that the demolition tax assessment is due and payable. So it gives that clarity about what happens after the determination. Okay. So more questions before we try to walk through amendments?
 So then let's do that. Let's vote on that one. We could. Do you want to take that? Go ahead. We have that one on the floor. You want to go ahead and take a roll call vote on this amendment, the Saltzman amendment as modified by the handout we've received from Thomas and further modified by changing either to such as under B. So this is the Saltzman substitute one as amended. Further discussion? Roll call, please, on that amendment. No, thank you.
 I think this is a good amendment. I'm also going to ask for a vote on my tiered version, but I don't think these are inconsistent. Aye. Prince? So in all my votes on the amendments, I want to be clear that what I'm trying to do here is making the underlying ordinance as good as it can be for multiple purposes. I'm not likely to support the underlying ordinance. However, I think that the amendments as proposed are going to improve it. Aye.
 Commissioner Salsman, I very much appreciate the amendment you brought forward, and I appreciate this discussion and the testimony and the commitment we're making to exempt affordable homeownership developed by our nonprofit partners consistent with our existing rules. Aye. Salsman. Aye. Neal. Aye. Okay, that one's done. Let's go back then, if we might, to my first amendment, which is the one that removes the –
 rebate for Multiple unit development in single-family zones further discussion on that one. Okay, let's take a vote on that please I'm sorry. I was Number one you're with the density. Yes. Yeah, I I
 Don't think that we should act on this until we have an analysis of what the implications are for our carbon use and I couple of weeks ago we passed a resolution opposing new fossil fuel facilities that I think was primarily because we're concerned about carbon emissions and I think that if we're taking an action that can relate to carbon emissions we should have an analysis of that before we take that action and
 So, absent any analysis presented to us of what the carbon impact is of eliminating this exemption, no. I think this makes the ordinance more defensible. Aye. Aye. All's met? Aye. Aye. Okay. Then let's go to my second one, which was an effective date of March 1. I guess we might...
 push you a bit thomas i think there's concern both on the council and the community that sooner is better thoughts about that before we vote on this i i would agree i mean you know having witnesses as everybody knows the the 30-day delay in the renter renter protection ordinance resulting in sort of a rush to rent increases that march 1st seems too far away
 So we're making a very uncomfortable situation for one of our administrators. But that's our job. Let me...
 We're already pushing back a little bit from my initial thought as far as when we could bring this up. Let me put February 1 in here, and you can come back to us if you need a hardship. I was going to suggest mid-February. So here are the things that need to occur. We need to modify databases, get the accounting structure set up. We need to promulgate these administrative rules, which requires 30 days of public notification. There's a process involved there.
 I've got to try to hire a staff person at Christmastime. There's a laundry list of things. So if we make the effective date too early, there's a very good chance I'm going to fail. I would say mid-February, if that would work for the council. You know, colleagues, any time it's 30 days or more, there's going to be people gaming the system. I would encourage us to allow the revenue bureaus to set up the process. Yes.
 We've got to quit time. Yeah. You're right. There's going to be, no matter when, unless it's tomorrow morning. Thomas, if we told you you didn't have to work on any of the sharing economy stuff, would that free up some time? That might. I move the amendment. Okay. Let's take a roll call on the amendment as March 1. No, but. Aye. Aye. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 all right hi hi okay then let's move next to this one fish one which is the um floodplain issue and and jillian just to be clear we're going to take a look at the related issue that's been flagged and see whether that comes back to council and for that discrete category of of uh of homeowners yes okay further discussion and roll call on that amendment please no thank
 I really appreciate the professionals at BES that
 brought this to my attention and made the case for this amendment. Aye. Houseman? Aye. Aye. Now let's move to Fritz's one, which is the… I actually have an amended. I said I was not only here to have one amendment, but I actually have an amendment to my amendment. And this is in response to the testimony that we heard. It's just clarifying. So the amended amendment is to…
 6-0-8-0-5-0 exemptions add demolition permits where the applicant is the homeowner whose legal residential address was the site as of March 1, 2016. That's so that there's not a lot of speculators of property owners buying things up who aren't actually living at the address. Second. I like that better. Further discussion? Roll call on the amended Fritz Amendment.
 no bit hi hi hi hi hi hi hi okay now let's move to commissioner novick's amendments um first are there's there two all right there are two there they are okay one establishes the tiered rebate structure okay further discussion of of that or questions for staff
 Okay. Then let's take a roll call, please, on Novick Amendment Number 1. So I think that it is important to acknowledge that there's a difference in the affordability impact when a house is being knocked down or replaced with a $350,000 house than when it's being knocked down or replaced with a million-dollar house. And we...
 The evidence is that the average cost of a replacement house when there's been a demolition is about half a million dollars. I don't mind having the $25,000 tax applied to a house that's sold for over half a million dollars. I do mind it being applied to a house that's being sold for $375,000. So I hope the council will support this amendment. Oh, hi. Sorry. Chris.
 This really gets at the crux of, is this proposal for reducing demolitions, or is it for providing money for affordable housing? What's the primary purpose of it? I think the most persuasive purpose is that it's for providing money for affordable housing. $375,000 is not affordable to a lot of Portlanders.
 For the median family income, $375,000 is not affordable. So the thought of giving a 50% rebate to properties that sell for 150% of median income
 or medium sales price just doesn't meet my definition of what's affordable housing. And so I would like to have something like this. I absolutely support taxing expensive homes more than modest homes and affordable homes. I don't think this quite gets to it, no. Yes. Well, I'm torn on this because the arguments we've heard about affordability and housing prices
 that is truly affordable resonate with me. I'm not sure this is workable. On the other hand, currently with the interest rates, if you have the credit, you can get about $400,000 of financing if you have the credit, which translates to about a $2,000 a month mortgage. We are in unchartered territory in terms of debt servicing.
 And I am worried about the police officer and the nurse that want to live in our community. And this is not my – this is not – and I don't think Steve would say this has been fully baked, but I think it's a good faith effort at getting at the issue. And so I'm going to support it, even though it may need some tweaking. Hi. I'll spend it.
 Well, I support the intent of this, and I think given the discussion we had earlier on determining what we're now calling an exemption, right, exemption for affordability. I think that the process that Commissioner Novick has outlined should serve as guidance to the Housing Bureau in developing the rules, but I'm just a little leery of putting it into the code at this point, so I'll vote no. Thank you.
 i'm going to vote no for now but and a couple reasons for that one this is a new thing as we've heard only two other small cities in illinois have any such thing at all and we're trying something here that we hope will work and steve what i want to see first frankly is the drop in demolitions
 then make sure that we tune it with respect to our revenue goal because I guess I would probably put the priorities for this and the different order than you did Amanda I think they're both legitimate goals but my most urgent goal is to reduce the rate of demolition the revenue effect is
 beneficial, but the rate reduction is the highest priority. So I want to see that first. I do not expect that this is something that the city council is going to set and forget. I think we're going to be returning to this tax periodically to see how it's working, and we're also going to be returning to it to see how it fits with what the residential infill project comes up with and what
 we want to see actually happen on the ground. So I've always been interested in having this tax be more progressive than it will be coming out of the gate at $25,000 per demolition. So I'm very interested in considering this later, but I'd like to start at the simplest possible form of this for the moment. No. No.
 Let's take your next amendment. Before we talk about that, can I ask you a question? How many demolitions do you expect the $25,000 tax to prevent? Well, I'm hoping that it will prevent as many as 100, given that we're seeing several hundred a year. Again, it's very difficult to forecast.
 how many demolitions this will prevent. Because as we've heard in the testimony, there's so many different market effects going on in all these different transactions. And some of them will be not dissuaded by this at all.
 they will someone will still tear down a perfectly good half million dollar house and build a 1.1 million dollar house down the street from commissioner fish if what i've been hearing about alameda and irvington continues to happen in my neighborhood the same thing maybe in neighborhoods where houses are not have not been bid up quite that much the 25 000 dollar amount will have more of an actual effect on the transaction will
 We'll see. So I'm hoping that we'll see, you know, a 25% to 50% reduction in the rate of demolitions. But $25,000 may not be enough to accomplish that. And, again, it's not as progressive as I'd like it to be. So I would hope to return to that progressivity issue not very long from now. Okay, so your second amendment.
 It's still to say that the Revenue Division shall study and report to Council by June 2016 about options for administering and enforcing an exemption or rebate to the tax for existing owners who plan to occupy the house for at least three to five additional years.
 My existing owners, what I mean here actually is not just people who own now, but who are existing owners, pre-existing owners at the time of the demolition. What Evanston, Illinois does is you have to have lived in your house for three years before the demolition, then you have to live another three years before claiming the rebate. So it's something like that that I'd like the Revenue Bureau to consider. So I love the spirit of this, and I know Thomas would welcome additional staff. And is it?
 is there a question about whether we can do we can or should do this outside the budget process oh no it's just he's just setting a date right says to
 There's no additional staff added for this activity. It's just something that we put together for the commissioner, for the full council. Yeah. Looking at the same. Yeah, this is just the requirement that they come back by June 2016 with options for a rebate for existing owners. I'm sorry. And just to be clear, did Katie's modified language, it would say rebate or exemption be considered? Yes, exemption or rebate. Yes, that's in here. Thank you.
 Further questions or discussion about this amendment, then roll call on this amendment, please. Novick. Aye. Yeah, I agree with Commissioner Novick. This is not mutually exclusive to the previous one, and I very much appreciate the intent. Aye. Fish. Aye. Salzman. Aye. Hale. Aye. Thank you. That's an improvement to the ordinance as well. Okay, do we have any others that I have neglected here? Okay, so...
 Comments, concerns from staff? This will come back for second reading. I just wanted to really briefly address, Mayor Hales, the issue of how a structure with more than one residential unit would be treated. So that would be kind of the rare case where there's either nonconforming development, something was built maybe during the war that has multiple units and is now in a single-family zone,
 or it could be the still relatively rare case of a duplex, which is allowed on a corner lot in an R5 zone that is actually being torn down. We think the ordinance could be a little clearer, depending on where the council wants to go with that.
 The exhibit reads that the $25,000 would be assessed when a residential permit is issued. And so a duplex would be demolished under a residential permit. But we kind of have a conflict with adding a definition for residential structure, which originally came in when we were trying to work with the density bonus definition.
 So that could be probably cleaned up a lot. Now, if the council wants to respond to the testimony we heard that it ought to be assessing a tax for every residential unit, that would capture duplexes, nonconforming multifamily development, single-family homes where there's an interior accessory dwelling unit,
 you know we would write it that way but as staff really understands it now a duplex would only require one permit and only one $25,000 tax would be applied
 Or a clarification. I think if the goal is to reduce demolitions and to get more money for affordable housing, both, we want to make it apply to as much as possible. So to my mind, yes, you would charge $50,000 for a duplex being demolished. That destroys two affordable homes. So then I hear an amendment to clarify that unit means individual dwelling unit.
 Right. That was the way I was reading it in the code, but you're saying the exhibit says something different. Well, it may only need to be clarified in the administrative rules because it does say unit in the code, right? Right. I think the paragraph that describes residential structure suggests that maybe you would...
 apply it per unit that's demolished. I think we might just modify the paragraph 6.08.030, demolition tax, which only refers to a single residential permit. There's lots of houses in my neighborhood that look like on the outside a single-family residence, but they have two entrances. So under one roof, there's two homes which are –
 generally in the rental market, a little more affordable and under one roof. So that unit, you're suggesting for the purpose of the demolition tax, we would charge $50,000 for that demolition? The way staff understands the exhibit as written is,
 No, there would only be $25,000 charged. If we want to clarify it to say that it should be charged against each residential unit, regardless that there's only one demolition permit applied for and pulled. But there's a conflict between O2OE, where it says its structure is a dwelling unit, and O3O, which says a permit for the whole building.
 So it's really a policy call as to whether we're… It's a policy call for us. Right. So is there a motion to clarify our policy call? Which that motion would be to say at the end of that first sentence in 030, it would say the sum of $25,000 per unit.
 the words per unit that would do it yeah so that that's the motion that I Fritz moves that we add the words to unit to per unit at that point per dwelling unit per dwelling dwelling unit right thank you second second further discussion of that okay Dylan did you said it's fairly uncommon that what we would have it is fairly uncommon now
 So the universe is pretty finite then of multi-unit dwellings in residential zones. Yeah, among other things because the corner duplex requirements or allowance has only been in the code for about 20, 25 years. So not that many old buildings that are in that situation. And there aren't any multifamily, I mean truly multifamily apartments in single-family zones. Is that correct? No. No.
 There are. There are some. There are some. Non-conforming. Non-conforming. Are we fixing that in the comp plan? In some cases, yes. But in other cases where it's just an island surrounded by a single family, no, we're leaving that. But if the building is obviously there and habitable, then I would say... We would certainly want to stop it from being demolished, right? Right. If it hasn't been declared derelict, we want it to stick around. Yeah. Okay. So just me...
 I'm not going to support this, but we do have some examples at the Water Bureau where people technically live in duplexes that have been condemned because they can't maintain them. You get liens against them, and then they're demolished for a new home, and people are not getting...
 return on the investment of their homes that I think they ought to, but that's because there are some speculative developers out there taking advantage of people that are in homes, and there are some duplexes. But I'm going to vote no because, A, I'm not sure it's the right policy, and, B, I'm not sure I fully understand it, and, C, I still want to get to some other votes before I pass out from hunger and fatigue. So let's just take this to a vote. All right. Let's do, please. Roll call.
 I believe that here the pro-density and pro-affordability position is aye. Agreed, aye. No. Balsam? Aye.
 All right. Okay. Thank you all very much. This will come back to second reading next week. Okay. Now, we do have a little bit of important work left to do, and I know we're tired here, so let's try to move. Mayor, I know a lot of people have been waiting for 1219. Should we call that first? Yes, they have. So let's please move to 1219. Second reading. Okay. Roll call vote on 1219. 1219? Yep. Okay.
 Add code removing barriers to employment to establish procedures for use of criminal history information by employers within the city. Novi. Roll call, please. About 10 years ago, I was working for a cute little public policy nonprofit called Citizens for Oregon's Future.
 And at one point, taking off in the state's quality education model, we were tasked by our board to develop what we called a quality civilization model, figuring out, you know, what should the state do to have a quality civilization in all respects? And one of the things that I was looking at was the criminal justice system. And one of the things I heard from experts.
 experts at that time, is that one of the most important things you can do to reduce recidivism
 is to get people who are coming out of custody into jobs. And I think I'm recalling correctly when I say that there was a professor in Cincinnati who told me that up to a certain amount of time, maybe it was one month or even more, every day that somebody has a job after being released from prison, the risk of recidivism goes down by an entire percentage point. So if you've got a job for 30 days, you're 30% less likely to recidivate.
 The New York Times reported in February that the share of American men with criminal records, particularly black men, grew rapidly in recent decades as the government pursued more aggressive law enforcement strategies, especially against drug crimes. The reluctance of employers to hire people with criminal records is taking a toll on the broader economy. It is preventing millions of American men from becoming, in that old phrase, productive members of society.
 The better irony, of course, is that, as I just said, ex-offenders who find jobs are much less likely to re-offend. So discrimination against people with criminal histories actually results in more criminal behavior. This ordinance would provide that, with limited exceptions, prospective employers may not conduct a criminal history background check on an applicant until after making a conditional offer of employment. If their background check shows an offense that the employer has a good faith belief is a disqualifier for that particular job, the employer may withdraw the offer.
 The point of this rule is to ensure that people with criminal records have a fair chance to get through the interview process. It's very easy for employers to simply screen out applicants based on background checks without giving much thought to whether the criminal record is actually relevant to the job. If there's no background check until the interview process is concluded, an employer is likely to evaluate the applicant on his or her true merits, make a deliberate rather than knee-jerk judgment as to whether the applicant's criminal history is truly relevant.
 I am extremely proud that this council is going to pass this ordinance. It will be one of the two proudest days of my service on the council, the first being when we passed the paid sick leave ordinance a couple of years ago. We are going to have to pay attention to the administrative rules. I think that some employers have concerns about what good faith belief means, so we will address that. But I think that this is a tremendous day for Portland. This is an important civil rights ordinance. Aye. Aye.
 Great. One of the most compelling pieces of testimony that I heard is that black men with no criminal record are less likely to get an interview than white men with a criminal record. So that is proof that this
 that there are many different biases within our system and that we need to do more to address all of them, this is definitely a step in the right direction. I did meet with the Portland Business Alliance and had a good discussion on this issue to clarify the state's law simply prevents employers from requiring applicants to disclose prior to an initial interview. The first question in the interview, according to the state law, can be, what, tell us about your criminal background, or do you have a criminal background?
 And so this ordinance is a huge step forward. It requires that employers must be committed to hiring individuals before considering the criminal record. And we've had experience of this within the city since we banned the box within the city for our own hiring requirements.
 The city's law still allows employers to consider applicants' criminal history at any point during the hiring process if the position involves direct access to children, elderly people, people with disabilities, people with mental illnesses, or individuals with alcohol and drug dependence disorders, and if there is a need for consideration according to the duties of the job.
 So for somebody who's going to be going into other people's homes or other personal spaces, then absolutely it can be considered ahead of time. It's a very straightforward policy. It's very clean. It's clear. I very much appreciate the good work of Judy Prosper, Rachel Wiggins, and Christina Nieves in my home. Like Commissioner Novick, I'm very proud to vote aye. Well, first, I want to acknowledge the goal that brings us to this moment.
 and it's a goal that is shared by everyone regardless of where they come out on the underlying ordinance. And the goal is, in my mind, threefold. One is to remove barriers, and this council has shown a hearty commitment to identifying and removing barriers in our community. The second is to promote access to employment and making sure that everyone has a chance to pursue their dream and become self-sufficient.
 And the third is to address the pervasive racial disparities which continue to hold too many people back in our community. These are core values that I share and that led me to practice civil rights law for about 20 years and now guide my work as a city commissioner. Now, we've had a spirited debate about how to translate those goals into action. And I joined with my colleagues in stating how proud I am that the city of Portland has already taken affirmative action
 to ban the box and i support many of the compromises that have been worked out through the committee process in particular the exemption for very small businesses the effective date of next summer which will give us a chance to put this into place and do effect effective outreach and education a commitment that annually will look at the data and do some oversight to see if there are changes and tweaks that are needed
 and the decision that we will contract with Boley to do enforcement rather than creating a separate enforcement bureau within the legal department, which I strongly support this approach. I have some concerns about the ordinance, and I think it's worth acknowledging them because ultimately we want this to be successful. We're acting ahead of state law, ahead of having a chance to see whether state law actually works,
 and we are, in some instances, creating a two-tiered system. I believe, based on the work I used to do representing plaintiffs in employment cases, that there will be a subtle encouragement through this approach for people to do the kind of profiling that we abhor. And the profiling that an employer who is savvy and unprincipled will do is use information that is apparent but not vetted.
 to make a judgment about an applicant pool and exclude that person from getting to the point of a conditional offer, which is where the enforcement mechanism kicks in. And as I indicated last time, the area I'm most concerned about, because it's the area I think you'll see the greatest abuse, is gaps in people's employment history on a resume.
 And it would be a shame if all this well-intentioned effort led to employers screening people in ways to prevent them from getting the conditional offer and thereby undermining what we're trying to do. And the third thing that gives me some pause is that we have some employers in our community who have actually not just talked about this but done something. And Dave's Killer Bread is an example of a company that has made a commitment to hire people who have records.
 and they brought them in and given them opportunities, meaningful careers within the company. And they have found upstream a more open and candid conversation helpful. But again, they are a unique employer in that they have an explicit set of values around their hiring, and I'm not sure we can extrapolate from them to every other employer. These are real concerns because if we're going to adopt this, we need to make sure it actually has an impact.
 And I guess reasonable people could reach different conclusions. And I think we should track the data carefully, Mayor, to make sure that this actually has the intended benefit. But today I proudly stand with the Urban League and the coalition they have assembled, and mostly with the men and women who seek a second chance in our community in supporting this ordinance. And I want to expressly, explicitly single out one person, and that's Emanuel Price. He has impressed me.
 with the passion of his advocacy, and he has inspired me with his life story. And in his name, I vote aye. Councilman. Well, I am very persuaded by the eloquence of my colleagues that have spoken and voted ahead of me. I do echo some of the concerns Commissioner Fish just echoed about this ordinance. The state did pass something, but I note that they chose not to preempt local governments. So, thank you.
 this is the opportunity before us and i think we should take it because the issue of hiring of people with records is so enormous and so consequential to our society and dealing with issues of race and inequality that we should be grasping at anything that will hopefully change the course of the present
 and situations around the hiring of, in particular, African American males. So we need to act, and I do believe that there has to be good – we have to recognize employers that make good faith efforts, and if somebody – if they make a determination that somebody's –
 record at the point of a conditional offer does warrant not offering that job, whether it's issues around having access to keys to people's apartments or all the other things we've written into the ordinance and will flesh out in the rulemaking, then we need to respect that and respect the employer's ability to make a good faith effort and honor that. And that's been done in the San Francisco ordinance, I would note.
 So all in all, I want to thank Mayor Hills for his persistence on this issue, and I look forward to hopefully making a difference. Bye. Well, I want to thank you all.
 anyone listening to this would understand that this is a city council that has a commitment to equity and opportunity in our city. And I'm proud of being a member of this council today as I am so many other days, but this is an important day. This is a big deal. And I do want to thank especially Rachel Wiggins and Judy Prosper and Josh Alpert on my staff who have, and the city attorney's office who have worked so hard on this and,
 This is a case where community advocates, the AFL-CIO, the Urban League, others, have really come to their city council with a cry for justice. And we've responded. And I'm proud of us for being that place where, one, we are willing to respond, but, two, the community can come forward that way and with clarity of purpose and clarity of goal tell us what the right thing is to do. So thank you to those who have been advocating for this issue.
 I think a lot of us have had enough experience with this issue, as you just did, Commissioner Fish, to have personal contact with people who we'd love to see society not label as ex-cons.
 people who've paid their debt in the criminal justice system shouldn't have to carry that label. And we hope that the effect of this change in how people think about the content of people's characters as they're applying for jobs will change that nomenclature and change people's hearts. And that's, I think, the best thing that could come from this ordinance. So in addition to the others that have been mentioned, for Stefan and for Robert and for Meg,
 Aye. Thank you all. 1220. 1220. Repeal ordinance which vacated a certain portion of Northeast Emerson Street between Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Northeast 6th Avenue under certain conditions. Roll call. Novick.
 We're still wondering if this is a de-vacation or simply a-cation. Aye. Fritz? A working public street. Aye. Fish? Aye. Gossman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Twelve-twenty-one.
 Extend contract with Bowman Systems LLC for five years and increase the software and services master agreement for hosted software and related services by $1,250,000 for a not-to-exceed contractual total of $1,750,000. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance extends our contract with Bowman for our main database, which is called Service Point. But I think many of you know it as HMIS. It is how we track the services we provide and the clients who we're serving with our federal, state, and local funds in the Portland Housing Bureau. This includes home ownership, home repair, fair housing programs, and homeless service programs.
 this is also being used by both the county and the city and it's increasingly being accepted and used in Clackamas County and Washington County and I also believe that we have communities across the state that are starting to use this system as well so it seems to be working well okay questions anyone want to speak on this item
 Roll call. It's an emergency ordinance. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, 1222. 1222, amend subrecipient contract with Cascadia Behavioral Health Care, Inc., to add $924,000 for the creation and operation of an intensive street engagement program for people experiencing homelessness. Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to introduce this ordinance that is a contract with Cascadia in partnership with Native American Rehabilitation Association, or NARA, and the Urban League Association.
 And I especially want to thank Mayor Hales for his conceptual development of this program and for its inclusion in this year's budget. And I'll turn it over to Mayor Hales at this point. Well, I'm very happy that we're at this point. It is a coordinated effort with the things we're otherwise doing through Home for Everyone. We appreciate the partnership there.
 not only with Cascadia, but also with the Police Bureau and with the other subcontractors that are working with Cascadia. So welcome this morning or this afternoon to give us a quick view of this program, Beth. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Beth Epps. I'm the Chief Clinical Officer at Cascadia. And first, thank you for approving these dollars. It's very, very important. I'm here speaking really on behalf of Leora Berry, who is the primary author of this project. She's out of the country, so she couldn't be here today.
 But the project began on September 1st. It is the partnership with the police bureau, with NARA and Urban League Cascadia. We are seeing folks. We're close to being fully staffed. Really it's difficult because we look for people who have very specific street outreach experience and who are going to be able to do this job and jump right in.
 We're having weekly meetings with all three of our partners, getting referrals from those. We've had around 30 referrals so far, actively working with 20, and we've got a couple of placements already. Okay.
 So it's going well. I do want to introduce Lisa Murdoch. She is one of the clinicians on the intensive street outreach team, and she's got a couple of stories for some placements we've already had that are really pretty impressive. Yeah, good. Thank you. Yeah, make this real for us in terms of what you've seen already. Please just push the button on the bottom of that microphone there. Absolutely. Thank you, Lisa Murdoch.
 In collaboration with our team, we have made contact with two families. We work together with all of the partners to gather all the paperwork needed to successfully place them within the community.
 It's a collaborative effort that takes a lot of time, lots of hours on the street. I also know that those individuals were elderly and physically disabled.
 physically challenged with their health and that was imperative that we get them off the street as well as mothers with children that we're working with to get them out of the elements and into into homes as well thank you both very much questions thank you appreciate you being here and appreciate the great vast work in bringing this project together thank you anyone else want to speak on this item
 Then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote. No vote. Thank you very much, and also appreciate your patience today. Hi. Prince? Yes, thank you for this work, and thank you to the Mayor and Commissioner Salsman for putting this contract together. I know Leo Rhodes was here earlier, and he wanted to make the point that not everybody who's experiencing homelessness or houselessness is somebody who's also experiencing mental illnesses, right?
 It is important, however, to have people who are trained in recognizing whether or not somebody is experiencing a mental health crisis. Have folks like that, like you, out on the streets and helping perhaps with some issues like the one that we saw at council first thing this morning. So thank you very much for all of your good work. Bye. Thank you. Bye.
 thank you and keep up the good work I very much thank you okay we have one more second reading item and then an item carried over from consent so 1223 please well 23 authorized a sub recipient contract with Portland Housing Center for 123 thousand dollars or homeownership counseling and education roll call vote please no this is a very impressive program I
 Gossman. Aye. Hale. Aye. And then we pulled item 1216, and I just need to reschedule that to December 2nd. Do you need to read it first? I should. Okay.
 12-16, authorize a memorandum of understanding with the public agencies that constitute the domestic violence enhanced response team for the stated project goals listed in the Office on Violence Against Women and the F-114 Grants to Encourage and Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Grant Program Award. Okay, this is rescheduled to December 2nd, and we're adjourned. Thank you all for your endurance. Thank you. Bless you.