I'm like, how? I think that would be pretty good. Wow.
 Yeah, that's interesting. I mean, you've got some people and invited testimony. It is, yeah. All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council, November 30, 2017. Carla, please call the roll.
 Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. We've got one item today. We'll get to that in a moment. I won't read the whole statement. You'll mostly know what it says. You will hear testimony. You will not agree with everything you hear, and that's okay. And so please just treat everybody with the same respect you would expect to be treated with if you were testifying.
 Let's not interrupt people's testimony or the council deliberations. If you're a lobbyist, it is required by council rules that you state that for the record. And if you're here representing an organization, that is very helpful too. We ask people not to verbally interrupt anybody's testimony. If you like something, a thumbs-up works. If you don't like something, a thumbs-down is okay.
 but the watchword here is just respect. This is everybody's chamber, and everybody has a right to be heard here. So with that, Carla, please call the item. Item 1276, direct the Portland Bureau of Transportation to work with the Oregon Department of Transportation to implement the Oregon State Legislature's value pricing on I-5 and I-205 and to work with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
 to research and evaluate best practices for congestion pricing strategies. Colleagues and assembled folks, good afternoon, everybody. It's great to see everybody here for this important discussion. I think it's obvious to everybody that we live in a region that's abundant with natural beauty and with resources.
 And currently we're also seeing that our economy is vibrant and it continues to grow. And one of the side effects of that good news is that we're also seeing significant growth in congestion on our roadways.
 These same factors make Portland such a wonderful place to live, work, and recreate, but they also attract new residents, and that, of course, includes increased housing and increased pressure on our roadways. While I am mayor, I want to be very clear we're not building any more freeways in the city of Portland.
 Congestion pricing not only funds and maintains our transportation system, but also is a very effective tool for managing the traffic that will continue as Portland grows and changes. And we also can't lose sight of the impact traffic emissions have on our public health and on our overall environment.
 Air quality has been and will continue to be a key issue for me as mayor, and we can't deny that vehicles continue to be a major source of pollution in the air we breathe.
 Today's resolution is not only a statement of our values, advancing our community's public health, protecting our environment, and achieving our equity goals, but it's also putting forward a specific path to better achieve these goals. So I'm delighted that we're taking up this resolution today, and I'd like to pass this over to Transportation Commissioner Saltzman. Well, thank you, Mayor, and welcome, everybody. Thank you.
 As the mayor said, and as we all know, Portland is well known for its high quality of life. And it's one of the factors that makes Portland such a wonderful city to live and work. And we also know that we are attracting more and more new residents, and that is increasing congestion. So the question before us is, what are we going to do? Well, one thing we can do is to study and consider doing pricing the use of our transportation assets or congestion pricing.
 And that is fundamentally the purpose of today's resolution, to direct the Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to explore a congestion pricing plan that works for Portland. Now, let me address a large and, dare I say, elephant in the room, and that is…
 We outsource this and sometimes there's a glitch and it's important for people that we be able to see the closed captioning. One moment. Do you currently use this? If this thing keeps failing, do we have someone in the building? Not on call, no. That would be an incredible walkthrough. That'd be great. It'd be really expensive. But we can arrange it by request. Right. Okay.
 Michelle, once it goes back online, could you do me a favor and go upstairs and let them know that it's really important that they keep the closed captioning operating today? Thank you. How can you tell whether it's on if nobody's saying anything? Usually it'll – if there's a caption change, it'll say that or maybe she'll come back live. They use a phone line, so they may have gotten disconnected. Sometimes that happens. Wow. For those watching, we're just waiting for our closed captioning system to come back up. It'll just be a moment.
 Well, just by way of run of show, we're going to have two invited panels come up after the staff report. Is it working? Phillips says yes. Good. All right. We're back in business. Commissioner Saltz. Great. Just to pick up where I left off, now let me address a large, dare I say, elephant in the room, and that is the Oregon Department of Transportation's I-5 Roe's Quarter project. There is no doubt that this project and the legislature's directive to ODOT
 to explore the idea of congestion pricing in this corridor prompted us to bring this forward today. And let me be clear, in my opinion, congestion pricing should happen in these corridors before any shovels break ground. But as staff and this council dug further into the project and ideas around congestion pricing, it became clear that this is much larger than I-5 and I-205.
 This is about how Portland responds to our growth and success and does it in a uniquely Portland way. This means it needs to be a plan that not only achieves our congestion and environmental goals, but also is fair and equitable to all Portlanders. This means that everything needs to be on the table, including our zoning code, our transportation plans, and our capital projects list.
 This means that we need to begin a robust conversation with the community on how we help minimize congestion but also maximize livability. This means that conversation and work is informed by best practices that have been developed in other cities and that we continue to explore all approaches for pricing the transportation system.
 So again, thank you to the Oregon legislature for spurring us to this active conversation over potential pricing on I-5 and I-205, but also the larger question of how Portland and Multnomah County create a more livable future for our residents. Now I would like to introduce Transportation Department Director Leah Treat and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Director Susan Anderson to provide more background on this resolution.
 And then we have a couple of invited panels to hear from, and then testimony, open it to public testimony. Great. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Susan and I are really pleased to be here today to talk to you about how we can use pricing to bring relief to drivers on our roads and hopefully at the same time strengthen our transportation system overall by making it more efficient, more equitable. I'm sorry, it's stopped again? No, it takes a while. When it switches over, it takes a moment to get up there.
 It's on. Is it working? It's working. Okay. And, Lee, if you could just speak a little more slowly just so they can get. Sure. Thanks. I appreciate it. Thanks for the feedback. Thanks for the feedback.
 Across the cities, across the world, and here in the United States, this tool has been adopted, and other cities have shown significant improvements in their levels of traffic congestion. So the resolution before you today is a major step forward to adopting the use of pricing to achieve less congestion roads in Portland.
 As Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, congestion is a growing problem for the Portland region. In fact, congestion is growing faster than our population. According to the 2016 ODOT Traffic Performance Report, congestion grew over four times faster than Portland's population between 2013 and 2015. And unfortunately, the news doesn't get better from here. Our region is expected to add 500,000 new residents by 2040.
 By this time, Metro drivers are projected to spend twice as much time sitting in their cars on congested highways and streets. So now is the time to explore our options to avoid this future. And that's why ODOT is studying the feasibility of congestion pricing on I-5 and I-205 in the Portland area.
 So here in Portland, we want to take advantage of what is happening at the state level and jumpstart the policy discussion about using pricing to address congestion in Portland's transportation system.
 The current state-level policy discussion about congestion pricing was started with the passage of House Bill 2017, the statewide transportation bill that the legislature passed this summer. Now known as Keep Oregon Moving, the bill directed ODOT to develop congestion pricing on I-5 and I-205.
 This process formally started on November 20th when ODOT convened their advisory committee. The City of Portland is represented on this committee, and as a member, we will be advocating for a congestion pricing system that adequately addresses the following issues. Demand management, diversion to local streets, equity concerns, climate impacts, and leveraging revenue to improve our transportation system for all users.
 The state conversation is only one side of the policy coin. The second is the use of congestion pricing on city streets. To better understand how we can use pricing tools on Portland roads, PBOT and BPS have kicked off a joint effort to evaluate a range of possible strategies we could use here in Portland. Thank you.
 The pricing mechanisms that we will be looking at include cordons and other geographically based pricing, parking demand management, automated shared and electric vehicle mobility pricing, and bridge pricing. Okay.
 Importantly, we won't investigate these strategies in isolation. As part of our evaluation, we will also look to determine how each pricing strategy can be used to advance existing important policies on land use, housing, equity, climate, and Vision Zero. What do you mean by bridge pricing? So, like similar to a toll, we have ownership and jurisdiction on all the bridges that go over land, so...
 Possibly tolling on a bridge? Got it. Thank you. Congestion is not just frustrating, it brings with it a real set of costs. By 2025, Metro estimates the regional cost of congestion will be $844 million a year.
 Congestion also has very significant health costs. Traffic emissions from congestion contribute to asthma, heart attacks, and other health problems. Lower income communities, often located near freeways, are most impacted by these emissions. Long commutes are also associated with obesity, high blood pressure, heart disease, and diabetes. And congestion is also a major contributor to climate change.
 Motor vehicles are responsible for nearly 40% of Oregon's greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from freight vehicles are the fastest-growing portion of our overall carbon footprint. When freight vehicles sit in stop-and-go traffic, their emissions are growing that much faster. Buses are also negatively impacted by congestion, and slower buses can discourage transit use, leading ultimately to more drivers and more emissions.
 At its heart, congestion is an economic problem, road use is valuable, and when roads are free, too many people use them, resulting in shortages of road space and more congestion. So we see pricing as a tool with such potential because it helps us raise the costs of inefficiency.
 As you can see from this slide, different ways of getting around have different impacts on congestion. Driving alone has the largest impact. Carpools have a smaller impact, and transit is the most efficient. With pricing, we can send a clear signal to road users about the preferred use of our limited street space. Pricing is also versatile. We can send those signals about time of day, level of congestion, and even about fuel efficiency.
 Our current intent is to integrate congestion pricing into our already existing suite of strategies to reduce congestion. These strategies include providing people with safe, convenient, and efficient options besides traveling alone in their cars. Through our land use policies, we encourage housing that is close to employment centers and that is in walkable, bikeable neighborhoods with good access to transit.
 And we also work to influence the demand for transportation through what we call transportation demand management. In this area, for example, we work with businesses to have them give their employees incentives to ride transit or bike to work. Yes? Can I ask you a question off this slide? The last time I took a Lyft, the driver had –
 his phone on and I guess through Google Maps or something, was evaluating congestion on the various alternative routes to get from where I was picked up and where I was going to go. And I've never quite understood how does an app actually measure congestion like that?
 There's lots of cell phones have, they're pulling the data from where the driver is. So you can agree to be participant like Waze, right? So whenever your phone is on a GPS, data is being sent to Waze, and that's how they crowdsource traffic congestion. So it's similar with Google Maps or any other application. All right.
 So these strategies have been really effective. For example, thanks to our commitment to building safe biking infrastructure, we have one of the highest bike commuting rates in the United States. But the fact of the matter is there will always be a significant portion of transportation users who do have to drive. And for these users, we have to have very road-specific strategies.
 and there aren't many options. We can try to build our way out of the problem, but this is very costly. We can encourage people to drive at different times, but without real incentives. This has very limited benefits.
 We can and we do implement intelligent transportation systems improvements like signal synchronization. And these are often very low-cost improvements that can help, but they are ultimately very limited. So we really need additional strategies, and this is why we believe road chargers are so important. Thank you.
 And our key plans have actually already anticipated this policy discussion. The Portland plan calls for a shift in how we fund transportation. The Climate Action Plan calls for road usage and fuel efficiency charges as long-term replacement for declining gas tax revenue. And the Comprehensive Plan calls for a regional congestion management approach, including a market-based system to price or charge for auto trips and parking.
 As we consider congestion pricing on state highways and on our city streets, we can build on the positive experience of other jurisdictions. In London, congestion pricing reduced commute times by 14% and also contributed to fewer road deaths per year. In Singapore, they used an advanced system of pricing, and they have seen a 45% reduction in congestion. Thank you.
 Stockholm provides another interesting example. When Stockholm implemented congestion pricing, trips in and out of the city declined even as the overall population grew. And this is exactly the kind of result that we need here in Portland. So notice that when the congestion pricing was removed for two years, trips went back up and the problem of excessive traffic returned.
 The previous slides showed international examples, but there are also North American cities implementing and considering pricing policies. Variable bridge tolls are already being used in New York and in Seattle. A number of cities, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, and Vancouver, are currently considering pricing policies. And we are collaborating with these cities and looking forward to continuing to learn from their experiences and collectively advancing the best practices for congestion pricing here in Portland.
 One of the most important lessons to learn from existing programs is that congestion pricing and transit improvements must go hand in hand. In Stockholm, the pricing revenue directly funds new transit lines. In London, they timed the introduction of the cordon with the opening of a new tube line, and over 80% of the revenue goes to improving bus service. Here in Oregon, one of the policy issues that we will be pursuing is how the revenues raised will be used to benefit transit and other modes.
 There are many ways that revenue can be used to improve transit access. We would be able to make investments to 82nd Avenue, a high-crash corridor that runs parallel to I-205. By making this corridor safer and improving access to transit on 82nd, we can help provide viable transit alternatives to driving on I-205.
 For any pricing schemes to work, we know that we'll have to find solutions that actually work for our communities. So we'll look at policies that help to advance equity, reduce climate impacts, move us towards Vision Zero, and support our land use and housing goals. In addition, we will need to work to make sure that any pricing policy will benefit our entire transportation system.
 As we move forward, we are especially sensitive to the impact of congestion pricing on our ability to build an equitable transportation system. As the policy discussion has ramped up, we have heard some of the concerns that are listed on this slide. We are committed to working with our equity partners to understand these and other concerns and to find solutions that make Portland's transportation system work for all Portlanders.
 Per the resolution before you, our next step is to support and actively engage in ODOT's current congestion pricing effort. As we engage with this effort, we will be focused on I-5 and I-205 solutions that can manage demand and also support our goals. Additionally, we also want ODOT's proposal to minimize the impact of diversion on local Portland streets and help make our system work better.
 In addition, we'll be researching and evaluating a broader set of pricing best practices for use on our city streets. As I mentioned earlier, the potential strategies may include cordons and other area-based pricing, bridge pricing, parking demand management strategies, automated electric and shared vehicle mobility pricing options. As we begin, we're committed to engaging community stakeholders, including those representing the needs of low-income and other marginalized communities.
 A first step is that we'll be inviting community partners to join us for a workshop on December 14th to begin to learn more about potential strategies and discuss how we can move forward together with this work. We're also planning to collaborate closely with other regional partners such as Metro and national partners such as the National Association of City Transportation Officials. We know that this kind of collaboration is critical to our success.
 Beyond these initial steps, this is the timeline of the process as envisioned by the state and by us. As you can see, the ODOT Advisory Committee is working within a very tight time frame with a plan to have recommendations by July of next year and a proposal submitted to the Federal Highway Administration by December 2018, which is required in the legislation passed by the state.
 Our best practice work is just beginning, and it's going to take us longer. So we'll return to the city council, we expect, within a year with our initial findings. So thank you, and now I'm going to turn it over to Susan. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Mayor of Council Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm really happy to join with the Bureau of Transportation, with Leah, hand in hand on this issue. From my perspective, when it comes to transportation, the goal is always to create a really efficient, effective, low-carbon system that everyone has access to. It's something that's very, very near and dear to my heart. For a really long time, I was thinking about this and realized that back in...
 In the late 70s, when I was a student, both an environmental science and economics student, I wrote a paper on congestion pricing. So this isn't new. We've been talking about market-based mechanisms for a really long time, about putting a price on externalities. But it is a tool that could be something that could be very useful to our transportation system today.
 The transportation system, as you know, it doesn't stand alone. We all know that it's connected to land use and to housing and to air quality. It's connected to water quality, to our personal health, and to housing. And these things all work together. We all have talked about these connections, probably some of you more than you even wanted to, as we developed the Portland Plan, the Comprehensive Plan, now the Central City Plan,
 and the Climate Action Plan, and all of those have recommended market-based solutions like congestion pricing. I think Leah's presentation highlighted many of the issues that we are going to need to pay attention to. As I was talking to someone today, they said, you know, an equitable answer to this is not just we do congestion pricing and then we hand out a bunch of low-cost bus passes and call it good for people who need it.
 who need that kind of assistance. It's got to be more than that. It's got to be a system that looks at housing. It's got to be that looks at land use. We need to look at all of our equity goals. And we need to make sure that there are effective, for example, transit connections between where people of lower income are living and where they need to go for their housing, I mean, for their jobs.
 And we need to provide sufficient affordable housing close to job centers. And these things are all connected. If you just do congestion pricing without looking at how those things fit together, it will not be successful.
 Finally, we need to make sure that all of our equity stakeholders, this is something we've absolutely learned over the past 10 years, that they need to be at the table with us right from the beginning and that we are all together helping to define what the problems are that we're actually trying to solve and that we don't just try to look at each one of these things separately.
 in silos. I look forward to our partnership. We always work well together, the Bureau of Transportation and Planning and Sustainability, and I look forward to bringing information to you as it unrolls here in the next few months. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you. Now we'd like to bring up our first panel, and that consists of Multnomah County Commissioner Jessica Vega-Peterson, Port of Portland Executive Director Curtis Robinhold,
 and who is also a member of the Nature Conservancy Greenhouse Gas Task Force, and then Angela Crowley-Kotch with the Oregon Environmental Council.
 Thank you all. Commissioner Peterson. Thank you so much. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for having me here today. My name is Jessica Vega-Peterson. I am the Multnomah County Commissioner for District 3. I also represent Multnomah County on the Value Pricing Advisory Committee that Leah was referring to earlier. I'm tasked with considering value pricing on the I-5 and I-205 state highways as a result of House Bill 2017.
 I appreciate the city bringing this resolution forward, and in particular, Commissioner Saltzman, for sponsoring this initiative. Value pricing is a huge issue in our region with huge potential, because while there is absolutely no shortage of highly congested traffic in the Portland region, we don't have any successful congestion pricing on our roadways.
 With huge projects potentially on the drawing board, reducing congestion at the I-5 bridge, fixing the bottlenecks on I-205 in Clackamas County, finding relief for the Sunset Highway and Vista Ridge tunnels, it's important that we get this right so that we can use more equitable, efficient, and advanced tools to head off the need for future highway expansions and find other ways to keep people and commerce moving in our region.
 One of those key tools is congestion pricing, and the reasons we need it are obvious. Although the show of Portlandia has come to an end, the Portland area remains a very popular place for people to live. From 2013 to 2015, our population grew by 3%, which may not sound a lot, but that actually means over 60,000 residents. That influx has put a huge strain on housing prices, as well as social services and roadways.
 In fact, while the population rose by 3%, hours of congestion increased by 13.6% over that same time period. These delays translate into real-world stress and frustrations. People now need to plan for much longer worst-case scenarios, leaving earlier and earlier to hedge against 30-, 45-, or hour-long commutes.
 You all know that I live in East Portland. In order to arrive for a downtown meeting that starts at 7.30 a.m., which used to be outside the rush hour traffic time, I have to leave by 6.50 to make it on time. And that's 40 minutes to drive less than 10 miles. And I'm only one of so many people in that situation. The folks in my East Portland district face such lengthy travel times. They live farther from the job centers in our region.
 The additional time in car equate to less time with loved ones and more stress about being late for meetings, late to pick up a child, late to a family dinner, or any other important event. With many streets lacking sidewalks and frequent or any bus service, you see a patchwork of transportation usage in my region.
 Those along the Max Line or along Division Street are frequent transit users, but those that are farther afield have some of the lowest transit usage in our region. And those areas are separated by just a few miles. But congestion pricing can have benefits for both people who drive and people who use transit. And most importantly for me, it can have benefits for low-income residents as well.
 While tolls could be regressive, not all low-income people drive. Many low-income people don't own cars, so tolls may not hurt the most vulnerable. It may even help them if reduced traffic congestion lets buses travel faster, improves frequency, and expands bus lines, all of which should be objectives of a successful congestion pricing plan.
 For the many low-income people who do drive, tolls may burden them. Yet tolls generate revenue that we can use to offset costs for those low-income drivers. This is how we help low-income people afford their other needs like health care, food, heating, gas, electricity, and soon public transit. We identify people who can't afford the service and dedicate funding to help them.
 What we don't want to do is to assume that the current system of free roads benefits everyone equally. It doesn't. Driving is expensive. It requires a car, gas, insurance, maintenance, registration fees. The list goes on. That's why the affluent drive much more than the poor and take more advantage of our current road system. We have the opportunity now to build a congestion pricing system that's right for all our community. We all know that right now almost all driving translate into pollution.
 Our transportation system is a major source of greenhouse gas pollutants, as well as harmful air particulate matter, like diesel exhaust, that disproportionately impact low-income communities and communities of color. All of this makes the success of congestion pricing all the more significant. Congestion pricing can mean more reliable commute times for individuals, better connectivity, and more transportation choices for everyone, less pollution, and more equitable use of public infrastructure.
 I know that we can do this right, and I appreciate the thought that the city is giving this matter as we work together on this important topic. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to join you today and for the work that you're doing. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Mr. Robinhold? Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Thank you very much for having me here today. And especially thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Wheeler, for bringing the resolution forward.
 As you know, our mission at the Port of Portland is really closely linked to moving people and goods throughout the region, both safely and efficiently. And to put it plainly, it's getting harder as population growth is outpacing the capacity of our roads and highways to do just that. It's incumbent on us to use all the resources we have to responsibly pay for our needs and mitigate our challenges, and that is exactly what congestion pricing does.
 As noted, Commissioner Saltzman, I serve on the board of the Nature Conservancy. I also happen to serve as a member of the board of the Oregon Business Council. And the two organizations earlier this year got together to address issues of climate change in the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Task Force. That task force made seven recommendations, and one of those seven was exactly the nature of the resolution you have in front of you today.
 The task force made up of folks from around the region and around the state thought that for the Portland metropolitan area, it was a very smart way to address the challenges of congestion that you've already heard about.
 The Value Pricing Task Force, mentioned by several people here, is another fun board that I get to sit on. We've started our work, and I'm actually optimistic that we're going to come to some really thoughtful approaches for the region, addressing the multiple needs that we've talked about already, greenhouse gas reduction, but also efficient use of our roads and maximization of our existing infrastructure.
 Congestion pricing is, without a doubt, a complex topic. We can and should learn from other places, but there's no playbook on the right approach. I say this as someone, a six-year resident of the City of London. It works in London, but it works in a London way, and we have to come up with a way that really matches our own needs and our own requirements, and I expect we'll do that.
 This resolution directs PBOT and BPS to engage in work that's truly complementary to the work that's going on in other parts of the state, and I believe will ultimately help us land this in the right way. So from the Port of Portland, we appreciate your efforts. We appreciate the leadership on this issue and look forward to engaging with you directly. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here, Curtis.
 Hi, Angela Crowley-Cook. I'm the legislative director at Oregon Environmental Council. We're a nonprofit, nonpartisan, member-based organization, and we advance innovative, collaborative... Sorry, we lost captioning. And we lost the clerk. She's had it with us. But I just started. Carla, we're keeping you busy today. Thank you. Thank you. Want to try? I don't think so. All right. Mm-hmm.
 We don't get to see ourselves when we're in the meetings. This is like fancy. We're $40 at work. I know. Much lower tech. But we do get broadcasted. The broadcasted media is probably the most popular. Metro East. They do that. Yeah, they do all of our meetings. And I'm pretty sure that they would do closed captioning. They're going to ask for a long time to have the committee meetings at the state, like closed captioning. But it's just too expensive. Yeah, it's very expensive.
 Are they ready? They're ready for us. Okay. Okay. Again, Angela Crowley-Cook, legislative director at Oregon Environmental Council. Oregon Environmental Council advances innovative, collaborative, and equitable solutions to Oregon's environmental challenges for today and future generations. Oregon Environmental Council supports the resolution that directs the Portland Bureau of Transportation and Bureau of Environmental Services to work with ODOT to implement value pricing in the region as per the direction of the legislature.
 OEC was among the key advocates for incorporating congestion pricing into House Bill 2017, the transportation package, and has long maintained that congestion pricing is the best and least cost method of improving transportation reliability in urban regions that experience heavy traffic. Rather than building more and wider roads, congestion pricing efficiently manages the road capacity that we already have.
 Adding new capacity simply doesn't work over the long run because it results in what's called induced demand. And that's where drivers who were taking transit or driving at a different time of day flock back to the freeway at rush hour because new lanes had been built. And that just fills up right away with more traffic and making it more congested than it was before.
 Road building is also associated with a host of environmental and social problems. Stormwater runoff from roads contaminates water. Increased driving pollutes our air and harms our climate. Widened roads make it more difficult for pedestrians and bicyclists to get from place to place safely. And freeways tear neighborhoods apart.
 OEC is also serving on the Portland Region Value Pricing Policy Advisory Committee. We will be advocating for a well-designed congestion pricing system that reduces climate pollution and air pollution, advances equity and affordability, improves access and the convenience for walking, biking, and taking transit, and does not disproportionately divert traffic to local streets.
 and finally reduces congestion so that people and goods get where they need to go with less hassle and more reliability. We thank you for drafting the resolution in front of you and support its adoption, and we look forward to working with the city to make sure that congestion pricing is implemented in a fair and effective manner. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Our last panel, invited panel, is Noel Mickleberry of the Oregon Walks and Transportation Justice Alliance.
 Vivian Satterfield of Opal and the Transportation Justice Alliance, Josh Alpert of C40, and John Tepakono. Sorry, John. I always get your name mixed up. I always get it wrong. I'm sorry. Eco Northwest. I don't see Vivian, so why don't we start with you, Noelle? Sure. Hi, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Noelle Mickelberry. I'm the Executive Director of Oregon Walks, and I'm here today on behalf of the Transportation Justice Alliance. Thank you.
 TJA builds power with low-income communities and communities of color to ensure affordable, equitable, and environmentally sustainable transportation system. We believe that transportation is a human right, and a transportation system guided by environmental justice principles is essential to regional prosperity.
 We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the congestion pricing resolution today and have some specific questions and considerations that we'd like council and the city to integrate into any policy developed in the next stages. As the resolution states, communities of color and low-income communities feel the burden of the environmental and health impacts of emissions from freeways. These communities are also those who have the fewest options to choose to travel at different times and using different modes.
 As you move forward with this resolution, we encourage you to be looking at critical elements of any new policy through the following lenses.
 Mitigation of impact. What does mitigation for low-income users look like and how will it be effective? We want to see specifics on how the city plans to ensure this strategy works for low-income users so that they're easily able to access any mitigation program and that it's effective at reducing barriers to transportation reliability. One of the strongest mitigation strategies would be investment in expanding transit.
 We encourage the City to look at how to most effectively invest in expanding transportation options without any revenue generated from congestion pricing, knowing that it will take collaboration and innovation to spend funds on transit expansion or operation, given the current restriction on the Highway Trust Fund.
 Community engagement. The resolution kicks off a year of analysis and we want to ensure that community and voices, particularly those from low income communities and communities of color are at the forefront of any communication, community engagement strategy. This is an opportunity to raise the bar on what community engagement looks like and we readily await the opportunity for our communities to participate.
 And finally, smart investments and effective congestion pricing strategy should be used in advance of any investment in freeway projects like the I-5 Rose Corridor Congestion Relief Project. We have the opportunity to set a standard for the region and utilize innovative tools for addressing congestion and save our limited transportation dollars to go toward the safety, accessibility, and affordability issues on our transportation system that are often an afterthought.
 We're looking forward to working on these solutions with you, and we appreciate the opportunity to engage on this issue early in the process. And we look forward to working closely with the city to develop a truly equitable and effective strategy that benefits all communities in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, commissioners, good afternoon. Josh Alpert, director of special projects with C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group. Very pleased to be here today, and I'm just going to offer some facts about congestion pricing from two other C40 cities, Stockholm and London, both of which Director Treat mentioned in her presentation.
 In Stockholm today, congestion charging is a fundamental element of the Stockholm mobility strategy. That strategy was designed to increase mobility, not increase traffic, and to promote the efficient use of shared and limited resource or street space. They quickly took up the motto of building a city with cars, not for cars.
 Intentionally transitioning away from car-based infrastructure creates more dedicated lanes for public transport, more cycle lanes, fewer parking places, and an enhanced street environment for pedestrians. Stockholm's end goal is to become a fossil fuel-free city by 2040. The congestion tax, therefore, is essential in a modern growing city like Stockholm in order to realize those goals, in addition to increase accessibility, reduce environmental impact, and finance infrastructure expansion.
 Stockholm began this adventure with a trial period in 2006. At the time, they designed it to prioritize high-value traffic over trips that could use other modes of transport, as well as trips that could take place at a different time. After the trial period, the city held a referendum, and congestion pricing became permanent in 2007. Since then, it's resulted in an 18% to 20% decrease in traffic going to and from the inner city.
 It's resulted in 30 to 50 percent less time in queues and less traffic variability, 10 to 14 percent less emissions in the inner city leading to positive health effects, and 2 to 3 percent less carbon emissions in the county. It's also equally, if not more importantly, resulted in 45 percent fewer asthma attacks in kids.
 The revenue that Stockholm generates through this congestion pricing is dedicated to transport infrastructure development. Annual revenues are about $100 million a year. And the key here is that local and national governments are able to raise money through things like congestion pricing.
 In London, and I fervently agree with Mr. Robin Holt's comment that while there are models, every city is doing this differently, but they all somehow have been looking at London as kind of the exemplar and then basing their schemes to suit their local cities. But London is often held up as kind of the poster child.
 Congestion pricing has been in place for over a decade there, and current Mayor Kahn's transport strategy aims to continue the positive outcomes that were created by the charge and shift emphasis from vehicles to walking, cycling, and public transport. The congestion charge in London was first implemented in 2003 under then-Mayor Ken Livingston, the founder of C40.
 By 2006, the congestion charging zone had reduced congestion in central London by 26% from 2002 levels. There have been between 40% to 70% fewer accidents, crashes that resulted in personal injury within the zone. Greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 16% between 2002 to 2003 in just one year.
 and NOx and PM10, other air particulates, within the congestion charging zone decreased by 18% and 22% respectively by 2004. So dramatic and very quick results. The revenue raised in London from the congestion charging zone in 2015-16 alone was $225 million. London has raised since 2003 over $2.3 billion from their congestion pricing scheme.
 Key to the public acceptability of the charges, the revenues raised are sequestered for bus operations and walking and cycling investments solely. As in Stockholm, the strategy is not anti-car. It's about creating mobility options. Mayor Kahn, an adult-onset asthma sufferer himself, wants to make London's streets healthier, safer, and more welcoming, as well as cleaning up London's air. Solutions to London's traffic and London's air are very similar, and the benefits of congestion pricing are essential to both.
 If every Londoner walked or cycled for 20 minutes every day, they'd save the National Health Service $1.7 billion in treatment costs over the next 25 years, would reduce air and noise pollution, would improve behavioral health, and would bring economic benefits to local high streets. Congestion pricing, therefore, is key to the goal of zero-emission transport in London by 2050.
 The scheme has recently led to implementation in London of their T-Charge, which is an emission surcharge the Mayor of Conn implemented with massive public support in October, and is the cornerstone of what's leading to an ultra-low emission zone charge within the City of London by 2019.
 So London is taking what they've built and moving far ahead so that cities like Portland can study and figure out how to implement things in a very Portland-specific way. What's a T-charge? I don't know the exact dollar amount, but I'll find that out and email it to you. Is it just a surcharge? It's a surcharge on emissions, that's right, with the idea that higher-emitting vehicles need to be priced out of the market as fast as possible. Thank you.
 Just to wrap up, C40 mayors seek to set out a new long-term vision for cities, one that mediates between the needs of the city as it grows. Congestion pricing not only reduces congestion and pollution, it can also raise revenue to give non-drivers more mobility options. If that's not enough, it will also contribute to improving health, support sustainable growth, and make our city an even better place to live.
 I'm very pleased to present positive evidence from these C40 cities in support of this, and as always, C40 stands ready to help with anything that we can do. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Josh. Appreciate it very much. Mayor, commissioners, I'm John Taponia, president of Eco Northwest, an economic consulting firm that's been doing business in Oregon since 1974. Not surprisingly, running a firm of economists, we are in favor of this resolution.
 and are in fact doing some of the math on the value pricing work in Oregon. And I would say listening to the presentations up to this point, this city is off to a good start. The director's presentations in particular lay out many of the issues that you're going to have to grapple with.
 We have been doing work on congestion pricing across the United States for the better part of the last couple of decades. We've got eight different projects across the country now. I submitted, for the record, a detailed presentation on how to get some of these things right or all the complexities that the state and the city might run into as it attempts to do it.
 as it proceeds in implementation of congestion pricing. I'm happy to come back at any other point and talk about those in more detail. But right now, I just want to keep it at a high level and brief and save some time for Joe Courtright if he comes up, because he has a wonderful presentation on this as well. But I would say, as you look out in Portland over the course of the next 40 or 50 years, this is a region we've made allusions to. It has natural amenities.
 It is not everybody's cup of tea, but it is a lot of people's cup of tea. And when global and national economic winds hit our back, lots of people want to be here, and they're coming. And it was like that in the 90s. We didn't have much of an expansion in the early 2000s, but we're having another long, sustained run at the global and national level right now, and people are piling in here. And the congestion is a symptom of that, as you said in your introductory remarks.
 That is going to happen over and over again, and I would anticipate that climate change is going to make that even more so the case, the Portland plant and any other forecasted population.
 I would guess are on the low side and are not taking into account just how miserable much of the rest of the continental United States is going to become over the course of the next several decades. So in any event, more pressure coming in this region is not going to build its way out of this problem. It just can't. And so congestion pricing is the answer to congestion. It's the answer at the back of the textbook.
 Whether we proceed on it now and start to ask and answer all these complicated questions or wait five years to do it or ten years to do it, it doesn't matter. This is the ultimate answer to solving the congestion issues in this region.
 It's inevitable. And it's absolutely critical. I would point you to research by Stanford economist Raj Chetty on economic mobility and the American dream. He looked at IRS data over the course of three decades and looked at which regions created economic mobility and those that didn't.
 What he found is where there was strong economic integration, where people of different income classes could mix, you found more economic opportunity and more mobility. You saw a better American dream.
 The congestion that we are drifting into now is absolutely a move in the wrong direction. In fact, in Chetty's findings, you can go look it up, the number one correlation in the regions where there was strong economic mobility were short commutes.
 So it is that, together with housing policy, et cetera, that is absolutely critical if we want to have a strong, vibrant, inclusive economy in the future. Many references to equity, and I'm pleased to hear them at the start here. I would remind people that our current methods of financing transportation through the gas tax are also regressive, and so that's important. But I would...
 I encourage folks to look at a RAND study. I think it's by Tom Light, a former Echo Northwest employee who's moved on to RAND, an in-depth 40-page or so report on how to deal with equity as you move into congestion pricing regimes. So overall, delighted that Portland is having this conversation. I think it starts to put us toward the front of the pack.
 in terms of thinking about a region that is going to grow and grow in an inclusive, prosperous way. So good work. Commissioner Fish. I want to take this opportunity to ask Josh a question because he's usually flying around the world. And welcome back.
 Josh, I was struck by something you said about the linkage between the congestion fee and the money going into essentially a lockbox for bicycle infrastructure and public transportation. You and I are old enough to remember a debate in this chamber where, when the question came up of new revenue for transportation, the fault line was really around –
 street maintenance, safety, and then these other issues. What does the London experience teach us? Because it sounds to me like it was fundamental to their package that it be linked to biking and public transportation. Given our history here in Portland, what lessons do you draw from that? Well,
 Well, thank you, Commissioner. I draw a few lessons. One, while no city is the same, they all end up actually having quite the same issues. And the decision in London at the time was a very political one to put the money in a lockbox for transit options.
 And that was largely driven through the coalition that had been put together from the community groups saying that we never get our fair share. And that's not to say that we don't want to invest in maintenance and other typical usages for transportation money. This was their ability to claim what they had considered in London to be a short shrift over multiple decades.
 My assumption is as the world moves here in Portland, we're going to end up in a very similar place of, I think, citizens throughout the city saying it is time to start dedicating more and more resources into creating those mobility options.
 that doesn't mean that you get to take a pass on, of course, paving streets and pothole repair, and as you certainly all know very, very well, you're not ever going to get away with that. And so this becomes, I think, one of the many conversations you're going to end up wrestling with over the course of this whole process of how much to dedicate to what. And, you know, as Curtis said, just because London did it one way isn't in any way meaning that
 and this is how it's going to have to happen in Portland. It just shows you the range of options that you're going to be able to do with this kind of funding. Very good. Thank you. We appreciate your coming in, and the same goes for the prior panel. Thank you all for being here today. That completes the invited testimony. Very good. So we'll go to public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have 12. So why don't we do this, three minutes per person max? Yes.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. And when you come up here, 30 seconds before your time is up, you'll see a yellow light flash. When the red light goes off, that means your time is up. And when your chair becomes electric, that means you've really overstayed your welcome. So be succinct. Call the first three up, please.
 I know Mr. Wolf has requested to go first. Oh, yes, please. Yeah, and historically, by the way, I should also add anybody with disabilities or small children, we always encourage you to come up first. So we're going to go with Philip Wolf, Douglas R. Allen, and Jarek Kransky. Why don't you go ahead first, sir? Thank you. You bet. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Saltzman, members of the council, my name is Jarek Kransky, and I'm here with the Street Trust.
 We advocate for healthy, thriving communities where it is safe and easy for people to bike, walk, and ride public transit. And I want to thank you for your work on congestion pricing and encourage you to support today's resolution while making sure that Portland builds a successful new program. Congestion pricing or value pricing holds promise as a powerful tool to improve Portland's transportation system.
 We'd like Portland to explore value pricing on our highways as well as on our city streets with some of the following goals in mind. First and foremost, value pricing must be designed to manage automobile demand for the limited space on our streets.
 We encourage the city, in its dealings with the state and while exploring its own program, to maintain a focus on value pricing as a way to manage congestion. Additionally, we welcome pricing being implemented in advance of the upcoming project on I-5 at the Rose Quarter in order to reduce congestion there. The benefits and burdens of putting a price on driving during peak demand should clearly advance Portland's equity goals.
 Based on meaningful community engagement, we encourage you and city staff to build a program that results in low-income community members seeing an increase in their access to affordable transportation choices. We believe that revenue raised from value pricing must be invested in projects and programs that increase transportation choices.
 Our region has underinvested in safe sidewalks in East Portland, in transit, and protected bike lanes. And this new program must make it easier and safer for people to travel without contributing to congestion. And we encourage you to direct staff to firmly establish these goals for any new revenue.
 Obviously, a lot of this has already been discussed by the folks up here today and in the presentations that you've received, so we're sort of thrilled to see that approach and very hopeful that over the next year we can see a lot of innovation in Portland's approach to value pricing. We thank you for your opportunity to comment on this issue, and we look forward to working with the city during the implementation of any new value pricing program. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, my name is Doug Allen.
 I'm asking you today to put some more teeth into this resolution. A couple of weeks ago during legislative days, I went down to Salem to talk with my senator, Kathleen Taylor. I wanted to ask her about the I-5 Rose Quarter project relative to congestion pricing. Senator Taylor was on the joint committee that came up with HB 2017. She said,
 She told me she was kind of skeptical of ODOT's claims for this project. And, of course, a lot of people have debunked the claimed benefits of that. Done a lot better job than I ever could, so I won't cover that. But I asked her, what if the city of Portland passed a resolution insisting that congestion pricing be implemented before any further work on planning and construction of the Rose Quarter project went ahead? And her reply was, what would be wrong with that?
 She said that HB 2017 did a lot of good things, like more money for transit and safety, and sometimes you have to put in some bad things to achieve an overall good result. You've heard Representative Susan McLean of Washington County telling you to move ahead with expanding I-5 as if you have no choice in the matter.
 Now, Representative McLean does deserve a lot of credit for insisting that congestion pricing be in the bill, but I think she's wrong here. You do have a choice, and you wouldn't be the only supporters of HB 2017 to ask for a change. Note that the Oregon Trucking Association, which made their support of HB 2017 contingent on the Rose Quarter project being in the bill,
 is now suing to overturn a portion of HB 2017 that pays for electric vehicles. So I don't think there's anything wrong with you folks asking that HB 2017 be fine-tuned to spend the money in a more intelligent fashion than for the I-5 Rose Quarter project.
 Final point I'd like to make is while the bill directs congestion pricing to be studied and to be implemented on I-205 and I-5, it also permits congestion pricing to be implemented on any of the other freeways in the Portland area. So in particular, you need to include, and I would like you to add this to the resolution, I-84, I-405, 217, and Highway 26.
 Thank you very much for your time. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon, Philip. Thank you. You too. Thank you. Appreciate it. Ta-da. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please, Carla. Our Doug Klotz, Jim Howell, and Joshua Hetrick.
 Philip, my hands were getting tired just watching you do all that typing.
 Hi, my name is Doug Klotz. First, I want to thank Jessica Vega-Peterson for laying out a lot of the details of what equity would look like in congestion pricing. I definitely support congestion pricing, and she laid out a lot of the details that we need to know. I also want to thank Noel Mickelberry for her testimony in which she said smart investments and congestion pricing should be used in advance of any freeway projects like the Lowes Quarter expansion. I would second that.
 I would also note that the Oregon Transportation Department has been asked by different government agencies numerous times in the past two decades to study options for the implementation of congestion pricing in the Portland region, including most recently by the legislature in 2009. However, they have at this point failed to implement congestion pricing, despite its numerous obvious benefits to public health, transportation efficiency, and carbon emission mitigation.
 and it actually is also hardly certain that ODOT's Portland Region Value Pricing Advisory Committee will ultimately adopt a stance in support of congestion pricing that would adequately address the concerns expressed here for equity, sustainability, and public health, or that the committee will recommend congestion pricing on I-5 or at any time.
 freeway in Portland. Portland has an opportunity to be a regional leader in climate smart, cost effective and healthy transportation policy and set the standard that freeway expansion should only be considered after congestion pricing has been implemented. So asking ODOT to ensure that this congestion pricing is implemented before entering discussions about a freeway expansion is an appropriate move for the city to make. Thank you. Thank you sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Josh Hetrick. I endorse congestion pricing over freeway expansion. The time it took me to say that represents the cost to implement congestion pricing. My full three-minute time slot represents the cost to expand a freeway. There's no point in using all the time when only a little will suffice. I could sit here and continue to talk for three minutes to make my point less efficiently. Or, rather, I should continue talking well beyond my three-minute budget, as would often be the case with freeway expansions.
 But I would like to be a good steward of the public's time, just as I implore you to be with the public's money. Don't move forward with planning, design, or construction of any freeway expansion until after congestion pricing has been implemented and its effects evaluated. And I would like to note that I've observed a successful congestion strategy in this very room. The last time I was here, there was a much fuller list of people providing testimony, and we were only given two minutes apiece. We managed that just fine without building a second council. I think we can do this.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jim Howell. I here represent Aorta Association of Oregon Rail and Transit Advocates, and we support this resolution. Could I get you to stop? Are we good up there? It's good. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Sorry. We also support...
 the amendment proposed by No More Freeway Expansion that they sent to you in a letter, I think, yesterday. I won't read it, but we support that. I've been opposed to this Rose Quarter project for over five years. I gave testimony over five years ago against it and basically asked them to seriously look at public transit as an alternative measure.
 It's been over five years, and no one has looked at that as an alternative. But I want to spend the rest of my time talking about the surface improvements that have been – I've heard several of you say that these are important. And I want to point out that they are a mistake. They will cause more problems. And I have some slides here for you.
 Oh, let's see. You see that one? Okay. Basically, it puts a question mark behind surface improvements. We think they're the surface. This is the plan that ODOT has come up with. It has two covers, two lids that has been expressed as being an advantage here.
 We don't think they are. This is my neighborhood, and this would create a lot of useless space that cannot be built on and probably would not be maintained as currently the case with Oda's property right now, this intersection at Van Buren.
 Vancouver and Broadway is an example of the way it's maintained. So it's not going to improve the neighborhood by having these little pieces of land. Here is a shot of the area. And what is being proposed is to demolish five existing structures that were built in the 60s when the freeway was put through.
 and replace them with lids. Here's one lid that will replace three of those structures. It's not to benefit to have more land for development. It's just a cheaper way to cover them when you're rebuilding the freeway. It's an engineer, but it's been kind of sold as a benefit.
 Here's the other lid. And as you can see, it replaces one of the overpasses, which is Vancouver Avenue. But the fifth overpass, which is Flint, is not going to be replaced. It will be lost to the neighborhood. And this has been one of the – oh, am I out of time?
 This is one of the major north-south routes through the neighborhood. It's been there since it was platted back when it was the city of Albina, and that won't be replaced. And this is going to be replaced with something that probably is going to cause more problems, and this does not work.
 solve a lot of the bicycle thing. In other words, the project is bad. And any of you think that it's a benefit have been conned. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thanks, all three of you. Next three. I'm sorry. Yeah, next three, please. Are Jay Veronica Bernier, Matt Ferris-Smith, and Joe Cortright? Come on up. I think Veronica may have left. We'll go with Brad Baker. Mr. Cortright, would you like to try and start us off, please? Sure. Thank you.
 Mayor, members of the council, for the record, Joe Courtright, and I'm with No More Freeway Expansions. I also run City Observatory, a think tank on urban policy issues. As an economist, this is such an exciting time to be here. You've heard the sermon. It's usually been economists who've only been talking about congestion pricing. In short, congestion pricing is not only a way to deal with congestion. It is effectively the only way that you will reduce congestion in an urban setting.
 And so I strongly urge you to move forward with this. But as with the amendment that was submitted by No More Freeway Expansions, we want to strongly encourage you to maximize your value here by not spending any money on the Rose Quarter project until after you have implemented congestion pricing and see what effect that it has on demand.
 you should follow the medical prescript of first do no harm. There's no reason to spend that money if in a world where we have congestion pricing we'll have eliminated or at least greatly changed the traffic situation that we face. The entire project is predicated on a world where we don't have congestion pricing. So it makes no sense to spend half a billion dollars on a project that is designed for a world that we know by virtue of this resolution of the legislature's action we're not going to live in.
 What this project amounts to really effectively then is essentially the ritual sacrifice of half a billion dollars to the freeway gods or sort of the world's most expensive piece of performance art because we know it won't have a measurable effect on traffic congestion.
 And we've seen this because in other cities around the United States where they've expanded capacity and then afterwards implemented tolls, they found out that they'd wasted their money on the capacity expansion. The city of Louisville, Kentucky widened Interstate 65, a road very similar to I-5 in a lot of respects. They spent a billion dollars widening the bridge, and then after they built the bridge, they imposed a toll of between one and two dollars to use the bridge.
 and found that it dropped the traffic on that bridge by 40% from its pre-construction levels. So if you do tolling, there's no reason to waste money on construction. Now I want to touch briefly on the issue of equity, because I know people have appropriately said we ought to be thinking about the equity implications of what we do with road pricing.
 I want to submit to you that our current system of transportation finance is profoundly inequitable, and doing anything in the way of congestion pricing is likely to almost automatically produce big gains in equity. And I'll point out two key inequities in the current system. We talk a lot about the gas tax, but most road users pay more in car registration fees than they do in gas taxes.
 The typical owner of a Subaru, a used Subaru in Portland, pays 20 times as much as a percentage of the value of her vehicle as somebody who owns a new SUV. So we have a highly inequitable system now. This puts the cost much more on higher income people. The people who travel at the peak hour on freeways earn incomes that are on the average double of what the rest of the population who is walking, cycling, and traveling off-peak.
 Finally, I would just say I have a sense of deja vu about this because the legislature in 2009 directed the Oregon Department of Transportation to implement congestion pricing in Portland. They drug their bureaucratic feet for quite some time, and as a result, nothing ever happened. And we shouldn't be in that situation again. We should move forward with this. We should take advantage of it by not wasting money on freeway expansion and reap the economic benefits of congestion pricing.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Council. My name is Matt Ferris-Smith, and I'm very humbled by all the wonderful testimony I've heard today, and I really appreciate City Council's very thoughtful debate on this issue.
 Nevertheless, I am taking some time off work today to encourage you to amend Agenda Item 1276 to demand that ODOT implement and evaluate congestion pricing before any further planning, design, or construction of the I-5 Rose Quarter project or any freeway expansion in Portland.
 Congestion pricing works, freeway expansions do not. I think we all agree on these fundamental facts about what actually can reduce congestion. Therefore, we should make it very clear that congestion pricing should be implemented prior to any freeway expansion.
 I realize that the Rose Quarter project promises to do more than widen the highway, but the fact remains that this project is fundamentally a highway-winding project. Implementing congestion pricing prior to any work on I-5 and evaluating the impact will assure that any subsequent work in the Rose Quarter is well spent. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Brad Baker. I'd like to basically say I agree with most of the testimony that has been put forth today. I think we should...
 strengthen up this resolution and say that we would like to have congestion pricing implemented and evaluated before we expand the freeway.
 I live in the Elliott neighborhood, the neighborhood that the freeway currently cuts the neighborhood in half right now. We have some of the worst air quality in the city in that neighborhood because of the freeway. And if we add a lane to this freeway in hopes of reducing congestion, we're going to have more cars. We all know induced demand will happen. We'll have more cars driving through our neighborhood, and we'll have worse air quality there. The neighborhood has already been beat up through, you know,
 It's a long history of being taken advantage of by the city. And then if we add more lanes to the freeway, it just continues that legacy. Also, I went on the neighborhood walkthrough with PBOT to see the local street improvements. And I'd 100% like to agree with Jim from Aorta. If we think these local improvements are anything of an improvement to the city, we're deceiving ourselves. The lids don't improve the livability of the neighborhood.
 those neighbor, the streets are already fine, you know, they're not great, but they're fine for walking, for biking. The changes won't make them any better for walking or biking. There's so many other places we could spend this money to improve our infrastructure than putting these lids on.
 on the freeway. So, yeah, thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fish, you bet. Joe, can I ask you a question? You, in your testimony, gave us an analogy, gave us an example about a Subaru and an SUV and the cost. I live in the Goose Hollow neighborhood.
 And so you have some streets there that are a little narrower than some of the other residential streets in the city. My impression, it's purely anecdotal, is that with greater congestion and safety concerns, people are buying bigger vehicles, compounding the problem. And literally the problem now is just actually two cars navigating the same roadway, parking. And then if I look at where people park in my building, it seems like bigger cars.
 Do we have data to support that? Is one of the byproducts of more congestion and safety issues people buying bigger cars and therefore exacerbating the problem? Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fish. I haven't seen data on that that tie it specifically to congestion. The big factor that we've seen is the decline in gasoline prices.
 that when gasoline prices started declining in about the third quarter of 2014, vehicle miles traveled and miles per gallon of new vehicles, which had been getting better. That is, we were traveling fewer miles and buying smaller, more efficient vehicles. Both of those trends reversed. And so with cheap gasoline, there are a lot more fuel-hungry vehicles on the road.
 And that's one of the really unfortunate and perverse effects of the House Bill 2017 changes. They essentially raised a flat vehicle registration fee. You pay the same fee for a very heavily energy-using, heavily polluting vehicle as for a less polluting one. In fact, they raised the registration fees for electric vehicles, which pollute less.
 And then the final point is vehicle weight is the biggest factor in wear and tear on the road system. And it's not linear. It's actually to the third power. So a vehicle that weighs twice as much as another vehicle causes eight times as much damage to the roadway. So those SUVs pay the same dollar figure but cause much, much greater damage to the roadway. Thank you. Thank you. All three of you. Appreciate it.
 And you have, is there three more, Carla? Is that correct? We have two who did sign up, and we had a request from one person who didn't get to sign up. Yeah, that's fine. Bring up the last three, please. Okay, so it's Aaron Brown, Chris Smith, and the gentleman. Chris, we should have called on you earlier as a commissioner, shouldn't we? I wanted to back clean up.
 A good place to be. Why don't you go ahead and start for us, please, sir. Mayor Wheeler, Portland City Council. Good afternoon. My name is Aaron Brown, and I'm officially with the No More Freeway Expansion Coalition, a big, almighty organization. We've already talked a lot about how great congestion pricing is today, but I just want to make sure it's heard one more time. Our coalition is thoroughly in support of congestion pricing. I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Portland City Council, and for the folks in this room. We've got bureaucrats. We've got folks in the Oregon State Legislature and folks that have brought this to the table and made it happen today.
 It's undeniably awesome, effective, urgent, important public policy. I just want to add, too, I encourage the city of Portland to listen closely and center the voices from Verde, Opal, Community Alliance of Tenants, and other folks who are sitting in on that ODOT committee to particularly make sure that the congestion pricing policies we design are centering the vulnerable communities and that we are achieving the best possible outcomes from it.
 I am here to once again reiterate that we are disappointed that the language in this resolution does not have specific wording saying that we should try pricing before freeway expansion. The elephant in the room, if congestion pricing is all about the notion that we're managing supply and demand better,
 This is a $450 million increase in the supply that totally throws off this entire notion of getting all of the benefits the congestion pricing bring. If you had a leaky sink in your house, to use more dopey analogies because people seem to like that last time I was here, if you had a leaky sink in your house and it could cost $10 million to call the plumber or $450 million to buy a new sink, why on earth wouldn't you call the plumber first?
 That is what's at hand with this congestion pricing versus freeway expansion. That's why we've had 350 people contact you and sign our letter and to bring this issue today to rain on the parade of what otherwise is a really awesome initiative moving forward with congestion pricing. Lord knows we have other infrastructural needs like affordable housing that we should be thinking about how we allocate money towards.
 Being here and patting ourselves on the back that we're supporting congestion pricing but still allowing this freeway expansion to happen is like patting ourselves on the back that we passed an energy consumption initiative while also voting for a $450 million coal plant. It's like changing that we are supporting a new recidivism or second chance policies while also moving forward with a $450 million prison.
 At our fundamental core, the point is to restructure our collective social behavior to retire these 20th century infrastructure projects that are counter to every single one of our public health, economic, equity, and other goals at great taxpayer expense. Maybe we need a redesigned freeway.
 It's fiscally irresponsible to not demand the congestion pricing happen first, so we have a fundamental understanding of how we can design that freeway to best meet the needs of the changing traffic. We know that if we put a price on that road, it will fundamentally change how many cars are going through it.
 What we are suggesting is, especially considering I sat in on the committee that met last week, there's all sorts of different technologies about what lanes are reusing or how it is implemented. It will have significant impact on what the traffic would look like. It does not make sense to move forward with three-way expansion, allowing ODOT to move forward without explicitly previously finding out how that traffic patterns have changed. Thank you very much for your time, and I encourage you to learn more about our coalition. Very good. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Hi, I'm Ron Buell, and congratulations to the Mayor and Commissioner Saltzman and the Council for this excellent effort to push forward congestion pricing on I-5 and I hope I-205.
 Also, congratulations to the Council for having excellent, open-minded, bright and responsive staff members in each of your offices. I gave my little pitch about the costs and benefits of the $450 million Rose Quarter project.
 And the amendment to this congestion pricing resolution we seek in order to do what Aaron just said, to get that evaluation and outcome. And I spoke to Brennan Finn and to Michael Cox and Marshall Runkle and Chris Dunphy and a new person in Amanda's office named Janine Gates and your staff members.
 were great and they said they agreed with my cost-benefit analysis. To summarize that, the costs are substantial. $450 million is a lot of money. This project will worsen air pollution in neighborhoods that are already hit hard by air pollution and air toxics. An induced demand for freeway driving...
 and it's totally antithetical to the climate action plan of the city of Portland. The benefits of this project are illusory. ODOT and PBOT say the project will not reduce congestion on I-5, and vehicle-caused fatalities, which are going up dramatically across the city...
 But your Vision Zero goals will not be advanced in this section of New Freeway. It's not where fatalities occur. The bicycle and pedestrian use of the Broadway-Widler couplet will not be improved by speeding up autos and trucks coming off I-5.
 Taking out Flint altogether does not restore the street grid, does not serve Emanuel Hospital, does not restore and does not, it takes out a very heavily used bicycle street, Flint. I went to the Vision Zero meeting at the Billy Webb's Elks Temple and Zari Sontner and, and, uh,
 Rukaya Adams and Ronnie Herndon said in front of God and everyone that this project was not essential to their idealistic and naive vision. While they want to build on the lids, they won't be able to do so. You have no neighborhood support for this project either, Elliott and Irvington.
 neighborhoods did not approve it, they opposed it. Finally, I want to warn the Mayor and the City Council that this project will not finally be built.
 There's no money for it until 2022 and then ODOT has to borrow to fund it. And 30 percent of that agency's budget goes to pay debt already. No more freeway expansion is confident this project won't go forward. So you're about to fall into the Columbia River crossing trap, which is what I call it. The budget for this project includes more than $100 million for design, planning and engineering.
 If you make the mistake of kicking this planning can down the road, I joyfully predict that there will be political consequences that the council won't like for spending all that money and wasting it on a project that's never built, which is what happened with $200 million on the CRC. Very good, and I'd ask you to please wrap it up. Okie doke. The answer for you is simple. Stop the...
 planning using federal flexible funds and hold the $450 million allocation until after you get the results from congestion pricing. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Last but not least. Mayor and members of council, I'm Chris Smith. I'm vice chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but I am not speaking for the commission today. I'm also an authorized representative of the No More Freeway Expansion Coalition.
 This is a smart resolution, and that shouldn't surprise me since it's two of my favorite bureau directors are bringing it forward. There's some good stuff in here. I particularly want to call out the –
 The desire to balance what ODOT is looking at on the freeways with what we need to do for the rest of the transportation system to make it work together as an integrated whole, I think absent that we would be in big trouble. With it, we have the opportunity to achieve a lot of our comp plan goals. There's also an important clause about seeking the responsible use of the revenue, and I think that's something that ODOT will probably not do on their own. They'd simply plow it back into the freeway system, and that's not –
 the highest and best use of those dollars. So I encourage the city to be vigilant about making sure that money is spent well. I want to echo some of the equity concerns and opportunities that have been addressed. As other people have said, the current transportation funding system is not particularly equitable. We have the opportunity to improve the equity of the system here, but only if we are very focused on how to make sure that the outcomes do indeed improve equity. So I ask all of you to watch that carefully.
 And of course, I want to address what's not in the resolution. Commissioner Saltzman, you said in your opening remarks that we should be open to looking at things like our zoning, like our transportation project list. But the resolution doesn't say that. The resolution doesn't say we should reevaluate our transportation project list. I think it should. And like my friends, I believe that part of that reevaluation should be to rethink the I-5 Rose Quarter project. A few reflections on that. Thank you.
 I share the feeling of Jim Howell that the surface improvements don't add up to much. I'm a cyclist who rides through the so-called box on Broadway-Widler a couple times a week. I don't see that the freeway project is going to make a significant difference to the quality of bike pad travel through that area. Very skeptical about what it's going to do for land use.
 And since I have a minute left, I want to address a point that I heard a number of times in response to Central City Plan testimony about the freeway project, which is it's not Portland's money to reprogram. Well, of course, it's true that the dollars are programmed by the legislature and the Oregon Transportation Commission.
 but they are raised from people in Portland who pay gas taxes and vehicle registration fees. So they are, in that sense, very much Portland's money, and they should be spent to our benefit. The I-5 project has been in the city's legislative agenda. I would urge you to change that. You have power over what the legislature and the OTC do, and I think it's incumbent on you to reevaluate that.
 this project. At a time when the city is going to have its highest traffic fatalities in a decade and every segment of Powell and 82nd have higher crash rates than this freeway interchange does, I think it's a massive misallocation of resources to put half a billion dollars into this area. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. Very good. Do we want to bring Director Treat up for any further questions? I just have one.
 Come on up. I don't know, Susan, if you want to join, or you're certainly welcome to. And I don't know whether you have the answer to this or not, but I was wondering about the taking out of Flint. What's the rationale behind that? I certainly can't answer. I'm going to second the captions answer again. Sorry. That's okay. So I can't answer that. I'm going to have to get back to you on that, Commissioner. It's not on yet. They are probably switching out captioners. Okay. So I'll ask the question again. Are you there? Yes.
 Looks like they're ready. So I guess just want to reflect that this is an example of how difficult it is for people who have hearing difficulties when they're completely cut off from being able to follow a conversation. So thank you, Philip, for bringing this to our attention. My question, Director Treat, was whether or not you know what's the rationale for taking out Flint.
 Right, and I don't. I will get back to you and follow up on that question. Thank you. Any further questions? Please call the roll. Thank you. You daily? Thank you for the presentation and for everyone that came to testify today. Aye. Fritz.
 When I was discussing this with some of my staff today, I mentioned that when I first got involved with city discussions back in the early 1990s, we were talking about congestion pricing. And I was listening to it at the Metro Policy Advisory Committee. And one of my staff said, well, then why didn't you do it?
 And so I would urge the advocates, don't snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. We are actually going to do this now. And I think there's a lot more to be discussed than whether or not it will relieve congestion. There is the discussion of will it repair an area that was blasted by I-5 and Royal Coliseum? And how do we include more people who were affected by that in these discussions so that we all understand this? It's not just about a freeway here. Thank you.
 My only disappointment is John Topagna assured us we were going to get a Joe Cartwright PowerPoint. I feel like perhaps we can prevail upon you to e-mail it to us so we can review it. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing this matter forward. This, I thought, was an unusually thoughtful discussion. I appreciate the time people took to inform us and make a record.
 And I have a lot of questions and concerns coming out of this, and that's the purpose of holding a hearing. So I'm going to support this particular resolution. And, in fact, I've lived in cities across the country that have successfully implemented congestion pricing. And with some of the new technology, it's actually not very burdensome. It's just having a sticker or a little box on your windshield, and you can adjust, do some variable pricing off of that.
 I think it's long overdue. So thank you both for bringing this forward. Thank you to the public for participating. Aye. Selfsman? Well, as the resolution states, this begins the process of the city's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Transportation of closely examining how to implement congestion pricing in the city of Portland. It is all about pricing our transportation system, but doing it in a way that's going to be equitable to all Portlanders.
 And I believe that we are up for that challenge. I wanted to thank, in particular, Matt Grum in my office for helping to put together this resolution and the hearing we've just completed today. Aye. Wheeler. This is a good and necessary first step for the city to take, and therefore I support the resolution. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thanks, everybody. We're adjourned.