Good morning, everybody. The City Council on November 30th will come to order. Carla, could you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Saltzman? Here. Before we begin, I'll just read a brief message. The purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before council.
 The public is welcome to attend council meetings, and during the meetings, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. So when you do testify, if you do testify, please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, I ask that you please disclose that as well. Please testify only to the matter at hand.
 Oregon law allows the public opportunity to attend council meetings. The council rules direct the presiding officer to preserve order of these proceedings and allow the public the opportunity to offer testimony specifically addressing council currently pending matters. Conduct that disrupts the meetings, for example, shouting during other people's presentations or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 Please show your support or displeasure with your hands, i.e., thumbs up or thumbs down. And this is a warning that anyone that disrupts this proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from city hall. Lastly, if needed, council will take a half-hour break at either 12 or 12.30, depending on the council schedule. And I will announce when the meeting will reconvene before we take the break.
 So with that, let's move to our communications, item 1316. If you could please read that, Carla. 1316, request of Kim Gates to address council regarding partnering to solve employee diversity, inclusion, and retention problems.
 Are you Ms. Gates? I am. Okay. They're here for support. I don't do it very often. Okay. All you need to do is just give us your name and you have three minutes. I will. Thank you. There's a clock in front of you there. Thank you for hearing me today. My name is Kim Gates. I just celebrated 21 years with the Portland Police Bureau in July. I'm also the treasurer for ASME Local 189. I've enjoyed my career, but I'm here today on behalf of my coworkers to discuss wages and pay equity. Okay.
 Let me be clear, I am not talking about equal pay. I make as much as any man does in my classification. I'm talking about pay equity, the value placed on the work which has been traditionally performed by women."
 I don't think there's been a single year of my 21-year career when I haven't heard the command staff of the Portland Police Bureau say they couldn't operate without us and the work we perform. But what kind of value does that translate to? When I began in 1995, my starting wage, not the top scale, was 249% of minimum wage. Today, it is at minimum wage. Yet we are vetted through a substantial background process and are expected to conduct ourselves in the highest regard off-duty as much as on.
 Additionally, we have access to extremely confidential information about people's private lives, yet you pay our employees the same as any other industry within the city, most with significantly less responsibility. We've been struggling to recruit and retain in our positions. Currently, the staffing level in my department is short-staffed, but beyond that, our authorized staff is too low. We are expected to perform the duties of other classifications, the duties of other vacant positions within our classification, and often to work above our classification. Thank you.
 You've balanced the budget of the police bureau on the backs of your most oppressed population. The demographics of our classifications are at approximately 80% women. Many are single parents or the sole caregivers of their own aging parents. We've taken significant cuts to our ranks since 2009 and seen no end in sight of replacing those missing employees. But the work has become greater with the oversight of the DOJ and the nature of police work and record retention changing and improving through the years.
 For our records division employees, our union, AFSCME Local 189, conducted a survey in November 2015 to find any agencies in the state of Oregon who paid less than the city of Portland. We found two in very small towns in Oregon. One was Weber, Oregon, and unfortunately I can't even remember the other one. These employees are the lowest paid permanent employees in the city. The only folks who make less are seasonal temporary employees.
 I understand someone has to make the lowest, but do you really want it to be this group of employees who are handling sensitive, confidential information and working with people at some of the lowest times of their lives?
 This is an appalling position for the City of Portland to take. In a time when our country is so divided, Portland wants to claim to be a safe haven for immigrants, but I ask how can Portland pride itself on that noble cause when it overlooks its own at the same time and continues to support the system of financial oppression? I plead with you to make pay equity a priority for your bargaining team during the upcoming DCTU successor bargaining, which is set to begin next week. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. You can read item 1317, please.
 Request of Mary Protzman to address council regarding partnering to solve employee diversity, inclusion, and retention problems. Welcome. Just give us your name and you have three minutes. My name is Mary Protzman. I've worked for the city approximately 10 years. I work at the Police Bureau. I worked at BOEC. And I'm also an executive board member for AFSCME Local 189.
 Recruitment and retention of quality and diverse employees is important to city employees as well. We're also union members. The city has historically blamed, or at least in my history with the city, blamed the existence of the union on why they're less able to retain and recruit quality, diverse employees. Okay.
 Having quality coworkers we can depend on after so many years of being continuously understaffed is critical to our ability to provide the kind of services we take pride in providing throughout our community. AFSCME Local 189 has heard from members out at BOEC, housing, police, water, OMF, BDS, almost every city bureau in which the city is falling short of successfully creating a culture of equity and inclusion.
 Creating the Office of Equity and Human Rights has been a big step in the right direction, but the focus has been mostly on education resources. Education is relevant and needed, but there's little in place to support their work systemically to foster meaningful cultural change in individual workplaces beyond the dedication and interest of individual employees.
 The Office of Equity points to resources like BOLI and BHR, as well as the Fair Housing Council and the Independent Police Review Board, but these are not adequate resources for the kind of grassroots change the city needs to embrace to be successful.
 AFSCME would like to partner in finding a path forward towards a more inclusive, empowering, and representative workplace. I know it's been proposed before, but I would like to suggest, again, that the city create a third-party entity similar to IPR to investigate claims of discrimination and other issues of equity issues.
 for employees of the city of Portland. There are so many small but important hurdles to overcome that do not reach the level of a bully complaint. For example, our fragrance-free workplace policy, which I like, I think it's an excellent policy, um,
 is disproportionately impactful on our minority employees who are often pulled aside and questioned about whether or not they're in violation of the policy. And it's a small thing that impacts the ability to feel comfortable and to feel welcomed in their workplace. But it's also not the level that would raise to a bully complaint either. Thank you.
 BHR is cited by the city as a source for complaints such as these. However, success will be stunted at best if you have the same policies and practice originating with BHR being investigated and reviewed by the same entity. So, again, I would suggest that we do something to help support systemic change, like having a place that employees can go and actually bounce these complaints off of. Thank you very much. If you could read item 1318. Okay.
 1318, request of Jacob Brostoff to address council regarding partnering to solve employee diversity, inclusion, and retention problems. So Mr. Brostoff is not here, and I'm sorry, Mr. Marino, but we don't allow substitutes. Thank you. So if you could read 1319. 1319, request of Sam Pastrick to address council regarding the city information and communications technology opportunities. Parsons. Okay.
 Welcome. If you could just give us your name, and you have three minutes, and there's a clock in front of you. Morning. My name is Sam Pastrick, and I'm here today with the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. You guys know us as CUB. I'm here to discuss Portland's development, implementation, and oversight of information and communications technology policy. For example, broadband adoption, open data, and digital equity. I'll use the acronym ICT from here on out. To help guide, I've shared with you all, in addition to Mayor-elect Wheeler and Commissioner-elect Dudailey's respective transition teams here,
 Copies of a more in-depth analysis authored by CUB. My goal today is to briefly summarize our paper and to start a needed conversation. The City of Portland has a history of ICT policy leadership. In 2009, the city passed an open data resolution, and just two years later, a first-of-its-kind broadband strategic plan. Earlier this year, City Council, you folks, endorsed a feature strategy of that plan, the Digital Equity Action Plan,
 or DEEP. CUB helped develop the DEEP as a member of the regional digital inclusion network and offered supporting testimony. You can see more about our history with ICT policy on page two of the paper. While the city's accomplishments are noteworthy, CUB is concerned that significant progress toward achieving the five goals and 14 strategies outlined in the broadband strategic plan is made more difficult due to the low organizational setting given to the office for community technology.
 While most major U.S. cities, especially those pushing truly innovative policy, enjoy centralized ICT offices headed by a chief innovation or information officer, Portland takes a very different approach. For more on this topic, you can look to pages five and six of the paper. The Office for Community Technology, for instance, lost its bureau status in 2012, now serves under the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services within OMF, and thereby lacks consistent access to city leadership.
 CUB's point is very simple. Portland can do much better. The city has the know-how and the leadership experience to regain its position as a true ICT leader, and the first step is for the city to consider new organizational and structural options. We've identified some on page 7 of the paper. For example, Portland can follow Seattle's approach, and this could look something like the second bullet point on page 7, which I'll read now.
 Establish a two-pronged ICT office headed by a chief innovation or information officer with the current Office for Community Technology Management leading policy development, and the current Bureau of Technology Services Management leading technology implementation. This could be an independent bureau that reports to a council member or a standalone bureau within OMF with a direct report to the chief administrative officer who leads OMF and thereby reports to the mayor.
 While CUB does not offer one specific option, the paper does lay out a path to buoy city ICT policy through a more streamlined bureaucracy and greater access to city leadership. I thank you for your time, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Have you sent that to Mayor Elect Wheeler? Yes, we have. Thank you. Thank you. If you could read Item 1320, please. Request of Dave Gansling to address council regarding unimproved street upgrades. Mr. Gansling, are you here?
 Okay, I don't see him. If he shows up later, we'll allow him the opportunity. So let's move to the consent calendar. We've had a request. Are you Mr. Gansling? Oh, okay. Okay, so let's move to the consent agenda. We've had a request to pull items 1322 and 1326. Are there any other items that members or the public wish to have pulled?
 Okay, so we will hear those items at the end of the regular agenda. And, Carla, if you could please call the roll on the consent agenda. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, the consent agenda is approved, and we'll now move to our time certain, item 1321.
 Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements north of Southwest Lourdes Street in the Southwest 47th Avenue Phase 1 Local Improvement District.
 Mr. Novick, did you want to open this up? Sure. This is a short segment of street, but it's worth celebrating that we're continuing to inch closer to more paved streets with stormwater management and sidewalks. And congratulations, Andrew. It's my understanding this LID received almost 100% petition support. Take it away. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I'm going to pass out some hard copies of some testimony and a hard copy of the presentation presentation.
 This is a much simpler agenda item than what we've had the last couple of weeks, so we should be able to move through it quickly. So this is a map of Southwest 47th Avenue. The right-of-way extends from Southwest Luradale Street north to Southwest Barber Boulevard. This area is primarily multifamily development.
 And we received 99.4% petition support for this LID, and the recommendation is to approve this resolution and bring it back for a formation hearing in January. This is a picture of the street. You can see there's a lot of cars parked on the street there. Quail Ridge Apartments and other property owners have actually done a pretty good job of filling the potholes on this street, but they won't need to do that once the street gets improved. Okay.
 this is the end of the street you can see that there's an existing dead end to the street today there is no proposal to punch through the street all the way to barbara boulevard just to show you another picture here the picture on the left is standing on barbara boulevard looking at the southwest 47th avenue right-of-way picture on the right is
 standing up above on Southwest 47th Avenue, looking down at Southwest Barber Boulevard. So the proposal is to improve the street as far north as the northernmost property on the street, and it would be a dead-end street. So just to wrap up, to give you an overview of...
 West Portland Park where this project is located. They have one of the higher proportions of unpaid streets in the city. They have 10.4% of their streets unpaid versus 2.8% citywide, so 4-5 times the citywide average. The voters not far from this project location in Tigard, which is just a few blocks down Barbara Boulevard until you get into Tigard, they did approve
 A ballot measure a couple weeks ago to approve light rail going to Tigard, and what I'm particularly pleased about is we can start building some of the infrastructure so when the high-capacity transit eventually comes, we don't have an unpaved street within walking distance of the new light rail line.
 So the only other thing I wanted to add is I passed out some testimony. One item is from a community advocate in southeast Portland that doesn't own property in this area. The other one is from James and Marcella Carlton.
 and he just wanted to urge the council to approve the LID, and you've got a copy of that testimony. So that concludes my presentation. We have one property owner here to testify, and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Questions for Andrew? The question for Mary Ann Schwab, how much is the city contributing to this LID? So their contribution to the LID is...
 The Bureau of Transportation will fund the overhead cost of the LID. So the total cost of the improvements is $635,000. Let's see what the Bureau of Transportation funding is here. Yeah, so the LID component is $558,000. The overhead costs are $77,000. I should note that we do have one single-family property owner on the street, and part of the reason for the overhead funding was to provide
 keep the cost of the LID reasonable for that single family property owner. And I should also add there are no pending development proposals on the street. There is one vacant lot that at some point will be developed, but all the other properties on the street are developed, and I don't anticipate any redevelopment of those properties as a result of this LID. And will the street have sidewalks? Yes. On both sides? Yes.
 We are actually planning a sidewalk on one side only. It is a little bit of a tight fit in there, and there are some trees. So we are planning a sidewalk on the west side. And then as redevelopment occurs, we may also get a sidewalk on the east side. We're trying to be context-sensitive here. Thank you. Thanks, Andrew. Thank you. And do we have anybody signed up? I know we have one person here. Jim Atwood. Jim Atwood. Jim Atwood.
 Joe, did you want to testify? Yeah. Okay, why don't you come on up? Hi, Jim Atwood, 33 Southwest 3rd, Portland, 97204. I own one of the properties in the LID, and I just basically wanted to reiterate what
 mr abby said uh our particular property we have frontage on barbers so it's not so crucial to us that 47th be paved but there's i think on the order of over 100 apartment units that have frontage on that street and there's people driving through the potholes through the mud and parking on the street and it's uh would just be a good thing for the city to i think have that paved so we're a cooperating property owner and would like to encourage you to approve the lid
 Thank you. Thank you for taking the time to come in. I appreciate it. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We just had one question. Is there any statistics that will show that when we do this kind of work, it's balanced out from the east side to the west side? It seems to us, when we were looking at this, that there's an awful lot of work being done on the west side. And we're very concerned because we are on the east side.
 So is there any statistics there, Commissioner, that would show us that you're doing a balanced job, or do you do all the construction on the west side? Thank you.
 Mr. Walsh, this is not what we're doing. Occasionally there's some city contributions, but LIDs are generally voluntary contributions from property owners. So when people on the east side want to form LIDs, they are treated the same as when people on the west side want to form LIDs, but these are initiated by the property owners generally, not by the city.
 So the rich people have an advantage over the poor people. Actually, there's a lot of Section 8 housing in this area. Did you see this slide, or were you out of the room at that time? It shows that the neighborhood... No, no. Would you answer my question, please? The rich people have an advantage over the poor people because they have money to do this, so therefore it gets done. But the poor people on the east side have no money, so they can't get it done. Is that what you're telling me? Mr. Walsh, I have nothing more to say. Okay, thanks, Mr. Walsh.
 Well, I wonder why you lost the election. Now, can anybody answer that question? Are there any statistics, or are you guys just doing your transparency F job? Well, Mr. Abbey's in the room here. If you wish to speak to him, you can ask him. And where is he? He's right over your shoulder there. Oh, my shoulder. Is that him? That's him. He's a really nice-looking guy. Yeah, he is. Shooting everything. Yeah.
 Do you have any stats on this? Mr. Walsh, I'll be very brief. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I don't have the information right here at my fingertips. What I can tell you is...
 The majority of LIDs that we've done in the last 15 years have, in fact, been on the east side and, in particular, have been concentrated in East Portland. It used to be that East Portland, far and away, had the highest proportion of unpaved streets in the city. We've made enough progress in East Portland that now Sweeney, Southwest Neighborhoods Incorporated,
 far and away has the largest share of unpaved streets in the city of portland so we actually have more deficiencies now in southwest portland than we do in east portland can you show me that would i'd be happy to follow up with you joe you have my email and all that i'll get it from you very easy to find okay uh okay so this is a resolution uh carla please call the roll thank you andrew hi
 West Portland Park happens to be my neighbourhood. It has the only Title I school on the west side. And it has a lot of Section 8 housing, especially around here.
 I'm really bad at bringing home the pork to my district, apparently, because it's only the second street improvement that I remember in my neighbourhood, the first being on Huber that helps kids walk to Jackson Middle School in more safety. And I actually had a good conversation several years ago with a woman using a wheelchair, and she said she had to move downtown because she just can't get around in our neighbourhood. There aren't enough paved streets and such. Right.
 So I'm very much appreciative of the property owners for doing this. Commissioner Novick, I'm very appreciative of you having your staff work on this, because indeed sometimes the equity issues aren't quite as obvious as they might have been. So I very much appreciate that we did this. Aye. Yes. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, the resolution is approved, and let's move to our...
 Regular agenda, and could you please read items 1327, 1328, and 1329 together, please? 1327, authorize a grant agreement in an amount not to exceed $25,000 with Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber for Outreach, Education, and Technical Assistance.
 to small, women-owned and or minority-owned businesses to increase the number and diversity of B Corp. certified businesses in Portland. 1328, authorize an intergovernmental agreement in an amount not to exceed $20,000 with Portland State University for technical assistance and business consultation services to small, women-owned and or minority-owned businesses
 to increase the number and diversity of B Corp certified businesses in Portland, and 1329, authorize a grant agreement in an amount not to exceed $25,000 with Venture Portland for outreach, education, and technical assistance to small, women-owned, and or minority-owned businesses to increase the number and diversity of B Corp certified businesses in Portland.
 so uh these items were introduced by mayor halzain commissioner fish i'll recognize commissioner fish for some brief comments thank you um we're joined by rachel wiggins who's going to walk us through this colleagues the money for the b corp program was allocated during the budget three contractors have been selected to handle training and outreach and these council items are for the purpose of finalizing contracts with our contractors they are the hispanic metropolitan chamber of commerce
 Portland State University and Venture Portland. And the specific goal is to do outreach to women and minority-owned small businesses in order to increase the diversity of our city's B Corp.
 Rachel Wiggins is here. She's been a champion for this program. Take it away. Thank you, Commissioner Good morning council. My name is Rachel Wiggins from mayor Hales's office I am here today to present on three very exciting partnerships with the city of Portland with the purpose as Commissioner fish said to encourage Portland businesses specifically our smaller neighborhood and women and minority owned businesses to participate in our measure what matters be core challenge and
 Focusing on Portland's smaller and more diverse businesses, this challenge will encourage Portland businesses to take B-Lab's Quick Impact Assessment, which is a 20-minute survey that measures a business's impact on the environment, their workers, and their community, and asks them to measure impact
 improve on or adopt the business practices highlighted within that assessment, which also tend to align with Portland's values themselves, which are healthy and diverse workplaces, sustainable business practices, as well as investing in one's community. This challenge does not require businesses to become B Corps. I know that I came here in May with a more robust ask that was really around the development of B Corps in Portland.
 While increasing the number of certified businesses would be wonderful, we do recognize that there are several barriers to full certification for businesses, whether that's lack of time if they're a small business, lack of funds if the focus really is on making it through the year, and lack of information if they aren't even aware of what B Corp certification is.
 This can be especially true, as I was saying, for our smaller neighborhood and women and minority-owned businesses. So the hope is that by increasing awareness and providing technical assistance through Venture Portland, Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber, and Portland State University, we can help our businesses measure the good work that they're already doing and commit to improving on that work, making it clear that while you can also do well in Portland, you can also do good for Portland. Thank you.
 PSU, Venture Portland, and Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber were chosen as partners because of their proven history of successful outreach and providing technical assistance to Portland's businesses through education and outreach and detailed technical assistance. The goal of these partnerships was truly to reduce barriers for businesses looking to measure and improve their current business practices and provide them with wraparound services so that they can be successful.
 I asked Heather Hale from Venture Portland and Jonathan Colon from Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber to speak to specifically why they were excited to join on and the work that they'll be doing. And then I'll talk briefly about what PSU's role is. Before you do that, could you just explain again to the people at home what is a B Corp? How do you get certified? Yeah, absolutely. So a B Corp is a business who has committed
 to say not only are we focusing on being a successful business, we're also a business that's committed to being good. So whether that means adopting practices such as paying a fair wage to their employees, focusing on hiring a diverse workforce,
 committed to sustainable business practices, having a charitable contribution program. They're businesses who are incorporating more than just practices that secure a good bottom line. B Corp certification specifically is a much longer process. It's like a 200-question assessment through B Lab program.
 and can be very long and taxing process for businesses. So that's why we really, truly wanted to focus on having them take the initial assessment, which is a much smaller and tailored version, and then use that as a launching point for both measuring the good work that they're already doing, because many of our businesses are doing this work and deserve to get credit for that, as well as encouraging them to build on that good work. Some businesses may get to certification, but we didn't want that to be the end goal.
 That's very helpful. Thank you. Who wants to go next? Awesome. Good morning, commissioners. As you know, my name is Heather Hale. I'm the executive director of Venture Portland. We are the support system for Portland's 50 neighborhood business districts, which together contain 19,200 businesses and provide half of the city's jobs or employ about 267,000 people.
 Yesterday was Giving Tuesday, and as you all know, neighborhood businesses consistently invest in Portland by providing jobs and donating to local causes at rates that are more than two times that of national chains. In fact, in this calendar year, 2016, Portland's nonprofit neighborhood business associations
 donated more than $100,000 to other local charities in their neighborhood business districts. And collectively, neighborhood businesses donated more than a million dollars to help make Portland a great place to live, work, and play for all.
 Neighborhood businesses know that the business of Portland is about more than just business. It's about people and neighborhoods and culture. And that is why we have some record-setting B Corps already that are neighborhood-based in the city of Portland. There's a hair salon on Southeast Foster Road in East Portland that is the first hair salon in North America to be registered as a B Corp.
 Albina Bank is our most recent B Corp neighborhood base with locations in five different neighborhood business districts, one of only 10 banks in the world registered as B Corps. Neighborhood businesses are creative. They are invested in their community, and we are very excited about this partnership to measure what matters and help those businesses quantify the really good work that they are already doing. What's the name of the salon that's the first ever? Yeah.
 Sorry. We'll go to our homework and find out. It'll come to you. It will come to me. It will come to me. Okay. Jonathan? Good morning, Council. My name is Jonathan Colon. I'm the Vice President of Business and Economics at the Hispanic Chamber. And I'm super excited about this because this continues some work that I was introduced years and years ago under Portland's leadership around the BESS Awards.
 I don't know if anyone's around when we had the BESS awards. It was a certification and it was an award for doing some of the values that we have that are aligned very well with the B Corp.
 Megan Schuller came to my office early on and her process when they included small businesses. We had a hard time getting out into the neighborhoods and working with limited English population and small businesses that could not communicate or understood the value proposition. And she took it on herself to continue to work with our organization to develop our technical skills around the best awards and sustainability.
 And that ended a few years ago in terms of the BES Awards, and we moved on to a different type of certification. But that has been something that we continue to incorporate in the startups of businesses because we learned through that process that it was a lot easier to incorporate the values that people wanted into their business model.
 into their business structure. It's much harder when you have 20 employees and try to revert back and add these values into the system. It's much easier when you have an employee and you're going to get health insurance and you're looking at what's the best impact for that in the long, and you're putting in the rules and regulations and the systems to be able to...
 incorporate those practices that are important to you, and create really sustainable long-term policies and structures. I'm pretty excited because I went back last night and looked to see the impact that the BEST Awards had, and Beeline, a client of ours, and most of you see them driving around, wasn't a BEST Award nominee, won, and also later became a B Corp. GoBox, you should all know GoBox. They've been in here quite often. They're another one. City of Roses.
 a minority-owned garbage disposal recycle firm out of North Portland, is also B Corp, which is also part of the legacy of the Best Awards. So this is really in line with what the city has done, and I'm very appreciative for what the city did early on in training our organization to impact the technical assistance that we do. We have about five business development coordinators. We serve about 500 small businesses, and we're at that early stage,
 of really impacting the business structure, the value proposition, and incorporating this. And this aligns very well with the work we do around getting firms certified, state certified. And you've heard so many times around minority women, emerging small business, DBE firms, and how difficult that process is. It's wonderful now to be able to incorporate this.
 at the same time and look at all of it at one time and move them through the system. So I'm pretty excited for Portland. This really aligns with who we are, and I'm grateful for being in this city and your leadership and your partnership.
 Thank you. Heather, I'm very sorry I had to put you on the spot. Is it Ginger Salon? Yes, it is. Thank you. It's the wonders of Google. I was like, as soon as I get up, I'm going to go pull it out of my phone. And I just wanted to celebrate that because that's quite something to have progressive businesses and the other examples that you gave. And we should all patronize those by preference. Colleague, since Heather's here, let me also acknowledge we did a tour on Saturday, on Small Business Saturday of Northwest 23rd.
 And what we learned is that businesses, even as far as several blocks away from the blast zone, were negatively impacted by what happened because the street, as you know, was blocked for a period of time.
 And it actually could not have come at a worse time because it's around Thanksgiving that many of our neighborhood small businesses actually hit their break-even point. And so it's from Thanksgiving to New Year's that they make their – that's the big push to make their profit for the year. So while people were concerned about the impact, obviously, on their business of that explosion –
 We also heard very positive feedback about the city's response, and particularly that single point of contact that the mayor established and the communication on the street. So it was kind of a mixed bag, but I guess the message that you would give us, Heather, and that we want the world to hear is the best way to support our friends on Northwest 23rd and all our neighborhood business districts is to go spend our dollars locally. And the thing that I've always found compelling is that unlike –
 internet sales and big box retailers, you've quantified that 70 cents of every dollar stays home. And when you know that 70 cents of every dollar stays in your community, that's a very compelling proposition in terms of where we spend our money for our holiday shopping. So thanks for your good work. Yeah, thank you. Rachel, did you want to add something? I'll close it out. I do really want to emphasize that
 how thrilled I am that Heather and Jonathan are at this table and willing to be partners when thinking through what this program could be. It became very clear that if the city did nothing, B Corps would still happen in the city of Portland. It aligns very well with the values of our business owners. So if we're going to play a role and step into this arena, how can we truly have an effect?
 and the businesses in their networks and the types of individuals and backgrounds that they have that we want to reach is fantastic. So I just am so thrilled that they're here and...
 I just wanted to make sure that was known. And then just very lastly, touching on what the work of PSU, they're going to, through their business outreach program, provide slots for 10 businesses to get some true in-depth technical assistance, both one-on-one development support and recommendations as well as peer-based learning events.
 so that for those businesses that are really interested and may need a bit more work than Venture Portland and Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber can provide, they have a team of students who can really dive deep, do the research, and help them implement. Great. Okay. Thank you. Thank you all. Anybody wish to testify on items 1327, 1328, or 1329? I had Mr. Shedrick Wilkins. Okay. Mr. Wilkins, Mr. Walsh, come on up. Anybody else? Yes.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I don't like the fact that PSU is saying that they're central to any kind of diversity in small businesses. I think insofar as advising companies for charities, everybody knows about the United Way. Why does PSU have to be some sort of intermediary between small businesses? Right.
 I'll let it slide right now because I do think there's a rate expansion because of the South Waterfront may become a medical thing. I'm saying is if you're dealing with medicine, that's a science. PSU teaches science. But why don't community colleges consult with small businesses? Because if you're a janitor company or a coffee shop, this isn't brain surgery. So I'll let it, to me, slide. But something that after the South Waterfront is –
 created, which could be a medical school, like we don't have a medical school like most cities, that would require PSU to consult with that. But in the future, I don't really see why. I think the community college has a better role in deciding and consulting with businesses, small businesses. Thank you. Mr. Walsh. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We support this fully. This is a really good program.
 We looked at it last night. We get very nervous when government and corporations or businesses get together and start moving funds around. We get a little nervous on that. However, we looked at this program, and it's an outstanding program. So we couldn't find any fault with the program itself. We would just caution you a little bit about spending too much money going into businesses because, again,
 One of the things that was said at the meeting was, how does somebody who takes money from the city tell them they're not nice, they're not good? You know, I can come here because we don't take any money from anybody. I can come here and be honest with you. Whether you agree with me or disagree with me, it's my honest feelings. Sometimes I do it well, sometimes not so well.
 But in this case, we're excited about the program. We want to endorse the small businesses outreach because it's very important to our economy here in Portland. We understand that. We're not anti-business at all. We are probably anti-corporations because they're so bad.
 So it's a pleasure to come before you for a change, and thank you for doing this. And I'm sure you're going to do the pirate thing of, aye. But vote for it with style and honor, because we do honor you on this one. This one. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. These are all emergency items, so if you could please, Carlo, please call the roll. 27, Novick.
 Really appreciated the presentation. Thank you. Hi. Great. Terrific work. Great job, Williams. Thank you. And also our partners in the community as well.
 a good thing to come together to work on this programme. I believe that the Mayor's Office asked for several hundred thousands of ongoing money to have this keep going, and what we're doing today is a lesser version using one-time money. So I hope that a component of this project will be kind of a train-the-trainers thing, because obviously I think if...
 Ginger Salon or anybody else has already gone through it. It would be part of their being good businesses to help others learn it and get there too, especially since, as we were just reminded, we have to be very careful about how taxpayers' money is spent. And in this case, it's spent very wisely. Thank you for all of your work. I wish you a very successful holiday shopping season. Bye.
 MR. Well, I know the Mayor wanted to be here to make comments. He's out of town. Just on his behalf, I want to thank the Mayor for his strong support for the B Corp movement. I want to thank Rachel Wiggins, who's been the champion on the third floor for this. And I have a hunch, Rachel, that despite the change in administration and some of the new faces we're going to see around here, I think the city's support for the B Corp movement is going to get even stronger, particularly through PDC's efforts.
 You know, over 95 percent of our neighborhood small businesses have five or fewer employees. So small business is such a critical part of our local economy. And this shift to B Corp is going to be not only great for us and our local economy, but it's going to be great for our brand. A few months ago, I was in Colorado.
 And I had a chance to go to Boulder for my first trip. And I ended up at the studios for a show called E-Town that's on national public radio. And they were hosting the national convention for the B Corp program. And I got to meet the leaders across the country who were doing it. And the one common thread was that Portland was on their radar.
 And that's in part because they had held one of their meetings here. And they were, as a group, talking about the benefits of shifting to B Corps. And I really think in terms of Portland's brand and our economic development strategy that this is a critical piece. And we're doing this first phase with three really trusted partners. So I'm delighted to support all three today. Hi. Eltsman.
 Well, this sounds great. And from the more I learn about B Corps, the more I like. And certainly quality partners with Venture Portland, the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and Portland State University. Please just support it. Aye. Okay, that 1327 is adopted. 1328, please. Novick. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, 1328 is adopted. 1329. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, 1329 is adopted.
 uh if you can please read item 1330 1330 pay claim of ty jerule in the sum of ninety thousand dollars involving the portland police bureau okay i believe we have a presentation here not just a short one uh good morning commissioners my name is becky chow i'm with the risk management division of bibbs the bureau of internal business services
 Bill Manlove of the City Attorney's Office is here with me. We have an ordinance before you to approve a settlement of a claim reached in mediation with Ty Garuli and his attorneys. The claim stems from an incident on Sunday, September 14th, in the St. John's neighborhood, when Mr. Garuli, who was 16 years old at the time, was arrested by police on charges including assaulting a public safety officer and resisting arrest.
 There was force used in the arrest, including the use of a taser, punches, and knee strikes. In March 2015, Mr. Gurley was found not guilty of all charges, and the judge who presided over the trial in juvenile court ruled that the officers did not have a legal basis to stop or arrest him.
 Attorney Stephen Howes, who represented Mr. Gruley in juvenile proceedings, filed a tort claim notice with the city and made a demand for $5 million to compensate Mr. Gruley for physical injury and emotional distress.
 At the claimant's request, the parties entered into settlement discussions before a lawsuit was filed. We engaged former Chief Justice Paul de Munez as a mediator, and we had multiple mediation sessions before agreeing to settle the claim for $90,000. This includes Mr. House's fees of little more than $32,000. At the request of the claimants, the rest of the settlement money will go to an annuity company to be paid out to Mr. Gurule over time.
 If you have any questions regarding the settlement, Bill and I are here to try to answer them. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you both. Anybody wish to testify on item 1330? Joe Walsh and Suya Hassan. Okay. And I see Dan Handelman also wishes to testify, so if the three of you could. Is there a third person? Yeah.
 Sure. Why don't you come up here and have a seat, and then we'll start with you. If you just give us your name and you have three minutes. Okay. My name is Celia Hassan. My question is actually on – it's related to police and excessive force, but it's on an incident that just occurred, so I don't know if I signed up under the wrong agenda item to speak.
 Can I speak? Well, this relates to a particular settlement, so you need to address the subject matter. Okay. So I guess I don't need to speak right now. Thank you. Great. Mr. Handelman. Do you want to go first? I'll go first. Thank you. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We had a terrible time with this settlement. First of all, I want to be very clear that we support the settlement.
 Because apparently that was the agreement with the lawyers and the plaintiff in this case. And we don't want to touch that. What we want to touch is the incident that happened. And the incident that happened was a group of people were crossing the street. They were approached by a group of cops. And they were beat up. One of them was tased. One of them was beat severely. So bad that they filed a civil lawsuit. Right.
 for millions of dollars. They settled it. None of our business. That's their business. Our business is, what happened to those cops? Let me read you what the judge said. The judge who heard the case acquitted the plaintiff of all charges stating she had found the officer's version of events not to be credible and that a reasonable person would have concluded that the officers used excessive force.
 She also ruled that they didn't even have the right to stop them. No right. They were crossing the street. They weren't doing anything disruptive. They were crossing the street. This is one of the things that we really concern ourselves with. Apparently, and I'm guessing at this, this person probably mouthed off to the cops. I'm guessing at that because that's what I would have done. I would have mouthed off. And I guess I would have been beaten. And I would have been saved. And I would have been dragged to jail.
 And there was a video that showed up that showed that the cops purged themselves. So what happened to the cops? Our police commissioner is absent AWOL, probably on another one of his trips. So I don't know who to, you know, say. I guess the president, you can carry the message to him. What happened to those cops? Are they still on the force? The history of this police force is if you get into trouble, we're going to promote you.
 Just like O'Day. Shoot your friend and we'll promote you. So that's what we have trouble with. This is $90,000, not a lot of money for the anguish that these guys go through. But I would think Commissioner Salisman and Commissioner Fish, since you're out for re-election in a couple of years, you would really start looking into these cases and say, what happened to these cops? Were they reprimanded? Were they promoted? Were they sent to the sheriffs like Reese?
 What do we do with them? That's what we're interested in. Thank you. And I know my time is up. And you ought to learn how to run a meeting because you don't know what you're doing. You were wrong four times, I counted already. Major mistakes. So read parliamentary procedures. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. Mr. Handelman. Good morning. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm with Portland Cop Watch. I want to echo a lot of the things that Mr. Walsh said, you know, in some
 September 2014, Ty Gurule was a teenager, African-American young man who was essentially stopped for walking while black. He ended up being beaten, kicked, and hit with a taser. And as Mr. Walsh said, the judge found the officer's testimony was not credible. One of the officers, Betsy Hornstein, posted that she liked the I Am Darren Wilson badges and other officers' Facebook pages just a couple of weeks later. And this happened just about a month after the...
 Michael Brown was shot and killed in a very high profile incident across the country. You can't wonder why Mr. Gruel and his friends wanted to walk away from the police that night. As Mr. Walsh speculated, there's no mention of here in the settlement or had, nor has there been any in public about what findings have been issued by the IPR's administrative investigation into this case. It's not clear whether the family is appealing those findings if they're not in their favor. We,
 often send out emails to our constituents about these things, and I don't always hear back from people, but several people wrote in with the same questions Mr. Walsh raised. What happened to these officers? Why is the money coming out of the city's pocket and not the officers' pockets? In discussing the changes to IPR at the stakeholder group this past week, it came up that the city's looking to cut out public comment at appeal hearings because of the binding arbitration clause, and they were afraid that it's going to overturn a sustained finding.
 That's extraordinarily frustrating since the city had the opportunity to remove that clause from the contract, and that was supposed to be the lesson you learned from the firing of Ron Fraschauer and the appeals that you filed. That's what we learned is the problem is the binding arbitration clause, but institutional momentum overcame the desire for change in that case.
 I'm sorry Mayor Hales isn't here. I wanted to address that in the Portland Tribune, he claimed that no African-American community member was killed, was shot by the Portland police during his tenure. He may have meant that no were killed. But on September 1, 2014, about a week and a half before this incident, Denoris McClendon was shot by the Portland police. And he not only was African-American, but he also has mental health issues. Luckily, he survived. Thank you.
 There have been 14 officer-involved shootings in Mayor Hales's 14-year tenure, compared to 16 under Mayor Sam Adams. Seven of the 14 under Hales died, eight died under Adams, so it's a 50% mortality rate under both mayors. Most of the people under Mayor Hales have been in a mental health crisis, despite the DOJ being here to reduce the use of force in such cases. One of those killed was Latino and a veteran, and at least three were homeless.
 So it's not a great measure of reduction of police use of force. The mayor also likes to claim that he's fired more officers than his predecessors, but according to the IPR records, he's only fired three in the last three years, and there were six under Mayor Adams. To his credit, at least one of the officers was Dean Reister, who was fired after shooting Will Monroe. But that was an extraordinary case. Okay, Mr. Hanlon, your time is up. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, it's an emergency item. Please call the roll. No thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, the 1330 is approved, and please read 1331. Declare support for Tim Rain's introduction into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2017. Mr. Novick.
 I would like to simply read the resolution. Your microphone. I'm sorry. I'd like to simply read the resolution. Whereas Tim Raines is ranked 108th of all time in the critical sabermetric category of wins above replacement, or war, higher than over 100 current player members of the Hall of Fame, which includes 217 former major leaguers, and whereas Tim Raines has a higher war ranking than 13 of the 17 left fielders in the Hall of Fame,
 Whereas Tim Raines ranks 54th of all time and runs scored with 1,571. And whereas Tim Raines ranks fifth of all time and stolen bases with 808. And whereas the 2017 Hall of Fame ballot is the 10th and last on which Tim Raines will appear. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the city of Portland urges the Baseball Writers Association of America to vote to induct Tim Raines into the Hall of Fame in 2017.
 I would add that the fact that Tim Raines is not already in the Hall of Fame is a grave injustice. I've been ordered to be part of a council that speaks out against injustices of all kinds. And I would further add that the people of Canada and their political leadership are strongly in support of the candidacy of Tim Raines, who played for the Montreal Expos during the heart of his career. And in the all-too-likely event that millions of Americans will be seeking sanctuary in Canada in the next four years, I would think that Portland, having supported this resolution, will give us a leg up.
 Thank you, colleagues. Okay, thank you. May I speak in support of the motion? Actually, I was curious as to why you asked for seven minutes. And my staff, my excellent staff, Janine Gates, tells me that he is a seven-time all-star. Is that right? Is that why you have seven? That is true. But I confess that I asked for seven minutes simply randomly. Oh, dear. I learned to just –
 Play along with it here. Yeah, I did get one message of complaint from community members asking why we're wasting time on this. Commissioner Novick said very clearly in filing it that he had done all the work for it, and so there weren't any city employees that were doing it. We're now here in support of it. My other reasons, well, two other reasons. First of all, the City of Portland should certainly support somebody whose name is Raines. And then secondly, it's...
 going to be perhaps good that we'll get some national press for something other than some of the heartbreaking things that have been happening here. So thank you very much for doing that. Steve, can I ask the sponsor a couple of questions because I thought there were some glaring omissions in the resolution. Proceed, Commissioner. Well, the first thing is what was his lifetime batting average?
 Good question. I think it's around 296, but his lifetime on base percentage was around 385. And as Bill James and his successors in sabermetrics have told us, what matters is how many times you get on base. And that's focusing on hits is misguided. But anyway, since apparently he failed 700 out of every thousand times, why do you think that still qualifies him for the Hall of Fame? Yeah.
 Well, Commissioner, well, I don't have a prepared answer to that other than to say that, as you know, baseball is a very challenging game. Hitting a baseball is the most difficult thing in sports. So anybody who succeeds more than 270 out of 1,000 times is a pretty good hitter. And my second question is, if you were a decision maker, what jersey should he wear when he's inducted?
 Definitely a Montreal Expos jersey. He's indicated that's what he will do. He did also have a number of successful seasons with the Chicago White Sox. In fact, they received an email from Rob Sadowski, a White Sox fan, saying that as a White Sox fan, he strongly supported Mr. Raines' candidacy. And he was also part of two World Series winning New York Yankees team.
 as a reserve outfielder. So I would imagine Yankees fans would be supportive as well, but it is clear based on the number of years he spent with the Expos and his phenomenal performance there that he should wear an Expos jersey.
 And just to be clear, this is the last year that he's eligible for the Hall of Fame? Exactly. It used to be that a player had 15 years in the Hall of Fame ballot to gain support. The Baseball Writers Association decided to limit that to 10 years. Last year, he got 69.8% of the vote. You need to get 75. So this is his last year, and he needs a bit of a boost to get there. Thank you. Does anybody wish to testify on this item? Okay. Mr. Walsh? Yes.
 Okay, well, come on up. I see three people, so come on up. Okay, Mr. Wilkins, just give us your name. You have three minutes. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I like baseball, and I'm one who has talked against football as a sport which hurts people, but baseball does not. It's non-contact, and you only make contact when it's a softer game. It's a good game based on English skills.
 game. Football is just bad. So anytime Portland's pushing soccer or baseball, I like that. Ms. Hobbs, go ahead. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. As an Orioles fan and the mother to Boston Red Sox fans, I'm like,
 But I support the commissioner's resolution as long as he will support possibly an Oriole or a Red Sox for the Hall of Fame in the future. Thank you. Are you proposing a friendly amendment? I'm not sure what that is, but I'm just proposing a friendly debate for the future. Thank you. Ms. Hobbs, are there any particular Orioles or Red Sox you think have been overlooked?
 Oh, I am. Particularly, do you have any comments on the Manny Ramirez situation, which is a controversial one? No, no, not really. I'm just here. We're actually commissioned to jerk your chain a little. No, thank you. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Walsh? Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, again, for the record. This is part of the record that has not been talked about. Mr. Raines was a drug addict.
 He used to brag about having vials of cocaine in his back pocket on the fields. That's what he bragged about to the reporters. And he said he used to slide headfirst so he wouldn't break the vials. His words. That's who you want in the Hall of Fame there, Commissioner. He was busted in the 80s and 90s. What are you doing? This is Montreal. This is Canada.
 This is Portland, Oregon. We're in the United States. At least up to January 1st, we're in the United States. Are you going to point to this man on television when he goes into the Hall of Fame and say to children, that's a role model? Put the cocaine in your back pocket when you go on your little field to play baseball? Is that what you're going to do? I thought this was a joke. Amanda, you don't even like people smoking cocaine.
 grass in your parks and you're supporting a cocaine user who never really apologized. He bragged about it. Hey man, I got, I got the cocaine in my back pocket. So I'm going to slide it first on my face so I don't break the cocaine too expensive. That's your man. What are you doing, Commissioner? You want to be known as the cocaine?
 What is the matter with this? What is the matter with you? I mean, what are you doing? Okay, thank you. For God's sake, he's going to get in to the whole thing. By all the statistics, he's going to get in. Why do we have to sign on to this? He's going to get in, but we're going to be signed on to say, we like this guy, he's a role model.
 No, he's not. He's a dope addict. Cocaine kills. It kills. Not marijuana, fair commissioner. But the next time you screw with people smoking in your parks, tell them you like cocaine better. Okay, this is a resolution. Please call the roll.
 I really appreciate council's support of this resolution. I've been in touch with journalists around the country. You're leaving the council in shame! Mr. Walsh, I assure you that if anybody... Don't call me anything! I assure you that if anybody ever establishes a hall of fame for people in love with the sound of their own voice, I will strongly support your candidacy. Right!
 about. That's why you weren't elected. So I think that, as Commissioner Fritz indicated, this resolution is likely to get some national attention, although perhaps more so in the nation of Canada than the nation of the United States. To address that issue that was raised, that was also raised by the email that I received, so of course I did what everybody should do in this situation. Mr. Walsh, I didn't interrupt you.
 So according to Wikipedia, which of course is absolutely true all the time, but also other sources, Mr. Raines turned his life around and was a good role model for having overcome his addiction. In fact, he became a coach, and he certainly would not have been hired as a coach to other players as a role model if he had still been struggling with his addiction. So I think it's even more important that the City of Portland makes a statement that,
 People do things that are not right, and then sometimes they turn their lives around. And I was going to be able to thank you, Commissioner, for bringing something that everybody was smiling about. It's really unfortunate that sometimes people don't recognize that the Oregon Constitution has a strong statement in...
 supports a free speech, and it also says, and that every person shall be responsible for the abuse of that speech. And so...
 President Saltzman, I'm glad that you've handled this hearing in the way that you have. Commissioner Novick, I am glad to do something which obviously gives you joy, and hopefully will make a few other people smile. And even the ones that think that we all just waste our time all the time in city government, well, they're not going to change their minds anyway, so we may as well do something that is quite frivolous, but important. Commissioner Novick, aye. Thank you, Commissioner. Thanks. Well, Steve, you...
 This is a lighthearted matter, but it's something that you care deeply about. That's a consideration for me. In the impact statement, there's a sentence that the likes of which I've never seen in any resolution, but it concludes that Montreal Expo fans between 1979 and 1990 living in Portland will be pleased. We certainly don't want to alienate an important part of our constituency. I have three personal reasons for supporting this. My mother was Canadian. No. No.
 I watched Tim Raines play for the Yankees, and I grew up just outside of Cooperstown. But most importantly, this is important to a colleague that I've enjoyed serving with over these four years, and I'm pleased to support his resolution. Aye. Selksman. I wish Mr. Raines good luck in getting in the Hall of Fame. Aye. Resolution is adopted. Please read Item 1332.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Alder Pump Station upgrade, project number E10359, for an estimated construction cost of $3,500,000. And now for something completely different. Could you read the poll item 1326-2, which also relates to the Bureau of Environmental Services?
 1326, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for payment in the amount of $300,000 for the construction of Southwest First and Madison Sewer Rehabilitation Project as part of the County Courthouse Project.
 Mr. Fish. Well, we have Scott Gibson to walk us through this. The other one was pulled. We'll pair them up. But, Scott, let's deal with them in the regular order. So we'll deal with the one that 1332, and then we'll pick up the one that Mr. Walsh pulled, and we'll do them as a tandem. Colin, you can sit here with me and walk through the Alder Pump Station. Yep. Okay.
 All right, so good morning, City Council. My name is Scott Gibson with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I'm here today asking for your authorization to award a contract for the Alder Pump Station Upgrade Project. I have a very short presentation, and I'm here to answer any questions.
 So this is the existing Alder Pump Station built in the 60s. It's a concrete-style wet-well, dry-well pump station. It's located underneath the interchange of I-5 and I-84. So you can see the structures above, the highway structures above the pump station. This pump station...
 is in the inner southeast and is integrated with our combined sewer overflow tunnel system. In this example, you can see the large combined sewer tunnel moving underneath. And essentially what this does is pumps dry weather and storm flows back up into the system and be contained so that it avoids flowing out the outfall at outfall 30. The pump station is being upgraded to increase flows so that it better integrates with our CSO system.
 And it also is going to improve operations and maintenance. Access to the pump station is very difficult to get in and maintain. So the proposed construction schedule, our advertisement will be in February. Sometime in between February and June, the chief procurement officer will come back with her report on the status of the procurement. And you'll see the findings for the award. Thank you.
 Construction will start in June and continue through April of 2019. The engineer's estimate for the construction is $3.5 million. That's a breakdown of the overall budget, which is found in our CIP at $5.4 million. Very good. Colleagues, I just want to add one thing, if I could. Sure.
 Thanksgiving was almost a record day, and I know that we've had a very wet couple of weeks. We came very close to the all-time record for Thanksgiving, which would have been 1960, which would have been slightly over two inches. We came just under two inches. In technical parlance, it was a 25-year storm. And it is an extraordinary compliment, I think, to the big pipe that the big pipe –
 largely worked. In storms like that, however, it does exceed our capacity because we did not build for the 100 or 25-year storm. We built for what we normally anticipate. So we did have some overflows, 80% of which were stormwater, and we're modest. But it is these kinds of investments that allow us to ensure that when we do have lots of rain that we're able to manage the system
 And I'll leave it at that. Okay. Did you want to present on item 1326 too?
 If you're ready for that. If there's no further questions, yeah. Carla's already read it in the record. Okay, thank you. So good morning once again for the record. My name is Scott Gibson, and with me is Colleen Harreld, who is your project manager for the sewer elements that are to be included in the courthouse. I'll let Colleen provide some background for you, but essentially this is an opportunity for us to,
 to complete a piece of work that was on our work program, and we found it in our best interest to do it with the courthouse construction. And I'll let Colleen take it from there. Hi. My name is Colleen Harold. I work for BES. This project really stems from two pipes that were thrown out of – were not able to be done in one of our capital projects.
 We call it deferred pipe, and we typically try and defer pipe to other capital projects. We became aware of the Multnomah County Courthouse work in front of the post office and consequently in the on-ramp to the Hawthorne Bridge. So we have been working with them to write an IGA to combine the work and share the mobilization, the construction, the traffic control that would occur here.
 So that's what we attempted to do. Attached to the ordinance is a copy of that IGA, and I have been working closely with Multnomah County and their contractor, Hoffman, to establish a very high confidence level in that quote. So that's what we did. So that sounds like a very smart thing to do. We had a project, they have a project, and we're doing them together to be as efficient as possible. The question I think we're going to get from the public, though, is why is $300,000 coming from us to them?
 It's the cost of the scope of work we ask them to accomplish for us. That's essentially what it is. We're passing through. Their contractor provided a bid on that work. We've evaluated that bid. It's in line with what we expected. So we are going to go ahead and pay them to have their contractor do it.
 And if we didn't go this route, then we would go ahead and do the work ourselves. Is that correct? Correct. We absolutely would. And unfortunately, because we weren't necessarily ready to bid it, we'd either need to do it at the same time they're doing their work with separate contractors, which is always complicated, or wait until after they're done with their work because they're already underway. And then we'd be tearing up brand-new pavement and other things. And so in light of that, is it fair to say that by entering into this IGA we may be saving ratepayer money? Absolutely.
 Absolutely, and minimizing the disturbance to the public. Thank you both. Let's take testimony on either. Thank you. Does anybody wish to testify on these items? For the record, again, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. It's getting very difficult to approach this council. But in this instance, we decided what we would do is just put it on the record that there's $300,000 that's going to be given to the county. That's what we're doing.
 There's a $300 million project. It's called the Courthouse Project. And we are giving them $300,000 to do the plumbing in the basement. That's what we're doing. We're going to give it to contractors. But basically, if we didn't give it to them, they would pay for it. So therefore, we're giving it to them. It's their project. We will own nothing. The county will run that building. Okay?
 But we're going to give them $300,000. That I would be offensive enough, except the people that are watching this on TV have to understand that this is going to come out of rate payers. This is BES. This is not coming out of the general fund, which we can hold all of you accountable. It's just put it on the rate. Raise the rate. That's how we generate money.
 This was put on consent agenda. No discussion unless it's been pulled. So basically, Commissioner Fish, you were telling us you were going to charge us $300,000 and we had nothing to say about it because we wouldn't have known about it. It would have just been under the table. And that's what this council does all the time. You don't want to talk about something. You don't have good arguments. You want to do a coke thing again.
 For a baseball player, hey, man, let's just do it. And that's why you get Fs in transparency. You get Fs in responsibilities.
 Ladies and gentlemen, the ratepayers are going to pay $300,000 to the county who wants to build a courthouse. We have nothing to say about building of the courthouse, but we're going to get charged $300,000 in your rates. So when your rates go up, thank Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Testifying, Carly?
 I didn't have sign-up sheets for those. So let me just respond on two fronts. Under the policy that I adopted, colleagues, any capital construction project of $500,000 or more now is on the regular agenda automatically, or any change order that puts us above a half a million. And I actually appreciate that we've had
 from even Mr. Walsh's positive testimony about that change. The second thing is, and I just want to say facts matter, and I mean, people are entitled to their views. God bless everybody and their views. But let's go back to the facts. We have a pipe that goes under this property. The pipe is in poor condition, and we identified it as a pipe in need of being replaced and rehabilitated.
 The fact that a courthouse is going in gives us an opportunity to kill two birds with one stone. What we are simply doing is giving them the money that we would otherwise spend to accomplish the goal that was on our capital list to replace and upgrade that pipe. Otherwise, no, it isn't, Joe. It doesn't become you to say that. Mr. Walsh, you had your time to testify.
 Actually, the location for the courthouse was picked, I believe, about within the last year and a half. But I'm not – facts matter. You're going to be two locations. No. Please, Joe. Please don't interrupt me. I don't interrupt you. Yes, you do. All the time. So, colleagues, if you have any further questions, we'd be happy to answer them. This is straightforward. Okay. So these are both first readings, so that both 1332 and 1326 move to a second reading. And we have one other item that was pulled, and that is item 1322. Okay.
 Amend collection and foreclosure code to clarify procedures. Mr. Lightning, did you want to testify on this? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Again, one of the issues I have on the foreclosure process is that, from my position, I want it to be an understanding. These people aren't behind on their mortgages necessarily. This is nuisance liens being piled up upon these people.
 various other liens being put on by the city, possibly property taxes, also IGAs with Multnomah County working simultaneously against these owners. Some of these owners have had their doors kicked in, their windows broke out, severe damage to their properties. In my opinion, the City of Portland is positioning themselves as an equity grab to take their equity, also to run up nuisance liens to go back to BDS. In my position,
 I consider these people losing their homes as victims under the foreclosure process. I think we need to start focusing also on understanding that if various police reports have been done on these properties, now they're calling them zombie homes. Great label to have your home labeled to devalue it.
 to scare people, scare the owners from these properties. Great term you're using on somebody else's home that you don't own. Another issue I have too is that since these people, most of them have been determined to be victims by police reports, which we're going to be pulling up to watch this very close. Once you have somebody kick your door in, your windows kicked out, broke out, your appliances removed, your pipes removed out of your house,
 You're so afraid to go to your property because you're not getting any assistance by law enforcement. Who works with BDS, works with the code enforcers, the nuisance liens enforcers to take your house in the future? Here's my question to BDS and all you people that think you're doing the right thing for these victims losing their homes.
 Why don't they use their insurance to cover these damages created by people that don't belong in their houses? Why? Because you want to label them zombie houses. You want to come in and take their equity. You want to isolate these people. You want to send them running with your BDS liens that you seem to walk in off the sidewalk and seem to hit 25,000 every time. And you know what's most interesting about BDS and their...
 I will hold my comment to BDS. It said every time you hit these poor people with your liens, it's around $25,000. And you know what's even more interesting when you begin to study this? Why do you always pick around December near Christmas? Is that kind of your shock and awe before you come in and take their equity from them? Guess what?
 We're looking at socially responsible banks right now who are under investigation for foreclosure fraud. Guess what? Every house you foreclose on, you're going to be watched so close by the DOJ, you don't know what's going to happen. Start helping these people save their homes and quit doing equity grabs for your own general fund. And these nuisance liens are going to be used for your own good.
 are unconstitutional, and segregation, and we will be suing Amanda Fritz, Commissioner, on every home that she steals from these good people that you think is justified for you to do. You talk about equity and taking care of people. You don't take care of no one in this city. Have a good day, and thank you. Thank you. Okay, please call the roll. It's an emergency item. Novick. Aye. Fritz.
 These are four very minor technical changes, such as changing from before until after, and that the Treasurer will have printed in a daily or now weekly newspaper, since we don't actually have a daily newspaper in Portland right now. I'm very grateful to the
 Treasurer Jennifer Cooperman, because in discussions with my staff, she's made it clear that she already posts the notices online, which is, I think, probably how most people get more of their information now than from even a weekly newspaper. And at my request, she's also agreed to add notification to the relevant neighbourhood association. So that will be in the administrative rules. So I very much appreciate this very simple change. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. The ordinance is adopted, and we are recessed until 2 p.m. Good afternoon. The city council will come back to order. Do we need you to call the roll again, Carla? Yes. Yeah. Carla, please call the roll. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Hales. Saltzman. Here. Okay. Could you please read our one item we have this afternoon? Okay.
 Item 1333, Accept September 2016 Socially Responsible Investments Committee Report. Great. And just before I turn it over to Commissioner Novick for some opening remarks, just simple
 rules of respect and courtesy. We ask that you not clap or boo, that if you support what somebody's saying, you can do a thumbs up like that, or if you don't like what they're saying, thumbs down, or you can wave your hands. But it's very disruptive, and it only takes longer when we have to pause for claps and boos. So I would ask that you do that. And we'll open it up by turning it over to Commissioner Steve Milvik.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. I'm pleased to welcome everyone here today to hear about the work of the Socially Responsible Investments Committee. I'd like to start by thanking the members of the committee for their hard work on a challenging charge, and that's putting it mildly. Dave Cutler, Sayer Jones, Bob Landowner, Young Nam, Katrina Escoto de Carlo, and Kristen Sheeran have gone above and beyond in their work on this project. I've been incredibly impressed by and grateful for their hard work and thoughtfulness on difficult and often emotionally charged issues.
 I'd also like to thank Kelly Ball, Janet Storm, and Jennifer Cooperman for their diligent staff support of the committee.
 This committee's report will inform council's consideration of the Do Not Buy List extension. The resolution with that extension will come to council on December 15th at 3.30 p.m. I wanted to make sure to announce that because in our documents we indicated that the next step would happen on December 21st. We've been juggling a lot of council items for the rest of the month with different items, and it seemed logical to move this one to December 15th.
 So I'd like to start by asking our panel to come up and present. Kelly Ball, Sarah Jones, and Jennifer Cooperman, can you please come forward? Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thank you for having us here today. My name is Kelly Ball, and I work in the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm the facilitator and one of the staff support people for the Socially Responsible Investments Committee. Today we're asking you to accept the committee's report. So the report outlines the committee's recommendations to council for the city's corporate securities do-not-buy list. Okay.
 However, the decision about what is ultimately included on the Do Not Buy list is determined by council. So for today, we're just asking acceptance of the report. I'm planning to provide a brief overview of the process and will be followed by Sayer Jones, who is a committee member and a spokesperson for the committee today. And Sayer will provide information on how the committee made their recommendations, and it will be followed by the city's treasurer, Jennifer Cooperman, who will provide information on financial impacts.
 In 2014, Council established a temporary committee that was charged with making recommendations on how the city could change its investment policies to incorporate social and ethical concerns. They met six times that year and produced a report that had several recommendations, many of which are incorporated into the December 2014 Council resolution that created the current Socially Responsible Investments Committee. The current committee began meeting in September 2015, and they meet monthly.
 This is a seven-member committee, and currently we have one vacancy. And I appreciate that Commissioner Novick already read their names. I'm going to read their names one more time. They've done a lot of work on this, and I think they need some recognition. Dave Cutler, Sayer Jones, Robert Landauer, Young Nam, Katrina Escoto de Carlo, and Kristen Sheeran.
 The committee is charged with recommending corporate issuers once per year by October 1st for inclusion on or removal from the city's corporate securities do not buy list for direct investments in corporate securities.
 Council established social values and concerns, or as we refer to them, council principles, which are used when considering a company for recommendations to the list. So I'll go ahead and read those concerns. There are seven of them. Excuse me, principles. There are seven. Environmental concerns, health concerns, including weapons production, concerns about abusive labor practices, corrupt corporate ethics and governance. It's a mouthful.
 Extreme tax avoidance, exercise of such a level of market dominance so as to disrupt normal competitive market forces and impacts on human rights. Committee meetings are open to the public with public comments taken during every meeting. Before determining a recommendation, the committee has adopted a system for selecting companies well in advance, and this allows them time to hear public comment.
 conduct any of their own research, review the MSCI reports. I'm not even going to try and explain. The MSCI reports, the acronym is what it's called, but they are proprietary environmental, social, and values investments research reports. And so they have those that they can review. They're quite hefty on each of the companies. And they also hear financial impacts from the city treasurer.
 This year, the committee reviewed 20 companies, and of those, they're recommending 10 for the cities do not buy list. The committee recommendations report was submitted to council on September 30th, then it was posted online on October 3rd, at which time we started a public comment period that lasted until October 31st, and council, your offices were provided with copies of the comments and the reports.
 I'll now turn it over to Sayer Jones to talk more about the committee's recommendations and the committee's process. Sayer? Thanks. How far away from this thing should I sit? Is that good? Hi there. I'm Sayer Jones. I'm the committee's representative to present the report to council. I wanted to thank the council for the opportunity to get real – Can you get into the mic? Yeah. Is that better? You can pull that whole thing closer to you. All right. Yeah.
 I missed my thank yous. I wanted to thank Council for the opportunity to get deep into this work. It's been very personal for most of the committee members, but I know I've learned a lot and I came away from a lot from the process. The staff support for the committee has been excellent. Katie Shriver, Kelly Ball, Janet Storm, in particular, have done an excellent job in maintaining and keeping us on track and even just making the photocopies. Thank you.
 I want to thank the city treasurer who has participated in every meeting to date, and I especially want to thank the community members who, by and large, have showed up today because they've brought a lot more integrity to the process.
 The idea of socially responsible investing is pretty old. It probably came to the Americas with the Quakers, who were divesting of companies that were involved in the slave trade. So the fact that our city is contemplating divestments is not a new notion. I think what's changed over the past—
 probably four or five decades is the complexity and width of which companies in the world that we invest in have expanded. And it is very hard to discern what is a good or a bad company.
 At a high level, the question that the committee had to grapple with was, in our opinion, are the business practices of the largest companies in the world consistent with our values as citizens of this city? For instance, are we comfortable with profiting from incarceration, from child labor, from the destruction of our environment? The lens we have used to evaluate these companies was provided by council.
 but the internal process used by committee members to turn qualitative information into an up or down vote was deeply personal and required reflection on individual values mixed with a vision of who we think we are as a city. The committee is recommending the following companies be added to the City of Portland's Do Not Buy list. Walmart, Wells Fargo Bank, Caterpillar, the Bank of New York Mellon, HSBC Bank USA, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
 amazon.com, Nestle Holdings, Credit Suisse, and Society General, that is, if their eligibility is restored. Making these decisions was complex, time-consuming, and often very emotional. This work was isolating and offered very few avenues for unified support of positions. Committee members have remained collegial, even with dissenting views, and each member has found themselves in the minority in decision-making in our work at least once.
 We were tasked with reviewing huge amounts of information, quite literally a pile of reports about this high, and also independent reports supplied by community members, and we also did individual research. For myself, I was spending 68 hours per month preparing for each meeting. It's important to understand that the committee was, to the best of our abilities, following through on the committee charge.
 We were not tasked with taking moral stands on companies, nor were we to consider investment risks, but often it's hard to not use those two criteria in making selections. Risk of loss of income was always presented to the committee by the treasurer, but the consequences of potential losses of income were not what guided decision-making. Instead, the committee took the criteria, the seven values, set forth by the council, and worked toward consensus about individual companies using those values.
 The committee was not charged with determining the tradeoffs of the do not buy list additions in terms of jobs or program cuts or other things. Our committee prioritized the worst of the worst companies first, leaving many bond issuances off a review list that there was little community concern over. We started by looking at companies where there was assumed issues or known controversies.
 We assume that as the remaining companies are reviewed, there will likely be less names added to the list than this time around. The committee would also like to point out that though there is a calculation of what the loss to the city would be, this is a worst-case scenario and is not analogous with actual losses. Though we do acknowledge that the more names that get added to the list, the higher the likelihood it would impact returns.
 the most um one other point we'd like to make is the most recent wells fargo controversy happened after the committee had voted to add them to our list so it did not influence our decision making i know that there was concerns earlier about the flavor of the day um
 permeation into this process, but we had already made the determination that Wells Fargo had continued to pursue bad policies and governance consistently compared to some other peers who seem to be demonstrating a more positive trajectory post-recession. The committee also has some questions and clarifications that we would like council to consider for the committee going forward.
 We need guidance from the Council on how to address investments in companies that might invest in or hold stock in companies that do not meet our criteria. For instance, most banks hold stock of oil and gas companies through passive accounts held on behalf of clients. Should we consider those types of holdings? Also, large companies like Berkshire Hathaway hold many types of investments, like railroads that transport coal and oil through our state.
 should RLS consider those underlying investments, or are we only to consider the business of the main fund? We also need council guidance on how long companies should be given to fix issues. For instance, what could Walmart do to come off the list? What is the right demonstration of virtue? And how long would they need to show that to us in order to be removed?
 Authorizing some type of function, further action, short of the do not buy list, would give the committee and our citizens a forum to file grievances that might be transactional in nature versus systematic problems with the company. This would let those companies know our plans to divest if things did not change and potentially bring about the changes we would like to see. Lastly, we would like you to consider how broad the charge should be.
 For instance, we bank with Wells Fargo, we buy gas from Chevron, yet we do not invest in them. Or, well, I guess we currently invest in Wells Fargo. This incongruence of mandate has been discussed often by the committee, and it is something we'd like clarification on. Thank you. And thank you for your service. Ms. Cooperman? Good afternoon. Jennifer Cooperman, city treasurer. I've participated in the committee's process as a subject matter expert. I'd like to take a few minutes first to –
 I'd like to take a few minutes first to review some general points regarding the city's investment process that may be helpful for the audience in the room. Then I'll follow with an assessment of the financial impacts of the committee's recommendations. So the city funds that are under discussion are the city's operating cash, the city's checkbook, if you will. The city receives various payments, such as tax payments, utility payments, permits, parking fees, debt proceeds, et cetera.
 Treasury places some of this cash on deposit with banks, while the rest is invested until it is needed to pay vendor bills, payroll, and make debt payments. Investment earnings, net of the administrative cost of running Treasury's operations, are distributed to all city funds and are incorporated into Bureau budgets.
 The city's bank deposits and investments are limited to those permissible by Oregon state law, specifically ORS 294 and ORS 295. State law prohibits public funds from being invested in stock equities, mutual funds, or money market funds.
 The city's investment policy is written in accordance with state law, reviewed by the Oregon Short-Term Fund Board, reviewed by the city's Investment Advisory Committee, and adopted annually by city council. In accordance with state law, the city's investment objectives are, in rank order, first, preservation of principle, second, providing liquidity to fund city operations, and three, to earn a market rate of return.
 By adopting minimum credit ratings, maximum maturity limits, and using portfolio diversification, Treasury manages the portfolio's interest rate risk, inflation risk, and credit risk. Specifically regarding corporate securities, state law allows up to 35% of the city's portfolio to be invested in highly rated corporate bonds and commercial paper with a limit per issuer of 5% of the portfolio.
 Given the minimum credit ratings and the three-year maximum maturity limits specified in the city's investment policy, Treasury has identified only about 50 corporate bond issuers with debt securities outstanding that meet the city's investment criteria and are, therefore, eligible for the city's investment.
 When we eliminate entities that have issued $10 million or less in bonds, we're left with only about 40 eligible issuers. So to put that in perspective, the committee reviewed about half of the eligible universe in its first year of operation. Not all eligible issuers, ones that meet credit ratings and actively issue bonds,
 Not all of these 40 to 50 issuers are active in the space that the city can invest in, that three-year space. Not all of these eligible bonds actively trade in the secondary market, and not all of these eligible bonds are priced to offer good relative value when they are made available. The eligible universe of bond issuers is fairly static.
 Issuers get added if they issue bonds with three years or less to maturity that meet the city's minimum credit rating requirements, or if credit ratings on their outstanding bonds that have three years or less to maturity get upgraded so that they meet our minimum requirements, or if previously issued longer-term bonds that meet our credit rating requirements reach three years or less to maturity.
 Conversely, issuers are removed as their outstanding bonds mature or if they get downgraded below the city's minimum credit rating requirements. Entities with short-term liquidity needs may choose to issue commercial paper. At any point in time, there are about five to ten commercial paper issuers that qualify for the city's direct investment. With this background on the city's investment process, I'll now address the financial impacts of the committee's recommendations.
 In my September 13th memo to Council, I discussed the financial reasons we invest in corporate securities. Corporate securities provide portfolio diversification, and they offer additional yield over alternative investments, such as U.S. Treasuries or U.S. agencies. That additional yield compensates us for assuming the credit risk of these corporate securities.
 Treasury's analysis of historical interest rate spreads indicate that three-year AA3-rated corporate bonds have offered an additional yield of 91 basis points, more than comparable maturity treasuries over the period 1997 to 2016.
 If we assume an average $1.5 billion portfolio that's fully invested in corporate securities, the 35%, this higher average yield translates to $4.7 million in additional investment earnings per year over the comparable term treasuries.
 Treasury's analysis of the city's actual investment earnings over the last five fiscal years indicates that corporate securities have averaged 17 to 32 percent of the total portfolio and have contributed 24 to 41 percent of the city's net investment earnings in dollars over the
 Over the last five fiscal years, corporate securities have contributed $1.2 to $4.5 million per year in additional net investment earnings over alternative investments.
 Treasury's recommendation is that Council not limit the city's investment options that enable Treasury to earn interest income that goes to fund bureau programs and services. If Council does approve a do-not-buy list, Treasury recommends that it be limited to as few names as possible so the city's already limited eligible universe of corporate issuers can remain as broad as possible. Okay.
 Corporate issuers that are removed are not easily replaced, particularly at equivalent rates of return. In my October 25th memo to Council, I responded to two of the committee's recommendations, saying,
 the first of which pertains to private prisons, even though there are no private prison companies that have debt outstanding of a high enough credit quality for the city to purchase, and the recommendation extends to the banks that finance those private prisons. Thank you.
 It's a slippery slope to reach beyond a specific company or industry on the do-not-buy list to the banks that provide their financing. It's not clear that counsel intended the committee to reach this far. Treasury's recommendation is that if counsel does add a moratorium on investments in private prisons, that the moratorium be only on direct investments in the companies that actually own and operate these for-profit prisons.
 The second recommendation asks that the Do Not Buy list be used as a tool in the city's general procurement process. The city's procurement process is governed by Oregon state law and Portland city code. Generally, any qualified business may participate in a competitive city procurement process.
 Given the extensive work the city has taken over the last 10 years to assess vendors' corporate responsibility with policies, commissions, community forums, and given the risks of violating procurement law, Treasury's recommendation is that the Do Not Buy list not be used as a tool in the city's procurement process. That concludes my prepared remarks, and I'll turn the floor back to Commissioner Novick.
 thank you were there any questions i have a question how long have we been investing in corporate securities in 2010 hold on do you have my memo while you're searching i will commend you uh treasurer cooperman because you have done a wonderful job of looking at the city's money the citizens money and i appreciate that thank you um yes ellie's found it for you got it in uh
 2009, up until 2009, we invested only in commercial paper up to 25% of the portfolio. In 2009, council added a new category, which was federally guaranteed corporate bonds up to three years maturity for 25% of the portfolio.
 In 2010, we renamed that category to be corporate indebtedness, and we expanded it to include AA-rated corporate bonds up to 18 months in maturity, ones that didn't necessarily have a federal government backing to them.
 And we increased the corporate limit to 35 percent from 25 percent. In 2012, the council extended that 18-month allowable maturity to three years. And in 2013, in accordance with ORS 294, the category was expanded to include single-A rated, A3A minus rated bonds issued by Oregon companies. Okay.
 So that prior to 2009, we didn't invest in these kind of securities? We only invested in commercial paper, the very short-term paper. We didn't invest in bonds. Commissioner Fish is not able to be here today. He had been pre-scheduled to be out, but he had the good suggestion when I talked to, well, the thought last night that maybe we should just not invest. We should go back to the prior policy in 2009 and not invest in any of these corporate businesses. I just wanted to put that out there. I know that that will be part of the discussion in two weeks.
 And also if people are wondering why Mayor Hales is not here, he's in Mexico on a climate change delegation. Obviously we're all very concerned about what's going to be happening with that as well. So although he is definitely very supportive of this process and thanks you, that's where he is. It's not that he's not interested in this. Thank you all of you for your work.
 Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. And, Commissioner Older, did you have additional remarks before we go to testimony? Yes, I did want to have a few things to say. First of all, I want to note that, as far as I know, we're the only jurisdiction in America that has a process quite like this.
 Other jurisdictions have divested from particular industries. I'm not aware of another jurisdiction that has adopted a process where we have a do-not-buy list that's based on criteria that could apply to any sort of company.
 So that's one of the reasons this has been an extremely challenging process. And Kelly and Janet and Jennifer and Katie Shriver of my staff and the members of the committee have been engaged in, I think, an almost unprecedented process. And I want to thank them again for all of their hard work. Okay. This whole thing was my idea.
 So I feel something of an obligation before people start to speak to let you know some of my current thoughts on this issue, because I think I have a responsibility to suggest to my colleagues what version of a do-not-buy list we will consider in a couple of weeks. And I know that my current thoughts will be anathema to a number of people here, and that's part of the reason I want to give them, to give people a chance to respond to what I'm currently thinking and possibly change my mind and also inform my colleagues' decisions.
 When I came up with the idea of a do not buy list, I was thinking it would be a short list that applies to the worst of the worst of companies, as Mr. Jones said. I want to give you an idea of what I meant by the worst of the worst. My assumption is that in a barbaric capitalist economy, most big companies do at least something which progressives might find offensive.
 My thinking was the do not buy list would only apply to companies that do things that within the context of our barbaric capitalist society are unusually offensive. In particular, I was thinking that when we look at this list of criteria, I wasn't planning to recommend that a company go on the list unless it violated more than one of the criteria, because my thinking was probably any company would violate at least one.
 Um, looking at the list that this hardworking, thoughtful committee brought forward, I do have a couple of concerns with regard to that idea of the worst of the worst. One is that some of the companies are on the list, at least in part because of who their customers are and what they do. My thinking is that in a capitalist economy, most companies will sell their product or service to whoever will buy it.
 So asking a company to say that it won't sell to certain customers seems to me to be going beyond asking a company to not be evil and asking to be sort of affirmatively good in a way that I don't know is normal in a capitalist society. That's one concern. Another concern I have is actually reflected in the committee's deliberations on one company that's not on the list, Johnson & Johnson.
 The committee said the discussion on Johnson & Johnson was tabled and will be taken up at a later date. Discussion included the lack of comparison information for other pharmaceutical companies. That struck me as a reasonable concern because I think that if we put a company on this list, people will assume that that means that it is worse than other companies in the same business. And here I will talk about a specific issue that's before us. This is the only reference I'll make to a specific company. With regard to Caterpillar...
 the committee is recommending we put in the do not buy list essentially as a weapons manufacturer thinking of bulldozers as weapons which sells to a country which the committee believes is engaged in human rights violations there are no other weapons manufacturers on our eligible issuer list
 So the idea of putting this one weapons manufacturer, if you see them that way on the list, concerns me because I think that some people, not knowing how limited our eligible issuer list is, might draw the conclusion that Caterpillar is the only weapons manufacturer that sells to countries that violate human rights and, frankly, that Israel is the world's worst human rights violator.
 And I do have to tell you that in an era of rising anti-Semitism, I am concerned about making a suggestion that would play into that.
 So I just want to let you know that those are some of my current thoughts, which obviously can change and maybe not be shared by the rest of the council. I also wanted to mention that as staff, as I think both Kelly and Jennifer noted, when we developed the charge with the committee, we directed the city treasurer to purchase in the committee to use a subscription from a company that gathers information to inform investors that are interested in environmental, social, and governance outcomes.
 The treasurer purchased a subscription to MSCI, a respected independent provider of research-based reports and analysis. The reports offer an independent assessment of how each company fares on a variety of principles which overlap with or they're not identical to the council has adopted.
 So the committee in their own deliberations and I in my deliberations and I think my colleagues are going to be looking at the MSCI reports, which unfortunately they're proprietary. We can't disclose them, but I'll let you know that those will be part of our discussions. So thank you very, very much, everyone, and I look forward to what I know based on lengthy conversations. The number of you about these issues will be a lively discussion. Okay, thank you. Thank you, panelists. Thank you.
 So we're going to move to public testimony, and I know we have over, I think over 100 people signed up.
 And we're only going until 5 o'clock. So we're going to have to limit people's testimony. One thing I would say that if somebody else says exactly what you're going to say, you can maybe raise your hands or do a thumbs up and maybe consider not testifying. But we're going to have to somehow get everybody who wants to testify in by 5. So we're going to start out at two minutes each for everybody. And as time goes on, if we have to ratchet that down to one minute, we'll do that in order to be out of here.
 And then, yeah, and the only thing, Carla will call names three at a time. There's three microphones there. Come on up. And you only have to give us your name. Unless you're a lobbyist, if you are a registered lobbyist, you have to disclose who you're here on behalf of. But otherwise, you can just give us your name. You don't have to give us your address. So with that going, we'll... Disability...
 Oh, yeah, we always ask whether people with disabilities or people with young children would like to go first. So do we have anybody with young children in the audience? Okay, I don't see anybody. Oh, okay. Well, why don't you come on up, and then, Carla, do you want to call two more names? Yes, the other two who are first on the list are Randy Rosenfield and Amanda Aguilar-Shank. Okay, so we'll have our first three, and...
 I said we're going to go to two minutes each. There is a – there will be a warning buzz at one minute, one and a half minutes, and then you have 30 seconds left, and there's a clock right in front of you. Why don't we start with you, sir? Okay. My name is Michael Triggerboff. I have my notes here. The BDS movement and its local chapter, Occupation Free Portland,
 Their goal is to delegitimize Israel and demonize Israel's supporters. Could you speak on the microphone? Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. The BDS movement and its local chapter, Occupation Free Portland, their goal is to delegitimize Israel and demonize Israel's supporters. They intentionally misuse emotionally loaded terms like genocide and apartheid,
 On apartheid, Israeli Arabs, Christians, and Muslims both have the same political and civil rights as Israeli Jews. They serve on Israel's Supreme Court, its parliament, its diplomatic court, the police and military, and they represent the country in sporting and artistic and academic endeavors. Genocide. Genocide.
 This is just vicious propaganda at its worst. Where are the concentration camps? Where are the ovens, the smokestacks, the piles of corpses? Saying that Israel is committing genocide is just vicious propaganda. BDS, which is what's behind this idea of going after Caterpillar, accuses Israel of acting colonially. This ignores the fact that Jews lived in that place ever since there have been Jews. They're not colonists. That's where they're from.
 BDS singles out Israel as the target of their animosity. They apply standards to Israel that they apply to no other country. They don't target products sold to Syria, Iran, North Korea, or Saudi Arabia, places which violate human rights in ways that are orders of magnitude worse than anything that happens in Israel. Israel is a democratic country that represents the rights of gay people and women. It has by far the best record on human rights in the entire Middle East.
 Prominent leaders have condemned the tactics of this BDS movement. Hillary Clinton said that countering BDS should be an American priority. Suzanne Bonamici is co-sponsoring a congressional resolution rejecting the tactics of BDS. Kate Brown, along with 32 governors, has condemned the tactics of BDS. I'm done? Your time is up. Oh, okay. Thank you. My name is Randy Rosenfield. Thank you.
 and I attended the Human Rights Council meeting when they discussed divesting from Caterpillar. By far, the justifications centered around Israel's supposed abuses against Palestinians. Today, we're being asked to divest from Caterpillar, but the Palestinian Authority and a range of West Bank and Gazan businesses have not divested.
 They buy Caterpillars from the Palestinian Tractor and Equipment Company. I'd like to read from that company's mission and commitment statements. As a Caterpillar dealer, we contribute to the welfare of our community and the development of the country. We support improvements in health, housing, water, and other services that are needed to improve living conditions and the Palestinian economy. Does it make sense to divest Caterpillars?
 While the Palestinian Authority and this range of West Bank and Gazan companies do not, is the SRI committee well-intentioned but misled? Calls to divest from Caterpillar have frequently been used as a means for Israel bashing. Citing the company's involvement with the Dakota pipeline is a recent and convenient cover. But maybe we should be asking a different question than who to divest from.
 With all the hatred in the world, let's find instead bridges, Israeli and Palestinian co-owned companies to invest in. They're out there, and we're really interested in standing up for human rights. Let's do the right thing. Thank you. Okay, please just give us your name, and you have two minutes. Yes.
 Thank you. My name is Amanda Aguilar-Schenk. I am Deputy Director of NLASE, convener of the National Prison Divestment Campaign and the Portland Prison Divestment Coalition. I live and work in Portland. I've been active in social justice causes for over a decade. And we're here today because our communities are hurting. Our families are being torn apart by the criminal justice and the immigration systems. These should be sources of safety, sources of fair application of the law.
 but instead they're inflicting deep harm and they're sources of human rights violations. The harm is felt most sharply by immigrants, Muslims, black and indigenous communities, LGBT communities.
 and people struggling with mental health and addiction. And these are some of the most resilient, powerful, and valuable communities that we have here in Portland, but they're also the most targeted for immigrant detention and incarceration. We have nearly 1,000 Portlanders each year that are transferred to a for-profit immigration detention facility in Tacoma. One hundred of them are youth, and we fear that this number will be rising under Trump.
 The harm we're experiencing is not natural, necessary, and it's also not a mistake. Incarceration and detention are increasingly systems that are designed to reap huge profits for investors and CEOs at our community's expense. Thank you.
 And shamefully, Portland is one of the investors that is reaping benefit from this industry. Corporations like Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase are fueling prison expansion, as we'll document with future testimony. And we are implicated as a city in that. As taxpayers and as a broad coalition, we believe our taxes should be used to fuel investments in healthy and strong communities.
 not to fuel a system that dehumanizes us, defrauds us, destroys our natural resources, and locks us away. So we're here today to unite behind the SRIC recommendations and hope that you will do the right thing by approving them.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Next three, please. Are Jamie Trinkle, Roberta Philip Robbins, and Casey Jama. And they'll be followed by number six, seven, and eight, Bob Hornstein, Craig Burney, and Rabbi Fisher. Okay. I thought I saw Casey Jama here. Oh, he's at the overflow. Okay. So he'll – He's on his way. Okay. He's on his way. Okay. Go ahead. We'll start with you, ma'am. All right.
 My name is Jamie Trinkle. I'm the Senior Campaign and Research Coordinator at Enlace, convener of the Prison Divestment Campaign and the Portland Prison Divestment Coalition, which includes 23 organizations that demand you take bold action today. Whose money is fueling the harms Amanda just mentioned? Ours, the City of Portland's.
 Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase, HSBC, and Bank of New York Mellon are major lenders and active investors in private prisons. Banks bankrolling prisons is what allows prisons to expand, build new facilities, and lobby for lock-em-up policies that harm Portlanders and communities of color nationally. The city of Portland currently holds millions in corporate bonds from these banks, and no screen is available to prevent our money from being invested in prison expansion.
 The problems of mass incarceration, immigrant detention, and of criminalization of our communities are large, but not so large that they cannot be solved. When the city of Portland takes a step to cut ties, we will become national leaders. We will become the first municipality in the country to cut our ties with private prisons and to publicly chastise prison lenders and investors. Other cities are already reaching out to NLATI, looking for Portland's leadership and asking how to follow.
 We will be part of financially isolating the prison industry, stopping its growth, and eventually of curbing the expansion of mass incarceration and hyper-criminalization. Ensuring that the City of Portland does not invest in banks that profit from and provide credit for the expansion of private prisons will keep our community and members out of the cycle of criminalization.
 Adding banks to the do not buy list is the start of a meaningful conversation with these banks. When they stop the harm, when they stop investing in private prisons, we can reinvest. Our immigrant, up-color, Muslim, indigenous, and LGBTQ communities are looking to you to take bold, creative, and holistic action in the face of the threat Trump poses to our freedoms and lives. We need you to do the right thing.
 City Council today should uphold its commitment to not invest in human rights abuses by following the SRI Committee's recommendation to add the banks involved in lending to and investing in private prisons to its Do Not Buy list. I also fully support adding Caterpillar and banks financing the Dakota Access Pipeline to the Do Not Buy list. Thank you. Roberta? Good afternoon, Council guests. Roberta Phillip-Robbins, MRG Foundation Executive Director. Where we choose to invest is a statement of our values. Thank you.
 City leaders are entrusted to be good stewards of the public dollar. Once again, Portland can be a national leader here. Divesting from the for-profit prison industry will send a strong message that our city is brave enough to take the lead to end a perverse relationship wherein corporations make millions of dollars on the criminalization of poor people and people of color.
 The City of Portland should use public tax dollars responsibly and as a mechanism to achieve social justice, as a leverage point to demand equity, not as a mechanism to dehumanize the poor and communities of color. City Council should honor the process you set in motion and adopt the Socially Responsible Investment Committee's recommendations to not buy bonds of the 10 corporations identified by the SRIC as the worst of the worst. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Council. My name is Casey Chama. First of all, happy holidays, everyone. My name is Casey Chama. I'm the executive director of United Oregon. We are a statewide organization led by people of color, immigrant refugees and rural communities and people experiencing poverty. We are walking across Oregon to build a unified international movement for justice. We're here today to strongly support placing this list of bank profiteers of the prison industrial complex.
 into the socially responsible investment committee brought forth by Commissioner Novick. Immigrant refugees and people of color are disproportionately impacted by mass incarceration in prison and detention centers around the country, including the one in Tacoma.
 The number is alarming. The U.S. now increases 25% of its world prisons, about 25% of the world's prison population, and has 5% of the world's population. No other country incarcerates such a large number of people of color, immigrant refugees, and low-income communities.
 The city of Portland should not be in the business of profiteering from this. We are calling for end by the city investment in prison profiteers. By investing prison profiteers, the city financial future depends upon this profit. This is an opportunity for us to do the right thing.
 I want to quickly share with you my experience when I went to a young man who went to send to Tacoma. His infraction was simply not paying a few times for his max ticket, and he was sent to Tacoma. It took me two and a half months going with his family to release from Tacoma. That's just one example of many. I encourage you to adopt this policy. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Next three. All right. Bob Hornstein, Craig Burney, and Rabbi Fisher. And they'll be followed by 9, 10, and 11, C.J. Robbins, Audrey Alverson, and Shabray Vickers. Welcome. Again, you just need to give us your name, and you each have two minutes.
 Hi, I'm Bob Hornstein. Thank you for this opportunity to speak in opposition to the proposal to put Caterpillar on the Do Not Buy list. I'm with the Jewish Federation of Greater Portland's Community Relations Council, which is reflective of a broad cross-section of the Jewish community. We have representation from every congregation in the Greater Portland area, from humanist to orthodox.
 That allows us to speak on behalf of the organized community on a range of issues. And I'm telling you that because despite the presence of a small fringe Jewish group on the opposite side of this issue, from the outset, from the time the Human Rights Commission considered this misguided proposal, our community, the mainstream Jewish community, has been unified in its opposition to the proposal.
 For us, it's not about Caterpillar per se. It's about the divisive agenda from the groups that are driving this proposal, that being the so-called Occupation Free Portland or just the local version of the anti-Israel boycott divestment sanctions BDS movement. A couple of quick points.
 Caterpillar was certainly originally targeted because it sells equipment to the state of Israel through the United States government. We were curious to know why the SRI committee, for example, didn't consider companies that sell products to the Syrian government, which has slaughtered hundreds of thousands of its own citizens, the worst of the worst, as Commissioner Novick stated earlier.
 Why not consider car companies whose cars are sold to Saudi Arabia where women cannot even drive? Or how about companies that sell to Iran cranes that are used to string up and display the corpses of Iranian gay people?
 The other point I want to make is that we believe that much of the evidence that was presented to the SRI committee and before that the Human Rights Commission was one-sided and inaccurate. So, for example, both the commission and the committee considered evidence from Human Rights Watch, but in a New York Times op-ed – sorry, Bob, your time is up. Thank you. Where was it?
 Craig Byrne here to speak on the same issue. And first of all, Commissioner Novick, thank you for your comments at the beginning. I think they were really well taken and should be considered strongly.
 P.S.U. President Vim Vival, in a letter dated June 2nd, noted that the tone and tenor of the BDS movement has made members of our campus community feel unsafe and unwelcome at P.S.U. and it is not acceptable to marginalize or scapegoat them. Anti-Semitism cannot and will not be tolerated on our campus. He was speaking about the exact same coalition that brought the proposal on Caterpillar to the Human Rights Commission a year ago and now the same proposal that's here before this city council. Okay.
 Look, this is a complicated, difficult issue. There are rights and harms and suffering on both sides with the Israelis and the Palestinians. The Jews have a historic claim on that land that dates back 2,000, 3,000 years and have dreamed over that period of time during the diaspora when some Jews were still in Israel and most were out.
 of returning to their homeland. The Palestinians have lived there centuries and have great claims on that land as well. But that issue is not going to be helped in any way by this council condemning one company that does business with, actually with both sides, the company that does business through the United States government with the Israeli government and also as Randy Rosenfeld testified before with the Palestinians.
 This is not going to help constructive, productive measures that encourage both sides to take risks for peace. There are a whole bunch of efforts and things out there that if people are concerned about a peaceful resolution, a two-state solution, an acceptable sharing of the land, that this city council could support, including organizations that are based here in Portland, Oregon. But the BDS movement is not that movement. It's not going to help productive...
 It's going to help demonize one side, meaning the definition of anti-Semitism. Thank you. Thank you. Sir? Rabbi Fisher?
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for pointing out that our climate in our country has changed and there are great concerns that have come up. And some of the concerns that we've noticed over the past few weeks and really months is that on the far right and far left there have been groups, fringe groups, that have been hiding under rocks for a long time that have now come up. And some of these groups are already celebrating this.
 what the SRI committee has put forth, because they see this as,
 rightfully as, if not intentionally, but by default, anti-Semitic. Now, I've spoken to many people who support this, and they are well-intentioned people. We're not in any way suggesting that everyone, or maybe not anyone, suggests supporting Portland's SRI divestment from Caterpillar. But...
 What we are seeing is that this is supported and emboldening the fringe elements, which are anti-Semitic. I beg you to please consider that, even beyond the merits of the company itself, which I think we've eloquently pointed out.
 It doesn't fit the committee mandate, and as Commissioner Novick stated, they go beyond singling out this one company. And to us, the singling out of the Jewish-supported company does hurt us tremendously and does smell of anti-Semitism. Please consider that. Thank you.
 I understand we have Commissioner-elect Chloe Udailey in the audience, and if she wishes to testify, we'll afford her that courtesy at this point. And the other two with her will be C.J. Robbins and Audrey Alverson. Okay, I'll start with you, ma'am. Good afternoon. My name is Audrey Alverson. I'm the vice chair of the city's Human Rights Commission, and I'm here to make a statement on behalf of the commission.
 The Human Rights Commission would like to acknowledge the importance of including impacts on human rights as one of the criteria by which the Socially Responsible Investments Committee evaluates the city's investments and purchases. It is through this lens specifically, impacts on human rights, that members of the Human Rights Commission last year evaluated and endorsed a request by a community group called Occupation Free Portland to place Caterpillar on a do not buy list because of its complicity in human rights violations.
 Today, I'm here to reaffirm the decision that HRC made last year and to urge you to move forward with the recommendation of the SRI Committee regarding Caterpillar. Today, you will no doubt hear from numerous community members who will spell out in detail the human rights violations that Caterpillar is profiting from, not to mention environmental, labor, and corporate ethics concerns.
 And because some of these human rights violations occur against civilians in Israel and Palestine, you're also hearing from many who argue that placing Caterpillar on a do-not-buy list is anti-Semitic or anti-Israel.
 The Human Rights Commission faced the same divisive support and criticism in relation to our decision last year. The pressure put upon us to reverse our decision was immense and at times included threats and bullying. Today, I'm here to assure you that the Human Rights Commission stands by its decision and in no way believes that placing Caterpillar on a do-not-buy list is anti-Semitic or anti-Israel.
 We did not examine this request through a political lens, but rather through a human rights lens, one that stipulates such rights should be protected for all people, regardless of their politics, nationality, or religion."
 As the City of Portland Commission, guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we urge you to stand up for human rights for all people and to include Caterpillar on the Do Not Buy list. Thank you. Thank you. Sir? Good afternoon. My name is CJ Robbins. I coordinate an effort called Black Male Achievement for the City of Portland, which is housed in the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 This effort is led by a steering committee of 20 black men who represent community through their leadership in business, government, nonprofits, and philanthropy. I'm speaking today on behalf of the steering committee. I'd like to thank Mayor Hales, first of all, and council members for your continued support of BMA and what I know will be a thoughtful consideration of the proposition before you that we must invest in that which we value.
 If we want safer, healthier communities, we must invest in people, not prisons. I've heard a lot of statistics and data today, so I won't reiterate what's already been said, but I will say that we've gone from approximately 500,000 inmates in jail to 2.2 million in the span of about 30 years. I don't have much time, but I want to take a second. 2.2 million people in this country are incarcerated.
 Some of them are in private prisons. It's the responsibility of the state, if they're going to condemn people to prison, to take on the responsibility of housing and ensuring that those people's human rights are considered and cared for. Um...
 Further, because Oregon has no private prisons and does not send inmates to private prisons out of state, investing in private prisons means uplifting companies that operate outside of the standards of our state Department of Corrections. Our state has made a clear statement that private prisons do not fit within this state's values. In closing, the Black Male Achievement Steering Committee supports the recommendations of the Socially Responsible Investments Committee to add the previously named organizations to the Do Not Buy list.
 We also fully support the inclusion on that list of Caterpillar and any other organizations that invest in prisons. Let us invest in that which builds social capital in all communities by focusing on our equity values that we have articulated and adopted for our city. Let us put our money where our mouth is.
 Thank you. Thank you. Next three. Next three. Chabre Vickers, Roz Roseman, Richard Toll. They will be followed by Isabella Fernandez and Peter Parks, and also Maxine Fuchsen. Okay. Ms. Vickers, we'll start with you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners Novick, Fritz, and Saltzman. My name is Shabrie Vickers, and I come before you today in my role as chair of the Human Rights Commission. You've heard from Audrey Alverson, our vice chair, and are more aware of why our commission moved forward with the suggestion to the Socially Responsible Investment Committee to further look into the option to add Caterpillar, an American company, to the City of Portland Do Not Buy list.
 At such a time as this in our nation, and more so across the globe, I urge you to consider the reason the Socially Responsible Investment Committee was formed. Consider the reasons and rationale the committee was given to use as tenets of their work, those seven values inclusive of human rights abuses. Intentional and clear, decisive action towards social responsibility is not something to take lightly at this time.
 Your decisions as elected officials are and should always move towards action that ensures basic human rights are upheld, as noted in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The more recent oppressive, explicit, and overt hate incidents here in Portland and across the nation require that we, as community members, discern clearly ways to take action that preserve human rights. I ask you to consider the lens you ask the Human Rights Commission to utilize in our work.
 and why that work is important in actions and decisions that you have before you today. On OPB and NPR earlier today, an interview made mention of the anti-Semitism both you referenced earlier and that was referenced here. However, the point of the interview was to ask us all to recognize the complexity of this concept in our new reality post the election just a few weeks ago.
 You cannot deny the complexity of these issues. However, the SRI committee is asking you to respond as you first asked them to do. The semantics behind what is or what is not a human rights abuse can be made more clear today, defined in your actions that you take.
 I lift up the 4,000 mentions of appreciation that came to us after our decision, and I want to say that anti-Semitism cannot and will not be tolerated. However, neither will human rights abuses. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Roz Roseman, and I'm not here to talk about Israel as a home of last resort for a beleaguered people or as a bastion of democratic government in that part of the world or whether there are or are not violations of rights there. I'm asking you not to use a do-not-buy list proposal that demonizes Israel. Thank you.
 I could remind all of us, including the Human Rights Commission, of the long list of countries in the world with minority populations who stand accused or proven to be violators of human rights, including accusations against the United States. Is that committee prepared to study what companies to boycott in all these countries?
 I will remind us, sad and angry and hurt as many of us are, that somehow UN agencies and others, like this committee, enjoy the game of making Israel their main accused of choice, their repeated accused of choice, while ignoring so many other countries with proven bad human rights records.
 In 2016, Amnesty International said, the world reached an idea of human rights and listed 10 countries they considered to have hit their populations or their protective institutions. But I won't regale you with that list, pro or con, or ask you,
 Why was that committee picking out one country and not all 10? I'm not asking that committee to list the companies that sell to Russia, China, Hungary, Pakistan, Gambia, and so on, or ask you, what research did the committee do itself? I'm here to talk about the role of city government, where your resources, your money, and your time should go, and it is not dealing with what other countries do. You do know what your role is. It's to represent all of us.
 I'm asking you, please do not sow disunity in our city by taking on international matters. You have enough to do. Worry about the bike lanes, about housing people, and about neighborhoods that don't have enough sidewalks or parks or a million other things.
 So stay away from these divisive foreign issues that exceed your mandate. If it were your job to issue opinions on what other countries do, you would then have the moral obligation not to pick and choose casually on some citizen request on one country, but to investigate all the accused countries to see which deserve the listing. So stick to your big enough job. Mind our business, the city of Portland. Thank you, Mr. Novak, for your...
 comments and thank you for the opportunity to speak here. Thank you. Sir? My name is Richard Toll. I'm an Episcopal priest, member of Occupation Free Portland, and I've worked with Palestinian Christians for 33 years. I want to say that I've been to the Holy Land over 30 times since 1983. Every time I go, Palestinians want me to return to the U.S. and tell their story. As I come before you today, I'm haunted by the voices and stories of children, especially. Thank you.
 Voices of children telling me about their return from school, finding their homes destroyed by caterpillar bulldozers still sitting in the front yards of their homes. The tears of six family members recounting the horror of scrambling out of their home at midnight when the caterpillar bulldozer arrived to destroy their ancestral home. My visit two years ago included a Sunday worship service at St. Nicholas Orthodox Church in Bejala, a village next to Bethlehem.
 After services, we went as a group from the church to the edge of the village to protest the wall that was confiscating Palestinian land. Olive trees were being uprooted before our very eyes, trees that had provided the livelihood for generations of Palestinians. They were being destroyed. We offered prayers, sang songs in solidarity to show our nonviolent resistance to the violence of the occupation. A young Muslim woman and her child
 came up to us and told us that her home was next to be destroyed because the wall would confiscate her family's land. The city of Portland cannot invest in companies who deny futures to people who live under military occupation. Thank you. Okay, next three. Next three. Isabella Fernandez, Peter Parks, Maxine Fookson,
 They'll be followed by Daniel Shea, Melissa Wang, Wael Udasati. OK, we'll start with you, ma'am.
 My name is Isabella Fernandez. I am currently studying for the Oregon Bar Exam and plan to practice immigration law in Portland, Oregon. As a law student, I volunteered at the South Texas Family Residential Center in Dilley, Texas, which detains family units of women and children who seek asylum, mostly from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. This detention center is run by CoreCivic, a private prison company lent to and invested in by banks that should be added to the Cities Do Not Buy list.
 Volunteer attorneys and law students prepare the women for their interviews in consultation rooms. The women talk to us about murder, gang violence, rape, and extortion. CoreCivic fails to provide a playroom with engaging toys and caretakers for the children while their mothers are in these consultation rooms. As a result, many children become anxious and beg to be with their mothers in the consultation rooms. The children are then exposed to these horrific stories. Some mothers may decide to not give us their full story because their children are present, which can harm their asylum cases.
 I saw that severe appetite and weight loss, lethargy, and depression are common in children in family detention. The food is low quality and the water has a strong chemical taste. Core civic guards bring their own bottled water and warn volunteers to only drink bottled water. Some guards threaten women with deportation when they complain about detention conditions. Women and children do not receive proper medical care at the facility. Doctors tell the women to simply give their sick children more water or pills without being told what the pills are for.
 Many volunteers, myself included, became extremely ill while volunteering at the center. Most women and children do not have access to therapists in order to process their trauma. Please place the following banks on the city's Do Not Buy list. Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of New York Mellon, and HSBC. I also fully support adding Caterpillar and banks financing the Dakota Access Pipeline to the Do Not Buy list. Thank you. Sir? Sir?
 Yes, my name is Peter Parks. I just spent a week and a half at Standing Rock in North Dakota, where Wells Fargo has spent half a billion dollars to support the Dakota Access Pipeline, which is going across treaty land from the 1851 treaty that the Sioux Nation there has with the government and has never ceded the rights to that land. Okay.
 And so this is in addition to what has already been spoken about, about Wells Fargo being involved with detention centers, the private prisons there. They are very involved in that Dakota Access pipeline. The Native people there have asked that people like me come to our local cities and ask that they stop investing in detention.
 in those kinds of actions. So there are a number of reasons to not have the pipeline there, but basically for the native people there, it's a matter of sovereignty and loss of control that they should have to say what's done with their land. The pipeline, if completed as proposed, will go under the Missouri River, which is a lake right there, a lake which was built not with the permission of the tribe there,
 where it actually drowned orchards and all the arable land that the nation had. And this is like a double whammy for them to have a pipeline going there, which if it leaks will destroy their water supply. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Maxine Fuchsen, and I'm a proud Jewish member of Occupation Free Portland.
 The SRI Committee found Caterpillar violates six of the seven categories of the SRI policy, violations in more categories than any other company recommended for the do-not-buy list.
 Human rights concerns of Palestinians through home demolitions and lands of indigenous communities in the Americas through construction of fossil fuel transport, mining and dam construction, devastating homes and the environment. Environmental concerns.
 Caterpillar aligns strongly with free trade, anti-environmental, and anti-worker legislation in order to maximize its profits in all aspects of the fossil fuel industry. CAT, as you've heard and will hear more, has a huge direct contract in the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. It's been cited as one of the 100 worst polluting corporations. CAT is a corporate member in powerful moneyed lobbying groups such as ALEC.
 Abusive labor practices, fighting workers' unions, maximizing profits through stagnant wages and benefits. The highest paid workers at CAT earn one half of 1% of the CEO's annual salary, which is over $17 million. Caterpillar's CEO is chair of the board of the American Manufacturing Association, a powerful anti-worker lobby with financial ties to the Koch brothers.
 Concerns about corporate ethics and governance, refusing to engage with church bodies, courts, and human rights groups about their equipment use in committing human rights violations. Extreme tax avoidance. They've been cited for evading $2.4 billion in taxes.
 health concerns, including weapons production, for aiding and abetting war crimes with armed bulldozers used as weapons by the Israeli military to level civilian neighborhoods in violation of human rights and international law. We urge you to stand as protectors, human rights protectors, protectors of our values. Thank you for supporting this recommendation. Okay, thank you all.
 The next three are 17, 18, and 19, Danielle Shea, Melissa Lang, and Wael Elassedi. And they'll be followed by 20, 21, 22, Cindy Corey, Craig Corey, and Stephen Denny. Okay, we'll start with you, ma'am. Melissa Lang. Council members, thank you for your time today. I come to you as a concerned citizen and secretary of the NAACP Portland branch.
 The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People stands in solidarity with ANLASE and other organizations today that ask you to adopt the recommendations made by the Socially Responsible Investment Committee to not buy bonds of the 10 corporations identified as the worst of the worst.
 The mission of the NAACP is to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic equality rights of all persons and to eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination. The privatization of prisons in America has contributed to the 500% increase in incarceration in the last 30 years. The U.S. now incarcerates 25% of the world's prisoners, yet has 5% of the world's population.
 We find that even associations of law enforcement chiefs have called for massive reforms to stop incarcerating so many, especially nonviolent offenders. The profiteering of African American men and women through private prisons has led to a new era of Jim Crow. When private...
 prison industry profits from incarceration, from outrageously low prison wages of pennies per hour, it is arguably even worse than Jim Crow segregation and is tantamount to a form of slavery. When the city does business with corporations whose main objective is to build capital, regardless of human rights, those human rights violations are on the hands of the city, especially when a serious and strategically effective campaign to uphold human rights is formulated.
 In turn, it makes your support today much more than symbolic. Your decision could have real salutary effect. By adopting the recommendations of the SRI and putting these corporations on the do-not-buy list, the City of Portland will essentially put these corporations on notice for one year that to do business with the City of Portland, they must divest from inhumane lending business practices. Thank you. Thank you. Sir?
 Hello, my name is Daniel Shea. I'm with Veterans for Peace. I'm on the national board. And we represent about 4,000 members across the country and around the world. We have chapters in Vietnam, in Okinawa, in the UK, Ireland, and even now in Tijuana, Mexico for deported veterans.
 This issue of divestment has been very important to me. I was involved in the divestment movements of the anti-apartheid movement back in the 80s and in college and actually seen votes from South Africa voted here by proxy. I also am – I hosted a TV program called Veterans for Peace Forum, and a few years back,
 I interviewed the parents of Rachel Corey, who was mowed down by a caterpillar, a bulldozer in Israel. And I'm really, our organization is about human rights. It's about the idea that we care about, our mission is about peace and human rights around the world. Our goal is to put diplomacy before military.
 Our goal is to make sure that people stand up for the very values and principles that most people hold, and that is the caring for their children, their families, their government. And I think that when we're talking about this divestment, it's not against Israel. It's actually for Israel. It will actually, you know, during the apartheid movement, you had a country that refused to recognize its oppression against people.
 And when finally the world said, you know, the human cry to stop what they were doing and people stopped by not funding them, they finally were forced to come together. And that changed the country forever. That's what we're looking for is that people finally realize that this is important. I'm also Jewish and I've been a part of many organizations over the year. Mr. Chay, your time's up. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Wael El-Esadi. I'm a Palestinian Portland resident here and I've been back home and seen the havoc that has been wrought by the decades long bulldozing of Palestinian homes and farmlands. These are the types of violations of human rights that the Caterpillar Corporation is involved in through its sale of the D9 weaponized bulldozer. Our city should not be invested in companies making a profit that leaves families homeless.
 Our city should not be invested in a company that is today profiting from the destruction of sacred ground and Standing Rock. And finally, our city should not be invested in companies in any way that are profiting from throwing our young black men and women in this country into prison.
 This city has to take a stand. No one here has really challenged whether these violations are happening. There's been two challenges. One is that other companies have violations. And I welcome the council, men and women, as well as the people in the audience who are concerned about other companies, to do the organizing and bring those companies forward themselves, but not to cynically use that to stop the violations.
 this resolution against the violations of human rights of Palestinians, indigenous people here, workers, and our environment as well. The other concern, which I think we really have to think about, is that if we divest and put these companies on the do-not-buy list, we will find no other companies who are not involved in some kind of crimes and in some kind of violations. And I say this...
 That if we can't find any company that is not destroying the lives of our people, then stop investing in those companies and invest in the people of the city, in their education, in their health care, in transportation. That is something that you can absolutely do. And we are in a new era today. Hate is on the rise, and it's time for people to take a stand and not stand neutral on technicalities. Thank you.
 Okay, next. Cindy Corey, Craig Corey, and Stephen Denny, and they'll be followed by 23, 24, and 25, Hyeong Nam, Cheryl Livner, and Anthony Saar. We'll start with you, ma'am.
 My name is Cindy Corey. Thank you to the City Council and to your socially responsible investment committee. I am proud of Portland and of the model that you provide for the rest of us. I urge you to adopt the recommendations of your SRI committee.
 I am from Olympia, Washington, and I want you to know that my community is very much dealing with these issues as well. And we're particularly concerned that you proceed with divestment from the prison industry. We had a conference at the Rachel Corey Foundation on mass incarceration in the U.S. and in Palestine two years ago. This is an issue that deeply concerns us.
 I want to speak about Caterpillar, and I am also very aware of the fact that Caterpillar has violated six of the criteria that are being used to make your decision. And I just urge you to keep that in mind. And I also need to mention that I've received pictures of Caterpillar coming from Standing Rock when the burial grounds reportedly of Native Americans were being violated there. So again, there are a lot of broad concerns that we have.
 In 2003, my daughter Rachel Corey was killed in the Gaza Strip. She was run over by a militarized Caterpillar D9R bulldozer operated by Israeli military personnel. Rachel was trying to prevent the demolition of a Palestinian home and to protect the family who lived in that home, who watched through a crack in their garden wall.
 Rachel was in Rafa, where Human Rights Watch, and I should say other human rights organizations as well, like Amnesty International, B'Tselem, which is an Israeli human rights organization, Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions, reported that 16,000 people lost their homes to demolitions from 2000 to 2004.
 Human Rights Watch stated that the forces, military forces, demolish wholesale regardless of whether homes posed a specific threat and most often in the absence of military necessity. Sorry, Ms. Corey, your time is up. Oh, I'm sorry. Actually, I'd really like you to continue your testimony, please. Thank you.
 Caterpillar D9R bulldozers were significant in these demolitions and have continued to be. These are militarized machines that Israeli military officials have said are a key weapon of the occupation.
 In five visits to Gaza and more to the West Bank and Israel, one just this past month, I have witnessed caterpillar equipment used in multiple ways to violate the basic rights of Palestinians.
 In an Annapolis graveyard, I recognized the name of the El Shobi family, who lost eight family members, including three children, four, seven, and nine, when a military CAT D9R bulldozer came without warning in the night. I've seen CAT equipment used to confiscate Palestinian land for the separation barrier deemed illegal by the International Court of Justice.
 I've witnessed the terrible destruction wreaked on entire neighborhoods in Gaza where these bulldozers played a part. Caterpillar is on notice, has been for decades. Caterpillar knows yet refuses to act and obfuscates the truth about its role in all of these human rights violations. My daughter called for us all to work to make this stop. That's been my work for the past 14 years.
 One thing to do as a community is to refuse to be invested in a corporation that fails to accept any responsibility for the human rights violations it knowingly supports. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you.
 I'm Craig Corey. I'm Cindy's husband and the father of Rachel Corey. I want to react to a couple of things that have been said here. First of all, the talk about anti-Semitism. When Rachel was killed, within moments, we had support from Jewish groups across the United States and, in fact, from Israel. It's our Jewish friends inside Israel that taught us that to criticize the actions of a government
 or a company is not anti-Semitic. And we stand by that continuing for the last 13 years. The other thing I want to say goes to you, Commissioner Novick. I commend you for the idea of starting this conversation today.
 I think that it's important for a city to think about whether actions on one area might actually be destructive to the city or the community as a whole. And I think that investing does that. When you said, however, that you didn't think that a corporation could be responsible for what somebody does after they buy their products, I want to react to that because I agreed with you when our daughter was killed. I thought that's not the fault of Caterpillar. You know, they sold the bulldozers.
 And then I found out that they had for years been on notice of
 for how the bulldozers are used in human rights violations. And then after that, after Rachel was killed, first of all, we wrote the chairman a letter and asked to come talk to him. We actually went to Peoria to talk with him, even though he said we couldn't, that he didn't want to meet with us, and they did refuse to let my wife and myself into their building. We finally got to mention this stuff in a shareholders meeting where we were able to vote
 on the sisters or Laredo's stock. That had no impact on him. And so imagine my frustration when years later I'm reading about and hearing about an 18-year-old Palestinian man who was wounded and with this bulldozer was used again to actually cut open his head, expose his brain, and of course kill him.
 They are responsible. And if you invest in them, then you take on that responsibility yourself if you profit for that. So think carefully about all this. And thank you for your attention. Thank you very much for coming down from Olympia. Good afternoon. I'm Stephen Denny. I commend the Socially Responsible Investments Committee for their work on behalf of the City of Portland. I stand today in favor of adding Caterpillar to Portland's corporate securities do not buy list.
 In 2003 and 2004, I observed 82 businesses destroyed by caterpillar bulldozers in Nazlit, Issa, for a checkpoint between two Palestinian areas. In 2004, I watched caterpillar bulldozers, loaders, and excavators build a wall through the middle of a Palestinian village.
 Caterpillar is aware their equipment is being used by the state of Israel to unlawfully colonize occupied territory by building cities, roads, and related infrastructure in areas that they occupy. This is a violation of international law. Caterpillar has a moral responsibility to stop supplying equipment to the state of Israel when aware it is used unethically.
 Caterpillar has not practiced due diligence, a requirement of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Their reputation is so bad, on April 13, 2005, Caterpillar's unwillingness to respond to the moral imperative resulted in an International Day of Action against Caterpillar.
 Endorsers included Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the National Council of Churches, Jewish Voice for Peace, Presbyterian Church USA, and Sisters of Laredo. Today, Caterpillar continues to ignore issues of human rights, justice, labor, and tax law. Caterpillar needs to be on Portland's corporate securities do not buy list. Thank you.
 Okay, next three. Hun Nam, Cheryl Livner, and Anthony Saar, and they'll be followed by 26, 27, and 28, Jeff Rheingold, Randy Peterson, and Michael Weiner. Go ahead, sir. Hi, I'm Hung Nam. I'm one of the members of the Portland Socially Responsible Investment Committee, and I'm really
 disappointed that we're hearing all this testimony and even what you Commissioner Novick has said about our report. It makes me wonder if all the people that are questioning our report have even bothered to read our report. If you actually read our report, you'll see that
 especially Caterpillar and Wells Fargo are the worst of the worst. They are the deplorables. And in fact, they're very much involved with Trump's expansion of not only prisons, but also drilling, I'm sorry, building the pipeline and destroying Native American territory in North Dakota. First of all, as far as talking about other elements,
 other companies, we looked at the eligible issuers. So to try to compare Caterpillar to some other company, tell me what other company you're talking about on our eligible issuers list. But as far as what you said, Mr. Novick, about Caterpillar...
 about targeting companies that do things or sell things to customers. First of all, the D9 armored bulldozer is co-designed by the IDF with machine gun mounts as well. But besides that, as Maxine Fuchsen has said, there are six different criteria that got us to put Caterpillar on the do not buy list. Not only the human rights violations, but $2.4 billion in tax evasions,
 cutting and running from states where they got $199 million in subsidies and cut jobs and went to another state or moved to Mexico. And now they're not only involved in Dakota Access, but also Trump has just recently said that he's going to build the wall with only Caterpillar equipment.
 On top of that, the prison stocks are going up because the prison companies want to massively expand building for-profit prisons. And look at who is working with Trump. Chris Kobach, who speaks to white nationalist groups, and he co-wrote Arizona's SB 1070 to imprison people for profits of Corrections Corporation of America. Thank you. Can I have extended time, please? No, sorry. Thank you.
 My name is Cheryl Levene, and I would like to talk about the sympathy that I have for all the Palestinian families we've been hearing about. But what about the suffering that the Palestinians force upon the Israelis? What about the Jewish victims of Palestinian terror?
 and I would like us to keep that in mind as we talk about this proposal because Caterpillar does business with Israel. It is based on several false claims, one we heard just a few minutes ago, and that is that Jewish Israelis are colonelists displacing an indigenous population. The Jewish historical and religious connection to this land dates back over 3,000 years.
 It's backed up and documented by contemporary Greek and Roman authors, by the Arch of Titus in Rome, and by many archaeological finds. This proposal is a smokescreen to attack and vilify Israel and its right to exist as a democratic homeland of the Jewish people. Also, we hear about genocide of the Palestinian people.
 First of all, it's offensive to use that term repeatedly when genocide was a term used when people were trying to wipe out the Jewish people from this earth. And second, since 1970, the Palestinian population in the West Bank and Gaza has quadrupled. So that fact alone debunks the genocide charge. Condemning Israel will do nothing to bring peace to that region.
 Both Jews and Palestinians have a right to a land, and both parties have an obligation to work toward an agreement to share that land. And I think it's important, this is a complex issue, that it's studied before a decision is made. Thank you. Sir?
 Hi, my name is Anthony Saffer. I'm a student at Portland State University and I actually have quite a bit of experience with Occupation Free Portland. The members of this organization came to my university a year ago and they said the exact same things that they're saying in front of you today. With the help of a group of students, they convinced the PSU student government that divesting from Caterpillar and four other companies which do business with Israel was about human rights. Okay.
 They said BDS is about taking a stand for oppressed peoples, but what they purposely ignored were the true goals and the motives of the BDS movement.
 The founder of the movement, Omar Barghouti, has openly stated that the one state solution means a unitary state where, by definition, Jews will be a minority. And he also said that he's completely and categorically against binationalism because it assumes that there are two nations with equal moral claims to the land. This doesn't sound like a movement for justice or peace.
 In other words, he wants to see Israel destroyed. And there are many people within the BDS movement with really good intentions, but we cannot overlook the words of their leader. This is a movement to delegitimize and eventually destroy the Jewish state of Israel. And Occupation Free Portland wants to co-opt the goodwill of the city council, just like they did it with my student government, to make a political statement about the existence of the state of Israel.
 As a result of what my student government has done, Jewish students on campus feel really unsafe and unwelcome because over the course of the last year, our student government has ignored concerns that Jewish students have about their safety and the true intentions of the BDS resolution that took place. And after a long fight, that resolution finally passed, and it's going to have lasting effects on our community at PSU.
 The same will be true for the greater Portland Jewish community if this body puts Caterpillar on the do not buy list. I urge you to really see the true intentions of the BDS movement and to keep Caterpillar off that list. Thank you so much. Thank you all. Mr. Naum, I just want to thank you for your service on the committee and to remind you and others that we're not going to be deliberating or voting for two weeks. If you could send the remainder of your testimony in writing, I'd really appreciate it. Yes, thank you so much.
 The next three are Jeff Rheingold, Randy Peterson, and Michael Weiner. And they'll be followed by 29, 30, and 31, Michelle Ibulitz-Bimbit-Mintz, Michael Hornstein, and Rabbi Rose. Thank you.
 Good afternoon members of the Council. My name is Michael Weiner. I currently serve on the board of directors of the Jewish Federation of Greater Portland. I was a three-term chairman of the Federation and currently have the honor of chairing the Jewish Community Relations Council of the Federation. The JCRC is the voice of the organized Jewish community and we have representatives of most all Jewish organizations in Portland and operate on a consensus basis.
 I can tell you without any hesitation whatsoever that the consensus on the issue before you is that the recommendation of the SRI committee to put Caterpillar Inc. on a do-not-buy list is divisive and deeply offensive to the Jewish community. There is nothing, absolutely nothing constructive about the proposal and everything destructive. To the Jewish community, it is a smokescreen. It represents hatred, divisiveness, and yes, anti-Semitism.
 No, of course, not everybody pushing for adoption is anti-Semitic. Perhaps nobody is. But the result, the proposed outcome, is deeply disturbing to us. For the many reasons other speakers have stated and will state, the singling out of Caterpillar is a red flag. It says to us, the right of the state of Israel to exist is under attack. We as an arm of the Jewish Federation will never sit by and let that happen.
 Do you really want to wade into the morass, the quicksand of Israeli-Palestinian politics? We've heard a lot of that today. I hope not. But if you do, be sure that you have all the facts, and not just those shouted by the loudest voices. In this most incredibly divisive times that we now find ourselves, why, oh why, would you adopt a proposal which accomplishes nothing,
 positive, and yet it pits the Jewish community against the city of Portland itself through what we consider to be an anti-Israel, anti-Semitic proposition. What does that accomplish? Why go there? Without defending Caterpillar, consider, it, along with hundreds or thousands of other companies, sells a legal product to the U.S. government, and what happens after that is that international commerce is out of its control. Mr. Weiner, your time's up. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Rachel Rothstein Nelson, and I'm going to start off by saying that on September 4th, 1997, I was actually injured in a terrorist attack in Jerusalem. I was 15 years old.
 And it's truly regrettable that I now speak before you today against this hateful and divisive proposal to divest from Caterpillar. Then the final analysis accomplishes nothing other than the attempt to discredit the only Jewish state in the world. The offensive rhetoric by those who support these types of resolutions does nothing to further the cause of peace or to bring people together in efforts to seek a reasonable and viable two-state solution.
 Rather, as you see here today, it divides and it polarizes. For many of us Jews, a policy of divestment that singles out Israel and Israel only is inescapably tied to the historic boycotts against Jewish businesses and subsequent Arab boycotts against the state of Israel. Such policies are designed to divide people so that the policy becomes the issue, not the seeking of a peaceful resolution to a very complex situation.
 Any attempt to deny the right of Israel to exist as a Jewish state needs to be called what it is, anti-Semitism, plain and simple. Don't just take my word for it. Pope Francis has said the denial of Israel's right to exist as the nation state of the Jewish people is anti-Semitic.
 Martin Luther King Jr. has also called this anti-Semitism. Quite simply, the avowed goal of the BDS movement is the denial of the Jewish people the right to national self-determination. I respectfully ask that you join the Oregon governor, along with 32 other governors, Representative Bonamici and Hillary Clinton, Portland's mayor-elect and many others, in rejecting and condemning such hateful and one-sided resolutions as biased and counterproductive.
 I'm Randy Peterson, and I'm impressed with the articulate arguments coming from both sides, not with the content, but with how well people articulate. And I share with Cheryl, as I'm sure all of us do, our concern for the Palestinians as well as the Israelis. And I just know nobody is more dedicated to social and economic justice tempered with compassion than I am. The path to justice...
 has to be laid upon truth and not mere convenient on-truths and half-truths. Can justice really be served by one-sided rhetoric? This proposal, rather than promoting peaceful coexistence, blames only one side in a very complex situation. Placing total blame on Israelis masks the full history of the current situation.
 This situation is salted and peppered with years of interactions, some violent, some not so, between Israelis and Palestinians. Do you know that the Palestinian Authority pays the families of terrorists who kill Israelis?
 Do you know that public squares are named after murderers of Jews? Do you know that Palestinian school books and TV programs dehumanize Jews? And Hamas summer camps in Gaza teach young children to commit violence against Israelis. Again, the path to economic and social justice is not well served by this SRI recommendation. Thank you all. So we'll take three more, and then we're going to take a...
 Five-minute compassion break. The next three are Michelle Vimbit Minch, Michael Hornstein, and Rabbi Rose. And then when we come back from the break, it'll be Rabbi Kabera, Rob Jacobs, and Ron Schwerlin, 32, 33, and 34. Okay, and we'll start with you. Hi. I'm Michelle Vimbit Minch. Rather than... Oops, sorry.
 The BDS continues to demonize Israel based on deception. But did you know the United Nations announced on November 9th the Israel Defense Forces Field Hospital was recognized as number one in the world as a leader in field medicine and disaster relief.
 and the first field hospital to ever achieve a Type 3 rating according to a World Health Organization scale. When disaster strikes, Israel's government is among the first to send supplies and experts.
 From earthquakes in Haiti and Nepal's to NAMIs in Sri Lanka and Japan, typhoon in the Philippines or other mass disasters in Turkey, India, Mexico, El Salvador, Greece, Rwanda, Romania, Indonesia, and New Guinea, Israel is there.
 Israel receives high marks from the independent watchdog Freedom House for both political and civil rights. Tel Aviv has been voted one of the most gay-friendly cities in the world. Women serve at the highest levels of government and society. Israel had a female prime minister four decades ago. And one of my personal favorites, Israel continues to be a top country in the world for vegans, leading the world in animal welfare reform. Laughter
 Israel is one of the most democratic, human rights-oriented countries in the region, if not the world. Rather than devoting countless hours to debating about one-sided measures such as divestment from companies due to their sales of equipment to Israel, we should be marshalling our efforts together to do our small part to bring about peace and dialogue.
 Right here in Oregon, we are already bringing unity in Israel. Are you familiar with the Abraham Fund, founded in Oregon and constructs a shared society of inclusion and equality among Israel's Jews and Arab citizens?
 working with government agencies, businesses, and civil society organizations, and hand-to-hand, founded by Portland's own Lee Gordon, a Center for Jewish Arab Education in Israel. Thank you very much. Sir. Good afternoon, commissioners and Mayor Hales and absentia. The letter I'm about to read is on behalf of a former longtime Portland and current Bellingham, Washington. Can you give us your name also? Oh, I'm sorry, Michael Hornstein. Okay.
 Portland, long-time Portland and current Bellingham, Washington resident Floyd Smith. And I understand that the commissioners and the mayor received e-mail copies of his letter previously. Dear Mayor and Councillors,
 BDS is bad. Its proposed caterpillar condemnation is absurd. Before I go further, allow me to insist that my recent move to Bellingham does not obviate my longtime residence in Portland and my love for the city. I grew up in North Portland, graduating from Beach Grade School, Jefferson High School, and PSU.
 I spent my working life in the city as a coin TV reporter and as communication executive for Northwest Natural Gas, First Interstate Bank, and Oregon Human Services Agency. I visit the city regularly. I want the best for Portland, so please do not embrace the anti-Semitic, BDS-driven resolution that would taint Portland and its leadership as a place where hate can rule the day.
 The BDS movement to delegitimize Israel is linked to worldwide organizations that unashamedly work to drive the only serious democracy in the Middle East into oblivion. BDS backers want you to slam the brakes on Portland's purchase of Caterpillar equipment in a bizarre argument that your city should punish Israel for defending itself against the predations of Palestinian terrorists.
 The logic is further confounding given that caterpillar equipment is used by Israelis and Palestinians, not to mention other countries around the world. BDS supporters, many of whom refuse to acknowledge Israel's historic claim to its land, are on the wrong side of the human rights issue. They want to obliterate democratic Israel and that state's commitment to freedom of religion and expression.
 Please don't get sucked into this twisted expression of Jew hatred. Vote no on the caterpillar is shut out by the city of Portland. Highest regards, Floyd T. Smith. Thank you. Rabbi? I thank you. Thank you for your time. My name is Rabbi Joshua Rose. I'm the rabbi at Congregation Sheri Torah here in Portland, Oregon. And let me say, first of all, how complicated and heartbreaking this is for so many, myself included, within the Jewish community to find that our natural political allies are,
 we find ourselves so divided from them. So, for example, people have talked about the Dakota Access Pipeline, which I object to, and the privatization of prisons, which I find to be outrageous and I object to.
 And so I'm highlighting that because I want you to think about the complexity of an issue that is more complex perhaps than any conflict around the world that we've encountered, that our country has been trying to find an approach to for so much time. And I think to try to make a significant decision on some of the things that you've heard without appreciation of the complexity is dangerous and sets a terrible, terrible precedent. Okay.
 I want to affirm also that I know that not everybody who supports this bill is anti-Semitic. But I want to say, and I think that's clear and obvious for some of the people we've seen here, but I also want to point out that the movement, the BDS movement, is inseparable from anti-Semitism. And as it's been pointed out, that its leaders are connected to it with their views. Selectivity matters. Selectivity matters. Intentions are good and important, but actions...
 are also incredibly important. And so when we're selective in choices that we make and we don't think about the roots of the movements that are guiding us to make those choices, we're in dangerous moral territory. You may not know that people who have worked their entire lives...
 for peace advocacy and have fought their entire lives in Israel for peace advocacy and outside of Israel are strongly against measures like this one, and you should ask yourselves why. You may not know that voices to the far left is Noam Chomsky, with whom I do not have things in common,
 on Israel opposes BDS. Why is it? Why could that be? The reason is because there's great moral complexity to the issues that are being considered, and I urge you to vote no and in support of fairness and justice and equity in our investments. Thank you all. We're going to take a five-minute recess, and we'll be back. Sir? Have a seat. And we are now going to...
 Given the large number of people that still wish to testify and the fact that we're shooting to get out of here between 5, 530, we're going to go to one minute each. So, Carla, if you could call the last three or the next three. The next three are Rabbi Kavira, Rob Jacobs, and Ron Swerdlin. And they'll be followed by 35, 36, and 38, Crystal Ilinsky, Doug Bennett, and Stephen Goldberg. Thank you.
 Welcome, and as I said earlier, all you need to do is give us your name, and each have one minute, and there's a clock in front of you, and Rabbi, we'll start with you. Thank you, Rabbi Kahana. You've heard today from...
 rabbis from across the spectrum here in Portland, all in agreement about the issue of not including Caterpillar on this divestment list. It's clear, as we've heard from the SRI committee today, that the only reason that their primary reason that Caterpillar has been included is because of their disagreement with the policies of the State of Israel.
 Commissioner, I appreciate very much your comments at the beginning and agree with your statement that we have to be very careful about how we use this powerful tool. This statement, should Caterpillar be included, will be seen.
 by the community at large as a slap against the state of Israel and being identified uniquely. If we want to be builders of peace, and you all know me, and you know that in this community I want to be a builder of peace.
 BDS is not a process that will create peace. It is not a process that will enable conversation that helps to build a community of peace. This is a resolution that works against all of our ideals. Thank you.
 Robert, could I just say, I'm sorry, I know this is going to take a bit of time, but I appreciated your service on the Oversight Board for Police Accountability. If Caterpillar was just on the list because they're now the prime contractor for the wall against Mexico, apparently, or because they're involved in the Dakota pipeline development, would you still feel the same way?
 Perhaps, but I have to say, Commissioner, that no matter the nuance of the decision that's made here, it will be quite clear that Caterpillar will be seen as being on that list because of its policies in Israel. This is BDS's movement. This is their technique to isolate the state of Israel. Thank you.
 My name is Rob Jacobs. I'm the regional director for Stand With Us, which is an Israel education and advocacy organization.
 And I say that because I'm familiar with the arguments you're hearing today. I've heard them for the past eight years. And when they bring up the numerous reasons to identify Caterpillar on the list, they talk about taxes, overpaid CEOs, other issues that sadly are way too familiar to us on corporations across the board.
 Caterpillar is here because it sells a product to Israel, but it also sells it, as you've heard, to the Palestinian Authority, to Palestinians across the country, to the United States, France, England, all around the world. If we're to refuse to invest in companies that sell to Israel...
 as well as to the Israeli military, then we'd have to divest also from Microsoft, Boeing, Google, Dell, John Deere, GM, Ford, Intel, and many other companies that are essential to the Israeli government and the Israeli military. Thank you. Okay. My name is Ron Swerdlin. I'm a retired naval officer.
 The BDS movement of which Occupation Free Portland is an extension, and though it claims to be a human rights organization, to end the occupation of the West Bank, in truth, it exists solely to ultimately destroy Israel, the only democratic state in the Middle East. It is opposed to a two-state solution. Omar Barghouti, co-founder and leader, said,
 Definitely, most definitely, we oppose a Jewish state in any part of Palestine. In essence, he is proposing that the current state of Israel be free of Jews. This would follow on the 850,000 Jews expelled from the surrounding Arab countries after 1948. This divestment from Caterpillar is merely a subterfuge to boycott Israel. In addition, the leaders of the BDS movement hold America in contempt.
 Mayor and commissioners, please consider whether you want your vote to be in favor of a resolution sponsored by a group affiliated with BDS, which at its core despises our way of life and espouses the ethnic cleansing of the Jews, the true indigenous people of the region dating back 1,200 years before the birth of Christ. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three. Yes, sir. I missed a name for the disability list. It was Mohammed Nabil.
 He needs to come up now. And then 35 and 36, Crystal Alinsky and Doug Bennett can come up now. And they'll be followed by 38, 39, and 40, Stephen Goldberg, Diane Pullen, and Joe Finkboner. Okay, why don't you go ahead and start? They may be working their way down here. Just give us your name, and you have one minute. Thank you. My name is Mohamed Nabil. Hello.
 I came here because this issue, the entire list that was recommended to you to put on a do not buy list, affected me in many ways. Because first of all, people of color here have suffered a lot from the prison industrial complex, suffered a lot and still suffering right now in Dakota Access by Blind and Standing Rock.
 And as a person who grew up most of my life in Gaza, I saw many hopes and many futures destroyed by caterpillar and their bulldozers. My wall in my school was destroyed by a D9 bulldozer.
 If you are really invested in building hope and building future, please put this on your do not buy list. Not just Caterpillar, but all the 10 companies that propose to you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, next three. Is Crystal Elinsky or Doug Bennett here? Let's go with Stephen Goldberg, Diane Pullen, and Joe Finkbonner, 38, 39, and 40. Okay.
 And then after them will be Phil Jayon Killorg, I believe it is, Dick Toll, and Catherine Alder, 41, 42, and 44. Sir, go ahead. Good afternoon. My name is Stephen Goldberg. As an attorney who has been involved in civil and human rights law cases locally, on a national basis, and internationally, and as a member of the Jewish community in Oregon and a 35-year member of Congregation Havara Shalom,
 Mr. Horenstein, I resent being called a fringe Jew. I applaud the deliberative process engaged in by the SRI committee, and I applaud you as a council for having initiated that process and urge each of you to accept the committee's recommendations, particularly regarding Caterpillar and the banks. Caterpillar's D9 bulldozers have been used to demolish Palestinian homes,
 destroy the urban infrastructure of Palestinian cities, and level whole neighborhoods in Gaza. These are not just bad acts. These are violations of international law. Caterpillar bulldozers have been used to destroy sacred burial sites in Standing Rock. That's a violation of international law. Okay, thank you, Mr. Goldberg. Your time's up. Are we doing one minute now? Yeah, we're doing one minute now. Okay.
 My name is Reverend Diane Doolin, a minister of the United Church of Christ. I categorically reject the ad hominem attacks leveled against those of us working for justice through nonviolent economic leverage. Not long ago, I spent almost a week with the water protectors in North Dakota, joining them in working nonviolently there to prevent a pipeline which you too have condemned.
 You have condemned the destruction of land, the violation of indigenous people, the reprehensible desecration of holy ancestral sites.
 In nearly identical ways that these things are being done by Caterpillar Equipment in North Dakota, I have seen Caterpillar tractors work in Palestine, Israel. As devastating as it is to see Caterpillar Equipment build illegal walls and structures, even worse is the profound violence perpetrated by these pieces of equipment demolishing homes.
 uprooting farmlands and ancient olive trees, destroying infrastructure.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Joe Finkbonner. I'm a member of the Lummi tribe near Bellingham, Washington, and I'm a Portland resident for the last 15 years. I trust that you all had a meaningful Thanksgiving holiday surrounded by loving family and friends. And I would ask that you reflect on this past week and you see the irony of the holiday as we think of the hundreds of American Indians that were being hosed and watered during the freezing temperatures and shot with rubber bullets that had been attacked by dogs in their effort to protect their sacred lands that were destroyed by Caterpillar.
 Now more than ever with the recent elections, local leaders need to step up to ensure that the values of the constituents are represented and voiced. I know that residents of Portland want to send a clear message that if you violate human rights, contribute to that violation or tolerate it, then we do not want to do business with you. I thank you for representing Portland constituents and for listening to my concerns. I respectfully request that you agree with my plea to take supporting action to place Caterpillar on the do not buy list.
 okay thank you all next three the next three are phil i believe it's jayon killory dick toll and catherine alder 41 42 and 44. they'll be followed by ron warner jr marlene ead and phyllis beckmeyer 45 46 47. just a reminder that you you can send in additional testimony we're not going to be deliberating or voting until a couple of weeks we've got to think of another 60 people to fit in which is why we've gone to a minute
 Okay, ma'am. Go ahead. Good afternoon. My name is Reverend Catherine Alder, and I'm a pastor in the United Church of Christ. You will be joining multiple denominations who said no to Caterpillar. This is what we're talking about. That's what the D9 looks like. It's not that cute little machine you see in the farmland. This is what destroys. On my many trips to Palestine, I have visited with
 Multiple Palestinians met one young student who was home in Bethlehem had just been destroyed for the third time that morning. Dawood Nassar, a Christian peacemaker, lost 1,400 trees bulldozed by a caterpillar. Fida Kista, a young Palestinian girl in Gaza, witnessed 60 Palestinian homes being destroyed in one day by a caterpillar.
 Caterpillar has destroyed the Bedouin Palestinian village of El Araguib 84 times since 2010. That's south of Jerusalem. You are seeing, you're witnessing Jewish, Christian, Muslim, and atheist brothers and sisters here to ask you to put Caterpillar on the no-buy list. Thank you. Thank you, Reverend. Next three. Thank you.
 Ron Warner Jr., Marlene Eade, and Phyllis Beckmeyer, and they'll be followed by 48, 49, and 50, Dana Mustafa, Layla Tennance, and Mark Braverman. We'll start with you, ma'am. Good afternoon. My name is Phyllis Beckmeyer. My time goes to share a video of Jeff Halper, who is the Israeli-American director of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions. Okay.
 Is this video a minute? On the video. Why don't we let the other two talk, and then when you get your video up, we'll give you the minute. But only a minute. Okay.
 Okay, sir. Great. Thank you. Hi, my name is Ron Werner. I'm a pastor in the Lutheran Church here in Portland, Oregon. Two summers ago, I had the opportunity to be a part of an interfaith delegation of Christians, Jews, and Muslims to visit Israel and Palestine. I was particularly struck as a father of a new kindergartner at Harvey Scott Elementary in northeast Portland at an educational center in the Palestinian village of Silwan that we visited. I noticed that a lot of the children there had toys and stuffed animals in their backpacks. Okay.
 And I thought, oh, wow, their parents must have lost the negotiation on the way to school about how many toys you could bring to school with you. I have that negotiation daily with my kids. I later learned that these kids were bringing their most prized possessions, stuffed animals and toys with them to school every day because friends of theirs had lost their homes when they got home from school. To not have your home be there after a day at school is devastating to a child.
 As a faith leader in Portland and as a parent in Portland, I strongly encourage the city council to accept the recommendations of the SRI committees. Do not buy lists, and please place Caterpillar on there. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Marlene Ayd. I'm a Palestinian-American. I grew up in East Jerusalem, in the old city of Jerusalem. And as a nine-year-old, I witnessed a caterpillar bulldoze a house.
 For me, whenever you say caterpillar, it's destruction. The first thing that comes to my mind is destruction. And I really would like to add to whatever you have said already here about how children are affected by seeing those things.
 as a psychologist and as someone who has lived also in that area and under Israeli occupation, which it seems like everybody is really forgetting that Israel is an occupier, so there's no such a thing as a benign occupier or occupation. And so...
 I would like to draw your attention to how much children can be affected by seeing the scenery. As a nine-year-old, as I said, I went to Sheikh Jarrah, which is in the suburbs of Jerusalem, and there was a house that was given a 24-hour notice to evacuate.
 And the woman who's the mother of nine children was just sitting in the rubble of the house. And a lot of the Palestinian community was coming up there to give them help, to give them blankets, food, whatever. Thank you. Thank you. Do we get the video up? Okay. My name is Jeff Halper. I'm the head of the Israeli Committee Against House Settlements.
 And we've been revolved for many years in campaigns to call the human rights abuses of caterpillars to account. In particular, the D-9 bulldozer, which is a two-story, huge mining machine that's explicitly used for demolishing Palestinian homes. It's sold to the Israeli government as a military equipment.
 And in fact, the shovel of the bulldozer, which is one story high, is especially designed with the Israeli army for the... It's explicitly for the Russian homes. Because if you take a normal mining bulldozer in a building, it'll fall, it'll collapse on the driver. The shovel was designed in a way that when it hits a Palestinian home, which is its only use, it'll fall away from the driver.
 And in fact, last year, 2014, Bob Miller just woke those destroyed. Okay. Next three, please. Next three are 48, 49, and 50, Dana Mustafa, Layla Tennance, and Mark Braverman. And they'll be followed by the first 51, 52, and 53, Ned Roche, John Shuck, and Tom Billman. Go ahead, ma'am.
 Hi, everyone. My name is Dana, and I am a student at Portland State. I'm here to express my anger that I have with Caterpillar, and I encourage you to include it in the Cities Do Not Buy list. Caterpillar is a very harmful company that participates in the acts of human rights violations all over and has even violated international law. It is currently playing a role in building the Dakota Access Pipeline, participates in home demolitions in Israel, and in the occupied West Bank. Just recently, the student government at Portland State has passed a resolution including...
 for the university to divest from Caterpillar, among other corporations.
 By researching Caterpillar, you can easily see it's not a corporation that values human rights or the environment. As a city, we should use our tax dollars to invest socially responsibly by valuing human rights and give notice to corporations that as a city, we will not invest in them regardless of where human rights violations are occurring. I'm here as a student, as a Palestinian, and as a member of this community to ask you to follow in the steps of the Portland State University student government to stand by the HRC decision put forward and to do the right thing by putting Caterpillar on your do-not-buy list. Thank you.
 Sir? My name is Mark Braveman. I'm a resident of Portland and I'm Jewish. Earlier this year the Human Rights Commission heard the facts concerning Caterpillar. They ruled very clearly and unanimously that Portland should not be invested in them. The uproar was huge and the pressure was brought to them so that they met again, they listened again and they came to the same conclusions. You could – it's the same litany of arguments on both sides that you've been hearing. You didn't even have to sit through it again.
 The Commission heard that and said, yep, we hear that you've got a disagreement in the Jewish community. The facts are as they are. We shouldn't be holding this stock. It's not about BDS. It's not about anti-Semitism.
 It's about the six criteria that you have clearly read and what the rules and the principles of the city tell you needs to be done. I don't mean to sound flip about this, but you folks are having to sit through over and over again a Jewish family argument. I don't mean to be flip about it. It's a very, very serious conversation. It's huge.
 It's tragic for us. We have to understand what Israel has become and what we need to do about it. That's not what this is about. This is about Caterpillar. It's about a human rights situation like any other, and that's how you need to make your decision. Thank you. Next three are Ned Roche, John Shuck, and Tom Bielman, and they'll be followed by 54, 55, and 56, Curtis Bell, Stephanie Wahid, and Tigerman Lee. Would you like to start?
 My name is Ned Roche, a proud member of Jewish Voice for Peace. As a Jew, I'm not surprised that a recent national survey found that 92% of rabbis believe investors have a moral obligation to avoid investments that harm society and are morally responsible for harm their investments cause. Companies like Caterpillar and Wells Fargo, for all the reasons you've heard, absolutely belong on our do not buy list.
 As Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel put it, we can no longer compromise on moral values.
 We respectfully demand that you put our money where our mouth and our values are. That would be in keeping with the highest ethical teachings of all of our traditions, an inspiration to other cities around the world, and an important statement of solidarity with our indigenous sisters and brothers from Central America to Palestine to Standing Rock. Thank you very much.
 My name is John Schack. I'm a minister in the Presbyterian Church USA. I moved to Portland a couple of years ago. I love this city because it cares about conscience. It's not perfect, but it cares when it's imperfect. And this is an opportunity to care about conscience. I was a commissioner to the 2014 General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, and I voted with the majority to put Caterpillar on the church's equivalent of Portland's do-not-buy list. This was not a decision that was made lightly. There was great opposition, including false and hateful charges of anti-Semitism.
 But after 10 years, 10 years of trying to negotiate with Caterpillar and Caterpillar's intransigence, the courageous decision had to be made. They are responsible for the things they sell because they are explicitly involved in the destruction of the companies and the countries and the organizations that use their equipment.
 We will not profit from human rights abuses. The church said that. Unitarian Universalists said it. United Church of Christ said it. The Quakers said it. It's time now for Portland to say it. We've got your back. Do the right thing. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Tom Bileman. I'm a member of the United Church of Christ. This summer, for the third year in a row, I traveled to the occupied West Bank of Palestine, where some 2.7 million Palestinians reside today. I wish you could have joined my interfaith delegation for this trip. Thank you.
 You would have seen for yourselves the vast destruction of property and livelihood and other violations of human rights by Israeli military forces using caterpillar tractors. During our trip, we saw caterpillar tractors excavating great swaths of land, forever expanding illegal settlements. We saw caterpillar tractors grading land for further expansions of the separation wall.
 and met many people whose lives were affected by that. My key point, it can be hard for us in this comfortable city to imagine the scale of this destruction and the systematic nature of the violence, but it is real, it is happening right now, and it is entirely inconsistent with Portland values. Please put Caterpillar on the do-not-buy list.
 Thank you all. Next three. Are Curtis Bell, Stephanie Wahib, and Tigerman Lee. And they'll be followed by 57, 58, and 59. Ava Soto-Perella, Gemma Noel, and Anika Henry.
 Why don't we start with you, sir? Hi, I'm Tiernan Lee. I'm part of Students United for Palestinian Equal Rights at PSU and also Portland Committee for Human Rights in the Philippines. I just want to thank you for hearing us today, and I want to acknowledge and applaud the diverse list of companies that you have considered for divestment and from which you have already divested. I'm on the Solidarity Committee for both aforementioned organizations, and there's a real palpable connection between Palestine and the Philippines.
 We must develop a real global understanding of connection that many of these companies, especially Caterpillar, can be found all over this planet creating environmental havoc, and there are complicit human rights violations for which they are responsible. Under the United Nations Guidelines for Business and Human Rights, a company is obligated to practice due diligence to ensure that its products and services are not to violate international law and human rights. Thank you.
 In response to the list of other countries espoused to not be held accountable, they actually are. The U.S. has sanctions on Syria, Iran, and North Korea. My involvement with these issues I think are really similar to the reasons your SRI committee exists.
 to make sure that global abuses of human rights do not go unchecked, and so that people are made aware of how their tax dollars are spent in Portland, and making sure that we remain a model city and community of moral fortitude. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to the SLRI Committee for its difficult and diligent work. My name is Stephanie Wahab. I'm a Palestinian American. I'm a professor at Portland State University where I teach social justice to future social workers.
 Like you, I care about human rights, about justice, and about fairness, and I believe that the city of Portland should continue to walk its talk around equity issues and hold companies like Caterpillar accountable for its socially, environmentally reckless behaviors.
 In response to some of the questions that have been resurfacing in some of the comments today about why not all the companies, why this company, I'd like to suggest that why not all the companies is not a reason to do nothing. In response to the question, why not all the companies, I would love for this city to say maybe they'll be next because of this amazing process.
 Let's be brave. I urge you to consider whether human rights, the environment, world peace, a profitable corporation, paying taxes are important issues to you. And if they are, please divest from Caterpillar because of the values that this city embraces. Thank you. My name is Curtis Bell. I'm a member of the Steering Committee of Occupation Free Portland.
 I'm also a member of First Unitarian Church here in Portland and president-elect of an organization, Unitarian Universalists for Justice in the Middle East, that works for justice in the Middle East. I want to express my great thanks and deep appreciation to the members of the council for all you've done to align the city's investments with our city's human and environmental values. In doing so, you've made history and set an example for other cities to follow.
 I'd just like to mention a couple things that have been said here already. It's said that Caterpillar sells tractors to many countries, including the Palestinians. Yes.
 But the Palestinians' tractors are not used to destroy tens of thousands, tens of thousands of Israeli homes. The Palestinian tractors are not used to tear up the streets of Israeli villages. The Palestinian tractors are not used to build a wall on Israeli territory that isolates Israeli villages. They're not used to destroy hundreds of Israeli villages.
 But the Israeli tractors are used for all of these human rights violations. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Our Ava Soto-Perella, Gemma Noel, and Anika Henry. And they'll be followed by 60, 61, and 62, Rosella DeLeon, Rochelle Goss, and Deepay Wu. I don't see anybody coming up. Maybe you want to – I don't see anybody heading down from upstairs either, so why don't you – There are some people in the other rooms. Oh, okay. We've got an overflow room. Forgot about that.
 Peter Starzynski. Thank you. And if you're in the overflow room, there is now room upstairs in the council chamber on the third floor. Cecilia A. Beckwith. Phyllis. Okay. I'm sure other people are making their way here, but why don't you go ahead and start and give us your name. Yes. My name is Cecilia Beckwith, and I'm here with Enlace. Thank you.
 Commissioner Novak, I too am concerned about the rise of anti-Semitism that exists right now in our country, and the rise of racism and what I see as neo-fascism. So we're in a terrible state here, but this has nothing to do with the right of Israel to exist or truly anti-Semitism. This afternoon you've been presented with testimony about the dehumanizing practices of prison profiteers and the role of Caterpillar in the destruction of human life in Palestine.
 We're here to ask you to do what's morally right, to do the right thing. You know, as elected officials, your relationship with representatives from powerful corporations such as Wells Fargo should not be the deciding factor as to how you vote today or the decisions that you make.
 Your decision needs to be based on the will of the well-informed people who have come to you and said, we do not want this done in our name. You have a social responsible investment committee who is offering you 10 various corporations that they're saying are the worst of the worst. We expect you to honor that as citizens of this city. We really do. We're not here to debate whether or not. Thank you, ma'am. Your time's up. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi there, my name is Nikki and today I'm speaking on behalf of the Portland Committee for Human Rights in the Philippines. We come today to stand alongside defenders of the land and support the divestment of Caterpillar as we connect the struggles of the freedom fighters in Palestine to that of our homeland, the Philippines. We plead with the city to consider the awful effects that Caterpillar will have on the land and people who are fighting for their right to survive. Thank you.
 Caterpillar is not just involved in human rights violations in Palestine, it is also a contributor to projects that violate human rights violations of indigenous people in Guatemala, Honduras, North Dakota, and in the Philippines where thousands of Lumad, the indigenous people of Mindanao, are being displaced from their homelands because of mining.
 I come from a country where business and money are prioritized, and this leads to policies against the people, their water, their land, and ultimately their lives. We cannot stand on the side of capitalism when it is destroying lives. Caterpillar sells military equipment to Israel through U.S. foreign military sales program, and this is disheartening. Okay, thank you very much. Your time's up.
 Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Dee Pei-Wu, and I'm here with you all this afternoon as the Executive Director of Portland Jobs with Justice, but also here as a practicing queer Asian American Buddhist and a student of divinity at the Star King School for Ministry, GOUUs.
 As a Buddhist, the call is to reduce the suffering of all sentient beings in the world. Shantideva, an Indian Buddhist monk whose writings have become foundational to social justice, Buddhism, wrote the following prayer, and I'm not going to read the whole thing so that we have enough time. But may I become at all times, both now and forever, a protector of those without protection.
 The City of Portland has already taken important first steps to declare itself a sanctuary city, but what does that mean in action and in practice?
 For Buddhists, a vow of sanctuary would include a vow of non-harming. Divesting from bad actors like Wells Fargo and Caterpillar is an important step for our actions to match our words and our values. And thus, Portland Jobs with Justice supports the Socially Responsible Investments Committee recommendation for the city of Portland to divest from Wells Fargo and Caterpillar. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 not sure if i missed some of the names uh there was a ava soto ava soto perella gemma noel rosella de leon okay i know i know peter starzinski and faviana streetman are both here come on up
 Okay, sir. Go ahead. We'll start with you. Yes. Thank you for having me here today. My name is Peter Starzinski. I am the Executive Director of the Northwest Accountability Project, and we seek to shine a light on extremism and divisiveness here in the Pacific Northwest. We are asking you to add Wells Fargo to the Cities Do Not Buy list for so many reasons. Yes.
 This company consistently fails to reflect the values our city promotes. Many of the reasons have been stated here tonight or in the SRI report, but it also includes a recent $100 million fine from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for opening phony accounts for unsuspecting customers, a recent, as of last week, lawsuit from their employees about mismanagement of retirement funds that actually helped enrich Wells Fargo,
 And the project we're working on, which is one of their executives, Jeffrey Grubb, is one of three trustees on the Murdoch Charitable Trust, which funds a wide range of anti-LGBTQ, anti-worker organizations, including the Alliance Defending Freedom, whose co-founder once said that AIDS was one way God punishes the LGBT community. Thank you. We've also found that... Your thumbs up. Thank you very much.
 Hi, my name is Rochelle Goss. I'm a national organizer with FASNA, which is a Christian organization that advocates for Palestinian human rights. I just want to quickly give everyone who's here in support of the full edition of the 10 companies to hold up a sign or their hand to just show a sense of who's here in the crowd.
 So days after she wrote the words, I feel like I'm witnessing the systematic destruction of a people's ability to survive. My friend, sorry, Rachel Corey, was killed by a caterpillar bulldozer driven by the Israeli military as she stood in front of a Palestinian home
 As you heard from her parents, we're in a moment of never before seen corporate power and profiteering of the destruction of people's lives. Your adoption of a socially responsible investment resolution is inspiring for cities all over this country, a model that's spreading. I currently organize with folks in 12 cities who are working with their council to implement a strong SRI policy modeled after yours. Your decision to accept the SRI committee's full recommendation adds critical momentum to these important efforts.
 I urge you to listen to those who are suffering directly at the hands of these profiteering companies, for the water protectors at Standing Rock, for the families whose lives are destroyed by mass incarceration, and for the children of Palestine. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name's Fabiana Shechtman. I'm an intern at NLASA right now, and I'm actually here to present a video testimony from Sonia Kowal, who is with Zevin Asset Management.
 We can link that up. I'm Sonia Kowal, and I'm the president of Zevin Asset Management, a Boston-based firm that's been investing responsibly for 20 years. Having followed Portland's deliberations with great interest, I believe that the recommendations of the city's socially responsible investment committee present the potential for meaningful, top-breaking action around human rights and private prison financing. I'm very impressed by the thoroughness of the research undertaken by the committee.
 It resembles the approach that many investors use when evaluating these issues. However, I find the report of financial analysis to be specifically the method of comparing the financial impact of divestment against a comparable US Treasury bond. This is the apples to oranges comparison, and I believe strongly that the financial impact, if any, of adding companies to the do not buy list would be much less than quantified in the city's report.
 Thank you. Walmart. Thank you. Can I keep playing or no? No. Thank you. Who's next? I'm sure I didn't get Ava, Gemma, and Rosella, just in case. We've called you. And next will be Anita Rogers, Ron Werner, and Renato Quintero. These are the next 53, 54, and 55. And they'll be followed by Joni McClellan, Hannah Ede, Patrick O'Heron.
 So right now we should be going with Anita Rogers, Ron Werner, and Renato Quintero. Yeah, come on up. Okay, why don't you go ahead and give us your name. Hi, my name is Anita Rogers, and I am with the Partnership for Safety and Justice. And I have a two-minute video that is about the banking and the prison industry, and I'm wondering if I could have permission to play the full two minutes since it's an issue that hasn't been covered. We've got a lot of people that have...
 I understand. So you're cutting into other people's ability to testify. So you can show us half the video, or you can use your one minute to convey what's in the video to us. I will do half the video, although I need to find it. Is it okay if somebody – Yeah, okay. And you can also send us a link to it, and we can watch it. Yeah, that's good. Thank you. Yes, you're next. Good afternoon. My name is Renato Quintero. I am a janitor and the executive president of SEIU Local 49th.
 We have been proud supporters of the City of Portland's socially responsible investment policy since that was enacted in 2012. I am here today to tell the City Council to assess and implement the socially responsible investment recommendation. To ban the profit from incarceration to the city do not buy this. It is extremely important for our members.
 Those banks provide billions of dollars that allow prison corporations to build more prisons and detention centers. Our union members have families that are broken and divided when a member of the family is in detention. The impact is not only economic, since they have to seek legal support, but it is also emotional.
 The city should invest in companies that are doing something positive for the community. Companies that don't have families. We have invested in communities to know what kind of companies are invested in. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Renato. This is a video from In the Public Interest. Okay. ...analyst with In the Public Interest, a think tank in Washington, D.C.,
 For much of the past year, I researched a report that we released earlier this month titled, The Banks That Finance Private Prison Companies. It reviewed SEC filings from the past 10 years from the two largest private prison companies, GeoGroup and CCA, now called CoreCivic.
 The report found that Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase are two of the banks most involved in financing GeoGroup's and CCA's debts, and HSBC is involved as well. As of this June, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase were part of syndicates that had loaned CCA and GeoGroup a combined $1.3 billion.
 Wells Fargo also underwrote $144 million of CCAs and GeoGroup's bonds and is the trustee for all four of GeoGroup's bond offerings. CCA and GeoGroup use their financing from these ranks. Thank you. That's very interesting. Thank you. Joni McClellan, Hannah Ede, and Patrick O'Heron.
 And they'll be followed by 62, 63, and 64, Andy Alverson, Rod Such, and Reverend Bill Sinkford. Go ahead. My name is Han Naid. I'm a Palestinian American and a student at PSU. I'm coming here today to not only show solidarity with my own people, but with the people of Standing Rock and the people of the Philippines.
 Caterpillar is not only destroying homes, but they're destroying farmland in Palestine. And in Standing Rock, they're destroying sacred land. And so I think that as the city of Portland, who has already condemned the Dakota Access Pipeline, we should act upon that. And so when these slogans come up, that water is life, it truly is. It's not just in Palestine, not just in Standing Rock, but everywhere. And I think as a city, we need to respect that statement
 Um, and I also wanted to, um, mention some comments made earlier. Uh, I think that if the driver of the D nine bulldozer destroying my home was wearing leather free boots and a wool free beret, I would still care more about my home being destroyed. So thank you.
 Hi. My name is Dr. Patrick O'Heron. I'm the Board President of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. I want to talk briefly about the Dakota Access Pipeline and connections to Caterpillar and Wells Fargo. First, just mention that I don't think I've heard this, Wells Fargo is heavily invested in the nuclear weapons industry as well as Dakota Access Pipeline. A pipeline spill would be absolutely devastating to the Standing Rock people, and unfortunately, pipeline spills are all too common, with over 2,000 happening in the last two decades. Thank you.
 I personally went to Standing Rock and provided medical care and personally witnessed violations of human rights and brutalization of peaceful demonstrators. Tom Pellett, the president of...
 The construction industries at Caterpillar stated, quote, Caterpillar is proud to support the Dakota Access Pipeline project. Energy sources must be developed and used in an environmentally sustainable manner and delivered in a responsible way. This pipeline is a prime example of that, end quote. Caterpillar is either lying or have done no due diligence to verify these outlandish claims of environmental sustainability and corporate responsibility. Please include Caterpillar and Wells Fargo on your do-not-buy list. Thank you.
 I'm Joni McClellan. I'm with the United Church of Christ, Kairos Milwaukee Church, as well as the chair of the Portland Fellowship of Reconciliation.
 I think it's so important that you align our investments in our city with the values that we have been bringing up on human rights. We've had some courageous people on the committees of SRI and the Human Rights Commission, and I just think that it's wonderful to be able to follow their recommendations.
 Remember this photo. This is not Bob the bulldozer. This is Bob the destructor of homes and communities and families. And I just want you to keep that in mind when you're thinking about Caterpillar being put on the no-buy list. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all.
 The next three are Andy Alverson, Rod Such, and Reverend Bill Sinkford. And they'll be followed by 65, 66, and 67, Romero Sosa, Pedro Sosa, and Eileen Sherlock. Which one of you wants to start? I'll start. Okay. My name is Rod Such, and I'm a retired encyclopedia editor and a member of the steering committee of Occupation Free Portland.
 The real question here is why Portland has invested $110 million since 2014 in a fossil fuel extraction company after the city of Portland placed 200 fossil fuel companies on the do-not-buy list. Of the nearly 50 corporations that qualify for investment, Caterpillar is the only fossil fuel extraction company on that list.
 Why would the city send a message to 200 companies to, quote, keep it in the ground, but invest $110 million in a company that specializes in taking it out of the ground? Why would the city pass a resolution condemning the Dakota Access Pipeline, but invest $110 million in Caterpillar, which is building the pipeline? Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Thompson.
 I'm Reverend Bill Sinkford of the First Unitarian Church of Portland. I want to applaud the Council and the City of Portland for taking this issue as seriously as you have. I think it speaks very well of it and frankly makes me and my congregation proud. It is clear to me that investment decisions are moral decisions as well as financial decisions.
 And I urge you to accept the recommendations of the SRI panel and take the actions with regard to all of the companies listed. That is a good step for us to eliminate our investment in the worst of the worst. But I hope that we can have a vision which is broader than that.
 I hope that we can move to understand our investments as needing to be going to the best of the best, to be nourishing human flourishing rather than merely avoiding human destruction. And that is my hope for our city, which would make me and my congregation even more proud than we already are. Thank you. Thank you both. The next three, first was there an Andy Alverson? The next three will be Romero Sosa, Pedro Sosa, and Eileen Sherlock.
 And they'll be followed by 68, 69, and 70, Alfredo Gonzalez, Charlie Flewelling, and Dee Puget. Oh, yeah. Let's start it off. Good afternoon, city commissioners. My name is Romeo Sosa, and I'm the executive director of VOSS, Worker Rights Education Project. On behalf of the laborers, I'm here to support the recommendation of the SRI committee, and
 to put a not to buy list from that list. Four years ago, in the last four years, we have about 15 day labor got deported because all these private prisons. Every day we hear all these deportations and the way that they live in the prisons also. Some of them they tell us the story that they have to work hard
 all day and to get paid $1. And they have to, if they want to make a phone call, it costs like $3 to $5 to make a five-minute phone call. So all these unjust human rights violations, labor rights violations, it happened there. And I'm glad that in LASA and other groups that they brought this issue, and I hope that you take into account that. Thanks. Thank you. Hi, my name is Yolanda. I'm actually filling in for Pedro Sosa. Would that be okay? Okay.
 Well, like I said, my name is Yolanda Sandoval. I'm queer, undocumented, unafraid, and unashamed. I am a dreamer. I have DACA, but it was expired two weeks ago, and I got into this fear of being deported and getting in the hands of private prisons, such as the detention center that deports people, my people, me. And it's very, very...
 To me, it means a lot. If you can think of, please help on divesting on private prisons and start divesting or start investing on prisons.
 an education. Why? Because I made it through so many things. I graduated from OTI. I graduated from a pre-apprentice, electrician. Now I'm in an apprentice with Local 48. I've been doing so many things and I'm not a drug dealer. I'm not a criminal. I'm a hard worker. I'm a student and I don't want to go anywhere because this is my home. I've been here since I was six years old. My name is Ruth Campbell and I'm reading a statement from Eileen Sterlach.
 My name is Eileen Sterlock and I am an immigration attorney with a solo practice here in downtown Portland. It is impossible for me to convey all the reasons why profiting off the detention of men and women and children is wrong in the very short time I have today. I just want to tell one story about a mother, call her Christina, and her five-year-old son from Guatemala, who I represented pro bono in the removal proceedings at the Artesia Family Detention Center.
 Both the mother and child had been victims of severe domestic violence in Guatemala, including beatings, death threats, and rape. They came to the U.S. to seek protection. I made three separate trips to the detention center in New Mexico to represent this mother and son, and I witnessed their physical and psychological health deteriorate due to the horrific conditions of their detention. Right before their final hearing at immigration court, the mother told me about an incident a few days earlier where one of the guards at the detention center began screaming at her.
 Christina had tried to intervene when an older child had been bullying her son. The guard yelled at Christina that she would be sent to jail and deported and that her son would be taken away from her. Her five-year-old son witnessed the incident. Christina told me that since the incident, her son could not stop crying and he didn't want to be at the detention center anymore. Thank you very much. And you can submit that letter for the record if you wish. Okay. Thank you.
 Next are 68, 69, and 70, Alfredo Gonzalez, Charlie Flewelling, and Dee Puget, I believe is the last name. And they'll be followed by 73, 74, and 75, Harriet Cook, Will Fuller, and Eric Vega. Good afternoon, everyone. Alfredo Gonzalez. I used to be a former PSU student. Campaigned three years for the PSU Foundation to die best from fossil fuels.
 advocated for Multnomah as well as the city to divest from fossil fuels, put kayaks down on the front lines so that we could keep the shell over rigged. My point being that we've got to start taking climate change seriously. And a main obstacle of doing that is that we're not engaging people of color. Now, I know exactly for sure that –
 One in every two kids in Multnomah County, home of Portland, is a person of color. Right now we're talking about investments, and the future is the kids, the kids that are people of color in this city. And I fully support the recommendation put on by the SRI committee. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 My name is Dee Pujad. I am the chair of the Holy Land Task Force for the United Methodist Church of Oregon and Idaho. And I would just like to report that last June, a year ago June, the United Methodist Church of Oregon and Idaho passed a divestment resolution which included Caterpillar along with a couple of other bad actors. That resolution is in the process of being implemented by the financial committees of the church
 local annual conference of the Methodist Church. So you can add the Methodists to the list of churches who endorsed divesting from Caterpillar, and I would add my voice to the other voices you've heard today and ask you to please divest from Caterpillar for all the reasons that you've already heard. Thank you both. First, it could have been Audrey Elverson, maybe. I think I said Andy. And Charlie Flewelling.
 And then we will go with, I skipped 72, Sandy Polasek and Harriet Cook and Will Fuller. 72, 3, and 4 come up now. And they'll be followed by Eric Vega, Peter Miller, and Ileana Marchand. Will, we'll start with you. Okay. I'm Will Fuller.
 I'm here to have you accept all ten recommendations of the SRI committee as a whole package, especially Caterpillar. I'm concerned that you're pressured to reject the Caterpillar recommendation because some of the organizations support the BDS movement. Resist that misguided pressure. Be guided by the facts for three reasons. First, you've accepted the principle of socially responsible investments. You've developed a committee to review those. Second, back your committee.
 Second, judge the recommendations on their merits, not some individual organization. My approach to controversial issues like this is first investigate and then understand the positions, take a position, and not get too cocksure that I'm right.
 After investigation, I support the Caterpillar recommendation. I'm no expert. The SRIC is. Back there, good research. Finally, the reasons for divesting from Caterpillar are a lot more than the involvement in Israeli mistreatment of Palestinians. This adds significant weight to the recommendation. Hi. Hi.
 My name is Harriet Cook, and I'm here representing myself and the Portland Public Banking Alliance. I've been a lay leader also at congregations Haberah Shalom and Peneor for the last 20 years, and I wholeheartedly support these 10 recommendations for the Do Not Buy list as an expression of Jewish values. Thank you.
 Divestment, however, is only half of the equation. As Jennifer Cooperman brought up, if I listened carefully enough, the amount of money that we will potentially lose from divestment is going to be less than what we could make back simply by creating our own public bank of Portland. And the Portland Public Banking Alliance would like to request that the City Council seriously explore the potential of a municipal bank of Portland.
 By establishing a banking institution to directly handle and manage our city funds, we can eliminate many high fees and costs of doing business with big banks that pay their CEOs and managers exorbitant salaries and that use our deposits to finance loans to corporations and institutions that violate our city's values and objectives. I've dropped off some information. Some of it is copied from this book, Local Cents, Local Dollars, and I invite you to...
 Read more deeply into it. Thank you. Sandy? I'm Sandy Palaszczuk with 350 PDX. In this new political times, leading locally is more important than ever.
 Portland has made us proud in many ways with its landmark planning and actions on sustainability, placing the Carbon Tracker 200 on the Do Not Buy list, and banning new fossil fuel infrastructure. I'm here today to ask you to keep the Carbon Tracker 200 list of companies with the largest fossil fuel reserves on the list for another year.
 Additionally, I want to say that the SIR committee has recommended companies with, they didn't cite it for this, but they have climate reasons to be on the list. Caterpillar is digging the Dakota Access Pipeline. Wells Fargo is a major and loyal funder of the pipeline.
 Please, I ask you, confirm your support for the Standing Rock water protectors by accepting the recommendation of your committee and putting Caterpillar and Wells Fargo on the Dumont buy list alongside the Carbon Tracker 200. Thank you. The next three are Eric Vega, Peter Miller, and Ileana Mashoud.
 And they'll be followed by 80, Jackie Ford, 81, David Delk, and 83, Eileen Lipkin. Sir, why don't you go ahead and start? Thank you. My name is Eric Vega. I'm with the Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition. As you probably know, many immigrants are displaced workers who are then incarcerated in this country. Seventy-three percent of detention beds are operated by for-profit corporations, and
 It is estimated that Portland sent approximately 1,000 people to detention in 2015. These are corporations that make profits off of punishment and incarceration and suffering. And it doesn't have to be that way. I am not a religious man, but there is a profound idea upon the land. It is the idea that no human being is illegal.
 nor should they be put in cages for another's profit. They are children of God, displaced and now subject to your views. Please support the SRI recommendations. To paraphrase, what does it profit a city if it makes money but it loses its soul? Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Peter Miller. I'm a steering committee member of Occupation Free Portland and a native Oregonian. The folks opposed to putting Caterpillar on the do not buy list, who I note mostly are not here anymore, have provided you absolutely no evidence, because there is none, that Caterpillar does not indeed violate people's human rights, either in North Dakota or in Palestine.
 What they are essentially asking Portlanders to do is ignore our values, including the value of protecting human rights, because by upholding our values, we are somehow against Israel. This is a sad statement that we have to be for human rights violations, or we have to ignore human rights violations in order to be for a foreign country. We reject that faulty logic. Human rights violations anywhere need to be challenged, and we need to make our investments reflect our values.
 that we will not support or profit from human rights violations anywhere, and by acting on our values, we will make the world a better place for everyone. Thank you. Hi, my name is Eliana Machuca, and I am a teacher at Jefferson High School for Portland Public Schools. We just happened to be in the middle of studying about the world, I guess, and my students are feeling the press, one with the Trump election, and we currently are in a unit looking at the prison industrial complex.
 These kind of two things collided with tonight for my students when we found out about this opportunity to get our voices heard about the no-buy list and what the city of Portland can do with its money.
 As we're studying about the prison industrial complex, my children are feeling frustrated about the state of the world and their place in it. And many of them are African Americans and are looking at the realities of what the prison industrial complex means to them. And so when we started looking at and realizing this opportunity came up to think about what does the city do to invest its money and how can we take a stand knowing that the federal government looks really intangible right now and down the road.
 So they're starting to think, well, what can we do in the city to send a message about what we care about? And so adding these four banks to the no-buy list felt to them like an appropriate thing to do. I have letters that they're in the middle of crafting that you'll be getting very soon. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Yep. The next three are Jackie Ford, David Delk, and Eileen Lipkin.
 And they'll be followed by 84, 85, and 86, Nadine Goldfast, Oscar Guevara, and Dorian Pacheco. I'll start? Yeah, go ahead and start. Yeah. Excuse me. My name is David Delk, and I am the president of the Alliance for Democracy.
 and a member of the First Unitarian Church. For myself, I want to say that I support the list that SRI has written, and I hope that all of them will be put on the Do Not Buy list, especially Caterpillar and Wells Fargo. As the president of the Alliance for Democracy,
 I want to point out that even if you put only a few of these corporations on the do not buy list, funds currently invested will need to be invested differently. And the Alliance for Democracy asks that the council begin now to consider formation of a Portland Municipal Bank. The funds currently invested in these corporations could be used to begin capitalizing such a bank.
 This may be a new idea for the city, but it's not a new idea elsewhere. North Dakota has had its own public bank for almost 100 years, providing funds for farmers, merchants, and even low-cost student loans.
 Good day, city commissioners of Portland. My name is Oscar Guerravera, and I'm a community organizer advocating for rights of refugee and immigrant community members, queer individuals. I'm also a child of immigrant parents, Tepehuanodami indigenous parents of northern and central Mexico. And...
 Growing up, I always remember the storytellings of my parents in sharing the struggles that local indigenous communities went through that definitely reflect a lot of what communities are still going through now. As we've been hearing about the Sioux Tribal Nation community in North Dakota, and certainly how some of our current fears and historical traumas continue based on our own experiences.
 historical capitalist interests that displace us. And all of that is still highlighted. The fear is still augmented. It's highlighted in our community members when they hear conversations about the building of the wall and the border and what it means for families and the fact that Caterpillar has been mentioned to be a part of that. And it definitely raises the concern of what kind of future we're looking at. And so thank you for considering SRI's committee recommendations. Thank you.
 I'll try for a succinct. I'll send you a letter. My name's Eileen Lipkin. I'm an individual. And I appreciate that your hearts are in the right place, that you're trying to, you know, like, veer the city toward equity and justice and justice.
 Wading into this highly volatile and complex international politics of supporting the Caterpillar, which is also a part of the BDS movement to undermine the economy of Israel, has ramifications. And you must consider it because the city of Portland is looked at.
 nationwide and in some ways worldwide as an icon of political correctness and a model of political policy. And so it obligates you to consider these principles. And one, Amanda, you know this one well, first, do no harm.
 And that I wonder about justifying singling out a company because of its relationship with Israel. I hear now today that there's other things that it's done, as well as all the companies that many people hear. Look at your mutual fund portfolios and you will find them there.
 So you need to consider that it will be viewed and used by the BDS movement as censoring Israel, and it could fan the flames of the uprising of anti-Jewishness because Palestinians and Arabs are also Semitic. Okay.
 I cry when the Palestinian people have their homes bulldozed, as well as when my cousins have to hide from rockets falling in their backyard in Israel, and 100,000 people are displaced from their homes. And I don't know who supplied the equipment to set fires to the forests and homes in Israel. There's terrible harm going on all over. But Israel also is a major developer and researcher of health care advancements, of...
 water, agricultural, and solar resource saving and of much good. If we decrease our income in this city, then what does that do to addressing homelessness, which is a desperate, socially responsible obligation that you have to, among others. I respect your listening. Thank you. First, was there a, I might have missed the name, Jackie Ford or Nadine Goldfast?
 Dorian Pacheco, and we're going to move on to 87, 88, and 90. We have one person. Sage Wheaton, Gary Darling. Okay, we're getting to three here slowly. And then Ron Popkin in Milano, Vega, and Alex Kaplan will be next. I'm going to start with you.
 My name is Dorian Pacheco and I am a first-generation American and university student. My family and I have been directly impacted by the prison system, immigration law, institutional racism, and now a wide-eyed fear reflected in the eyes of immigrant and refugee communities that I work with at Unite Oregon as a result of the violence following the Trump election, but that existed long beforehand.
 As a queer woman of color, child of immigrants, and product of many languages and cultures, the criminalization and violence against people of color through companies like Wells Fargo and Caterpillar stand close to home. Rooted in my own identity, my relatives, my brown, black, and indigenous brothers and sisters, and queer people of color, I fully support the inclusion of the Do Not Buy list of Caterpillar and the banks involved in funding the Dakota Access Pipeline.
 And while I stand here to appeal to you based on my personhood and the small part I play in the fight or la lucha for our rights, I would also like to remind you of our own shared human experience, the breath we take, the love we have for those around us, our families, and ask that you divest from private prisons in order to reinvest in humanity. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Sage Wheaton. I am a student and a first-time testifier, and I am the child of the struggle and pain that comes from individuals finding themselves existing with a conviction that works to perpetually take and dehumanize. From the struggle of finding a place to live, to work, to an overall comfort existing in a world obviously against them. The prison system is not rehabilitation. The struggle of addiction, the struggle of poverty, and the struggle of immigrants should not be confined in the prison system.
 These investments destroy lives like my mother's, people of color, trans folks, those struggling with mental health, and those struggling to exist in a system against them. Prison is not and never will be the answer. The taking away of individuals in oppressed groups to weaken and destroy them must end. Stop investing in companies like Caterpillar, Wells Fargo, and other big banks that work to destroy communities, and stop the dehumanization of people fighting to exist however they can. Thank you.
 Hello. Oh, sorry. Hello. My name is Gary Darling, and I am a private citizen. Perhaps many in the Jewish community feel very concerned about this resolution is because perhaps...
 This opens the door not to the discussion of the occupation of 67, but in reality the occupation of 48, therefore the existence of Israel. I was an Israeli soldier. I served with Druze. I served with Bedouin Arabs. I had Palestinian friends.
 The Israel that was portrayed today is not the Israel that I know and love. To the city, please do not take part in resolutions that single out the only free society in the Middle East. Instead of condemning Israel, you should support Israel, the only country in the region where women are not treated as sex slaves or chattel, and all ethnic and religious minorities and gays are free, protected, and of equal rights. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 are Ron Popkin, Emiliano Vega, and Alex Kaplan. And they'll be followed by 93, 94, 95, Kay Ellison, Ali Pullen, and Garrett Felber. And if you're sitting upstairs, there's now room downstairs if you want to come down.
 Why don't you go ahead, sir? Hello, thank you for listening to my testimony. My name is Alex Kaplan. I'm a local doctor, private citizen. I would urge you to oppose adding caterpillar to the divestment list and to reject the SRI committee's recommendation. You've heard much about Palestinian suffering.
 But nothing has been said about Israeli suffering, such as Israeli children in the city of Sderot terrorized by missiles from Gaza. They say nothing of children left orphaned by knife attacks, car rammings, bombings, and the recent arson that we've been hearing about in the forests there.
 It is the homes of terrorists that commit these acts that are bulldozed. It is also illegal homes of Israeli settlers that are placed without permission that do also get bulldozed. So it is the murder and terror against Israeli citizens, the speaker's indifference about that, that speaks volumes about their perspective and intentions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Kay Ellison, Ali Pullen, Garrett Felber, Elizabeth Hinton, Michael Sonleitner, Jordan Winkler. Crystal, we called you. Did you still want to speak? Okay, go ahead. I'm Kay Ellison, and thank you for doing this.
 this really hard work, and I'm proud to come from Portland, where doing what is right has led us to do things long before other cities do, things like recycling and bike lanes. Okay. And I want to respond to two testimonies that came before about Palestinians purchasing Caterpillar. And as one man said in response, Palestinians don't use Caterpillar products for bad uses,
 But something that he didn't say was that Palestinians have no choice as to what company they can buy their products from. Nothing goes into the West Bank or Gaza without Israel's approval. And so they're not allowed to buy any other product to do that. And then it's also been said that Portland should not be involved in an international issue.
 but our lives now are interconnected. And I would like my money to work only for peaceful purposes, and thank you for doing this noble work. Thank you. Sir? Hello. I'm Michael Sunlightner, and I appreciate you all staying past 5 o'clock. I just got a call from my wife, and she's not happy that I'm past 5 o'clock, so I hope that you're doing okay. I...
 I have taught politics for 41 years. That is my career. That includes international relations. 27 of those years were at Portland Community College. As some people here know, I'm currently an elected trustee for Portland Community College, and I must say that I do not claim to speak for the board in any fashion. I am here as an individual, and I'm happy to be number 97 and take my turn.
 I strongly encourage you all to adopt the recommendations of the HRC and the SRI. Due diligence has been done. In their view, the worst of the worst has been vetted. Now, you can overrule them. I'm looking at Steve and his original comments, which I respect, because you are being very transparent. Yes, sir, your time's up. Thank you. Congratulations on being on the PCC board.
 Well, I know that you were. Former board member himself. We don't want to disempower the very committees that we establish. Thank you. Thank you. Crystal? Yeah, I voted for you. Yay. Hello, I'm Crystal Elinsky. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 for bringing this up. We've been working on it for years, years and years. I first would like to say here is a letter from a very close person in prison, one of our prodigal sons, and the way they're treating prisoners is horrible. And I know Mayor Hales, you've all met with me, Mayor Hales still says he's gonna give me my 10 minutes from 2013.
 And we were going to discuss assigning me to the CRC board, but I think we can fit in this letter. This is a letter from Amtrak on June 18th on Pride Parade. I went into town to extend my yearly trip to visit my family. I've spent about $10,000 with Amtrak over the years, and I take the Tillamook shuttle every month to visit my family on the coast. And then I go all around the country.
 And on that day, G4S and Portland police banned me for life from Amtrak.
 This is G4S. And your staff here told me how to complain to G4S. I wrote, I complained on the port. Well, I started late. Portland, the telephone system to make a complaint never heard anything. After four months, Amtrak writes to me, I'm sorry to learn you were removed from the Portland station on June 18, 2016. It's regrettable when a situation such as this occurs.
 At the discretion of the station manager, passengers may be removed with the assistance of station security and Amtrak police when warranted. I don't know who that is. We regret such... I'm almost finished. However, as much as we are disturbed by the inconvenience to you, I was beat up.
 for talking on the 1-800 Amtrak phone as appointed by the person at the front desk. And my grandmother died very shortly after that, and I wrote them a letter, and they wrote me right before the tort claim that Bob out here, the security guy, told me I should make. Okay, thank you. The next three are Jordan Winkler, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Bill Dons,
 And I'm sorry, I cannot read this name. Mike, M-U-H-H-W-D-M-I, maybe? Herschel Soles, Ron Katz, Lorraine on Southwest Plum. And if you signed up and your name has not been called, please let me know. Clive? There, it's very live now. Lila Tove, Charles Johnson. Earlier, twice today, we've heard the phrase...
 fringe Jews. I don't know if that applies to Sheldon Adelson or to Jared Kushner or to just Jews that wear fringe seats. Judaism does not want to be linked to the D9 bulldozer. And it's not.
 You can sanction Caterpillar for every reason except what the D9 militarized bulldozer does, and you'll be good. But the D9 bulldozer is a good reason to uphold human rights and social values. You've seen many Jews who... You'll have to talk to the director of the Jewish Federation about who's a fringe Jew and who's not. Fringe Jew is a great language when we're up here talking about stopping divisiveness, right?
 So you might want to consider pursuing that, especially Mr. Salzman. Maybe we'll see him in the Goodman Social Hall at Beth Israel. So the safety of the Jewish people relies in upholding human rights for everybody.
 Nobody started with talking about the climate of Islamophobia, which is a much greater risk in here. So what the fringe Jews want to say to you is black lives matter and fight Islamophobia as much of the Jewish community and you guys have been doing. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, I really appreciate having this conversation. I feel empowered just by hearing the testimony that I've heard today. I'm just a citizen, Herschel Solz, just a citizen here who has to endure the human rights abuses that I hear on a regular basis coming out of Israel. I feel it's everybody's responsibility, whenever they see human rights as being occurred, whenever they see anisemitism, it's their duty to do whatever they can.
 And in this case, you have the opportunity to take a step by stopping or disapproving investment in Caterpillar. You know, it's been pointed out earlier that this was kind of aimed at Israel, you know, specifically. Well, I mean, Israel is not ashamed about being known as the democracy in the Middle East.
 And the purpose of BDS really is to get them to comply with international law. That really doesn't seem to be that brutal a request. It's a peaceful thing to bring Israel in compliance with international law and stop their human rights abuses. Please support disinvestment from G9. Thank you.
 I am sorry. My name is Julie Reardon and I volunteer with South Portland Air Quality. I realize that you've already gotten the recommendation list, but I would urge you to please consider precision cast parts to place them on the corporate securities do not buy list. A
 Along with my testimony, I'll be submitting a petition that has garnered over 180 signatures, including 19 personal testimonies from people within my community who are being directly impacted by the pollution of precision cast parts. The air, water, soil, and public health, the most basic needs of humanity, are being sold out, but our community is not for sale.
 Placement on the Do Not Buy list and divesting sends a clear message to PCC and to industry that the City of Portland is not for sale either.
 We're up against a status quo that has dominated our culture for generations. Now is the time to disentangle the corruption that money and industry play in our system. We need you to listen to us because we are the ones living this story. We are the ones living in these polluted neighborhoods fighting to protect what we love. We are the ones going to all the community meetings, and we are the ones being talked at like fools who can't read between the lines by people who refuse to recognize their own humanity. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for this important thing. And Treasurer Cooperman, I see you're still here. Thank you for that. Is Precision Cast Parts an eligible place for us to invest in? Just a quick yes or no. We own bonds that were issued by Precision Cast Parts. Precision Cast Parts was purchased by Warren Buffett through Berkshire Hathaway, so there is no independent company that exists today. Okay.
 Thank you. I was told that city treasurer confirmed that there are scandals on. I'll certainly get more information. Thank you very much. We got anybody left? Called all the names on the list. Is there anybody who? Yeah, is there anybody whose name wasn't on the list and wish to testify? We're kind of in the closing round here.
 Okay, welcome. Give us your name and you have a minute. Hi, my name is Diallo Bennett and I'm a student at Portland State University. I'm also a commissioner for the Human Rights Commission. Outgoing this December will be my last meeting. But I wanted to speak about putting these companies on the do not buy list and about consensus. We at the Human Rights Commission originally did have consensus over the vote and it was a beautiful feeling and we
 the divisions in the community ended up causing our commission to also divide and we even lost two commissioners because of it. What I'm studying at Portland State University and through my experience just in life shows that punishment is fundamentally flawed. The idea that punishing people will solve crime doesn't work. It ends up making it so people have to, they have a harder time getting jobs, education,
 housing, etc. And I think that the community, when we're aligned around human rights, we also can come to consensus. And so that's really all I need to say. Thank you. Thank you for your service on the Human Rights Commission, and thank you for staying to testify today. I really appreciate it. Thank you, guys. Do we have any questions for staff before we... All done? We need a motion to accept the report, I guess.
 So moved. I thought we were not going to deliberate until next time. This is just about accepting the report as opposed to coming up with a do-not-buy list. We've broken it into two separate items. So to everybody who's following this, this just means thank you for the report. It doesn't mean that we're going to accept everything in it or that we're not going to. We'll have that discussion hopefully with the full council later. Do I second the motion? Thanks for clarifying that, Commissioner Fritz. Okay, it's been moved and seconded. Please call the roll. Novick.
 I want to thank everybody who testified today, everybody who has attended meetings of the Committee, everybody who's met with us and the Council to discuss these issues. Thank you so much to Jennifer Cooperman and Janet Storm and Kelly Ball and to Katie Shriver.
 Thank you so much to the members of the committee. Again, this is, I think, an unprecedented exercise in the United States. And perhaps there's a reason for that. It's a difficult exercise. And I've just been incredibly impressed by the hard work and dedication of the members of the committee and everybody who's appeared before them. I know that it's taken up a ton of people's time and a ton of people's emotional energy. So thank you very, very, very much. Aye.
 I must start by thanking Commissioner Novick for championing these for the last four years, carrying on for Mayor San Adams and his thinking about these important issues.
 I'm thinking back to 2009 when we started making these kinds of investments and I was on the council and really rethinking that. And so one of the suggestions was to look for the positive companies that we could invest in the stocks we could rather than the list of those that we cannot. So thank you though for starting this, for staffing it, for having the courage to talk about difficult issues.
 I know this was a very difficult day, wasn't it? I mean, it's been so awful for the last several weeks. And just to hear about the harm that our country is causing, that other countries are suffering in, I just really appreciate that everybody was here. And we had such a great diversity of age, of different backgrounds and different people thinking. And for the most part, it was really quite respectful. There were certainly a few little things
 but compared with some of the other things that we talk about here in this council chamber, it was very dignified. And even with one minute, that many of you were able to make your point very well. And I certainly have a lot more thinking to do before we actually vote on the recommendations. So thank you. This actually is an example of the good things that can happen in our country and certainly in the haven of Portland. Aye. Altman.
 Well, I want to thank Commissioner Novick also, and thank you all for taking time out of your days to come down here and share your opinions with us. Thank you, Treasurer Cooperman. These are not easy decisions, but that's our job is to make these decisions, and we will make those in a couple weeks. Aye. And we are adjourned until 2 p.m. tomorrow. Thank you.