okay I think we're ready to roll yes good morning everyone welcome to the December 9th meeting of the Portland City Council which please call the roll
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Saltwater. Here. Hales. Here. Good morning, everyone, and welcome. We're going to proceed into council business here shortly. Just one potential preview. The city council doesn't normally get involved in national politics, but there's some rhetoric afoot in national politics that is so injurious to people's civil rights and democracy.
 feeling of safety in our country as immigrants that we think next week we're going to put a resolution on the council calendar to that effect and invite the community to join us in potentially sending a message of censure to Mr. Trump. So it's not a formal action on the calendar today, but it has a lot to do with what he's been saying the last few days. And again, we don't normally venture into those waters.
 But when national political speech starts to threaten the lives of people here in Portland, sometimes we need to stand up and say something. So we'll endeavor to do that next week.
 if i might comment on that mayor two of the mosques in portland are in my neighborhood and we got to know the folks there before 9 11 and have been good partners good neighbors ever since and so it's very troubling to me the national rhetoric particularly aimed against muslim people knowing how great the partners in our community are and actually knowing that the muslim educational center is shortly to be opening their new school in our community
 So I'm very supportive of the mayor's proposed action, and I hope that there will be a lot of folks coming out next week to also support it. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. I don't believe we have any items removed from the consent calendar. Is that right? Anyone want to take anything off the consent calendar? If not, then let's proceed into council communications. We have two people signed up to speak to the council this morning. Item 1265, please.
 Request of Charles Johnson to address council regarding a better PDX, including deconstruction, not demolition. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And if your memory is super keen, you may recall that one time when I was up here testifying, I spoke to you about being at the climate march in New York City last year and how I wished in Portland –
 We could, even though we have much smaller blocks in the city of New York, that we could do as good with sidewalks staying open during construction. I believe the gentleman speaking after me might have some more to add on that important topic. When we talk about our fiduciary duty that we expect from the government, we should note that two weeks ago today,
 Two citizens, one of who was almost undoubtedly having a mental health episode, were taken into custody by the police right here in these chambers. And the most distressed of those people is still locked up in the county jail. And I don't believe that a large number of my fellow voters would really believe that that's the best use. I know that that's more covered under the county budget. But perhaps we could look into the situation and make sure that –
 lead judge, Nan Waller, and District Attorney Underhill are fully aware of the context of the situation so that we're not wasting money keeping mentally ill people in jail when they receive a check that could assist them in bonding out and returning to the community and getting the services they need. When I first signed up to speak over a month ago, I think we were still at the end of a drought. I think it's over now. Yeah.
 And I signed up to talk about deconstruction, not demolition. We've seen some very interesting photographs and videos of construction sites in the past couple days. Water above the knee in the Pearl near about Petit Grou in 13th. There's a kind of cattywampus structure that I would think couldn't help but have its basement flooded.
 But many of my friends are much more concerned about the residential neighborhoods. There's a picture going around of a demolition where the foundation was left unfilled, and it's now sort of a swimming pool, pond, slash place for children or animals to drown. So I think that when we look at...
 the way demolitions are enforced and regulated, there's very much room for us to step up our game. I'm sure in the future you'll be getting much more comprehensive and coherent presentations from United Neighborhoods, from Reform, Southeast Uplift, Stop Demolishing Portland, talking to you about how the real way to be green is to preserve as much as possible homes that are in redeemable condition
 to not fill landfills with broken houses when we have many people living on our streets. So in the past, you mentioned the word moratorium. There'll be strong resistance to that, but I hope that the community will encourage you to look at getting as close to that as possible. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, item 1266, please. Request of Mark Francis to address council regarding sidewalk closures. Good morning. Come on up.
 If there are particular cases you'd like us to speak to. Any right there is just fine. Those are handouts I'd like to, because they kind of outline my position and my issues. Certainly. Oh, no, that's fine. We'll stand. That would be great. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. First of all, thank you for the opportunity to address you. I've put this off for quite a while because, again,
 You know, I just like to kind of go with the flow type of thing. But around the city, there's a ton of construction and some issues that really impact
 myself, but also people that I work with because I work for the Oregon Commission for the Blind. And I serve a lot of clients who have little or no vision. And as they travel through the city, they encounter sidewalks that are closed off. The first issue that I have is that the barricades that surround construction sites or permitted work sites on sidewalks are not standardized.
 They are as varied as a work site. We've encountered some that are made out of two by fours and they can vary in height. We've encountered chain link fences. We've encountered as little as like caution tape to go around it. And so I feel that if these barricades were to be standardized, that when you're going
 we come up to a closure we would know that okay the sidewalk's closed off and and it's not just some obstacle in the sidewalk because
 there are a lot of obstacles on sidewalks. And I feel that if they're standardized, we'd know that the sidewalks were closed. Also, I travel with a dog and what I could do is that I could have that dog identify barriers because he's very good at identifying things that are similar and he would let me know that where the barriers are and then we could determine whether we can go out in the street or
 know, or we could go around the block. And then the second issue that, well, two other things about these barriers. There's a company in Ohio that makes these plastic barriers. And the thing I like about them is that they're made out of plastic composites. So they're made out of recycled material, I believe. And then the second thing is that the
 the labor to install them, it's like a breeze because you just snap them together. So, you know, I feel that it's very economical for companies doing business with the city or even city crews where the sidewalks are going to be blocked off to use these barriers. And then the second issue is that these barriers need to have an audible component to them in that they should have an audible signal and they need to have a light on them so that
 pedestrians with low vision could see the light maybe but you would know that the barrier is coming up before you even get to it and attached to the handout that I provided you is a company that will install these signals onto barriers too so you know I just think that as a safety thing it would be wonderful to know that this is coming up and then the third thing is that
 When you come to an intersection and there's construction going on, it makes it very difficult to proceed to that intersection because you can't hear the traffic. And some companies provide a lookout or someone to help you navigate the construction site. But then there's a lot of people that don't. And it can be as small as someone cleaning out a storm drain with a big pump, or it could be leaf blowers. And so...
 you know this this issue and along with these other two you know they play a larger impact as we travel like to and from work so and it not only affects me but it affects the people that I work
 with and also the people that I serve. So I would like to bring these issues to your attention and I've provided what I think are economical and simple solutions to them. And all I would ask is that please don't give it to a committee because things go to committee to die. Thank you.
 You know, if you could look at them, and then if you could say, okay, it belongs to this bureau, and I think Commissioner Fish is gone, so he'd be a safe person to give it to since he's not doing so. Well, actually, committee members.
 Maybe in Congress committees, Mr. Francis, maybe in Congress committees exist for things to die, but actually we have some here where committees get things ready for implementation, and one that comes to mind here is obviously our Disability Commission. Sure. And so actually I'd love to pass on your correspondence to them and get their advice, too, in terms of how do we actually do this. Very helpful and thoughtful comments.
 action call here from you and in a way that I think both the city council and those bodies like the Disability Commission that are responsible for helping us make sure that the Americans with Disabilities Act is actually made real on the streets of the city. So I think both them and we should take your good idea under consideration and see what we can do with it. Okay.
 Okay, I would really appreciate, you know, action on this. And, you know, I understand that these are just my solutions, but, you know, there's people out there that, you know, they might have other solutions or there might be other companies. But I tried to give you my input and that would – I tried to give you the impact that would have the least effect on –
 businesses doing work in Portland because, you know, I like it when people are working, and I like to see construction sites out there because I know that people out there are working and they're earning a living, and it makes the city...
 makes the city alive is what it does. And so I like to see the construction. I would just like to find an easier way around that construction. Excellent. Thank you. So if any of you have any questions, you're welcome to ask. Thank you. We will be in touch, and we appreciate this very much. Thank you. As much as I appreciate your suggesting we pawn this off on Commissioner Fish, I think of the Transportation Commissioner, and I can look at that too. Yeah, he thinks so. Yeah.
 And I just want to echo Mayor Hales' observation that the Commission on Disability is actually the commission that gets things done. So I'm sure that they will be very happy to work with you on promoting some more policies on this. Thank you. Perfect. Thank you so much. Thanks so much. You have a great day. You too. Thank you. All right. Let's take up the consent calendar then, and then we'll move to our time-certain items. So unless there's anything to remove from the consent calendar, we'll take a roll call, please.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Item 1267, please.
 I recognize Paul Schroeder as the recipient of the 2015 Steve Lowenstein Trust Award. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayhals. I'm very grateful to Commissioner Fish for giving me the honor of making this presentation on his behalf today. He's out of town on vacation, otherwise he would have been here. And welcome Michelle Harper and Paul Schroeder. Very honored to present the Steve Lowenstein Trust Award.
 This award is awarded to Portlanders who are dedicated to helping people who are experiencing poverty and underprivileged people in the city of Portland. And this year, the board has selected Paul Schroeder.
 Paul has done exemplary work as the executive director of the New City Initiative. His drive to work with the faith community to end the cycles of homelessness, poverty, and helping underserved communities through this initiative is an inspiring model of public service that Steve Lowenstein sought to acknowledge through this award. And Lowenstein trustee Michelle Harper is here to tell us more about Paul on this award. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Novick and Commissioner Saltzman. It gives me great pride to come before you this morning to present our 2015 award nominee, Paul Schroeder. Before we get started, I'd like to acknowledge my board and ask them to stand, please, at this time. Good morning. Good morning.
 And I'd also like to just recognize some of the supporters that are here this morning for Paul, his board, and many volunteers and some of his staff. Would you please stand at this time? Thank you all for being here. Thank you. Thank you.
 As many of you know, Steve was a civil rights advocate and very much an extraordinary individual who was a legend around here in City Hall. And so our board takes great pride in being able to present these extraordinary candidates that we have presented for the last 25 years that his legacy continues to live on. Paul Schroeder is the founder and executive director of the New City Initiative.
 It's a nonprofit whose purpose is that all people should achieve their full and human potential, and whose mission is to engage faith communities in ending the cycle of homelessness. Paul, a former Greek Orthodox priest, was inspired to apply his energy to the persistent issue of homelessness.
 After his experiences with the Cosina program, which offered Greek cooking classes for people transitioning out of homelessness, he saw the willingness of faith communities to help and saw the opportunity to serve more people through better collaboration between the faith communities. He, along with others working on this issue, proceeded to create a network of congregations, supporting efforts to give those in need a more sure-footed path out of homelessness.
 In 2010, Paul started New City Initiative as a project at JOIN, a local homeless services nonprofit. New City Initiative officially became its own nonprofit in 2012. Like this award's namesake, Paul is also a nonfiction author. He translated on social justice the St. Basil the Great, a collection of homilies of Basil of Caesarea, a fourth-century Christian figure who founded a center called the New City.
 That was dedicated to healing the whole person. Paul's interfaith curriculum on homelessness has been used by dozens of congregations in the Portland metropolitan area. In 2012, he received the Lamplighter Award from Operation Night Watch for his organizing work in the faith community around family homelessness. A little bit about his background, which is quite extensive.
 BA in English, Christian Heritage College in El Quijon, California. He has a Master's in Theology, magna cum laude, Holy Cross Orthodox School of Theology in Brooklyn, Massachusetts. He's also the valedictorian of his class in 1999. Some of the awards he's received is Holy Cross School of Theology, three high arcs award for Patrick's writing in 1996, 98, and 99.
 Essays that he had published, Suffering Towards Personhood, John Zealous and Fyodor Duvetsky in a Conversation on Freedom and the Human Person, St. Vladimir's Theological Quarterly in 2001, Building the New City, Reconstructing the Social Vision of St. Basil the Great. On social justice, again, St. Basil's Debate was published in 2009.
 His curriculum on building a new city is quite extraordinary. The boards that he has served on, Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon, and also past board president of Hua Rang Foundation. Some of the many positions that he has held, Archdeacon Director of Communication of Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco. Executive Director, St. Nicholas Ranch Conference and Retreat Center in California.
 Chancellor of Metropolitan San Francisco, Chief of Staff for the Bishop. Dean of the Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Catrido Church of Portland. Coordinator of Faith-Based Resources at JOIN, which is Connecting the Street to a Home program, which you are all very well aware of. Founding Director of New City Initiative. Founded RTOS, which is an Association for Renewal of Training in Orthodox Service.
 Community Link San Francisco in California, he instituted a program to connect people experiencing isolation in their community as a result of illness, age, and other factors.
 CUSINA, which is Culinary Utensils Skills Information and Nutrition Alliance, in partnership with JOIN, this Portland-based nonprofit agency supporting people experiencing homelessness in their efforts to end homelessness. And with the effort of Fred Meyer has instituted a series of Greek cooking classes designed for people transitioning out of homelessness. Thank you.
 This program has grown to include a monthly reunion of gatherings, job skills training, and a program whereby graduates mentor new students. Just want to share just a couple of more things about Paul. He is the first nominee that we have had that received three separate nominations, which is quite extraordinary. Everyone who...
 talked about Paul, talked about how gifted he is, how unselfish he is. He's tireless in his effort. He energizes other people. And one of his nominees wrote that, "...it's truly an honor and a privilege to take the time to write to you. Now I'm about to turn 70, and I'm still learning and growing, thanks in part to the outstanding leadership of Paul."
 At this stage of my life's journey, I'm proud to say he has become an important mentor, not only for me, but for many, many others in the Portland area. One other nominator wrote, Paul gave me hope at a time when I was a bit hopeless. That as a community of faith, we can have an impact on family and change lives.
 He reminded me of the privilege I had as a child growing up with a village of support around me and how now I have the privilege of lending that support to another child, another family. I'm inspired to nominate Paul because he sees the light and the hope and the possibility it shares with families that need it in intangible and practical ways. Another nominator wrote,
 As the New City Initiative Director, he fully embodies the organization's six communal practices. Compassionate seeing, heartfelt listening, and a strong sense of community.
 intentional, welcoming, joyful sharing, grateful, receiving, and cooperative building. It is my honor and my privilege to be able to present Paul Schroeder to you this morning as our 2015 recipient, and I'll have Paul say a few words for you this morning. Thank you. Good morning, Paul. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 I was thinking as I came here today about the very first time I was here in the council chamber. It would have been about 2006, shortly after I arrived in Portland as the priest of Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox, then church, soon to become cathedral. And Eric Sten, the housing commissioner at the time, had invited me to come down and basically say hello and present myself to the community today.
 That relationship turned into a series of conversations between myself, Commissioner Sten, and Mark Jolin, who is here today. I'm really honored to have him here, about faith community involvement in ending homelessness. We started, as was mentioned before, the Kuzina program, a Greek cooking class for people making the transition out of homelessness.
 And really very early on, what we recognized was that we were doing a lot more than teaching cooking. That great acronym, Culinary Utensil Skills Information and Nutrition Alliance, we realized afterwards that there was a word that was left out of it. The C should have been for community. Because we recognized that what we were really doing was helping people who had experienced the tremendous isolation and dislocation of homelessness to rebuild a sense of community and to have a place where they really belonged.
 So in 2009, and it's almost to the day now, in 2009, I made a series of decisions that led to me stepping down as the priest of Holy Trinity and ultimately starting the New City Initiative project, first at JOIN and then the New City Initiative nonprofit. And there have been so many things that we have learned on the way. This has been such a great learning journey. Okay.
 When Commissioner Sten, after he stepped down from the council, he wrote a white paper shortly afterward called A Human Connection that I go back to from time to time where he talked about the importance of community and relationships. And to me, this has always been something that I think about in terms of how can the faith community be involved in a more rich and varied way in this challenge of ending homelessness.
 How can we provide that village of support that people need so that they can surmount their challenges and be the most successful that they possibly can be?
 So much of the learning has been about community, has been about the importance of relationships, and how can the faith community take the lead in creating a more compassionate community? Because in my opinion, homelessness will not be ended by more or bigger or better programs, although programs are very important. Homelessness will be ended by...
 through the creation of a more compassionate community, a community where everyone recognizes that they have a role, so that it's not just the purview of the public sector or of the nonprofit sector. The faith community also has a role in that. The business community also has a role in that. Your everyday average person who wants to step in and say, how can I help, has a role in that. And what opportunities are we creating to make it possible for those who want to help to actually be able to do something in a productive way?
 I think another huge learning in this process has been thinking about the upstream causes and where exactly should we be focusing energy and attention. We've started working over the past –
 several years, since 2011, focusing more specifically on homeless families just because we recognize that for so many of these families, there is a generational and intergenerational cycle of poverty and of homelessness that repeats. And so how can we focus energy and attention and resources on those children who are at the highest risk for the worst outcomes? I think that
 as we think broadly about homelessness, we have to think about things like how do we raise the high school graduation rate? How do we help these families with children
 and the children in particular to avail themselves of what really is the number one best anti-poverty strategy that has ever been invented, which is finish high school and go to college. And our small contribution has been to say, what can we do to be a positive influence in the lives of these families to help them move towards stability?
 So I really want to thank the mayor and the city council for their partnership. You have been wonderful supporters of the work that we have done. I want to thank the board of the trustees of the Lowenstein Trust. I did not have the pleasure ever of meeting Steve Lowenstein. The people that I know who did know him impressed me not only with his
 what they say about Steve, but also just in the lives that they live. He had truly an impressive group of people that he was connected to. I want to thank the volunteers who are here today, and particularly the New City Initiative Board. We have Gene Kalaszewski, who's here, our board president. We have Ann Hudson.
 And I also want to say particularly Muhammad al-Yajuri is here, and in light of what was referenced before, we want to really express our appreciation for the partnership of the Muslim community as a part of New City Initiative, as a part of the network of congregations and faith communities that we work with. So I'm so appreciative, I'm so grateful, and look forward to lots of wonderful things in years to come. Thank you.
 Let's hear it for the honoree. Thank you. An excellent choice for the board to have made, for all of us that know Paul and have had the privilege of working with you, and we're looking forward to a lot more. Thank you. I'd love to take a photo, if we could, with you and your board, Michelle, maybe, and the honoree. That would be an honor for us. That would be great. Thank you.
 I just have just one more thing I want to say. I know that as leaders, you are leading in some very, very challenging times. And this award and your acknowledgement of how important it is to our city
 that it's the fabric of the city and who we are. And it's the thing that makes us very, very special and proud. And it's just one of those things that, you know, in a 24-hour news cycle, there's so much negative going on. But you know that there are exemplary people like Paul who has led an extraordinary life and
 and is one that we all should emulate, and it just lets you know that one person truly can be a catalyst to make a difference for an entire community. Very true. Thank you, Michelle. Thank you all.
 If I might further comment, thank you, Paul, for your discussion of the work that you're doing in creating that compassionate community. We are currently struggling with providing services for people living outside, and a reminder that it's up to all of us and that the government can't do it all, private sector, faith community can't do it all, but together we can truly make a difference in asking everyone who sends an ugly e-mail to council demanding us to do more.
 I ask you to think about what more you could do and that we all have to do more. Thank you very much. Excellent. One of the best things we do as a city. Thank you so much. Thank you. Okay. On to less noble things but necessary actions this morning. Let's move then, please, to the regular agenda, Item 1279.
 Consent to the transfer of the Young Sanitary Service Residential Solid Waste Recycling and Composting Collection Franchise to Hybrid Garbage and Recycling, LLC. That's that transition I was talking about from taking care of homeless people to picking up the trash. Second reading. Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. And would you read 1280 through 1285, please? Yes.
 1280, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and the City of Beaverton for transit police services. 1281, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and Clackamas County for transit police services. 1282, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and the City of Hillsboro for transit police services.
 1283, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and City of Milwaukee for transit police services. 1284, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and the Port of Portland for transit police services.
 1285 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet and Washington County for transit police services Explain this big package. Well, these are the remaining good morning commissioners mayor These are the remaining of the 15 Forest Grove is the 15th coming back in this year. So it's 15 partners running a
 Transit Police, Portland Police Bureau is the prime agreement and we are in command and control over 570 square miles of the tax district and all rail and bus. So it takes 67 sworn officers and three non-sworn to run that division. And so these are the remaining. So.
 We've had an extensive discussion about the guidance for this program, which I think has been very helpful for us as a community. So I want to appreciate that from the council. Questions, concerns to raise with Commander Leloff? I do appreciate the discussions that we've had about this
 the purpose of the transit police, and I appreciate the second finding that the main priority of the TriMet Transit Police Division is not enforcement of fare requirements, but to provide safety and security services for the TriMet system. My understanding is that this implements the intergovernmental agreement that you negotiated over the summer, and it would be very difficult to change that. So my question is, how will the council this is a five-year, essentially a five-year contract. It doesn't come back to council for another five years. It automatically renews
 How will I get a report on the transit police's actions to address my concerns about fare enforcement being a prime motivator? I can do that in written form yearly if you'd like. I mean, we can have a discussion. So we are revamping the way we do transit policing. 2016 is going to be a new year. You're going to see an education mission next week.
 where officers are on the system, we're really going to be hitting some themes. Look both ways, be seen, be safe, protect your valuables, see something, say something. We're gonna start down some social media and really start talking about what we do. Our priority is high visibility deployment, getting to calls for service, any accidents involving a TriMet vehicle and another.
 And those are our priorities. I can create and we are going to create a different model of tracking what we do. We are not about fare enforcement and writing citations. We are about behaviors. We are about safety. We are about security of the system and the 320,000 trips per day that our riders enjoy.
 So I'm open to suggestions on that. I am revamping the way we track what we do. The number one thing we track is high visibility deployments, and that's really what we want, and really kind of mapping out where our behavior issues are and trying to deploy into those areas. So I'm open to that conversation in a yearly written form or a report to council in a yearly form or whatever your suggestions are.
 I would appreciate a report to council, first in written form and then on the council's agenda, so that we can have an ongoing discussion. I really appreciate that offer. I have a question. Thank you, Mayor. I often see people get on the bus and ask for a ride, say that they don't have a fare, and often the driver will say, sure.
 However, if somebody gets on to inspect your problem, they'll mind, essentially. And then last week, I noticed somebody give their ticket, their date pass to the driver when they got off saying, please give this to somebody who might need it. Is that something that's allowed under the TriMet rules? Yes.
 So for the officers, we all carry tickets. And if we find somebody that needs a ticket, we all carry them and we give them out. We also have a 501c3 program where if you qualify, you can request free fares through TriMet. There's a vetting process. So an organization just wrote me a letter, and I provided.
 So there's opportunities to give people fares. There's opportunities to request fares for 501 . Can we actually get them to the driver? Because what I've also seen is people taping them to the bus stop.
 And that, when it rains, they tend to get really messy and they stick there until somebody like me takes them off again. It would be really nice to know that we could give our day pass to the driver to then hand to that next person who gets on. Of course, I'm usually taking the last 44, so nobody else is getting on that bus. But in the event that somebody was just commuting at rush hour, for example, and wanted to give it for the evening, is that allowed? Okay.
 That's more of an operational question for TriMet, but actually I'm meeting with Neil McFarland next week, so I'll be happy to relay that particular suggestion. Let me reframe it to a suggestion that it should be allowed and that going back to that caring, compassionate community, I'm not using my
 $5 pass anymore. I'd love for it to be somebody else's so that they wouldn't have to worry about whether a fair inspector got on and to know that somebody took the time to give it in. So, yes, if you could pass that along, that'd be great. Thank you. Yeah. And generally in a bureaucracy, what's not prohibited is allowed, but we'll check. Well, you know, as long as it's allowed, I bet there's others like me who would be more than happy for somebody else to use that. We might actually want to encourage it rather than just allow it. I get it. Yes, exactly.
 Mayor, I can't resist noting that in the book, The Once and Future King, where the young Arthur is turned into an ant to see what ant society is like, the first thing he sees is a sign saying, everything not forbidden is compulsory. Composite view. Other questions for Commander Lula? Thank you very much, sir. Appreciate that. See if there's anyone who wants to speak on these items. We have two people signed up. Please come on up. Charles Johnson and Veronica Bernier. I'm on it. Oh, you already did. Good. Welcome. Welcome.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. It's nice to see you. Good morning, Amanda. Good morning, Dan. And good morning, Steve. Good. Good morning, America. How are you? I hope you had a good night's sleep last night. Wow. I wanted to show you something. There you go. There you go. Veronica's got it. I have the tickets this time. Periodically, my life seems a little disorganized. I better get a little bit closer to this microphone or I'll be lost.
 I wanted to let you know what I was doing over the weekend. Okay. I've been in the Northeast and in the Southeast. I'm from Portland State. My name is Veronica Bernier, and I have a degree in public health.
 What we do in public health is come among the people over the weekend, out on the street every day, day in, day out, 24-7, where they're watching people. We're not nosy. But we do notice TriMet police, and they're doing their level best to help out. I always support the police department. I always support the police.
 police chief. And I think that men in uniform do a lot to help our city. Making the world safe is really important. And we all know what happens when people get busy on the weekends with shopping and there's holiday distraction and there's
 the seasonal affective disorder. Sometimes people get a little bit out there. So if you run into them, my advice is to give them a wide berth, about 10 feet. If the kids come in from Lloyd Center and start doing chin-ups on the, what do they call it, the little bar thing, if they start doing that, just walk away from it and kind of
 Try not to get in the middle of it. Sometimes people get a little exuberant. But that's part of the nature of policing with the TriMet system. We have one of the best systems there are, I think, in the world for travel. TriMet gets you there safely, and our electric cars, the street cars, the red line to the airport helps people coming and going, and it's possible to get by without a vehicle really in this city. It's a very walkable and rideable city. You almost don't need a car.
 However, when cars come in the middle of the TriMet world, sometimes some things do happen. And so we had – I just have to tell you one little tiny incident that is real. The other day on the red line to the airport, it was the blue line, the blue line 197 Ruby Junction. We had a sudden stop, and so 53 people had whiplashes. And it's unfortunate that one of them was the G4S security, which I happen to know him because I know a lot of secure people. I don't mean to make a –
 It's not a joke. But, I mean, I'm not really – that sounds funny. Let me say this again. I know a lot of people who work in the security field, having been a Wells Fargo guard and Burns security guard, and I did notice that when we hit the – there's just one little area there where when the rails are wet and leaves get in the rails, the brakes can grab, and this did happen in about –
 about 53 people were affected by it. So you do know that if it comes up again, you may hear from somebody's, you know, chiropractor or lawyer. And it doesn't mean that Torment's doing a bad thing. It's just a function of cities and rainy days and things like that. But I do have this to say. Torment always seems to show grace under pressure, and they do the right thing when they find a damsel in distress. Yes.
 which could be anybody. Thank you. Thanks, Farah. Thank you very much. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson, and I thought we would have had Assistant Chief Modica, but I know that sometimes resource allotments change in the police department. But I want to echo from the citizens the idea that Commissioner Fritz put forth
 Under federal regulation at institutions of higher learning, the police and public safety departments have to do a report. And I'm glad to hear that our Portland police officer, who will be working, managing this program, is very open to doing the same. I think that actually, I hope that Mayor, as Commissioner of Police, you'll encourage him to talk with...
 Chief O'Day and the people who do the technical stuff that make sure that Twitter goes out and the Facebook page is updated. Because I think that really what citizens expect in this day and age is engagement and information from their police department. And so to see not even just an annual report so that we can work with Commissioner Fritz to check up on whether fair enforcement has become too prioritized, but a listing of, you know, there'll be some – when colleges publish their statistics about crimes on campus,
 Some fear goes along with that, but we need to face fear and deal with the situation as it's reported by the statistics. So it would be great to see that TriMet Police have somewhere in their capacity to disclose daily or weekly what the nature of their policing has been, how many phones were stolen, did anybody have to be taken into custody, and on the positive side, that they were able to provide 17 people that were in financial distress with emergency tickets and such as that.
 i think since we've talked about the other 15 partner agencies this issue has been covered comprehensively i just want to again ask the mayor and thank all of you for your encouraging the portland police to do this high visibility policing that's strictly focused on uh passenger security safety comfort and uh making the trimate even more enjoyable system to partake in and also i failed to mention earlier um
 Happy Hanukkah to you all, especially to Dan Saltzman. It's the third day. Sunday was a busy day. There were some climate marchers left from Havra Shalom. Beth Israel will be having a Hanukkah event this weekend, and may light and joy increase in our city. You're here. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Leighton. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. First of all, I have a problem with the Portland police having anything to do with the TriMet transportation system.
 I would like to see more private security companies such as the G4S and various companies make bids at a lower price. I feel that we don't have enough police officers as it is, and focusing on the TriMet is just taking them away from other areas that we could focus on. I have another issue on the fare enforcement from the police themselves. I've never seen a police officer ever give a TriMet ticket to somebody,
 Maybe I'm just one of the few people out there. I tend to see police officers enforce the fare, and to a lot of people that do not have enough money to pay it, and they end up having to do some type of community-type work, which is far higher than, say, the $5 ticket. And I'm still questioning that, that we have community service from individuals that can't pay a ticket.
 And number one, if that is even legal, in my opinion. And I do want to have that looked into if that program is still proceeding forward. Again, like I've stated, I don't see why we have Portland Police on TriMet. We don't have Portland Police on streetcar. In my opinion, the streetcar is run much more efficiently than TriMet. We don't seem to have any concerns on safety on streetcar.
 I've been on a streetcar before. They've asked you for your ticket. I can't seem to find it. Well, you can leave the streetcar at this time if you'd like. We're not going to write you up for a fine. Thank you very much. That is just good customer service. That is people you want to come back and pay the ticket and keep coming back and riding on their service. I've never seen that with Portland Police on TriMet.
 I've never seen them talk to people in a reasonable manner when they're trying to enforce their fare. I've never seen that. They're not customer relations for TriMet. So I question on why we have Portland Police on TriMet. We have other security people out there that I think can do a much better job at a much lower price. And in my opinion, Uber and Lyft will start to cut TriMet profits significantly.
 We don't need to be paying for Portland police. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, these are all ready for a roll call vote, please, so let's take them in order. Call of 80, Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Okay.
 Saltzman? Aye. Hales? I appreciate both the discussion and the interest in these relationships that we have. If you haven't had the privilege of working with Commander Leloff, because he was our North Precinct commander before this assignment, you'll find that he is really good at working with the community. So I think the fact that the council is really interested in making sure that that relationship is a healthy one, we've got an implementer in Commander Leloff who will make that work very well. So I appreciate your good work here. Aye. Aye.
 Next one, please. 1281, Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. 1282. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. 1283. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. 1284. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1285. 1285.
 novick aye thank you hi balsam hi ayles hi thank you very much commander okay uh 1286.
 Delegate authority to the Bureau of Human Resources Director to execute a work experience agreement with Southeast Works Water Source to provide work experience training opportunities to disadvantaged and underserved populations in order for them to transition into long-term employment. Good morning, Gail. Welcome. Good morning. My name is Gail Baird. I'm the Training and Workforce Development Manager for the City, and I'm here for Anna Canwitt, our BHR Director.
 The ordinance that you have is to enter into a new agreement with Southeast Works, which is part of the WorkSource program, in order to provide work experience and work internships to underserved populations. So these are individuals who may encounter barriers to employment due to lack of skills, due to being low-income workers,
 Many of them are on government subsidies, and we see this as a new opportunity for the city to provide opportunities for skills development while also serving short-term needs for bureaus for project work and other types of assignments. Thank you.
 Is this new or is this continuing? This is new. We have many agreements. So this is actually administered very similarly to the Summer Works Youth Program. It's limited term, finite amount of hours that are permitted. And we have not done this before with a work experience type of a program. So these are not necessarily students, although many of them may be enrolled in a GED program or some other type of skills development opportunity.
 And my understanding is there's no cost to the city for this other than staff time. That is correct. Yes, Commissioner Fritz. Do you know how they do their outreach to disadvantaged students? And is that including students with limited English proficiency? Yes, it is. In fact, they have outreach programs to immigrants and other individuals with limited English skills or who are English as their second language. And they actually operate...
 Out of the center, which was expanded in May 2014, the Workforce Center in southeast Portland on Foster Road. And I think, Mayor Hales, you were there to attend the grand opening of that center. They do amazing work. They really do in terms of reaching communities that would otherwise simply fall through the cracks. Yes. Mm-hmm.
 Other questions? Gail, thank you so much. Thank you. Anyone else would like to speak on this item this morning? We have one person signed up, Charles Johnson. Good morning, Commissioners. As more and more people in the city are discovering, unemployment numbers are mysterious, if not cooked. And I hope that...
 you all will take this issue of helping young people move into the labor market seriously. It actually also relates to mental health. When people have something they're doing that, even if it doesn't feel fulfilling, even if it's just I don't like my job much, but I do it well, I earn some money, and I buy the things I like, that's a much better situation to be in than frustrated with no money. So...
 I notice that it's probably only technical that this program is with an agency that's name is in Southeast. I hope that will take seriously our equity lens here
 commitment and make sure that people in north and northeast and everywhere, youth from all over every square inch of the city, have equal access to programs that will help them transition to work and even meaningful careers. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thank you both. We'll take a vote then. This is an emergency ordinance. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 Thank you for this partnership. I believe we put ongoing support for Southeast Works into our budget last year. And I know every year up until now we've put one-time funding for Southeast Works, and I'm very glad.
 to hear it confirmed that we did put them in ongoing funding because as the mayor said they do amazing work and they do outreach all over the city and provide opportunities to youth and others who would otherwise not be getting service and i'm very grateful to you for adding this component of workforce preparedness aye saltzman yes i too appreciate your reaching out to southeast works and getting this partnership going hi
 Yeah, this is a great example of how the city can synergize with what great nonprofits or other governments do. So thanks, Gail, for putting this together. And, Charles, I don't think the unemployment numbers are cooked, but I think they illustrate the danger of aggregation, which is that overall, the Portland economy is great, unemployment is low, but that's not true for everybody. And, in fact, there's some members of our community that it's really not true for.
 So, you know, hidden in that positive average of under 5% unemployment are some people in the community that are really struggling, and this program is aimed directly at helping them. So it's a great piece of work. Thank you. Aye. Thank you. Okay. Good work. 1287. Update private property impound towing code to add contact requirement consistent with state law. Commissioner Novick. So...
 The purpose of this item is to address an area of our code that's out of compliance with state law, and State Senator Chuck Riley drew this to our attention. It's a pretty simple fix. I'll ask Mr. Kramer to explain. Yeah, I didn't have too much of an explanation. It's pretty straightforward. Senator Riley did write us a letter suggesting that we change a specific part of our property impound code, which is 7.24.050.
 And excuse me, I didn't introduce myself or anything. Patrick Kramer, PBOT, and good morning. Sorry. Okay.
 So he suggested we change our private property impound code to fully comply with Oregon Revised Statute 98.854. So these pieces of code and statute have to do with authorization required to tow from private property. And so we consulted with the city attorney's office, and we agreed that it was advisable and appropriate for us to make this amendment that's before you today.
 And we've also done the outreach to the towers to make very clear what the expectations are and the standards are and that they'll be enforced. Specifically, the change is that to add language to our code, like in state law, it says that the tower must first contact the private parking facility owner at the time of the tow.
 Yeah, exactly. Even if there's a previous written authorization for towing in general, there should be a specific notice at the time of the tow. Oh, good. Positive change in my opinion. Okay, other questions for Patrick? Thanks very much. Anyone signed up on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. And if there's no one to speak on this, it will pass to second reading. Let the record show it's always a good idea to follow the law. Okay, item 1288. Okay.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Stormwater Pump Station 2, West Project number E10726 for an estimated amount of $880,700. Good morning, Mayor, City Council. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I'm here today to ask authorization for a construction contract on the Columbia Boulevard,
 wastewater treatment stormwater pump station number two west. The Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant has a peak capacity of 400 million gallons per day. It treats both a combination of sewage and stormwater from our collection system. The plant also has one permitted stormwater outfall that discharges to the Columbia Slough under permit with DEQ. This outfall is for rainwater only that lands on the plant campus.
 It's called a 1200 Coles permit. Now requires treatment to occur to the stormwater before it's discharged into Columbia Slough. The plant currently has two other stormwater pump stations on this campus. This will be the third. This project is required by DQ in order to maintain compliance with our permit and to provide protection to the Columbia Slough. The issue at hand is phosphorus from the stormwater from campus.
 To achieve the 1,200-coals compliance, the project will modify the existing stormwater collection system and convey the flow to a new pump station. The new pump station will collect and pump the rainwater into the wastewater treatment process. This is how the other two stormwater pump stations work. The estimated estimate for the construction contract is $880,750.
 Our confidence in that estimate is high. In fact, bids were received already. Christine Moody will be here with her presentation forthcoming. But the lowest bidder was significantly below that at 615. So the schedule for design and construction was accelerated in order to ensure compliance with our DEQ permit, which states that this product shall be complete and operational by July 1, 2016, which is not too far off.
 So if you have any questions, I forgot to toggle through the slides. I guess we'll look at that one. That's good. If you have any questions, I'm here to answer them. This is kind of off topic, but over the past couple of months, there's been some dispute over who is Bill Ryan and who is Scott Gibson. Will you confirm that you are, in fact, Scott Gibson? I'm Scott Gibson, yes. Yeah, he impersonated you.
 badly but you try badly all right great scott thank you very much uh no other questions anyone want to speak on this item if not then it passes the second reading and uh now we have another pes item 1289
 Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent property rights necessary for construction of the Woodlawn King Alley Super Rehabilitation Project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Okay. And we still have the real Scott Gibson here to explain. Good morning, Scott Gibson, for the record.
 So more than one-third of Portland's public sewer pipes are over 80 years old, and Environmental Services has an ongoing program to repair or replace these aging sewers that are in poor condition. The Bureau will start construction next summer on a project to repair about 11 miles of old sewer pipe in Portland's Woodlawn King neighborhoods. Some of these sewers scheduled for repair are not accessible from the public right of way, and Environmental Services needs to acquire easements to repair these.
 In this instance, the city does not have an easement for an existing sewer in a backyard on five properties. And in coordination with our repair, we're going to remedy the fact that those projects are not encumbered by an easement, and we're going to procure a new easement on those five properties. If you have any questions, I'm here to answer those. Have you made contact with each of the five property owners?
 I believe we have. Unfortunately, I couldn't talk to the project manager this morning, but we will typically do that first step. And did they also get mailed notice of this proceeding? So, Commissioner Fritz, typically we do the ordinance sort of separate from the communication issue. That's under the advice of Pivot right-of-way agents. We...
 always approach all of these owners as soon as we can with the information and attempt to negotiate a fair settlement that doesn't use the eminent domain authorization. There is something that the right-of-way agents have told us that we want to make sure we get the authorization for condemnation on record before we begin serious negotiations. Okay.
 Right, I understand that. I find eminent domain one of the things I'm most cautious about as a city council member, taking in somebody's property, even with just compensation, is a significant thing in our community. So it's a non-emergency ordinance, I see, right? Absolutely. So I would like you to...
 affirmatively let me know before my vote next week that, in fact, the property owners, as well as the residents, if different, were notified about this so that they can express concern if they have any. I'll do that immediately when I get back to the office. Thank you. Other questions? Thanks very much, Scott. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it passes to Senator Weed. We've got a lot of projects going on in this Bureau. I'm going to keep it busy. $1,290. Thank you.
 Revise legal description of property declared surplus at 2400 Northwest Front Avenue. Second reading roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 1291? Authorize a competitive solicitation process and contract for the purchase of aggregate services at an estimated cost of $10 million. Roll call, please. Aye.
 Novick? It's one of those votes where I'm scared that I have the responsibility to vote on something worth $10 million. Aye. Fritz? And I particularly appreciated the presentation last week showing that the bureaus that might need aggregate are working together so that we can buy in bulk and distribute in places that make more sense operationally. So thank you to Commissioner Novick and others who are working on that. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Nails? Aye. And let's move on to 1292.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for North Hollow Apartments located at Southwest 15th Avenue and Southwest Taylor Street. Second reading and roll call.
 Novick? Aye. Prince? This is the first time that I've seen the building amenities listed, including a dog washing station, but there's also a rooftop lion's community room and an outdoor terrace with a movie screen, so it does sound like a great project. Aye. Saltzman?
 Well, with these next three votes, we're bringing online 82 additional units of affordable housing. I want to thank, in particular, Dory VanBakkel and Andrea Mathiasson at the Portland Housing Bureau for all their work on this program to make it successful, more successful. Aye. Ayes. Aye. Ayes. Ayes.
 Authorize application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Vancouver Avenue Apartments located at North Vancouver Avenue and North Shaver Street. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 1294? Aye.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Mississippi Avenue Apartments located at North Mississippi Avenue, North Albina Avenue, and North Borthwick Avenue between North Fremont Street and North Cook Street. Second reading roll call. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 You know, people wonder what are we doing to promote affordable housing, and my crack staff have noticed here – my excellent staff, I shouldn't use that term – my excellent staff noted that the city will forego $1.5 million of revenue over the 10-year period for this tax exemption. That's one of the hidden ways that we don't have in our general fund budget that we are –
 saying that yes this is really important and i particularly appreciate this one because they're including utility expenses in the affordable rents so we know for sure that a lot of people are going to be housed under this particular benefit i sounds good hi hails i i could see however by the look on rachel's face that we might have to make dog washing stations mandatory okay thanks very much we are done with the morning attendant recess until tomorrow at 6 p.m