9.31. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the morning session on December, what day is it today? December 6th, 2017. Welcome, everybody. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey. Fritz. Here. Fish. Saltzman. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning, everybody. The purpose of council sessions is to hear items and hear from the public about
 The watchword is respect. You'll hear opinions up here that don't necessarily agree with your own, but we ask everybody to listen. And I have found many times when I listen to opinions that are different from my own, I learn something. So let's treat everybody with respect. Let's have everybody have the opportunity to hear and be heard. When you come up for public testimony, you'll have three minutes to testify unless we have to shorten it for any reason. I don't think we do today.
 And when you're two and a half minutes into your testimony, a yellow light will go off in front of you. When your time is up, you'll hear the beeps and the red light will go. We ask you to please stop at that particular time. Anybody who disrupts the council session will be asked, obviously, to stop doing so. If you continue to do so, you'll be asked to leave. And then if you don't leave, you're subject to arrest for trespass. And I have to say that because that's our legal notice. Hopefully we don't have to do that.
 There's a lot of interesting items on the agenda. If you are a lobbyist, we ask that you disclose that per council rules. If you're here representing an organization, that's also helpful to know. We ask that people not shout or yell or clap or things like that. Just a simple thumbs up if you support something or a thumbs down. If you don't like it, that tends to work.
 And so with that, we will get to our first items. Our first items are called communications. These are items where people have signed up in advance to be able to address the council on any items that they would like to do. And then later on, you'll have the opportunity to sign up to testify today on first readings of reports.
 or excuse me, resolutions and ordinances. If you feel so compelled to do that, you can see Carla, and she'll direct you on how best to be signed up. You don't need to state your whole address for the record. It's simply just state your name if you're so inclined. With that, we'll get right to communications. First item, please. Item 1277, request of injured and pissed off to address council regarding hope in motion documentary. Okay.
 Good morning. My name's injured and pissed off, and I'm here to talk about the documentary that Christopher Reeves made before he passed away. It was called Hope in Motion. He stated that there's 100 million people that have incurable diseases. I don't know if people had heard that before or not, but it's a DVD that...
 that's for sale online or I assume still so because I was able to find two copies of it 100 million people that have incurable diseases there's like 60 million plus uh that's mental illness uh and the rest of the the 40 million supposedly of course that movie was made quite a few years ago I don't know when he died but uh
 I'm sure that there's been more people with mental illness and other incurable diseases since then. And of course, to have an incurable disease, well, it's got to be diagnosed by medical doctors, and not just one, but more than a few. And his...
 If a man ever spoke anything that was honest or truthful, his words, people didn't know his wife died also from cancer. I'm talking about Christopher Reeve's wife. And then, of course, one friend of his that they commented about, Robin Williams, why he killed himself. It's one in three people in the United States that live with an incurable disease.
 Now, I wish that Nick Fish was here to hear this. I'm assuming that he'll find out eventually. That's the purpose of this. Robin Williams, well, he killed himself, and he wasn't, I'm sure, the only one that knew Christopher Reeves. That's a terrible situation to be in, of course, obviously.
 And there's another 10,000 people a year that have spinal cord injuries, which figures up, if you do the math, it figures up to more than 200 people a week.
 And we've had spinal cord injuries, Mr. Mayor. I've got two fractures to my spinal cord. There's another, they call them incomplete fractures. Those total from 2,000 to another 10,000 people a year. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thanks for bringing the documentary to our attention. I look forward to seeing it. Next individual, please.
 Item 1278, request of Mimi Gurman to address counsel regarding the right to petition my government. Good morning. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I'd like to state for the record that Chloe Udaly is again not here for my testimony. I have two poems in honor of Chloe Udaly, since she loves my poems so much. Today for my testimony, the first one is called Mr. Wheeler.
 I send him poems to remind him that reality lurks between the silences of words. He reads them, says thank you, that he likes them, outside the hungry huddle, wondering if this day will succumb them to deaths forever night.
 I sent him poems about the earth, farming, love, the heavens, gods, and disbelievers. Anything to remind him to inhale the acrid scent of silence, to touch the solitary icicle tears on park benches below the cluster of umbrella trees. He reads each word, each poem, and dutifully with the lap-napkin upbringing that old money buys, he says thank you.
 Stranded shadows in the doorways haunt And discarded blankets on benches beseech I will send him poems again today Poem number two
 Help me to understand. Help me to understand why you carry guns and I carry blankets, or why cops murder children and cities murder the unhoused. Help me to understand why you have a roof while others get an overpass, or why simply existing with no place to go warrants arresting the houseless and refusing them rest.
 Help me to understand why money flows for developers, yet city coffers are hollowed of food and shelter for people, or why black is to fear and white is to embrace. Help me to understand the hatred that pours from these halls, drowning the soul of this city in poverty, or why your garden grows manicured obsessions, while ours toxic compost from your unsustainable incompetence.
 Help me to understand why the fabric of the flag hasn't burned beneath your feet for punishing the houseless for existing. Or how one values money but never a poem. Help me to understand how you were mistaken and delusional thinking that we'd elected you kings and queens.
 Help me to understand why Chloe Udaly platformed a white supremacist twice but calls herself an activist. Why we still don't know if she paid taxes on her crowdfunding money for her bookstore. Or why she berates us for not doing our homework about her nephew, whom she says was shot by cops, although there's no information to be found on him, and when we find nothing, we're told it's none of our business.
 Help me to understand why you daily can walk out or not show up repeatedly for public testimony denying us of our First Amendment rights to petition our government, our entire government. Or why she can bully and intimidate constituents through Facebook yet still sit in that chair. Help me to understand why the city attorney...
 is protecting you daily by denying public records requests or why city council at large is allowing Chloe Udailey to walk out, play hooky or disappear during public testimony on a routine basis help me to understand why Commissioner Udailey is still a commissioner on the city council. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual, please.
 Item 1279, request of Josh Maurice to address council regarding strategies for constructing optimal futures. Good morning. I'm Josh Maurice. Last time I gave a communication, one of these three-minute communications, was two years ago at the other meeting place across the river where they have it on Thursdays. And I talked about what...
 I've now been calling, well, sometimes referring to as the cooperative tiny home village phenomenon. At that time, two years ago, a third village had just started, and now we have four in Portland. And I've personally, over the last six months or so, had the...
 great fortune to be able to be really personally involved in this and so I want to express and testify that I find this very very significant and hopeful positive trend and phenomenon which can hopefully be expanded upon expeditiously we have a very interesting little ecosystem of villages now with these four
 They each have their own kind of unique character and we all learn from each other and share information and resources. I really want to thank everyone who's helped make it possible. You know, my fellow villagers, all the volunteers who come and lend their time and
 resources and know-how and city people who've helped a lot with sanitation, reducing fire hazards, clearing brush, and so on and so forth. It's still, I think, to some extent, a fairly controversial phenomenon in many ways. But I think that
 Well, it helps to have an idea of where this is all going. People are a little uneasy about where it's going. You know, it's fairly new and different, and there's so much more to say about it, but the last thing I'll mention is if we would like to have a...
 for a future paradigm that this may be kind of prefiguring, there's a website I'd like to just...
 that does that in a way that I think is pretty robust and salient. I'll just spell out the address. Z-H-E-R-G-I-S-H dot W-I-X-S-I-T-E dot com slash Z-H-E-R-G. So zergish.wixsite.com slash zerg.
 And, yeah, I could go on and on, but that will have to do it for now. Thank you very much, everybody. We sure appreciate it. Thank you for coming in. Next individual, please. Item 1280, request of Joe Walsh to address council regarding communication. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent individuals for justice. I would ask a little patience. I'm having a lot of trouble with my throat.
 Good morning. I'm Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice, and we take no money from this body or other government bodies. We think you should require all people that represent nonprofits to make that statement or explain how much they do take from you so we know what's what and what the agenda is.
 So our agenda may be hostile, but it's honest. No money involved. We come today to talk about the abuse of office and not telling the truth. We have been criticized by Commissioner Udalli as being unprepared when coming before this council. We strongly disagree.
 Time remaining does not allow us to list all of the suggestions that we have offered, but here's just a few. For the cold weather, we asked the mayor on a number of occasions to get warming buses to put outside this building. If you had two warming buses out there, you could probably seat, what, 100 people? I don't think that would happen.
 But the really neat thing about warming buses is you can move them. So if the first couple of times you don't get a lot of people, you might pick another spot like the county building. Those buildings, these two buildings that I'm talking about, are centrally located on each side and the west side. And people know where they are.
 We suggested that and that was rejected over and over again. It's amazing. When I talk to people about that, they say, that's a good idea. So simple. Hey, TriMet, how about putting a couple of buses over here?
 Have the police and fire department make up a current list of where people can go to get warm. We had problems on the street last year where the cops wouldn't get out of their damn cars. Not only did they not have a list, and they weren't helping people, but when the cameras were there, they were sure out of their cars. And they had really good stuff in the back. Photo ops. Attending city council meetings. We suggested that you extend...
 the time to sign up. And Mary, who is here today, who Mary and I disagree on a lot of stuff, but she suggested a really neat thing. How about just expanding it to 10 people? 30 minutes, that's all we're asking the citizens. So you see, you can't say to us, hey, you're not giving us any suggestions. Because I could go on for a half hour, but I would go to jail.
 because Republicans send people to jail, Mayor, and you are a Republican, right?
 That's not correct. I know. You changed it to Democrat to win this office, but you are a Republican. Is that correct? I was. Yes. And once a Republican, always a Republican. And you act like a Republican. Thanks, Mr. Walsh. Why don't you meet with us and ask us for some more suggestions? You did it twice, and then you ran away and hid in a closet. Mr. Walsh. Yes. You've made your point. I got your e-mail.
 Thank you. You really did? I did. I read it. I thought you were in Chicago. I was in Chicago, but they have email there, too. I thought you were in Chicago. I'm home. All right. Thanks. So let me please respond to a couple of the points you've made, because you've made some good ones. You've made some I don't agree with, but you've made some good ones. First of all, with regard to the warming buses, last year we did, in fact, have –
 an agreement with TriMet that if the warming buses were needed as a result of us not being able to get shelter space online, they would be provided. Eight people died, I hear, Mayor. Four did, and that's four. Excuse me. Can I please respond? I listen to you now. Don't bullshit me. I'm not bullshitting you. You're just responding. So second of all, if anybody. Excuse me. And you're telling me we didn't need one.
 Excuse me. Last year, we... Mr. Walsh, please sit down. I'm trying to respond and you're not letting me, so please sit down. You're done. Next item, please. Item 1281, request of Neil H. Walker to address council regarding Portland police idea about sidewalk safety.
 Thank you. And while he is coming up, I will remind people we have a no-turnaway policy during severe weather issues. That was true last year. It will be true this year. If you come across somebody who is outside during a severe weather incident, call 911. Please stay with them. If it is not a severe situation but they are cold and they would like to come inside, call 211. 211. Call 211 right now.
 During a severe... Mr. Walsh, please let me finish, all right? I listen to you, now listen to me. If you don't stop, I'm going to ask you to leave. At any rate, for the rest of the people who actually do want to hear this information, if you want to know where the shelters are that are available, call 211. They will have a complete list during severe weather situations.
 If there is somebody who needs to be checked up on, please call the non-emergency police number. That's 503-823-3333. And again, this year we will have the same policy. And we'll just take a moment while Mr. Walsh calms himself down. Mr. Walsh, we want you to be able to stay, so please. We want you to be able to stay. Next individual, please.
 He does not appear to be here. Mr. Walker? Is Mr. Walker here? If he's prepared to listen, yeah, absolutely, he can stay. But if he's not going to listen, he can't. I don't listen. Okay, great. Item 1282. We don't have enough people for the consent. 1282, please. 1282.
 Adopt the allocation methodology for the local transportation infrastructure charge. Establish a maximum fee. Amend charge required code and direct staff to develop additional components of neighborhood streets program. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. With Portland growing by leaps and bounds and the pace of infill development on unimproved streets increasing, it was clear to transportation staff and the past city council
 that policies around building complete and connected improvements were not keeping up. For perspective, 50 miles of Portland's streets are dirt and gravel, and another 200 miles are under-improved streets. And these problem streets are located across the city. So this is not an east side or a west side problem. It is a Portland problem and something that needs to be addressed.
 To that end, the City Council adopted a local transportation infrastructure charge, or LTIC, in April of 2016 and directed staff to come back to Council with a methodology on how to spend those funds. In the subsequent year and a half, it became clear that the real-world situations were making the LTIC unreasonable in certain situations and therefore some type of cap or maximum charge was needed.
 Therefore, council is being asked to consider three things this morning. The first is to adopt a maximum charge for the local transportation infrastructure charge. The second is to adopt a methodology for the LTIC. And the third is to direct staff to continue to develop the neighborhood streets network, streets framework. So it's important that we take time to review the effectiveness and rationality of the proposal.
 and over the past 18 months, transportation staff have been doing exactly that and are now before us with an updated rate and methodology for our consideration. Staff will give us a short presentation, and it is a bit dense, but I feel it is appropriate as it is such an important program, and interested members of the public should understand all the thinking and analysis that went into the proposal. And following that, we'll open it up for testimony, and I would also...
 So I'll turn it over now to Ann Hill and Kurt Kruger, who will make the presentation. But I also wanted to move an amendment that will provide an exemption for affordable housing. This was something we intended to do but somehow got left out of the mix, so I would now move that amendment. Commissioner, can we suspend the rules for a second?
 I apologize for being late at a doctor's appointment. I walked in with some people who are here for the consent agenda, Mayor. I understand this will be about an hour, hour and a half. Could we suspend the rules and do the consent agenda adoption just so they can be excused? Any objections? Hearing none, please call the roll. First of all, are there any items pulled from the consent agenda? I had no request. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry.
 Again, I'll turn it over to Anne Hill and Kurt Kruger for the staff presentation. So I'll just second your amendment for the purpose of putting this on the table. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor Wheeler, and the rest of City Council. We have a comprehensive presentation for you today on this important issue. My name is Anne Hill, and I work for the Portland Bureau of Transportation as a program manager in the development, permitting, and transit section.
 Today, I will provide some background, review the LTIC collections and maximum proposal, provide findings from our public outreach that inform the allocation methodology, and additional neighborhood street framework elements. I will then close the presentation and open it up for questions.
 So how big is this problem? This map right here that you have on your screen shows the red are those street segments that are LTIC eligible, meaning this is where the charge occurs. It has been decades in the making, resulting from annexation. Large portions of the city were built many decades ago when local street standards may have been different and when most of these areas were unincorporated county land where street standards were very different.
 As the land was annexed into the city, these rural county roads were now inside city limits, but with no decision on if they should be improved and who should pay for those improvements. There has been a longstanding policy that frontage improvements are the responsibility of property owners. This has resulted in a development-driven process where new development must build their own street improvements consistent with city code.
 This development-driven nature of the city code did not align well with infill development. Many developers said that it didn't make sense for them to build a 30- or 50-foot-long segment of road or sidewalk in the middle of a paved or gravel street. In certain situations, the city agreed with the developers.
 While Portland has had these 250 miles of unimproved residential side streets for decades, there has always been a desire to see these streets improved. But the city has historically not allocated significant resources to these projects. That's because the cost of the city's backlog of transportation projects is far greater than our available transportation funding.
 This requires the city to prioritize transportation investments, and the city has done so with grants and opportunities that prioritize projects that carry more people, shift modes, and achieve the goals of Vision Zero.
 The LTIC was developed to specifically address one aspect of the city's problem with unimproved residential side streets. The fact that infill development was occurring throughout the city, and in many situations was not contributing anything to solve the city's infrastructure problem, other than signing waivers of remonstrance. The LTIC guaranteed that all new development would contribute to solving the problem through paying a fee unless frontage improvements were made on site.
 The LTIC is not an in lieu of fee. It's not a tax, and it's not an SDC. Instead, the LTIC is a transaction fee. Applied to single dwelling zones on local service streets, the charge of $600 per linear foot based on the total linear frontage of the property adjacent to the local service traffic street. ADUs, disaster replacement, alterations, and property line adjustments are exempt.
 And we have, as Commissioner Saltzman introduced, we are including affordable housing to the list of exemptions in this code update. So how much have we collected? So since July of 2016, we've collected, this map shows 1.8 million has been collected since July. And as of this morning, 2.2 million has been collected, which is an average of about $122,000 a month.
 The estimated cost to improve all 250 miles of unimproved local residential streets is $1.5 billion. That calculates to $6.3 million per mile. Thus, the LTIC revenue by itself will only be sufficient to address a very small fraction of the city's unimproved local service streets.
 When the city adopted the LTIC, the city council directed that all LTIC revenue be held in a lockbox until the council approved the allocation methodology to specify how decisions will be made on the expenditures of the LTIC. And that's why we're here today. So before I talk about the allocation methodology, I do want to touch upon the LTIC maximum that we're proposing today.
 Based upon a comprehensive review of building permits subject to the LTIC, PBOT found the LTIC to pose a financial impediment to residential development for a small subset of properties with abnormally large frontages on unimproved streets, especially corner lots. The LTIC maximum establishes zone-specific per-lot maximum numbers to the LTIC.
 While it is anticipated that revenue could be impacted by approximately 25%, because many projects are currently on hold resulting from this fee, we anticipate some of those projects being implemented, thereby neutralizing the impact of this maximum. Upon your approval beginning in January 2018, the LTIC maximum would be, as we show on this chart,
 There would be no maximum in R2.5. R5 would be $30,000. So for people watching this who aren't necessarily down with the lingo, could you just add one more sentence and explain what the difference is between these zones so people understand? Sure. And I'm going to defer. That's why my friend Kurt is here who does development permitting so that he can put this translation.
 Good morning. Kurt Kruger with the Office of Transportation. Thank you, Mayor. An R5 lot is roughly an inter-east R5, 5,000-square-foot single-family dwelling lot. R7 is roughly a 7,000-square-foot. Likewise, an R10 is a 10,000-square-foot. And then we have a few R20 and RF, which are much larger. But again, these are all single-family dwelling parcels. Great. Thank you. So now we're going to switch gears a little bit to the public outreach and the engagement.
 So moving on from the maximum, I'm going to touch on what we've been doing with public outreach, the process, and our results. As I said, with only LTIC funds, we could only improve approximately a quarter mile of a street each year citywide. And even if we just did sidewalk improvements, say pedestrian improvements, again, we wouldn't be able to make much of an impact when we're looking at 250 miles of streets needing to be improved. Okay.
 So with so many streets and such limited resources, the team completed a year-long public involvement process to better understand what Portlanders think about residential unimproved streets and how best to improve them. The results of this extensive public involvement process underpin the recommendations for the allocation methodology in front of you today and the Neighborhood Streets Network framework.
 The team set out to involve the community in developing a program with goals for a process to be equitable, transparent, defensible, and values-based. Furthermore, the involvement process centered on providing access to decision-making by directly engaging persons with disabilities, communities of color, and those who speak other languages than English. Thank you.
 So as you can see on this slide, or for those of you who are not looking at the actual presentation, we not only did we do the traditional outreach of neighborhood meetings, coalition meetings, appearing at modal committee meetings and stakeholder groups, we also engaged 30,000 individuals using Facebook with our survey.
 We mailed to all 28,000 residents that live on these unimproved streets, inviting them to focus groups where we had people sit in groups of 12 so that we could ask questions to them and get their feedback. We got an additional 3,000 community survey participants.
 including translating the survey into five different languages. We did brief. This number says 17 briefings to neighborhood coalitions, associations, and stakeholder groups. That number is actually, I think, 20 in the month of October. We did do a final round to key coalitions, the Development Review Advisory Committee, the Bureau Budget Advisory Committee of PBOT, and we also presented to the Portland Disability Commission.
 And then we also had 131 participants in the focus groups. So through these objectives, we engaged thousands of Portlanders coming from many backgrounds and varied perspectives. The proposed program is a direct reflection of the community's values, concerns, and priorities. So how long has this proposal been out for public review? The proposal has been out since September.
 This version of it? Yeah. So that's what everybody reviewed when they went to the meetings? Right. And we've been, the allocation methodology has been a three-step methodology, which you'll see, which we've been showing people since actually June. So then how did their turning up at the meetings make any difference if it's the same proposal that was on the table in September? Yeah.
 People ask questions depending on the neighborhoods. And when we get into the allocation methodology, we can talk a little bit about that. I think the biggest impact was how we looked at the framework for the additional neighborhood streets program elements.
 Because there's not enough money to really make a substantial impact in any of these neighborhoods, we do have a proposal here for the council to direct PBOT to look at, for example, how we can maintain the 50 miles of gravel streets, how we can continue to look at neighborhood collectors to provide sidewalk pedestrian improvements.
 how we can make the LIDs something that would be more accessible to Portlanders. So those proposals really came out of the feedback that we got from the residents. In terms of the proposal on the table, no changes in this proposal based on what's been discussed in the community? No. But quite honestly, we didn't. I mean, the suggestions we got were keep the money in the geographic areas.
 So that was one proposal we've gotten. The other one was spend the money on collectors. That was the second one. And the third one that we've heard is make sure that we're making pedestrian improvements. So we're using alternative street standards to encourage pedestrian improvements.
 We haven't said that you can't do neighborhood collectors in the allocation methodology, but we also know that we need to put more money towards that program itself.
 And in terms of the geographic allocation, the way that the money was collected, that wasn't something that was prescribed. But in the end, the way that we have allocated our proposal for 2018 would actually allocate the money geographically. So we have met those, the feedback that we've heard. Okay, thank you. So this is a little bit about what we've heard on the slide.
 we've heard that local streets provide citywide benefits that the city should pay, not homeowners. We heard actually that stormwater is the number one priority for these streets. Second is streetlights. So sidewalks was not in the top two. It was a priority but not the number one.
 We must protect low and fixed income households when we look at how we're going to both allocate the funds. We have to support alternate street standards. Can we pause there for a second? I just want to know, will you be in your presentation responding to the letter we got from the Office of Equity and the ombudsman?
 That was in direct response to the LTIC maximum, which I just covered. If we like to talk about that more, we are. Well, so at some point, I mean, I'll ask you at the appropriate time just to summarize the concerns that were raised. Mm-hmm.
 and then how this proposal addresses those concerns, including the hardship waiver. Sure. So Kurt will – I'm going to defer to Kurt to answer those questions because I know that gets technical in terms of the administrative pieces. And I don't want to screw up your presentation. Okay. So I just want to know at some point that that will be addressed and you'll give us a response. Sure. Thank you. Absolutely. So I'm just going to quickly complete this slide here. So we wanted to prioritize those underserved communities where we historically have not made the investments.
 necessary. We need to focus on safety and traffic calming. So Commissioner Fritz, that was another thing we consistently heard of was that if we're going to improve these streets, we need to make sure there's traffic calming elements on all of these street improvements. And we need to invest in the existing dirt and gravel roads. So today...
 We are asking support, again, for three different pieces. One is the LTIC maximum. That's what Commissioner Fish just asked about. The second is the allocation methodology for the funds themselves. And then we staff are adding the neighborhood street framework, which I'll talk about in a bit.
 So if we start with the neighborhood streets framework here to just sort of ground what we're going to be talking about for the rest of the presentation, we really have four elements which we think will cohesively address the 250 miles of streets. The first, of course, is the blue area, which I'm going to talk about. That's the LTIC financed improvements or the allocation methodology.
 The second one, if we go clockwise, is an ongoing maintenance program for gravel streets. The third one is to really focus on the neighborhood collector pedestrian improvements. And finally, the residential LID enhancements, which I'll talk about. So if we begin with the LTIC financed improvements...
 As we developed the allocation strategy, the team used the outreach process to answer a series of questions on your screens related to finance and budgeting, what types of streets they wanted to live on, so pedestrian treatments, traffic calming, and how to select the projects themselves. Thank you.
 Their feedback was used to develop a set of clear and equitable principles to guide future decisions on funding allocations, street standards, along with the allocation methodology for the project selection. So quickly, I just want to touch on the financing and then also the street standards before we dig into the allocation methodology.
 So beginning with financing and budgeting, in recognition of the magnitude of stormwater volume that originates from streets, the portion of capital costs for local street improvements related to stormwater management, and the limited availability of these LTIC funding relative to the total costs of improving Portland's unimproved local street network, the Bureau of Environmental Services, or BES, is partnering with PBOT on LTIC-funded projects,
 Any BES funding contributions would be directed towards stormwater system benefits. This partnership will include a finance structure that will accelerate project timing and provide long-term program certainty and will not require property owner contributions.
 By partnering with BES, combining resources citywide rather than geographically segregating pots of money, the city may be able to improve one and a half to three miles of streets every ten years. So the current proposal would be once the allocation methodology is approved...
 BES and PBOT and OMF would come up with, we would select the projects, PBOT and BES, and then return to the neighborhoods affected to make sure that those were the best use of funds.
 We would then select the best financing option. What we're currently looking at is potentially looking at a bond, so $10 million worth of improvements that we would use the LTIC and the BES revenues to pay off. Once it was paid off, we would then select another round of projects and finance those. That way we could get $10 million worth of projects out the door instead of waiting for this money to slowly collect.
 That proposal, though, to come back, we would, of course, come back to council with that bonding proposal in the future. So we're not going to talk much today about that piece. The second piece that we did talk about with the community was the types of streets that the city would complete.
 So since Council has adopted alternate transportation and stormwater standards to be used on select streets and community feedback supported a desired flexibility when addressing safety, mobility, and feasibility, the LTIC-funded projects will use a standard strategy adopted from the Tryon-Stevens Neighborhood Plan to match the best option to the street segment being reviewed.
 After all, not every street needs two sidewalks. And a traditional street standard, however, stormwater and traffic calming elements are the priority. Note that this is only the first page of a two-page flowchart that you see in front of you, where the second page determines what stormwater conveyance methods should be used for each street. And finally...
 With the financing model and street standards matrix in place, the third leg was the design of the allocation methodology for project selection. So this approach is proactive, allowing the city to identify and implement where those high-priority improvements should be. The methodology is intended to be repeatable, anticipating recurring rounds of capital investments in future years as funding is available.
 This methodology will stay consistent with the City's equity goals, ADA requirements, and adopted neighborhood transportation and stormwater plans. It responds to public input, seeks to leverage other available funding sources, and uses the best available data and methods for identifying high-priority transportation and stormwater improvements.
 Again, once the methodology is applied, PBOT and BES will identify where within the LTIC fund budget to fund missing links in connectivity to enhance the other capital projects occurring in targeted areas to be considered such as greenways or safe routes to school investments. The LTIC allocation methodology establishes three fundamental criteria to determine a short list of the highest priority unimproved local residential projects to be funded.
 The first criteria is equity, to prioritize improvements in areas with high concentrations of underserved populations to ensure that everyone has access to opportunities necessary to satisfy their essential needs, advance their well-being, and achieve their full potential. Thank you.
 Portlanders supported prioritizing projects in underserved communities. This was reinforced by results of the NLINE community survey and was especially true for Portlanders who responded to the survey in language other than English. The second criteria is... Before we move on, if I just have a question. The city's equity policies address race and disability. Does this take into account also areas where there are more people with disabilities? Yes.
 So when we looked at, and I can get into how we were looking at equity for the 2018 proposed allocation. But yes, when I talked to the disability, the Commission on Disability, we did discuss this. Currently, the three steps that we are using for equity for 2018 would be income allocation,
 communities of color and renters, because those are vulnerable communities, those three. We did talk about how currently right now we don't have data that actually shows where...
 those, the disability community lives. And as I talked to the commission, they also talked about how while there's places where people live, it's also where people are moving around the city. And so we really needed the focus to be to make sure that all of the projects that we work on make sure that we address accessibility, not just the ADA requirements, but that we really look at, like, what does accessibility mean on a...
 alternative pedestrian treatment, for example, that there might not be a requirement, but we need to make sure that it is something that will meet the accessibility community's needs. Okay, that's one of the concerns I have, so I want to discuss that more. Thank you. Sure. The second criteria is effectiveness. So to prioritize projects that support connectivity and fill critical gaps in the city's transportation and stormwater infrastructure.
 So residents on unimproved streets that participated in the focus groups placed a high priority on projects that will make the most positive impact on the transportation and stormwater systems. So effectiveness for transportation emphasizes connectivity, roadways that can serve as safe, ADA accessible, multimodal connections to neighborhood parks, school, transit, and nearby amenities.
 And finally, the third criteria is efficiency. To prioritize projects that are consisted with adopted plans, informed by the results of robust community involvement efforts, cognizant of other related improvements occurring in the city, and that make efficient use of limited resources by leveraging other funds. So to...
 sort of make this three-step process make a little more sense with context, we decided we would show you how we would plan to do this for 2018. So this is what the next slide shows you. So what you see on this slide right now is the allocation methodology establishes the long-term guiding principles for project selection. So when you look at number one, which is equity, the shaded areas on this map
 The dark gray areas show where the three criteria that I just mentioned. So we use those criterias from the transportation system plan. So that was income...
 communities of color, and renters. And we did this at the block data level, not at the census tract data, because we heard in neighborhood meetings that a lot of times the census tract data waters down, because the areas are too big, it waters down some of the equity of the underserved communities. So we used block data so it was more granular data.
 The darker areas on the map, the dark gray show where it has two or three of those equity factors. And the areas that are the lighter colors show where there is either zero or one equity factor. The second, so we took that and then on top of that we overlaid. So before you go on please. Sure. For instance for the Tryon Stevens southwest block it's really obvious that the most vulnerable people are not in the proposal.
 I do appreciate you showing the southerly part of southwest Portland. However, where the plan was done for Tryon-Stevens is not where the highest concentration of the most vulnerable people are. Actually, when we get to the Tryon-Stevens map, there actually are two segments within Tryon-Stevens in that plan that do meet that criteria. But we can absolutely discuss that more in a minute. Yeah, because if...
 So this is actually not necessarily showing efficiency. This is showing where we've got the planning maps, where we've done the study. Sure. So the first step was equity. And then the second step we used was effectiveness. I see. And what we did with the effectiveness is we selected four connectivity factors, so safe routes to schools, bike routes, pedestrian routes, and proximity to transit. Okay.
 So specific metrics for determining stormwater priorities are yet to be determined, awaiting the refinement of new spatial data sets for stormwater infrastructure on residential side streets. So we scored the segments that you see there, 0 to 5, based on the number of effectiveness factors they meet. So for proximity to transit, a street is awarded one point of proximate to a non-frequent service transit stop or two points if proximate to a frequent service transit stop.
 So projects must score a four or a five to be considered. So the darker segments would be the ones that would be considered in this round. And then finally, so once we did the first step and the second step, we still had way more streets than we could ever invest the resources that we have available in. So we had to figure out how can we further...
 narrow the lens of where we can actually look at where we make some of these improvements. So together with the community, PBOT had developed three neighborhood street plans, Cully, Division Midway, and Tryon Stevens, focusing on quiet residential streets. These plans were unique in that they developed strategies for improving local traffic streets rather than arterial streets in single-family neighborhoods.
 These three neighborhood street plan areas have a concentration of unpaved substandard streets. All three of these areas contain multiple miles of unimproved residential side streets that are also high priorities for transportation connectivity. So long-term, multiple recurring rounds of capital projects will be selected using a three-stop methodology. However, for subsequent rounds...
 The metrics for each step, so the criteria we would use for equity or the criteria we would use for efficiency, would be determined at that point in time because 10 years from now we might have a completely different way we're looking at equity than we are today. So we didn't want to become so prescriptive.
 in what specific metrics we would use. We instead wanted to say, you have to first start with equity, and then move to connectivity, and finally to how you would select the projects. And if you have all three of those, is there anticipated to be enough money in the funds to do them all? So let's, I actually have these maps, we can actually look smaller. So when we look at Cully here,
 So again, one would be the equity score. So the gray, the darker area there is within the boundary of that Cully plan. That area scored two to three on equity. And then you can see all the different street segments within there. All right.
 In that area. Again, we have a lot more streets than we could do. So we would then have to further work with PBOT, BES, and the neighborhood to determine which would be the most optimal segments and how much money we had to actually make key improvements. Yes.
 Moving to Division Midway. Can we move off of that? Can we go back to Cully for a second? Sure. Mayor has a question, then I have a question. Sure. So I'm just looking at this map here. Efficiency is obviously part of the game. How efficient is it to not do an entire area? I assume beyond the orange here, there are a number of unpaved streets that don't meet the other two criteria. So you're effectively creating islands in an area that you're rehabilitating. Is that effective? Yes.
 as a strategy? Right. So in Cully, I believe there's 15 miles of unimproved streets. So if it's $6 million per mile, right, there's not enough revenue to,
 to complete all of the streets. So that's why this approach says, if we look at this network here and then we sit down with PBOT and BES staff and say, where is there a Fix Our Routes project? Where is there a Safe Routes to School funded project? Where are we already making improvements with Safe Routes to School or with Stormwater? And are there pieces that we can use these funds to actually connect these?
 make the connection and complete a network. Let me just give you sort of a silly example here. So north of Killingsworth, you have a street that scores high. Sure. Except for one block. So under this formula, isn't it possible that you're going to leave that one block there as an outlier? Sure.
 It depends. The reason that that might not be scored there is because that could be zoned as multi-use or multifamily and not residential, and that's why it wouldn't be an L2 straight. Okay, but when you're doing construction, I'm no great construction expert, so I could be totally out to lunch here, but it seems to me there's efficiencies and economies to doing the whole area as opposed to picking and choosing and doing little bits and pieces here and there. Right. And I'm concerned that the strategy that you've
 laid out incentivizes little pieces here and there rather than a comprehensive strategy in an area. Am I wrong?
 I think what we're proposing is that we would sit down to actually make sure that we would do exactly what you're saying, make sure that we would make a comprehensive investment so that if that area was identified, the team would sit down and say what's happening in that area. Well, it means in terms of stretching our extremely limited resources, isn't that the right strategy? Yes, yes. Okay.
 So we can absolutely emphasize that we would make sure that we would make comprehensive, complete investments on segments. Okay, thanks. That makes me feel better. So I have two questions. Sure. And one.
 On Thanksgiving morning, I actually drove the length of Northeast Killingsworth, and my son and I did a community service project, so I'm pretty familiar with this. What's interesting is a lot of the development is happening on Northeast Killingsworth. There's an elementary school on Northeast Killingsworth. And many of the organizations that we're putting a lot of resources into right now, whether they're Oak Leaf, Oak Leaf, right, the trailer park, Hacienda,
 Latino Network, and even the Habitat homes are in this stretch. And so I'm sorry if this is redundant, but are we making sure that as we look to create, to take these unimproved streets, we're also creating safe routes where the kids are able to go from their homes to these various places?
 places because there's a community center at Hacienda, there's a school, and there's a number of other things. Are we making sure that there's safe routes that are also being contemplated so it's not just the unimproved streets, it's a whole connected passageway from a home to a school or a community center? Yes. I would say that because we are using these priorities are based on safe route to school routes and pedestrian and greenways, and
 that we are absolutely looking at where those connections are to make sure that those are the priority in terms of where we would make investments so that we are creating those safe opportunities off of those main arterials into the neighborhoods where the schools are. So yes, and we can make a note to make sure that we prioritize that as well.
 Well, and I'm guessing that PBOT wants to see this holistically, too. We're going to fix some of those unimproved streets, but also make sure there's a safe route for the kids to get to the elementary school this way or Hacienda this way. Sure. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 Let's quickly move on to the Division Midway. I just wanted you to see all three of these. So, again, this is just for 2018. So once we potentially made the investment in 2018, we would then go back to the drawing board when more funds were available to select another set of areas, which could be based on different sets of metrics and criteria. Okay.
 So as you can see in Division Midway, we have a larger area when it comes to equity. We have a more limited number of streets. But again, there's plenty of streets for the amount of money that we are potentially talking here to be able to make a meaningful investment. And again, sure. That's a good question related to that. And again, maybe this is just rehashing the same question I asked earlier, but...
 Why not do more in a given area in one year and then move on to the next area the subsequent year and move on to the third area the third year? People have waited two and a half decades for this anyway. Why not be a little more comprehensive in a given area and spread it out?
 Over three years. Sure. So actually, back to what Commissioner Fritz was asking at the beginning about neighborhood feedback. Because we heard loud and clear that people wanted this money to be spent geographically, we were trying to figure out how we could make meaningful investment where there had already been a lot of community involvement. These three plans were in three distinct areas of the city. They were focused on residential streets, and there was clearly need. We could...
 We'll bond $10 million and say for the first 10 years, we're going to do Cully. And then the second 10 years, 20, 10 years from now, we're going to do Division Midway. And then the third, we'll do Tryon Stevens or some inverse. But that's sort of a 30-year investment. It was, again, it's been really – But what I'm looking at is just the 2018 allocation. Sure. I mean, you –
 Couldn't you just do one year in one area to Vision Midway, and then the next year go to Coley, and the next year go somewhere else? Sure. The issue we have is that we could do it in that, I mean, if we're going to, it depends how much money we want to put towards this, right? You're issuing the bonds up front, correct? And we would identify the projects. So we could either identify $10 million worth of projects in these three areas, right?
 I think what I'm hearing you say is we could focus on one area first. Mayor, can I just add to that? Because the mayor is suggesting, just for this conversation, what if we targeted a neighborhood? Because this is a BES-PBOT partnership,
 There is another potential benefit of doing that that is not apparent from these slides, which is I lead the Bureau of Environmental Services. We have our own list of CIP projects, and we have our own list of other work we're doing. You know, when you look at Division Midway, this is going to end up being very disruptive. Lots of streets are going to be torn up. There's going to be impact on residential neighborhoods and things.
 Since one of the whole purposes here is linking up PBOT and BES to work more effectively so that we don't come in and disrupt the neighborhood and then the other bureau come in and disrupt it and we do it together. To the mayor's point, if we were directed, if the council, and I'm not advocating, I'm just saying. Sure.
 If the council said take Cully and go deeper and do that first, then you could direct BES and water to come in and show us all the other lines where we're doing capital projects. Mm-hmm.
 And the neighborhood might have a slightly different view if we get it all done in a concentrated way rather than thinning the soup over time. It's just another consideration. I'm not advocating. Yes, and I agree with that. I'm not advocating. I actually think there's some real logic to that and making sure the pipes go in before the streets. Right. Yes.
 Right. Yes, absolutely. And as I said, unfortunately, we don't have the BES maps. If we are directed by council before the next hearing to do that, we could take these maps, do our overlay of the work we're doing, and then the council could just have that as a data point. Absolutely. They want to go deeper in one place.
 And potentially be less disruptive by coordinating the work. Yes, and we'd be happy to do that. I want to show you finally just try on Stevens, and then we can – I just wanted to be able to sort of give each of these areas. So, again, I was actually – I live in Southwest, so I was actually heartened to see that when you use the block-level data, you actually do see meaningful – you know, you see some areas here that do meet that equity – our equity score. Okay.
 Well, you didn't start with the equity school because it's not got the darkest equity area in there. Probably. So, again, it's communities of color. It was income and renter. I know. So on your first slide that you showed, the area that scores a three on that is not in the tri-institutes area. So that's not saying first look at equity. Right.
 Well, we said we would do this equity first, then we would lay the streets on top of it, the effectiveness, and then on top of that we would lay these boundaries to see if within these boundaries...
 Did we still, were there opportunities there? Because if we don't use the boundaries, then we're back to there's still too many areas. But that's using efficiency first and then the effectiveness and then the equity score. So that's not what you've proposed. Actually, I have a suggestion because I know I'm asking a lot of questions and I have a lot more. Sure. And I know people are waiting to testify. We're already over the time allocated for this. So I personally am going to be quiet.
 I'd like to get to testimony when we can and then discuss how to move forward. Sure, absolutely. And I would just say quickly that when you look at that first map and you look at where all the equity, there's many more areas of equity than there are equity scores, than there are both money, and then we're back to doing disparate investment. So that's just what we struggled with. And any advice, support, direction that you can provide, we'd be happy to hear because it was a hard decision.
 it's just hard because we just don't have as many resources. Let me just comment on that before you move forward because if you were to start with equity there was only the one area in Southwest that has an equity score of three that also has the library, Jackson Middle School, Malcolm Elementary School and two of the mosques in Portland so that's
 And plus it's a much smaller area. So in response to the mayor's thing, you could actually do most of that. And I have to declare that is my neighborhood. I no longer walk very much because I'm hardly ever there. But if you start with equity, which is what you say you are, you would get a different answer than if you actually start with efficiency and go backwards. Commissioner Saltzman. I'm just going to suggest that clearly this is an issue that's going to take more time than we have budgeted today. That we...
 Complete the presentation, take the testimony, and then we continue the hearing to sometime in January or February. Thank you. And so it will take a lot more time to deliberate and we'll have more time to think about the questions you've asked. Absolutely. And come back. Great.
 So we're going to quickly move on. This next piece won't take as long. The neighborhood streets framework. So I just talked about the blue. Quickly, I want to talk about the other three components. So grade and gravel, we have here another map. This map represents the 50 miles of dirt and gravel roads that are those altic streets. Okay.
 So dirt and gravel streets hinder the quality of local access, property values, and traffic management. At the neighborhood level, these streets are the weak links, the city's local street transportation and stormwater management networks. For our networks, this includes all modes of travel, particularly pedestrians. Good street connectivity, one of the foundations of the city's transportation policy, depends on public rights-of-way that both exist and are improved. Thank you.
 While maintaining the 50 miles of dirt and gravel streets is not a long-term solution, ongoing maintenance requiring grade and gravel on an annual basis will improve local access, safety, and mobility. Staff is planning to develop a maintenance program for ongoing grade and gravel streets and include as a proposal in the development of the 2018-19 budget. The other thing we're going to do is complete a pilot project to validate the application of traffic calming elements
 and a permanent pedestrian facility while grading and applying gravel to a 10-block section of Southeast Cooper Street in the Brentwood-Darlington neighborhood. This Portland State University capstone project was developed for the Neighborhood Association with participation from neighborhood residents PBOT and BES. Moving to Neighborhood Collectors.
 Neighborhood collector streets lacking sidewalks are unsafe for pedestrians in many neighborhoods. Many neighborhood collectors are the backbones of our communities. When they don't have pedestrian treatments, they limit mobility and decrease safety. PED PDX is Portland's citywide pedestrian plan that prioritizes sidewalk and crossing improvements. The plan does identify the key strategies and tools PBOT will use to make Portland a truly great walking city.
 An incomplete pedestrian network limits the city's ability to absorb growth and meet the livability and access needs of residents, including safe walking access to public transit and essential services. The 1998 Pedestrian Master Plan has served inner Portland well, but has often struggled to provide adequate guidance for areas such as East Portland and Southwest Portland that present environmental challenges and right-of-way constraints.
 PBOT is committed to identifying a funding mechanism for neighborhood collector pedestrian enhancements upon council adoption of the PED-PDX plan projected to be completed in winter of 2018. And finally, to LIDs, residential LIDs. The project team did explore the potential for coordination between the LTIC program and efforts to organize local improvement districts to ensure maximum efficiency of public funds for unimproved local residential streets.
 The team examined 24,000 home sales in the City of Portland over a two-year period. The study found that improving a dirt or gravel road increases property values by an average of $18,000 per home, and that improving an under-improved street to a fully improved street increases property values by an average of $4,100 per home. So the estimated average cost to improve a local street to the traditional standard is currently $30,000 per home.
 Thus, on average, the value to adjacent homeowners is less than the cost of making the street improvements, which is why we don't see very many LIDs. And when we talk about equity and which communities are the most organized to actually go out and do the LID, we see some barriers there that are worth us looking at to make these more accessible and affordable communities.
 So because of the cost of infrastructure improvements has been a barrier to the forming of residential LIDs, PBOT is going to explore financing deferral options for property owners, along with, where appropriate, utilizing the approved alternate street standards and track the outcome of the proposed Errol Heights LID that's in the Brentwood-Darlington neighborhood because that proposal is currently looking at alternate street standards and financing.
 So now we're done. Okay. We're almost done. You got it? Oh, okay. So I just covered the three pieces of the presentation. We, of course, ask for your consideration, and I do understand that we're going to not seek, look for approval right now, but to continue direction and invite direction from you as to how we should proceed. I just want to say that this concludes my presentation, and we do have PBOT staff, Christine, Leon, Rich Eisenhower, Kirk Kruger, Jody Yates,
 Denver Garda, BES staff, Jonas Beery and Ivy Dunlap, along with Tiberius Solutions Principal Nick Popinak, just depending on what questions come up. Thank you very much. Before you guys just have a comment, and that is that this issue has been a problem for 40 years or more, and this is moving the ball forward in a significant way. So thank you. I apologize for asking so many questions. I appreciate the discussion, and I think we're all ready to continue working on it. Thank you. Thank you. That's good work. Thank you. How many people do we have to testify? Okay.
 15 signed up. Oh, boy. Let's try and do it in two minutes. First three, please come on up, are David Martin, Claire Carter, and Rich Hanna. Good morning. Would you like to start us off? Good morning. Thank you. Sure. Left to right. Thanks. And I know some people probably plan their testimony for three minutes, so I'm not going to be too hardcore about two minutes, but I just want to be cognizant of the number of people who have signed up. Good morning, and thank you for being here.
 Okay. My name is Claire Carter. I live at 6156 Southwest Nevada Court, Portland, Oregon. I submitted a letter of testimony, so my oral testimony will be somewhat different, but also quite short, so I hope that it will be the most efficient use of your time.
 I'm here to testify about the draft ordinance before you that proposes a methodology to allocate fees from the local transportation improvement charge and also to further develop a new program for improving neighborhood streets. I sit on the Development Review Advisory Committee. I'm also a member of the Southwest In Motion Stakeholders Group and have been following the PED PDX Group, which is the Portland Pedestrian Master Plan Update Group, as an observer.
 As I explained, I've submitted a letter of testimony that explains my perspective. Maybe I can answer a few questions if you have read that letter. But in a nutshell, when the initial proposal for the LTIC fees was presented to DRAC in 2016, the DRAC was in support
 of the program since paying the fees was quicker and easier than requesting a sidewalk waiver or waivers of remonstrance and had an assured outcome and generated income for future improvements rather than letting developers pocket the cost of sidewalk construction and walk away. The last presentation to DRAC from PBOT about this program was at the November 16th meeting.
 At the November meeting after the presentation, DRAC did not provide direction on either support or opposition to the proposed allocation methodology because it generally is kind of outside the scope of what that group works on, which is making the development process more efficient and quicker. However, I did raise the issue in the group
 that I think that it's poor public policy to take funds that are intended for sidewalks, pedestrian improvements, and roll them into a proposed full street auto-oriented program. When I raised this during the last DRAC meeting, two members of DRAC agreed, and they were probably the two members that had the most understanding of what policy would be, what policy issues would be.
 My letter and my testimony is to oppose the use of the LTIC funds in the Neighborhood Streets Program. I support the use of the funds for pedestrian safety improvements. The amount collected from the funds are negligible in paying the cost of full street improvements and are best used for pedestrian safety and other improvements, which align most closely with 20 years of city planning to make Portland a walkable city.
 In addition, the allocation methodology, as I reviewed it, is flawed due to biases in the survey distribution and in the interpretation of how the strategy meets the three allocation goals of equity, effectiveness, and connectivity, and project readiness. And the overarching shortfall in this methodology is that
 The Street Improvement Program really favors property owners and car owners over renters and carless households. And I think that is a big thing to think about when you look at the amount of these fees and what it could do for the pedestrian environment and how far they will go in actually improving the environment.
 streets in Portland to full city standards. Very good. I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is David Martin, and I chair the Sweeney Transportation Committee. And I do offer this testimony on behalf of Sweeney because of the fact the only points I intend to speak to are motions that have been passed both by the Sweeney Transportation Committee and the Sweeney Board. My involvement with LTIC goes back to 2015 when I sat in on what I believe the first meeting of the LTIC stakeholder working group. And for the past...
 Three years, PBOT has been repeatedly asking us, what do we want from LTIC? Well, the answer hasn't changed. We have very consistently said we want the funds to remain in the coalition area where they are generated. Southwest Portland has both the highest percentage of streets without curbs and the lowest percentage of streets with sidewalks.
 So on the infrastructure side, Sweeney finishes last. But on the funding side, we finish first because to date, 43% of the LTIC funds have been generated in the Sweeney Coalition District. Unfortunately, according to the current methodology, we have absolutely no assurances that those funds will remain within the coalition for the long term.
 So having some of the worst street infrastructure in the city while generating the most LTIC revenue to date, you can see why we put such a high value on keeping the funds within the coalition area. Personally, I have two children who are unable to walk or bike to schools because of this situation. That I find to be an equity issue. And the second answer to PBOT's question, what does Sweeney want, is we want to see the funds that are generated to be available to be used on adjacent streets.
 The whole point of the LTIC program was to shift funds from building sidewalks to nowhere to providing street improvements that neighborhoods wanted. And while instead the Neighborhood Street Program is focused on primarily addressing unimproved streets, and while that is a legitimate issue, neighborhoods find it bordering on the illogical to take the limited funds that we have generated and using it on the least used streets in a neighborhood.
 Our neighborhoods are the ones that are feeling the impact of the ongoing development, and we need the ability to direct the revenues to where they'll have the greatest impact, not the least. Unfortunately, what has been designed provides no insurances to that and almost seems to guarantee that the improvements will have the least impact possible. I thank you for your consideration. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Rich Hanna. I'm recently a developer here in Portland, a residential developer, just two years into this. I was surprised in October to learn that I owe about $180,000 in LTIC fees, representing almost 10% of the overall collected citywide, if I were to pursue the project that I have purchased. My issue is slightly different from what's before you today, but I think it's still relevant. I've been encouraged to testify by a couple of folks that I've been talking to in the city.
 Very simply, I paid for and attended an EA meeting as part of a diligence activity that I was pursuing prior to the purchase.
 This EA meeting happened prior to the ordinance, the LTIC ordinance, being approved. It happened on, let's see, the ordinance was in April of 13. I'm sorry, it post-dated the approval. So your ordinance was approved, LTIC, in April 13 of 2016. My EA meeting was April 26 of 2016. And the notes from that EA meeting were published on May 25 of 2016.
 In the subsequent 18 months or so that have passed since my EA meeting and the subsequent concept development meetings that I've attended with the city, right from the start there's been total consistency. Sidewalks were not required for this particular development in Southwest Hills. But no mention of LTIC in any of the written or oral correspondence during that time.
 So in October of this year, when I submitted the alternative review form, I was notified that, yes, in fact, sidewalks were not required, but you do need to pay LTCH. So my issue is really one that I'd like the city's guidance, which was really –
 primary to the diligence that I did prior to acquiring this property to be allowed to sort of carry the day on this particular matter. I have no issue with LTIC in general. I have no issue with paying LTIC or just paying for sidewalks if they're necessary. I have only an issue of making sure that the rules and the enforcement of those rules are communicated adequately at the time that one is doing diligence so that the overall project can be calculated properly. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please. Our Chelsea Powers, Willie Dean, and Ken Paulson. Good morning. Good morning. Please start. Okay. Thank you. I'm Chelsea Powers, Brentwood-Darlington Neighborhood Association Chair, and...
 I just wanted to make sure that we were included in this project. And as I was looking at the three areas, I can see that, once again, we're left off the map. We are included in some pilot programs, which is great. But when you look at the criteria that was discussed regarding equity and need, our neighborhood was just as dark, gray, and just as orange as southwest and Culley.
 but no little blue box. So part of that, I think, is the criteria of using transit as a factor. Our neighborhood is extremely underserved for transit, so that affects our score greatly. And I just want to highly support grading and graveling unimproved roads, because our neighborhood is home to over five miles of them that literally trap our neighbors in their homes in poor weather.
 with potholes the size of a sedan. And I am not exaggerating because most of the pictures in that presentation came from our neighborhood. So we need to make sure that Browen-Darlington gets on the map. And I also support keeping the funds in the neighborhood coalitions because, as you see, both Southwest Coalition and the Southeast Uplift Coalitions had the highest funds brought in from these fees.
 And that's where they should stay. Thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate your testimony. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Willie Dean. I own property at 4233 Northeast Ainsworth Street, which is – and I'm building a house there. And I was recently given a check sheet that said that I owed LTIC fees of $23,700. I'd gone through –
 a land use review previously where it said that improvements weren't going to be necessary. And my basic point is that through dealing with the situation that I've been, that I'm in, that there's no way to appeal the LTIC or the parallel improvements. And at my point
 I'd already gone through a process with PBOT where we decided that the improvements would be misguided based on the strange frontage that exists in front of the property that I own. And so I'm here to recommend that there would be an appeal process for this if a person owns a piece of property that PBOT itself has said should not or could not receive the improvements. Yes.
 you know, in the check sheet, you get either or. Either pay LTIC or make the improvements. If those improvements aren't something that makes sense to do, then it doesn't seem equitable to require the person to still pay. Because, you know, if there isn't even a hypothetical situation where the improvement could happen in front of the property, then making somebody pay for the improvement doesn't seem fair. Yeah.
 So I think there needs to be an appeals process put into this for non-conforming pieces of property. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Ken Paulson. Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak with you. I'm requesting you reconsider or consider waiving the LTIC fee for environmentally sensitive lots where minimal disturbance and skinny streets have been encouraged. The one-size-fits-all...
 philosophy is not appropriate for every circumstance, particularly in the case of a lightly used street such as our dead-end right-of-way, which can never extend more than 400 feet maximum. My son and daughter-in-law want to build a house on a lot we've owned for 25 years. At an early assistance meeting, they were told that they would have to pay a $90,000 fee because the 150-foot frontage to extend the substandard street was
 Incidentally, more than half of that frontage is in the environmental protection zone. In other words, we can't use the land, but the fee still applies. In fact, it's odd that the P-Zone restricts use of our property, but on the other hand, the P-Zone doesn't restrict the fees that are levied for that same restricted area. The city's LTIC flyer describes the LTIC fee as fair, and I'd like to talk about fairness.
 Granted, we need to find a way to fund road improvements, but how can it be fair to single out a person to carry an unjust portion of the burden? We're told that we must pay for someone else's street and then also pay for our own street. How is this fair? The LTIC fee provides no improvement to the street we need. The funding problem for street improvements should be shared by all, not just a select minority.
 Now, granted, there's a proposal to limit the $90,000 fee to $60,000, but still it's unfair. It's like being told, it's like saying we're only raping a bunch instead of a lot. Any fee requires we fund a street for someone else, and we still must pay for our own street.
 Currently, we are anticipating city permit fees of more than $50,000 for a house, which includes thousands of dollars in system development charges already, including the transportation SDC. The LTIC fee proposed would more than double this to over $110,000 in city fees, and there are other fees too. Since we've owned this lot, average wages have slightly more than doubled, but permit fees have already risen by a factor of more than 30-fold. How is this possible?
 This proposal before you will not allow an appeal. I want to emphasize the point by my previous friend here. It subverts the process.
 And if we were, we would have no opportunity to appeal either the LTIC fee or the standard street improvements, which are impossible to meet. In other words, we're held hostage to pay the LTIC fee because it's impossible to meet. Sir, since your time is up, Mayor, can I just ask a question? Certainly. I was, first of all, on systems development charges, as you probably already know, if you moved to Hillsboro or a number of other places and built the house, you'd pay a lot more. Right.
 Our systems development charges are actually lower than regional partners. The cost of the dirt is more, but thank God you own the dirt. But I'm very interested in what you said about e-zones and frontage. Now, e-zone is a zoning overlay which restricts your use of the land in order to protect it. And I can think of a lot of examples where we do that. We put easements on it. There's many instances where, through our zoning code or elsewhere, we put a restriction on the property.
 for the broader public benefit. But your point is, if that's part of the frontage, you're being charged for that, for something that you can't get full use out of, and you find that inequitable? I do. Well, I don't know enough about this, the answer to the question, but we'll ask staff to follow up on that. I appreciate your attention to the matter. Thank you. Thank you all for your testimony. Next three people, please. Are Fred Buehler, Garrett Stevenson, and David Ferris. Good morning. Morning.
 Why don't you start us off, sir? I'm Fred Buller. I own a corner lot. And so my fee, this is redundant from some of these other people, but I have 275 feet of lineal feet times 600 is $165,000. Add a building permit to that, you're $200,000 into the program before you turn dirt.
 So I really agree to a certain extent with what the new proposal is. I think the way I understand it, I'm R7, so 7 times 600, I would pay approximately $40,000, so I would save $120,000. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Garrett Stevenson. I'm an attorney with Schwabe, Williamson & Wyatt. I'm here today representing Dr. David Ferris, who's going to speak briefly about his own experience with the LTCH.
 But I've also submitted written testimony that you should have before you and I encourage you to take a look at that. I'm going to do my best not to repeat any of the details I've got in the written testimony. But first I want to say that we appreciate staff's willingness to suggest an LTCHAP and we certainly support
 in concept, a cap on the LTIC for a lot of the reasons you've already heard. What I want to do today is recommend that that cap be $30,000 for any single-family home, and I'm going to briefly explain why that is.
 In our view, the LTIC is subject to a takings analysis under the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. And what this means is that the city has to first demonstrate that there is an essential nexus between the fee being charged and the government interest, but also that the city has made an individualized determination that the fee being charged is roughly proportional to the impact of that home on the infrastructure that it is affecting.
 In this case, when you're dealing with single-family homes, it would require that the fee has to be roughly proportional to the impact of a new single-family home on the street system. It's not clear to us how the LTIC in its current form satisfies either of these requirements. To the extent that the LTIC adjusts to the amount of frontage by being calculated on a per-foot lineal basis –
 we believe that that justification fails because there's no guarantee that the money paid will actually be used to construct a sidewalk on that frontage. All that being said, we believe that imposing a $30,000 blanket cap would go a long way to getting this program a lot closer to meeting these two requirements.
 And that's because each single family home in concept generates roughly the same impacts on the street system in terms of vehicles, pedestrians, bicyclists, and so on. The fact that the zoning in certain cases may be lower density does not in our view mean that there's going to be a reduction in trips that would justify or an increase in trips for that matter that would justify a higher fee. And I will note that I heard earlier staff say that the average per
 per dwelling LID fee is about $30,000. So that's what we'd recommend. That concludes my comments. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. And thank you. And for the record, we've also received your letter. Thank you for sending that. Commissioner Fish. And I appreciate that your memo cites to cases like Dolan, and that is raised every time someone is claiming the possibility of a taking in connection with any regulatory action we do.
 Do you have specific case law in Oregon that's on point? Well, I mean, the game changer for Dolan, as you probably know... I understand Dolan because people raise it, and the home builders and others raise it repeatedly. So, I mean, to my knowledge, this fee has not been challenged on a takings basis, to my knowledge. You know, the case law that we cite in the...
 in the letter, cites a more recent case, which is Kuntz. I imagine you're familiar with it. And basically, it used to be under Dolan, look, if you're paying fees, that's not really a taking of private property. Well, Kuntz sort of changed that analysis. So, I mean, that's the primary governing case law that we were looking at. But really, our intent's not necessarily to –
 threaten a takings action in this forum. Rather, it's just to explain why we believe that having a substantial reduction in that cap is appropriate. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for hearing my name. I'm David Ferris. I'm a physician in town. My wife and I own a single-family lot zoned R10 on Southwest Fairmont Boulevard. We purchased the lot in 2004 for $125,000 with the intention to build on it.
 The lot is right above Markham Hill Nature Park and is on extremely steep slopes, meaning that construction costs for a future home on the property will be relatively high. Under the LTIC regulations, I am obligated to either build a sidewalk or pay the fee if I want to develop the property. Our letter has the details, but with respect to your time, I'll try to be brief. The lot is so steep that there is simply no practical way for us or the city to construct a sidewalk, and to our knowledge, the city has no plans to do so.
 So someone wishing to build on our lot would have to pay the fee. Our LTIC fee would be $182,400, which is almost $60,000 more than we paid for the property. This would be in addition to SDC fees that would also be due for new dwelling, which we estimate would be between $40,000 and $50,000. This means that the city fees for any house on our lot would be in excess of $230,000.
 We want to sell our lot now, but not going to build on it, to someone who wants to build, but every potential buyer has walked away because of the amount of the LTIC. The LTIC has effectively rendered our property unmarketable and valueless. This is all the more troubling when it is clear that the LTIC paid on our lot would be used to construct sidewalks in other parts of the city. The LTIC needs to be reduced by orders of magnitude. At this rate, it kills any potential project on our lot, but in so doing, also prevents the city from collecting any LTIC revenue from it.
 As Garrett explained, the LTIC must be reduced to a rate where it has some rough proportionality to the impacts. The city's proposal for our zone would cap this at $60,000. While this is a step in the right direction, we believe that the rate should be a maximum of $30,000 for all single-family homes. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you coming in. Next, please. Our Tim Lamers, Star Stauffer, and Paul Grove.
 Good morning. Would you like to start? Thank you for your patience. Thank you. My name is Tim Lammers. I'm a property owner in southwest Portland. I'm facing an LTIC charge in excess of $120,000. Could you move a little closer to the mic so we can hear you? Sure. Thank you. You can pull it towards you. I'll restate. I'm facing an LTIC fee of about $120,000 on a property that I wish to develop. This property also includes the restoration of a farmhouse on it.
 I'm also encouraging you to consider some rule changes that would allow appeals. I think it's unreasonable to have rules that cannot be discussed. Also, I do support the idea of some kind of cap that is relevant to the value of the property discussed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning.
 Good morning, Star Stauffer. I have a few concerns about this project. One is it seems that none of these property owners are quite in understanding with how the LTIC fees are being applied to their properties, which means that there's a lack of transparency here.
 Not surprising considering that according to their presentation, this really was just made public and available through public outreach since September. We just got out in November. That's not enough time going out to these neighborhoods, the coalitions, flyers, door-to-door, whatever it takes to really get neighbors involved in what this actually means for their properties and their streets.
 And I understand that you may have consulted the PDC on how some of these improvements are going to be made and how those funds are going to be allocated.
 However, I'm with that person that testified before that they've got potholes the size of sedans. That's the same thing with North Portland. They're at the end of the road. Some of those neighborhoods don't even have sidewalks. And there are several people with disabilities living in those neighborhoods that don't even have access to the property that they own or the street that they live on. Because there's no sidewalk. And yet I didn't see that on the map.
 So how are these funds, who are these collectors? That's pretty vague. Who's doing the collection?
 How are these fees that are being assessed to these property owners, these long-standing residents of this community, actually being assessed? Who's doing the assessment? Why is there no appeal process? And why is everybody in so much confusion about this? Why did they have a whole slide up there with all these numbers? 131 people in a focus group, and they said something about a year and then said that they made it public since September. Those two things don't add up.
 131 people? There are 650,000 people that live in Portland and you asked 131 people. That's not enough. Not enough at all. There needs to be more time for the communities to get involved with this project because clearly, clearly a lot of this is way too in the dark. Thank you. Good morning. Mayors, members of council, for the record my name is Paul Grove with the Portland Metro Home Building Association.
 We testified previously at the rollout of the program, and frankly, we had members that served on the advisory committee, and we were supportive of the program and its rollout. And I think as we've seen through the presentation by PBOT and conversations with others, there certainly have been some unintended consequences that were realized by the program. And I know that this has been a longstanding issue for the city. So here today, and I will be brief...
 to talk about a couple of quick items. First, I think the cap is an important step in the right direction, and what that looks like I think is still subject to, you know, some potential discussion and refinement as we move forward, but I know that that is something that our membership had expressed concern about, and so I think we're definitely moving in the right direction. I think the reporting requirement that's outlined in there also stresses a degree of accountability that is –
 important for membership as well in terms of how we're using the resources and where those will ultimately be deployed. A couple of items for consideration as we move forward and I don't want to restate other people's points but was it as noted before in the PBOP presentation around alternative street standards. I think there's some some opportunity for examination and refinement in terms of the proposal and what that looks like how it would be applied and deployed rather than having an either-or option.
 The second thing is potentially looking at a cap that is associated with the property value. There have been some outlier examples, and I know Commissioner Saltzman's office has been helpful in pointing folks in the right direction. But I think we should have some consistency and certainty in that process.
 The last thing is I think it's in the spirit of partnership. Again, we were committed partners to this in the beginning. We'll be partners moving forward. I think there's opportunity to convene folks from the original working group or DRAC to employ them and get their feedback and input on the proposal to help refine it moving forward. So thank you. I have one question, if I could, while you're here. From your point of view and from the point of view of your organization, does a reasonable cap –
 on any single family property resolve any of your questions or concerns about nexus or proportionality under the applicable case law? Well, Commissioner Fish, I appreciate the question. I think a cap is an important step. As I noted, I'm not a legal expert to talk about the applicable case law here today with you. I'm happy to maybe pull some of our members, talk with them.
 and go from there. But at this moment in time. But just to be fair, you have not raised a legal challenge to the LTIC under either proportionality or nexus, and you have been at the table working out the details. So can we assume that you're satisfied that with reasonable cap and other protections this is otherwise constitutional? I am not in a position to speak to the constitutionality of an issue, but we did not raise that issue during the work of the work group.
 And are you planning to raise it at some future time? It has not been discussed. Long-staff membership. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks to all three of you. Appreciate it. Next three, please. The last two who signed up are Rick Bartko and Laura Young. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for coming in. Mayor Wheeler, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, my name is Rick Bartko. I live in Mill Park neighborhood. I'm here representing myself as a citizen, but more importantly, Division Midway Alliance, which is basically centered...
 on the Boulevard Division in the neighborhood of 112 to 148. So we have a vested interest in getting some clarity on the proposals that PBOT has made about our neighborhood. Division Midway Alliance is a neighborhood prosperity initiative, and we are the people that will be advocating for equity, hopefully most aggressively in this session. Okay.
 We had a neighborhood street plan put together by PBOT with the expert help of April Bertelsen a couple of years ago called the Vision Midway Neighborhood Street Plan.
 And I would just ask for clarity on which portions of that street plan. I couldn't see the specific map that was shown. I hadn't seen it before. But if we get some clarity from PBOT as to what areas, what geographic areas of East Portland are involved within the context of the street plan.
 I have a specific example of developments going on right next to me. One property being developed, one property potentially to be developed. Those two properties in aggregate, one single-family residential, smaller lot, and a larger lot are going to be about $150,000 under the existing LTIC. So I would like some clarity also with PBOT on what issues may happen on that street segment. Thank you.
 And I would just ask for basically collaboration between PBOT, BES, BPS, and all the folks involved to make sure that the things we talked about, coordinating projects, goes on in a timely and effective fashion. That's all I have. Very good. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 So it's a little serendipitous that this gentleman and I sat down together. I'm from Cully. I'm Laura Young. I am the Cully Association of Neighbors Chair. I'm also the District Manager of the Cully Boulevard Alliance, which is a neighborhood prosperity initiative. We also in Cully have a neighborhood streets plan that was put together by Debbie Bischoff. It's the Cully Main Street Local Street Improvements Plan. And we, back in 2012, participated in the Out of the Mud and Dust Project
 uh initiative and enthusiastically supported that unfortunately since 2012 not a single alternative street has been built in collie uh there's a number of issues i'm actually really pleased to hear after hearing all this testimony that this will be coming back in january to give more time for folks to iron out some of the details so just briefly you have you have my comments there but um
 I'm very much in favor of an ACAP and an appeals process for folks so that all of these property owners that are here today are really able to stand behind this program and feel that it's equitable and not feel that it's creating a burden to them to the extent that they're not able to even develop a property. The three neighborhoods that were identified in this plan all have local street improvement plans in place, and that's why they were identified.
 It's not to say that there aren't other neighborhoods just as much in need, particularly Brentwood-Darlington. I would say, however, that of the annexed neighborhoods that have dirt and gravel roads that have been annexed since 1985, not a single one has received a funded street improvement or graveling or regrading or maintenance of a gravel road in those 32 years.
 and I can personally tell you that there are 35-foot trees in the middle of 70th Avenue, two blocks from my home. So there needs to be some sort of systematic and equitable method of addressing these issues and grading and graveling of all of the neighborhood streets seems to be a step in the right direction. I just pose a question since we're going to have more time to think about this.
 The Mayor, I think, put a provocative question on the table, and you're uniquely qualified to think about it and give us some feedback, which is,
 If in this process, Cully was one of the communities singled out and prioritized, but the city came back and said, if we delay a year or two, we can go deeper and bigger by bringing utilities and others to bear and therefore attempt to minimize the cumulative impact of all this work. Is that tradeoff worth it?
 slightly delaying the work. And I'm not expecting to give an answer now, but I think it's a provocative question we need to ask because it is very disruptive when we go into these communities and do this work. And if we coordinated it differently and gave you the promise of a bigger impact, would you be willing to trade off a little delay for that? And is that a fair tradeoff? Yes.
 Well, I think that is a pretty provocative question. My personal opinion is that we want to create the greatest amount of efficiency possible and get the most bang for our buck. But I would defer to my neighborhood and invite you all to come and talk about it with them. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. So that completes the testimony. And as I said a few minutes ago, we will take everything under advisement and come back either in January or February for hopefully a –
 A revised proposal that addresses many of the concerns that have been raised today. Thank you all. Very good. Thanks, Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you to everybody who testified today. Next, item 1283. Approve funding recommendations made by Children's Levy Allocation Committee for November 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks again, Mayor. And we're pleased today to highlight...
 a few early childhood programs that will serve additional children and families throughout the city of Portland with new support from the Portland Children's Levy. Since 2002, the Portland Children's Levy has strengthened our community by helping thousands of children from birth through college reach their potential. And we've done this through increasing children's access to proven programs that provide positive early development.
 school engagement and academic achievement, high school graduation assistance, and family safety and stability services. So today we have Portland Children's Levee Assistant Director Meg McElroy here to ask Council to approve new two-year investments in early childhood programs made by the Levee's Allocation Committee. The Allocation Committee, just to remind everybody, consists of a city elected, a county elected,
 a citizen representing the county, a citizen representing the city, and the Portland Business Alliance appointee. So this is a $1.6 million additional investment to provide additional child care availability for working families, quality support for in-home child care providers.
 and two new early head start classrooms and training for community education workers. I'll turn it over now to Meg McElroy. All right. Sounds great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, and thank you, Council, for having us today. I'm going to run through a rather brief and quick overview at how we arrived at these funding recommendations, how the allocation committee arrived at these funding recommendations, and then we have some guests who would like to testify with you on behalf of the projects that are being considered for funding.
 So as Commissioner Saltzman said, funding decisions are made by a five-member oversight committee for the Portland Children's Levy, which is part of what is required in the authorizing language that goes to voters for the Portland Children's Levy. And the five members of that committee include Commissioner Dan Saltzman,
 Chair Khafre of the Multnomah County Commission, Julie Young, who is a city-appointed representative, Serena Stoudemire-Wesley, who's a county-appointed representative, and Mitch Horniker, who's a representative of the Portland Business Alliance. Voters have approved...
 The Portland Children's Levy beginning in 2002, it's a five-year local option levy that has been renewed twice, most recently in May of 2003. Ninety-five percent of all revenue goes directly to fund proven programs in our community. Through the ballot language that authorizes the levy, only five percent of the revenue can be spent on administration. Can I pull for one sec? Yes. Mayor?
 I just want to note we're an hour behind. This is scheduled for 30 minutes. Given the number of people who are going to testify, I'm guessing we'll go over that. And we have a full afternoon. So I just need to coordinate something I have scheduled over lunch. Do you intend – what's your pleasure? We will go until when? We haven't actually reached our regular agenda yet. Yeah, my suspicion is we'll lose our quorum in an hour and ten minutes.
 And the only space that I see looking at our weekly schedule, which is crammed, is either meeting early on Thursday at 1 p.m. or extending beyond our current Thursday time certain item from 4 to 5. Those are the two options that seem to make the most sense looking forward.
 So we'll be losing our quorum in about an hour and ten? That's my understanding. Okay, so we'll plan around that. And is it your initial instinct to start an hour early tomorrow? If we could do so, I'd like to do that, but I haven't pulled the various commissioners' offices. Thank you. That's actually the Human Rights Commission Awards from noon to one out at ERCO.
 So I wouldn't be able to be here by 1. Okay. Well, it sounds like 4 to 5 is assuming our hearing doesn't take more than two hours, and I wouldn't anticipate that it does. Then I would request that we extend until 5 p.m. Okay. So we'll start working on that. Thank you. Okay. Excuse the interruption. Sorry. No problem. I understand. On that note, I'll try to make my comments brief because I think the most compelling thing that you'll hear today is from the people who have taken the time to come down and speak on behalf of the programs being considered for funding.
 So the levy is audited annually. All audits are available on our website, www.portlandchildrenslevy.org. The Allocation Committee adopted in this levy period three goals that inform its investments based on an extensive public input process, examination of local data on children's needs,
 and a view of national research and best practices. Levy goals include preparing children for school, supporting their success inside and outside of school, and reducing racial and ethnic disparities in children's well-being and school success. The levy makes its funding recommendations based on revenue projections from the city economist on an annual basis and invests in multi-year grants through a competitive process.
 During this five-year levy period, we have experienced higher than projected revenues for each year, the first three years of this five-year levy. And it is those funds that are being considered for investment today. The allocation committee has looked at several policy objectives in order to make decisions about how to invest the additional revenue that exceeded $1.
 City Economist projections, mainly looking at expanding existing grants to serve more children with the good work that's happening in those programs and doing some new grant making although minimizing that because of the impact on administration of running additional competitive grant processes. Most recently, new grants were made to additional after school programs and you all approved that sometime this summer.
 Prioritizing effective programs that are performing well with current levy funding. And then finally, most recently, with these additional funds, the Allocation Committee considered the state funding situation in this recent biennium as it would impact levy-funded services, particularly in early childhood. Thank you.
 So the recommendations that are before you today include a, this is, all of these recommendations include funding that would begin November 1 through the end of the current five-year levy period, which is June 30 of 2019.
 It is the first three on this list are an expansion of services already being funded by the levy. So the first one is a $1.1 million expansion to the Community Child Care Initiative, which is operated by Child Care Resource and Referral of Multnomah County, which is a program based at Mount Hood Community College. It provides...
 additional children and families with access to affordable, high-quality child care in Portland. It also provides some support for in-home child care providers to increase their quality and involvement in the state's child care quality effort, the SPARC program.
 The next two investments are for each of the local Head Start and early Head Start providers, Albina and Mount Hood Community College, additional investments to allow one more early Head Start classroom with each provider. Those would each serve eight additional children each year for the remainder of the funding period. And then finally, a workforce training investment to...
 replicate some of the training work that's happened with a new program, the Community Education Worker Program, which is based on the Community Health Worker Model, but focuses specifically on early learning and development with children and families, and to create a pilot training opportunity for more early childhood workforce professionals to experience the type of training
 opportunity that these individuals have had with a specific focus on culturally specific communities and building capacity within those communities to do more advocacy and services for their own communities based on their own identified needs.
 I'm sorry, I missed the beginning. Is this per year or is this for the five years? It's neither. It's from November 1st of this year through the end of the current levy, which is June 30, 2019. So we're in year four of the current levy. Thank you for reminding me. I was just doing the math between the 250 and the eight children and getting a bit worried. Yes, understood. I should just
 just clarify, early Head Start services are a full-day child care service with meeting all of the federal Head Start performance standards. So it operates as a full-day child care for infants and toddlers, for families with incomes at the federal poverty level. Good program. Thank you. You're welcome.
 And so unless you all have questions, I would prefer to turn it over to the folks who have come today in the interest of both your time and your agenda and also theirs. That sounds good. Thanks, Meg. So now we will hear from some of the recipients of this new funding. We have some providers and a parent from the Community Child Care Initiative and a few community education workers who obtained the Community Education Worker Certification.
 So to start off, I'd like to invite the Community Child Care Initiative providers, Shannon Aden and Karen Messner, along with parent Lydia Ramirez. I hope I pronounced that correctly. Please come up, and thank you for your patience today. And welcome. Hi. Who wants to start? Okay. Okay.
 You'd like me to? Yeah. Okay, great. Hi, I'm Shannon Aiden, and I run a family child care program in southeast Portland. I've been a child care provider for 30 years. I am a five-star SPARC care provider and work with the RDC and the CCIP program. So just a few statistics to let you know what my program has done since the year that I've been involved with CCIP. We have 19 children in care.
 And of those 19 children, there's 15 families we care for. And 12 of those children receive subsidies from CCIP and ERDC. So in Southeast Portland, we're a very low-income family child care program and definitely servicing the needs of the community. So my first point is that how CCIP has stabilized these families. Since the extra cost of coverage, we have had no drop in care this year. So...
 Fifteen families in care have stayed in care, providing consistency of care and continuity of care for those families and children. We've added toddler spots to our program.
 because they've been able to meet the difference between the actual cost of care and what ERDC covers. So we have two toddlers in our program now that would not have been there before. We've also stabilized our staff. We've had no staff retention because we've been able to stabilize the care, and we've had the extra income. We've applied two new staffs to our program. So we actually run a one-to-five ratio, which is above the state standard and meets close to our national standard.
 which we're really proud of. And because of that, we've also increased our payroll increase. So our staffing is between $12.50 an hour and $18.50 an hour. So overall, some really great improvements. Sounds like it. How are you? Thank you. You said you're a five star SPOC. That sounds really impressive. What is it? So it's the QRIS, Quality Rating Improvement Program, that started, what, four years ago?
 I'm an advocate for high quality child care and I've pretty much, I like to say I'm a trailblazer. So I was one of the first providers in southeast Portland to receive or in Portland to receive their five star. It means I meet a very high standard of quality. My portfolio is a stack about that high. I've documented and documented.
 basically follow a very high ethic of standard, a national standard, and it exceeds our state standards for child care. And what entity is it that goes through all that and decides that you are a five-star SPOC? About a year's worth of putting together a portfolio and proving my... Who is it that says you are? Who is it?
 Well, Portland State has the money right now. I'm sorry, not Portland State, but Western Oregon is overseeing this project. I couldn't give you all the specifics about it. Apply to Western Oregon to get your five-star rating. Absolutely. I worked with the Mount Hood Child Care Resource and Referral.
 Again, put all my documents into a portfolio, sent it off, got approved, had it looked at, had a class evaluation. I mean, it took about a year to get that classification and to prove our competency. Well, thank you for your work. I mean, six...
 $12 an hour to 18 is better than it has been before, but it's still not a lot of work, a lot of pay for what you do. Yes. So thank you to all of your workers. I just wanted to say I'm a big supporter of the minimum wage going up, and I think in child care it's going to make a huge difference. And programs like this really make a big impact on what we can do and keep those staffed and provide that quality. Thank you.
 Would you like to go next? My name is Lydia Ramirez. I'm a parent of CCI. I currently have three children enrolled in the program, an 11-year-old, a 5-year-old, and a 9-month-old. I have recently been accepted onto the program because of the changes that allowed self-employed parents onto the program. Before I got any subsidy help from these resources,
 I did not have stable daycare. Being self-employed, my hours are absolutely... I mean, I don't have a regular schedule. I'm there from opening to close, day in and day out, and...
 now having suitable daycare and not having to worry too much about carrying such a heavy financial burden going towards daycare. I am able to work. I am able to provide. I am a little nervous for when the programs are going to end because then I'll be picking up that other cost that right now are being gifted to me. Okay.
 I am truly grateful for this because I will be successful in my business. Karen over here is my daycare provider. I've actually been able to work with her off and on for about 10 years, and this is the most consistent that I've been able to keep my kids in there. I've been able to watch her program grow. She's a Spanish immersion teacher.
 has hired now two certified daycare providers, teachers, one for each of her homes. And it's amazing to see the development in my younger children just with what she's been able to help with when I'm not there, when I'm at work trying to make ends meet for my family. So Karen could tell you a little bit more about how it's benefited her business.
 Excuse me, I apologize for being late, but did you just say that there's Spanish immersion in the child care program? It is a Spanish immersion daycare, yes. In daycare? The entire daycare is, yes. Both of my kids went through Spanish immersion through high school. I mean, one is about to go into high school, but it's a wonderful program to get in early. And then the other little secret is...
 the kids in Spanish immersion pick up other languages so much easier. I wish it was available for every child because I think that if you teach a second language at an early age, they are able to learn a whole lot more and even excel in our English language, just having...
 all these different exposures. Congratulations. The cultural enrichment, and then my son, who's in eighth grade, said that it's now a snap to pick up French because there's so many similarities. Exactly, yeah. A lot of languages are similar. Unfortunately for my children, we didn't even get into Spanish immersion to continue, so I'm really, really hoping that my nine-month-old, who has been with Karen since –
 six weeks old, will be able to get into a Spanish immersion because technically she would be considered bilingual because they only speak Spanish at her daycare. So I'm hoping that she can get in because the other two didn't.
 Thank you. Hi. My name is Karen Messner. I've been doing childcare for 13 years, and I have two certificate childcare homes in home childcare. And this program has been helping a lot. We've just been available to hire, like, two head teachers, like Lady Assay, for each house, more staff. Okay.
 And, you know, I can see the difference. And now we have more stable kids in the daycare. They are coming, you know, on a regular basis. Like before when the parents don't can afford the whole daycare, they have to be jumping kids around with the family members to be available just to afford some of the daycare. And, you know, this program is a really good program. It's really nice. It's helping a lot of the families we have around here.
 39 kids on our programs, on both houses. And, you know, all the families, they can see the difference. Now with the headteachers, we also are participating on the SPARC program. For the Spanish network, we are the first one to send the portfolios. And we get approved. We're getting three stars. We start with three stars.
 And we're just working on the education to go to Five Star, who is the high-quality. But for us, for the Spanish speakers, we just started the program with the Sparks. And it's really nice. And we're making a lot of improvement on our daycare with the families we have and all the kids. Congratulations. Thank you. Well, thank you all. Thank you. And finally, we have a few of our community education worker group.
 and I guess I don't have their names, but they can give us their names. Oh, I do have their names. I'm sorry. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning. Tamika Branham-Phillips. Yes, sir. Laura Peraza. Winter Rose and Aimee Amir. Did I get that right? Close? Close.
 Thank you. Okay, go ahead, please. Thank you, and good morning, Commissioner Salzman, Mayor Wheeler, and City Council. My name is Tamika Branham-Phillips, and I'm a certified community health and education worker, family advocate with the Urban League of Portland. I work mainly with African-American families and others with children ranging from ages 0 to 6 years of age.
 What I have learned the most about the community education worker training is how to really meet families where they are at using my own life experience, popular education, and decolonization models. This was a new concept for me, and it looked very different from my 20 years experience through traditional education, the military, and a former healthcare career.
 One of my main hats I wear in this role is providing home visits and parent classes using the popular education and decolonization model. Popular education can best be described as the people's education, community education, or street smarts. It is the knowledge that is passed down and is presented in many forms. We see it as music, stories, dances, traditions, and experiences are just a few examples of what popular education looks like.
 Decolonization allows people of color a way to view ourselves through our own lens rather than the way we are viewed, taught, or organized by people outside our community experience who have power or privilege. Getting parents involved in the Community Education Worker Certificate Program will benefit the children, our schools, and our families within their homes. When parents are in the school, they bring home the school's expectations and culture.
 Schoolwork assignments are better understood. This will help both children and parents improve their literacy and numeracy skills. Younger children are exposed to early educational norms and have a higher chance of preschool and kindergarten readiness. Older children feel more connected to their parents and I believe school issues such as bullying and educational challenges would be better understood and better problem solved.
 Since the culture of children are brought to the schools through their parents, disruptive behaviors resulting from cultural and communication misunderstandings would be decreased, helping our children stay in the classroom and out of disciplinary actions or special education classrooms that they may not need.
 The ripple effect when parents are given an opportunity to have a career path in schools is significant. When members of our community see parents getting involved in the school system and getting a career path, words were spread. Others will get curious and want to be involved. Children will talk and share their experiences as well. Kids, parents, and the community members alike will look to more career paths in education. The excitement of being a teacher as a career path will be restored in our culture. Thank you.
 Go next. Good morning, Chamber. My name is Winter Rose, and I'm here to talk a little bit about our trainings. When talking about the CEW trainings, I can speak from my own personal experience working with the Native American community, which in itself has faced a high level of systemic intergenerational trauma, and being a service provider that has participated in numerous other trainings in my career. I can briefly touch upon what sets our trainings apart.
 When presented, they're facilitated in a way that really speaks to the participants and a lot of times can help participants really truly find their voice. The model in which information is presented not only empowers participants, but places a very strong value on people's lived experiences in the way people have or can overcome adversity. Our trainings not only inform us on important information and topics, but it gives us multiple direct and different relatable ways to convey this information to the communities in which we serve.
 The different approaches and strategies that we are taught in these trainings are very different than the classic Western style of delivering information, and they're all culturally responsive. We are also able to tailor these ways of conveying information specifically to the different communities in which we serve. I personally have been given many tools from these trainings that help me unpack some of the trauma that my community has faced, and a lot of times continue to face in their daily lives.
 These different approaches allows participants to come up with out-of-the-box ways to convey information to different communities and really work with those communities in a way that can help those communities feel truly heard, which otherwise they may not have.
 It's important when moving forward with trauma and working with communities, helping them heal, that we come from a place ready to meet them where they are and really center our interactions with them in a place that not only empowers these communities, but they're truly tailored to meet the needs of different communities. And I really feel like CEW trainings do just that. Thank you, Ms. Rose.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioner Suss-Sesslings. I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with your name. My name is Aini Amir. I'm currently working at IRCO Africa House as a community education worker. Before this role, I used to work as a community education worker.
 I worked with 30 family newly arrived African parents to support and teach them about their children, growth, and brain development. In 2016, I was trained as a community education worker, and I thought this training, I was exposed to new skills, knowledge, and resources of a greater benefit often than never.
 the needs of the needs of population. The program empowered me to have a better understanding of how to guide newly arrived family with their children lead and live better lives. The CEW program exposed me to a culturally specific model that relates to connect our families, our African families to resource here in Poland and the state of Oregon.
 A case of point is me working with a child with autism and delay speech development before the CEW training. I focused on the child brain development and well-being, but after the CEW training, I realized the mother was highly stressed and did not spend much time to talk with her child. When I focused and connected her to community resources and the child's speech, the child's
 The speech improved greatly, and both mother and child are very happy now, and this gives me joy and professional satisfaction as a CEW. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Let's have two more people. Welcome, if you could just give us your name. Okay. Buenos dias, señor alcalde. Buenos dias, señores comisionados.
 OK. Mi nombre es Laura Peraza, y yo soy una promotora de educación del aprendizaje temprano. This is Laura, and she works at Latino Network. She's a community education worker, and she works with early childhood. And I'm Melissa McCoy. I'll be interpreting on her behalf. OK. Estoy aquí para hablarles acerca de todos los entrenamientos que he recibido.
 I'm here to talk to you today about all of the trainings that I have had. Uno de los entrenamientos que me ha impactado muchísimo y que también ha sido de una herramienta muy beneficiable para las familias. One of the trainings recently that I've had that has had the most impact and the greatest impact is... Navegando en el sistema escolar. Navigating the school systems. Para nuestra cultura hispana es algo que no es muy común.
 For our Latino community, this is not something that's very common. We have the idea that this is something that begins once our children enter the school system. And that this is something that the teachers, the principals, the institutions themselves do.
 They have the obligation to do that. But here in this country, we've seen that it's different and that we as parents need to be more present in our children's education. Yes.
 But we've noticed that we've encountered many barriers, one of them not being English. So how are we going to work with this system? And many of us have not been in schools.
 So with this training, we've noticed that it's important to let the parents know about the PTA and how to be involved.
 Y que los padres tenemos el derecho y la obligación de ser voluntarios en la escuela de nuestros hijos. And as parents, we have the right and the obligation to be involved in our children's life and education. Y que trabajando en conjunto con las escuelas podemos llevar a nuestros hijos al éxito académico. And working together with the school, we can also provide academic excellence for our students. Y en este trabajo que estoy haciendo, también...
 And through this work, teaching parents to be advocates and having them work with their students in their school to therefore make a change in the school. And we've noticed now that now our children, our kids, are now graduating.
 Cosa que antes, en el pasado, hasta hace como tres años, en mi vecindario, los niños iban dejando las escuelas a muy temprana edad. Things that she's noticed within her own neighborhood school even three years ago where students were not graduating and leaving school at an earlier rate.
 Entonces es por eso la gran importancia de este entrenamiento, porque de esta manera estamos enseñando a los padres, no, yo puedo llegar en la escuela, pedir un salón de clases para platicar con mi comunidad. So that's why this work for parent advocates is so important, so that they recognize that they can go to the school and ask for a room and have a space to meet with other parents and talk.
 I can ask for an interpreter. I can ask for a meeting with the principal as well. The principal has an obligation to listen to me.
 And I can go to the school district and advocate for my child's school. And also that the board of each school district are parents. And that anyone can become part of that, the board of the school district.
 And if I'm not heard at the school district board, then I know I can go to the Capitol and speak for the needs of my child.
 Y ya lo estamos haciendo porque nuestras familias ya están tomando ese liderazgo fuerte para abogar a nuestros hijos. Y creo que ya lo estamos viendo en las instituciones. And that's what they're currently doing is taking parents to the state to be able to advocate for the good of their children.
 Muchísimas gracias por escucharme y feliz día. Thank you for listening to me and have a great day. Thank you both. A quick question. Which school districts are you in? Estamos en Portland Public School. Great. Estamos en Reynolds.
 Reynolds. Reynolds, right. And we're in David Douglas. So all three. That's really interesting. Yes. Yes. You do my heart good as being the old parent activist. I remember when I had similar trainings when my firstborn started kindergarten. I'm so happy that you're participating. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, well, that completes our testimony. And ready for a vote? Oh, I guess we should probably let... Is there any public testimony, Carla, on this item? No one else signed up. Very good. I call the roll. Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your continued leadership on this. And everybody who was here today, certainly the personal stories make it real and help us to understand why this program is so important. And with all the...
 Worries coming down from the federal government. It's good to know that Portlanders voted to tax ourselves to make these kinds of decisions.
 services available and when people say well you know the government wastes our property taxes actually look at what's being done in this program and it's it's an investment in this generation as well as the next generation so thank you for your leadership on it thank you to Portland's taxpayers for supporting this and I hope we'll continue to do it and expand it in the future. Hi. Fish. Thank you Commissioner Saltzman and thanks to our honored guests for sharing their testimonials today. Hi. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank our guests for being here and thank you for your patience. And you've demonstrated to us that this is money that's well invested in helping children to be safe and successful and to help you to be good parents and to work with good parents who are doing their best to raise their families. So thank you all for all the work you do.
 Wheeler. Well, we heard impressive testimony today that really gets at the human side, the human equation of the work that's done in this fund.
 And I also just want to point out, as having long ago served on the distribution committee as the then Baltimore County Chair, there are lots of discussions about making sure that we're prioritizing the right things, that we're investing the funds wisely, that we're keeping the administration under the 5% cap, as Commissioner Saltzman identified early on. And over the years, I've watched...
 and have been impressed with how this program has expanded and expanded responsibly and continues to be responsive to the highest needs in the community. And so I thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for keeping this on track year after year, and I thank everybody who came in and testified. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Now, colleagues, I'm going to do a little bit of skipping around here, so bear with me. I've had some requests here, and I want to take advantage of the fact that we have certain people in the room. I'd like to start with item 1302, please. Thank you.
 13.02, reappoint Kelly Sweeney, Laura Young, and Ron Schmidt to the Citizen Noise Advisory Committee for terms to expire October 2020. Colleagues, the CNAC was organized in 1998 as an official part of the Port of Portland Advisory Committee on Aircraft Noise Issues. Local jurisdictions in the Port of Portland appoint a 15-member committee.
 a committee of community members to represent residential and business concerns. Members develop ideas, recommend proposals, and partner with other committees to promote citizen understanding of airport noise issues.
 to tell us a little bit more about CNAC. I hope I'm saying that right. Do you guys call it CNAC? We do. That's what I thought. Okay, I just wanted to make sure I wasn't making that up. And the appointees today we have with us from the Port of Portland, Phil Stenstrom and Jerry Gerspach. We also have with us today our three reappointees, Kelly Sweeney, Laura Young, and Ron Schmidt. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you all for being here. I don't know if my fellow commissioners have any questions or if there's anything you'd like to say about your time. My only question is, Laura, how many hats do you actually wear? Many. I think you're going to set a record. It's just my day, my day in council. Well, needless to say, thank you for all the service you give us in so many different ways. Absolutely. Thank you.
 I want to thank you all for coming in, for being interested in serving on this committee, and particularly understanding that all of you know what you're getting into.
 as reappointments. This is a very important committee and we hear noise issues not only through our own noise control office but we also hear it directly from the folks who live in close proximity to the airport in particular but elsewhere and it serves a very important livability function in our community and by extension a public health function as well. So thank you for your service. I don't know if there's 30 seconds you want to add to the record.
 Mayor, my name is Ron Schmidt. I live on the only inhabited island in the entire city of Portland, which is right up there. It's Hayden Island. Just yesterday I had a business conversation in my floating home that was disrupted by aircraft noise. I moved here in 1987. Like most people in North Portland, we were aware of what we were moving into. Um,
 But we have three people here who I think have good balance. We know that there are issues in the city of Portland. There's infrastructure that no one wants in their backyard, whether it be airports or our sewage system in North Portland or whatever it might be. But I've been impressed by my colleagues with the balance that they've taken here.
 working with the Port of Portland, with the Oregon Air National Guard, and the fact that we do live in the area, we do believe in our city, and we do believe in commerce, I think will represent the citizens well and give a balance into the future. So we appreciate the reaffirmation. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
 If I could add one more point, Kelly Sweeney, a thousand yards south of the airport's tower in the Beaumont-Wilshire neighborhood, all three of us represent impacted noise areas, and that's why I think we're all wanting to reaffirm or get you guys to reaffirm our status because we're indebted to our neighbors to help get the noise acuum out to the public and vice versa back into the port of Portland. Thanks, and thanks for your interest in serving. Mayor, I move the report. Did you have anything to add, Laura?
 Thank you. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you not only for serving as a very important commissary, but also for being here today. I. Fish. Thank you very much for your service. Each of you is engaged in so many other endeavors, and so to have that expertise on this body is important. I used to live in the Grant Park, Beaumont, Wilshire neighborhoods, so the airplane noise was epically at night.
 when they did certain routes was very noticeable. It's interesting. I now rent an apartment in Goose Hollow, and I'm woken up every morning around 5 o'clock by the trains that run through the central east side blasting their horns, and the sound echoes actually off my building, which is Vista St. Clair, which is interesting. And since I happen to face south and east, I get woken up every morning at 5 o'clock.
 I'm not entirely sure why they have to blast the horn so robustly. I think maybe that's something we can look at on your agenda. But thank you very much for your service, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Thanks for agreeing to serve again. Aye. Wheeler. Well, I just want to share my appreciation. So many of these committees are dependent upon volunteers who want to step up and have a level of expertise and interest in the issue. And that...
 not only lends accountability to the process that you're engaged in, I think it's just fantastic that we have people who live here who want to be engaged at this level. So thank you again for your service. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. Thank you. Please call 1305.
 1305, accept bid of McClure and Sons, Inc. for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Renewable Natural Gas Facility Project for $9,679,676. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, the utilities have a lot of capital projects underway. We'll be...
 building a filtration plant just outside the Bull Run. We'll be doing a substantial upgrade to the Columbia Wastewater Facility plant. We'll be planting a new pipe under the Willamette River. We're working on two historic reservoirs and big projects. And given Congress's appetite for new regulations, who knows what lies in the future. But we have a lot of work going on.
 One of the projects that I'm especially proud of is before us today. This is the next big step in what we've called Poop to Power, a project that we brought to council a little while ago. And as you may recall, you authorized the Bureau of Environmental Services to move forward on a very innovative plan to convert the balance of our methane waste from the city's sewage treatment process into renewable natural gas.
 And to put it plainly, instead of burning that excess methane, which goes against all of our environmental principles and goals, as we have done, the city will capture this methane and convert it into clean fuel, taking us to 100% recovery. This project is a triple win for Portland. We're cutting greenhouse gas pollution. We're replacing dirty diesel used in trucks and generating. And most important, we have the potential to generate substantial revenue for our rate payers.
 The contract before us today will build out the core infrastructure to make the project possible. And with us today to give us a very brief presentation is Larry Pallat, Interim Chief Procurement Officer, and Paul Sudo, who's the manager of this project for BES and is going to give us just a little bit of historical background before Larry gives us the numbers. Welcome, Kip.
 Okay, good day. It's morning or afternoon right now. It seems like we're right on noon. Paul Sudo, I'm interim principal engineer with BES. So we are excited to come before you for this contract award. If you might recall, the project has kind of a three-pronged approach, building the facility at Columbia Boulevard to take our waste gas that's produced in breaking down the city's sewage
 into a renewable natural gas. That's what this contract is for. Then we have other two key parts. One is to have an actual fueling station at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant, so we can actually beneficially use this fuel locally. And then the other part is to connect to the Northwest Natural System, so we can distribute this fuel within the city, or even beyond the city's boundaries as a revenue source. So our kind of
 for that has been it's a fantastic revenue opportunity for the city. We're estimating about $3 million in net revenue per year in this project and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by about $21,000. So just briefly, we're on track with this contract award, and the fueling station at Columbia Boulevard is currently under construction. So we expect to have that operational by sometime in January. Thank you. Larry, welcome.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I believe this is the first time I've actually had a project that had the word poop in the title, but that's fine. I did catch your reference to brief. I will be. You have the procurement report before you recommending a contract with McClure and Sons for the facility $9,679,676.
 The engineer's estimate was $9 million. That makes this just about 6.8% over the engineer's estimate, which on something this new and this different probably is pretty good. Portland Bureau of Environmental Service and Procurement Service identified at our standard 20% goal. There is currently a total of $818,048, 8.45%.
 DMWSB certified subcontractor participation. It's lower than we like, but the work itself is very, very specialized. The makeup of the participation is a DBE at $683,718.
 One ESB at just short of $80,000, and MBE at $15,000, and W at just short of $40,000. McClure & Sons is located in Portland. They are not a state-certified DMWBS contractor, but they are in compliance with all of our contracting regulations. If you have questions about the process, I'd certainly be happy to answer them.
 Just one comment. I'm actually very pleased that there is so much money for electrical and something other. What we often get in these is simply just hauling or some other function. Very true. I will say this, colleagues.
 We do have a couple of projects in the pipeline, like with the Willamette River pipe, which are such highly specialized work in terms of who can do the work and under what circumstances, that it's going to put a strain on our MW and hitting our utilization goals. Not an excuse, and we'll continue to try to do better. But the more specialized the work, it's a little more complicated unless the prime contractor decides
 unless we are working with prime contractors that have done a better job developing those strategic partnerships in their work. And I think that is something, Larry, we need to continue to look at. I agree, Commissioner. And we are working at this, and we've had some conversations with McClure. In fact, McClure found this article.
 And ESB, which may or may not be a minority-owned firm, they found them on their own. The piping insulation piece at $80,000 wasn't even an identified area for subcontracting, so they are working at it, and we are having additional conversations with them to see if we can kind of maybe nudge this up in a couple of other areas. But as you mentioned, there really is very little in this of the standard trucking, hauling, grubbing kind of work. This is pretty specialized, certified firm work. It's good stuff. Thank you.
 So will there be opportunities or a requirement for apprenticeships as part of the cost of this? The workforce rules apply to this, yes, ma'am. So hopefully that will then train up folks, women and people of color, who might be then able to bid in the future. It does lend itself to that in the past...
 legislation by your group, the 1% fees and things is going to blend into that very nicely. Commissioner Fritz, I did a back-of-the-envelope rough estimate, and given the new guideline, the updated community benefits agreement that we've passed and the hard trigger above $25 million,
 We estimate that somewhere between $400 million and $500 million of projects are in the pipelines with the utilities. One of the reasons why we've asked the mayor to convene a very high-level group of people internally, CFO, CAO, people like that, so to make sure that we're really getting it right because it's going to mostly fall within the utilities in terms of implementation, and we want to be faithful to what the council has directed. Thank you.
 Thank you, gentlemen. More questions? No, we'll just see if there's any testimony. Any testimony on this item? This is a report. We don't set up a sign-up sheet. Very good. I'll take a motion. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Saltzman, a second from Fritz. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Thank you for the presentation. Commissioner Fish, if you have not already, I encourage you to trademark Poop to Power. I think like the Portland Blues who may be able to sell the concept elsewhere and cash it on it because it certainly catches the attention. And thank you for this really innovative program which I hope will capture the attention of the nation. Aye. Fish. Commissioner Fritz, I wish you hadn't said that because it was actually the inspiration of my then 12-year-old.
 I prefer not to share the proceeds with him. But we'll take this out of the official record. No need to tell Chapin. We're very proud, Mayor, to do our part to advance the climate action goals of the city. A lot of work had been done with methane gas. This is the last chapter of the stuff that was actually burned off. And the fact that we can use it to put clean renewable energy into our system and then sell it in the marketplace and generate a return for our rate payers
 It's really great. And as Larry said, you know, the low end is we're looking at maybe $3 million. But if the market for this resource stays strong, it could actually be substantially more than that. We're just not – we're being cautious in our estimates so we're not overselling. Thank you for your presentation, gentlemen. Aye. Saltzman.
 Yeah, this is great work, Commissioner Fish and BES and everybody else involved. I mean, it really is taking a resource that's otherwise causing climate change and putting it to a productive use for all of us. So good work. Aye. Wheeler? This is definitely number one for number two. I vote aye. The report is accepted.
 So we're skipping around here. I still think – I'm actually very optimistic. Can we go to 1303 next, please? Thank you, gentlemen. Is there something else? Well, there was 1306 right behind this, but – That's a Smart Park garage. That's not ours. You want to do 1306? Okay.
 P-Bot's here, and if it pleases you guys, it's great. You know what? You're sitting here. Let's go to 1306. We'll get to 1302 in a minute. Thank you. Thanks. 1306. Commissioners. Oh, sorry. Accept guaranteed maximum price of $17,885,767 from Balfour Beatty Construction LLC, doing business as Howard S. Wright for the construction of the 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage project. All right. Hello again, gentlemen. Hello.
 Good morning. Go ahead. I'll give the floor to Larry. Again, Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. Hopefully, again, the short version. This is the procurement report for the GMP contract to Howard S. Wright for the 10th and Yam Hill Smart Park Garage, $17,885,767. August 2016, you approved the ordinance for us to go out and do a competitive –
 an alternative contracting solicitation. We have done that. The proposals were received, evaluated by a five-member committee, including a member of the MEP program.
 Portland Bureau of Transportation and Procurement Services looked at our kind of standardized aspirational goal of 20%. PBOT increased that to 23%. Currently, there is an identified total of certified firm subcontracting at $3,510,866, which actually fully loaded up is at 24.76%.
 DBE at 82,000, ESB at 216,000, MBE at 1.4 million, and WB at just a little bit short of 2 million. Balfour Beatty, Howard S. Wright is located in Portland, Oregon. They are not a state-certified firm. They do have a current city of Portland business license and in compliance with all of our contracting requirements. Questions about the process? And I'd be happy to answer them. Otherwise, Dave Benson is here from Peabody.
 Good morning, Commissioner. I can give you some brief information if you'd like, or for respect to your time, I could just answer questions. I guess I would have one question. We've been...
 We've been getting a lot of community feedback on the 10th and Yamhill garage project about what potentially happens down the road to the commercial properties. And I assume that in accepting this report and moving forward with the construction, that is completely distinct from whatever Prosper Portland decides down the road in terms of the 10th. Yeah, one of the goals of the project, as you know, was to create a downtown retail hub with high-quality affordable spaces that,
 for local Portland brands and offer their wares in the central city. And so as part of that, we've engaged...
 and we're engaging in a mass release agreement with Prosper Portland so they can ensure that that happens and so there's access to these spaces by local brands. But just to be clear for the record, we're not settling that question today. This is simply for the construction. Yes, that's going to be an ongoing question moving forward. That is not settled here today. Thank you. I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Saltzman seconds. Please call the roll.
 Thank you for your work. Aye. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. Aye. Whelan. Aye. Thank you for your time. Call 1303, please.
 authorize a grant agreement with a Pano Communities United Fund not to exceed $100,000 to support a part of the capital campaign to build a cultural center and permanent home for a Pano. Colleagues, this is funding for a grant agreement that was passed earlier during this year's budget process for an affordable housing and community project in the Jade District for a Pano.
 This is a project that I believe the Council strongly supports. However, we have amended the agreement to clarify that APANO will report back to us the results of their investigation into allegations of discrimination, something that we as a Council take very seriously. I want to thank APANO for taking the right steps to address these allegations, and I want to ask Mr. Duncan Wong to tell us a little bit more about the project.
 Yes, and I, for the record, my name is Cara Cremasino, and I'll be standing in for a second. Very good. Thank you. I appreciate that. You're welcome. Yeah, thank you. Good afternoon. So my name is Cara Cremasino. I'm sorry to interrupt. I just remembered something as well. A little bit of house cleaning before we get to this. I need a motion to substitute the exhibit. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll on the substitute. And this is to add that extra close? This is to fix Exhibit A. Okay.
 To be clear, we're just conforming the grant agreement to our existing city policies and setting up a reporting requirement. And I joined the mayor in complimenting Apano for hiring Lisa D'Azono to do an investigation and then report back to the community. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. All right. The substitute is accepted. Sorry to interrupt. I apologize. No problem. Good afternoon. My name is Cara Cremasino. I'm here with my colleague, Colin Crater, and our board member, Gene Yamamoto, who will also be available to answer questions. And we will be brief in our presentation.
 So I currently work as the Director of Programs at Opono Communities United Fund. I also live just east of the Jade District in Lentz, so I see every day the pressures facing these neighborhoods as public and private investments set the stage for rapid change. And as we all know, 82nd Avenue, where the Jade District is located, is on the forefront of this change.
 So we're really here today to thank you for your investment in the Roots to Rise campaign, which will support a 48-unit affordable housing complex on the corner of 82nd and Division, as well as a community cultural center on the first floor.
 This development is the result of four years of community-led planning and multilingual outreach. At the current site is the old furniture store, which APANO has been operating as a de facto cultural center for the past few years. In just the last year, we've had 25,000 people come to the building for various events, illustrating the need for a community center in the area that's permanent.
 When we talk about neighborhood investments, I want to be clear about what they mean to us. They're not just the streets, but the people who cross them, not just the businesses in the area owned by immigrant families, but the communities that they anchor in place. Likewise, this is not just an investment in a building, but the people who will inhabit it.
 People like Jessica, a tenant in the neighborhood who recently spoke at our groundbreaking, who sees this project as one solution to reduce some of her worries about being able to afford to stay in the neighborhood if her rent in her current building increases.
 When completed, this building will be a safe space for neighbors to gather to organize, plan, and be in community, just as people dreamed about four years ago during the community visioning process. The space will continue to house cultural events and community gatherings. It will also be a hub for crucial community services. This will include tenant protection services in partnership with the Community Alliance of Tenants and workforce navigation services in partnership with Southeast Works.
 Small immigrant-owned businesses will also have support through the Prosper Portland Inclusive Business Network. So it's really not just a building, but what that building makes possible. Family stability, community, art, learning, leadership, entrepreneurship, access to resources, and community connections. We know there's no magic bullet for addressing problems that residents face throughout East Portland, but we can begin to address these issues together, guided by community vision. Thank you for your support. Thank you.
 Oh, sure. My name is Jean Yamamoto, and I am a member of the APANO and the APANO Communities United Fund. We take very seriously some of the allegations on discrimination, and we do have a process in place to take in
 Any concerns with the staff, which goes to the executive director, if there are concerns about the board, then that goes to the board chairs. The extra step that we've taken in hiring an outside independent community liaison, Elisa Dozono, is something we put in place because we take the allegations very, very seriously. Thank you.
 As a board, we do have an obligation, a responsibility, to ensure that the governance of APANO is strong and that we have oversight over the executive director and his actions. And so we have opened up this separate process with Elisa Dozono to not only take in community concerns and issues, but she also is charged with reaching out to those who have already expressed some concerns
 She will be conducting a full investigation, including interviews, review of our internal policies and procedures, and make recommendations in a report to the board in an executive session in January.
 We have been asked about why this is such a quick process and we felt that there is an urgency to complete the investigation. So she will be accepting input from the community through the end of December.
 preparing the report in January and reporting back to the board by the end of January. Excellent. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. One more thing I'd like to add is that the board does not have any preconceived or predetermined outcomes of this report. We are open to any and all recommendations, and we will take appropriate action.
 Thank you. That's exactly the right attitude to have, so thank you for that. Good morning. Good afternoon. Yes. Just for the sake of time, I'm just going to give a brief update on the capital campaign status on the financial side. So we're about to close on the cold shell, which is basically the foundation and the walls. Tenant improvements come later.
 And that's $1.2 million that we're ready to write as a check within the next week or so. And we're very excited to move forward on the project. For the total construction cost for the capital campaign will be roughly $2.1 million. And so currently, we have about $1.5 million in commitments.
 coming up soon, and another 1 million or so in current outstanding asks to funders and community partners. So if you have any more questions, I'm more than happy to answer them or field them as best as I can.
 Just a quick question. Where is the Pano going to be located while the building is being done? So currently we are located still in our current offices. And so the Jade Pano Multicultural Space is that furniture store. So it's two separate sites. And so the redevelopment is on that current furniture store on the 2nd. So it doesn't disrupt our current operations.
 What it does disrupt is the accessibility of that space during the construction period, and so we're looking into alternative resources to support the community in that regard. Thank you for reminding me. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much.
 I just want to comment on the next step that you're taking in terms of the investigation. You know, Apano is very highly regarded by this city, and it's reflected in the appropriation that was in the mayor's budget, the special appropriation, and then the additional resources. And Commissioner Daly is not here, but she was also very obviously a strong supporter of this grant. Okay.
 We have a process in place under what's called 2.02. It's the city policy that governs alleged workplace misconduct. I urge you to take a look at that because one of the things that your outside counsel is going to do is determine the adequacy of your existing policies and procedures. Okay.
 And one of the testifiers noted that staff complaints and concerns will be reported to the executive director. One of the things that 2.02 makes clear is that there has to be multiple layers of opt-out. I'm not saying that there's a specific, I don't know whether there's a specific concern about the executive director, but someone has to have the option of going to someone else.
 if they choose to, and 2.02 is the most comprehensive policy of its kind of any municipality. So I urge you to take a look at that. I appreciate that the report you're going to get from Ms. D'Azono,
 distinguished lawyer from a distinguished family, will go to the board on executive session. I'm hoping that a version of that report that takes out anything that would otherwise violate privacy rights of people who have brought complaints, because that has to be balanced very carefully, but
 But that portion of the report that addresses your policies, your procedures, what you've learned, the remedial steps you're going to take, if any, I think that is exactly what the council would want to see coming out of APANO and how you address this matter. And, you know, this is a timely issue, and we are all learning new things about these issues. And I want to say I'm pleased that you're dealing with it in a forthright way and in a public way.
 And we look forward to the report. Yes, thank you very much for that. And may I clarify as well, the report that Ms. Lozono will be presenting to the board is the first step. And that is pretty much the fact-finding piece of this and a recommendation for, you know, which does the review of our personnel policies and other procedures in place.
 She will then be recommending other action steps, which we will be considering. We are also very committed to hearing the voices of our community, and so there will be a...
 another step taking to open it up for a process that will restore the trust back in Napano and to make sure that all voices are heard equally and give people the opportunity to come back together
 That sounds great. And, again, just to be clear about what our requirement is, in the grant agreement, we're going to need a report to show compliance with the nondiscrimination provisions and the contractual requirements, and you're well underway in taking a very bold step towards that end. Thank you. Understood. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Ms. Colin Crater, is that? Those three names are us. I'm Colin. Very good. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. It's a very exciting project. That's what we've got to focus on. This money is going to help the community in building that center. So thank you. Aye. Fish. Thank you for being here today. Aye. Sol. Yeah, this is a great project. Good location for the community, but also much needed affordable housing too. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The grant agreement's approved. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. I'm told 1301 and 1314 will not take very long, so let's go ahead and call 1301 and 1314, please. Okay.
 1301, authorize contribution to the Northwest Transportation Fund to satisfy requirements found in Portland Zoning Code and qualify for a floor area office use bonus for the ESCO property prior to submittal of a land use review application or building plans. And 1314, amend the boundary of the Northwest 20th Avenue local improvement district
 District to accept $500,000 in funding from ESCO Corporation include and assess property at 2141 Northwest 25th Avenue to fund traffic signal replacement and intersection improvements to the Northwest 23rd Avenue and Northwest Vaughn Street and U.S. Highway 30 intersection.
 Very good. And before you begin, I want to ask legal counsel a question that you can think about. Obviously, 1301 is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance, and the appropriate action at the end of this is to move it to second reading.
 uh 1314 is indicated as a hearing ordinance and i just want to make sure that rather do we take a provisional vote on that or do we also move that to second reading and i don't need an answer right now but when we get to the end of this if you could let me know i'd appreciate it thank you mayor wheeler i'm andrew abbey local improvement district administrator joining me today is
 Matt Wickstrom with the Bureau of Development Services. Thank you. So I think the intent, and I'll defer to Council on this, was just to simply have first readings on both and then pass them to a second reading next week. We had 40 minutes allocated on the Council agenda for both agenda items. I'm going to aim to try to wrap it up much closer to 40 seconds. So we did not receive any remonstrances against the expanded LID boundary, and I just passed out a letter of support.
 the Carla from Esco Corporation. They're pleased to be part of this. Just very quickly, the business case for this is that we're working very hard to try to keep the Northwest 20th Avenue LID within budget. Council approved a traffic signal replacement this summer, and the additional funding from Esco allows us, when we're tearing up a very high-profile intersection like the off-ramp from Highway 30, it allows us...
 to fully complete the improvements in one fell swoop and not leave something undone so that when ESCO might come in the door later to redevelop, that they would be conditioned to make further intersection improvements to that intersection where we already have a lot of delays. So it's just basically front-loading a little bit of ESCO money so we can get the intersection done properly first time around. As Matt will share with you, this doesn't...
 waive any land use requirements or anything of that nature. It's just a pre-funding of the infrastructure improvements. The one amendment that I would like council to consider is I was wondering if we could just simply on agenda item 13-01 append the auditor project number.
 to the ordinance title to make it a little easier to pull up that ordinance after it's adopted by council. So that would just simply be appending the C-10049 auditor project number, which is already on agenda item 1314. So if that would meet with the pleasure of council, it would be good to amend. I'll move that amendment. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll on the amendment.
 Fritz? That's a very good amendment. Thank you. Aye. Ish? Aye. Salter? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Mayor, can I just make an observation? Yes. We have a letter before us here from Christy White, a noted attorney, and I'm looking at her signature on the letter, and it actually reminded me, it looks like a series of curlicues. There is no discernible definition here. I could not make out her name.
 But I also just saw a formal document the mayor signed that looked like a fence holding back the beach. It had a series of vertical lines, but they didn't seem to have any relationship to each other. And they had a curl at the end. So I think Christy White and the mayor could have a competition for the most creative use of signatures. Sure.
 So Commissioner Fish has actually gotten to a really interesting trivia matter. I actually don't sign the documents Ted Wheeler. I sign them Edward Wheeler because that's how I learned how to sign.
 And so even though my official title and name is Ted Wheeler, I actually am signing it differently. And that's why the letters look different. That's my excuse at any rate. Sounds great. I don't mean to rain on your parade mirror, but I couldn't discern a Ted or an Ed. It's pretty awful. Just look like a series of sticks arranged sideways.
 You can always tell when we're over three hours into the hearing, can't you? Mayor, I would be happy to buy both you and Christy some Arby's Curly Q French Fries. That would be fantastic. So moving back to the matter at hand.
 Are we prejudging whether the land use application will be approved or not? No, that's a good question. And there's a line in the ordinance that says that there's no guarantee that the land use application would be approved. And what happens if it's not? If it's not, then the ordinance also specifies that the funds can go toward other parties.
 improvements that would be required as part of the project. Under the current zoning? Exactly. And I should also point out that 1301 spelled out all the frontage improvements to which ESCO may be subject to in the future. So that's clearly spelled out. And I think NWDA, if I may say so, really liked the perspective guidance. You know, everybody's going into this with some guidance before the redevelopment happens and just sort of, I think, helps set the stage for a more successful transportation and land use process down the line.
 And is the land use, is the zone change coming through the quasi-judicial process or through the comprehensive plan? So the comprehensive plan update is changing the comprehensive plan designation, and then the actual zoning map would be changed through a quasi-judicial process. Thank you very much. Any public testimony on these items?
 No one signed it. Legal counsel, did you come to a concurrence that these both move to second reading? So these are both non-emergencies and would pass the second reading at a date and time to be determined. Very good. So for item 1301, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 1314 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance.
 Ordinance, it also moves to second reading. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. And our last bit of business today is also a second reading. Could you please call item 1304?
 authorized disposal of surplus Taser X26 electronic control weapons, holsters, cartridges, and batteries, and authorized the Portland Police Bureau to proceed with donation and or sale of the property. Colleagues, this is an item which we had taken up previously. We received extensive public testimony on this. Unless there's other questions, I'll call the question.
 Is there anything else you'd like to say, sir? Commissioner Fritz had asked if any parts were recyclable if we destroyed them, and I contacted Axon, and they said no, just the manufacturing process. The internals are bonded to the external part of the handle, and it's just...
 They did offer that we could ship them back at our expense and they would dispose of them. How generous. Well, thank you for finding out. I really appreciate that. The only other issue was there was some concern about what happens to them after we donate them if council approves. We can certainly add language to our hold harmless that at the completion of the service life of the handle, they will be destroyed or disposed of appropriately. Or just destroyed. Just destroyed. Thank you very much.
 Very good. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for being here today and for being patient. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks for your patience in being here. Thank you, counsel. The ordinance is approved. With that, we are adjourned until 2 p.m. That's pretty impressive. Five minutes over. Well done. Not bad.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, December 6th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. Carla, could you please read items 1307 through 1310? Okay.
 13.07, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan, Volume 2A, Part 3, Environmental and Scenic. Amend the Portland Zoning Map and Portland Zoning Codes for environmental overlay zones and scenic resource zones. Thank you, sir.
 13.08, adopt the Central City 2035 plan, amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, transportation system plan, Willamette Greenway plan, Willamette River Greenway inventory, scenic resources protection plan, zoning map, and Title 33, repeal and replace prior Central City plans and documents. 13.05.
 13.09, adopt the Central City 2035 plan action charts, performance targets, and urban design diagrams. And 13.10, adopt the Central City 2035 green loop concept report. Colleagues, today is a continuation of the Central City 2035 matter. The Central City will be the first amendment to the new comprehensive plan.
 As I'm sure you all recall, we've held public hearings and took testimony on Central City 2035 on September 7th, 14th, and 20th. We held deliberation sessions on October 18th and November 29th. All the items that we moved and seconded during those days will be in the amendments report that's going to be a subject of a public hearing here on January 18th.
 Today, we're going to continue to discuss items of interest to council members and decide if we want to move and second additional amendments to include in the amendments report. There will be no public testimony today. And just as a reminder for those of you who are following this process, and I know there's many, the public record is currently closed. That means we are not accepting written testimony at this point either.
 The record will open up again on January 5th in preparation to the January 18th public hearing on the Central City 2035 Amendment Report. And Sally, I assume you'll want to walk us through today's agenda.
 Yes, thank you very much, Mayor and members of City Council. We've organized the agenda today into two parts, just as we did last time. The first part includes items that staff believes that Council should discuss or Council has indicated that they would like to discuss. And the second part of the agenda is a package of amendments that we believe are minor or technical amendments that Council could move and second as a package.
 So before we go further, I'm just hoping that council can let us know if there are any items on that list of technical amendments that they'd like to pull for discussion. But there's one other item that we were hoping to pull back into that minor and technical group, and that is parking and loading on Southwest First. That's item...
 N-1, we were hoping to include as part of that package. So, Council, looking at the blue page, are there any of those items that you'd like to discuss or that you're comfortable moving and seconding, or are you comfortable just moving and seconding those items as a group? Give me one sec, Mayor. Yeah, it's right before the fold that there's a blue sheet.
 and it's listed as amendments and discussion items, and the exception being, of course, N1 is down to the minor and technical amendments. And that's N1 you wanted to move into that, is that correct? Yes, please. Yes, I'm fine with that. Me too. Do you have a motion to move the minor? First of all, we need a motion and a second to accept the amendments and discussion items. Is that correct? That's correct. That moved. The blue one.
 Do I have a second? Are you moving on the parking? Just the amendments and discussion items. Oh, okay, okay. Second. So we have a motion and a second for the discussion items. Do I have a motion to move the minor and technical amendments package? Including N1, yes. I have a comment. Second. Second.
 So we have a motion and a second on the minor and technical amendments package, including N1. Okay. So now those items that have been moved and seconded will be moved to the amendments report that's going to be a subject of the January 18th hearing. Okay. That's great. So we will follow the same process we've done in the past, and staff will introduce the items.
 And most of the items on the agenda today are actual proposed amendments. They're just a few discussion-only items. And then once staff gives a presentation, the council member who sponsored it can begin the discussion. And just to be clear, as per usual, if there's no second, the proposed amendment will not be part of the amendments discussion.
 package that will be provided to us on January 18th. Mayor, can I address that for a second? Yes. Because that's a slightly different process than we normally follow, and I just want to offer the public my perspective on that. By seconding an item, we are ensuring that we will have a further conversation about the item. Thank you.
 We are not signaling that there is council support for the item. We are not locking in future action. And my view, having watched this unfold for a while, is that if one of my colleagues...
 strongly is interested in further assessment of an item, I think it is good form to second it for the purpose of having a further discussion. But that does not mean that either the second or the rest of the Council is in accord with the direction of that policy. It just means
 We want to have further discussion. I think that's important that people hear because I think it comes close to being disrespectful not to push forward to the next phase, something that one of my colleagues thinks is of sufficient importance that they want to have follow-up, further discussion. That's just how I look at it.
 Yeah, and Commissioner Fish, I'd like to agree with that philosophy. And sometimes there are conversations that we need to have where people want to ask for more information. So I certainly concur with your viewpoint. So we're not necessarily – we're now looking at what we have in our packets as these very large –
 foldouts. We are not going to go through them exactly in order. So we're going to start with the table C items. Those are the scenic view items. We've had a lot of discussions about resources, scenic resources in the central city, views of Mount Hood, Mount St. Helens, and the city's skyline have been discussed, and they certainly contribute to our city's identity. And there has been a
 Strong consensus that protecting many of those views is important for future generations. We obviously need to balance protecting views against our city's stated objectives around housing, jobs, and transportation as well. So not all 153 views that cross the central city balance.
 can necessarily be protected given that. Personally, I'm committing to finding the best mix possible that we can so that residents, employees, and visitors all have access to what I believe are some fairly unique views to our community. So, Mindy, I guess you're going to start off our conversation today with regard to the C items. Yes, good afternoon, Commissioners. Mindy Brooks, Planning and Sustainability. We've just got two items to discuss today.
 The first one is a view of the city skyline from Sullivan's Gulch. This is an existing viewpoint on the 12th Avenue overpass over I-84. There are height limits today that have been in place since 1991 to protect this view. Okay.
 And the staff recommendation from Planning and Sustainability Commission is to move the viewpoint from 12th Avenue to a yet-to-be-constructed bike and pedestrian bridge that will be between 7th and 8th about, and then move the viewpoint and the heights accordingly. At the October session, there was a concept proposed to retain the existing viewpoint and the existing heights.
 And then based on additional conversations with Commissioner Saltzman's staff, we have looked at three different options, which are the three in front of you and I'm going to walk you through them. Before I walk through them, I just want to point out, on the screen they're also in your packet if you want to, you know, fold them out and mark them. The gray dashed area is the full area where change could be considered and there are different mixes within that gray dashed area.
 So option one is the recommendation that came forward. This moves the viewpoint to the new alignment of the bridge, and it puts the viewpoint in the center of that alignment and changes the heights accordingly. Option two is the existing heights that are in place now. So it would keep the viewpoint at 12th Avenue where it is now and keep the heights as they are today.
 And then option three is to move to the new bike-ped bridge alignment, but move the viewpoint slightly south of center. And that'll change how the properties are impacted. So let me show that. So this is an image that shows all three of those options on top of each other. The red line, or maybe it's kind of brown on the screen now, but the red outline is the existing view corridor with the existing heights.
 The blue is the recommended view, which is the center line of the new alignment, and the yellow is the alternative, which shifts the viewpoint to the south of the alignment. And what I want to point out, first, by moving it from 12th to the new overpass, less of the properties on the north side are impacted, more to the south are impacted by the view corridor. Okay.
 But between the two options, the blue and the yellow, the blue has more impacts to northern properties, and the yellow has more impacts to the southern properties there. And the reason why staff chose the center line is because we don't know where a bump out of viewpoint would be designed on this new bridge. It hasn't been designed yet. And so we figured center is a good place to start from, and we can make adjustments later after there is a viewpoint.
 I want to point out on this, and maybe my cursor will work a little bit. Yeah. So this line here, this blue line that I'm, hopefully you can see that, is where the recommendation is. The yellow line is the new. So there are a number of properties that have never had height limits that if we choose option three would have height limits applied to them.
 But none of the properties that are currently developed would interfere with the views in any of those books or not? We have tried very hard to avoid, to make this based on what the development looks like now. To the extent that we can, things keep developing, so we keep working on it. But we're trying to avoid properties that are already fully developed at a height. Okay.
 So I'm going to take it back to just this. I can flip back and forth if you want to see the other one. But these are the three options, again, set against themselves. And I will turn it over to you, Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you. So I do support the relocating the viewpoint to the new bridge, 7th Avenue Bridge, I guess I'll call it, and shifting the point of measurement to the south.
 So it was my understanding that if we did that, we would not impact southern properties any more than they are impacted by the current viewshed, though. So I was a little perplexed by your coloring diagram there. Yeah, they would be. They would be impacted, so it's not the same as lining up on the blue line. It's not. So if you shift the whole viewpoint –
 from the center to the south, then that bottom line is where the view would come across the properties. So it does have more impact on the properties on the south to shift it that way. Could you go back to the last slide, options one, two, and three? So Commissioner Saltzman, is the proposal you're discussing now option three, the alternate view? Yes.
 I believe that is option three. Okay. That is option three. That is option three. Okay. One of the things that's hard to assess, the next slide, if we can go forward, that does a really good job visually showing us the impact, but it doesn't really tell us what the true impact is because we don't have information about the underlying zoning intentions. Okay.
 with regard to the impacted property. So what is your guidance to us for how we make this decision since, again, you've done a very good job showing us the impact of the, I mean, visually how the sight line would change, but it doesn't really give us information about how it would impact future development or existing property owners. Sure. So staff recommendation would be to leave it at the center for now and
 which would be the blue area with the blue line. That has been the proposal all along, so all the property owners that were impacted by that have been noticed and have had an opportunity to come forward. When the design is done for this bridge, and I understand that it is moving along, the new bridge will be coming along, once we know where a viewpoint will actually be designed, we can make changes to this. We can come back.
 and actually change it based on the view, the actual viewpoint and view itself. So that would be the recommendation. And my only concern with the alternative view currently is what Dan alluded to a second ago, which is the expanded impact on properties and not knowing really what is the consequence of that. Right. Although in looking at the properties, if I'm not mistaken, that –
 big shaded area, Northeast 3rd and Burnside, wouldn't that be the building that was just built, the high-rise there? So, I mean, there's nothing we can do that's going to impact its height. Right. Are you referring to the Yards building? The Yards, right. I think that's what that big block is there. Right there. Yeah, right there. 20.
 Right. This right here, this edge, where my, can you see the cursor? Right. That is the edge. So the, even moving it to the south, the yards building would be just outside of the view. Okay. And that was intentional when we drew it to begin with because the yards building blocks that side of the view. So we wouldn't want to include. Right. Where's Hooper Detox on this, just to be clear?
 I'm not sure. Let me ask. Between Cooch and Berkside. Bert? Okay. Okay, so it would, a bit of. So that's out. Yeah, okay. That would be outside. This is Cooch. This is Berkside. Move a little north from there for a second on your cursor. Keep going. What's that building? Because that's clearly impacted by the expansion. That's Stark. Maybe Stark Vacuum? No. No. They're on the west side, I think.
 on the West Side Davis. Well, maybe you're right. Well, I think that, you know, I guess the point I was trying to make is, and maybe it's the wrong point, but it looked like maybe a lot of these properties have already been redeveloped. They're already at their new heights. They're not likely to be impacted. But if that's not a true statement, then maybe we should carry it forward. I guess I just, I'm reluctant to sort of leave uncertain for a long period of time where that viewshed is going to fall because that does, you know, people don't like uncertainty. Okay.
 property owners don't like uncertainty. I'm not sure what the process... I know the 7th Avenue Bridge is under discussion and all that, and it's been funded by this council, so it may be relatively quick. I'd like to see us carry this forward to a January 18th discussion and vote. My homework assignment would be to find out more about the schedule for the 7th Avenue Bridge and when we could actually...
 But I do think the 7th Avenue Bridge is the best point to measure the viewshed from. It's just a question of whether we move it south. And, Dan, may I ask, may I add a homework assignment? Yeah. Could we get an annotated map with the impacted properties? And just let us know, because there could be some winners and losers here, and I'd just like to know how it works. So let me just be clear, Commissioner Salzman, you are recommending option three. Right. And Commissioner Fish, you were asking for when we come back,
 to you with the hearing that we bring you. Well, in advance of that, bring you the information. Or detailed information that was impacted by the different quarter. Do you want to forward that as an amendment then for discussion?
 Yeah, and I guess I just don't want to foreclose moving the viewpoint south. Very good. Then let's go ahead and move that. And is there a second? Second. Okay, it's moved by Commissioner Saltzman, second by Commissioner Fish. Moving on to the next one, Mindy, I believe that's C7, the view from Upper Hall. Yes. And I believe that's just being offered up as a discussion item as opposed to anybody proper to.
 Correct. So this is the view from Upper Hall. As you can see on the screen, it's a panoramic view of all three area mountains and the Central City skyline itself. This is actually one of two locations in the Central City where you can see Mount Adams and where we protect the view of Mount Adams. The other is from the Rose Garden where we protect this view. The testimony, or the, I'm sorry, the...
 The maps on the screen here are the existing and the recommended heights. And so the recommendation was to leave the base height alone, but that the bonus height would need to come from 460 to 410 in order to be protective of that view of Mount Adams. And I think I'll leave it there unless if there are questions about that. Thank you.
 And that is the block where the food carts are presently located on 10th and Yamhill? Yes. So they're recommended maximum heights, but you're not asking us to do anything on that? There was no amendment offered. There was just a request that we discuss this one. 410 is what's already proposed? Yes. Okay. Yep. That is what is proposed is reducing the bonus height from 460 to 410 to protect this view.
 Can I ask a question that's not necessarily related to the zoning question? The view you showed us on Upper Hall, where is that from? Is that from a sidewalk? It is. And is that view in any way protected from adjacent private property owners? No.
 Do you mean from development? Yes. That would block it from adjacent property? Yes, I should have said protected by as opposed to protected from. Yes, it is. Today that is a protected view. There's actually a height limit just in front of the view that doesn't extend very far. It's a 30-foot height limit that protects the immediate view itself. Most of it is actually right-of-way because Upper Hall is a hairpin turn. So a lot of that height limit is actually sitting on right-of-way. Okay. So I'll just throw out a marker for further discussion that has nothing to do with zoning, and that is...
 sometimes I trudge up that thing on my bike. People have gotten very, very creative with plantings in order to block those views from the public. And if we are going to take the time, energy, and resources to protect these views as a public asset, then we need to talk about planting strategies. Absolutely. I didn't even know you could get those things to grow 30 feet tall, but...
 People have managed to figure it out. All right, so. I have one question on this, on the recommended height. The two properties to the east, are those the two structures which are now being renovated to hotels? Is that one of those, the historic building on the corner, and the other one, the building that used to be office, but they're both now being turned into hotels? Am I in the right place?
 The Woodlark. Woodlark building. I'm seeing general nods from my colleagues. And those are being renovated. One of them is a historic structure. They're being renovated. So they're not actually going to be built anytime soon. Above, we're just talking about the empty lot. Right. And a modest reduction to protect the view corridor. Correct. Okay. Very good. Okay. So we don't need an amendment on that item. We're going to shift gears and go over to Item E-1.
 This is Volunteers of America. Troy, I believe you're going to give us some background on this one. Thank you.
 I am, Mayor. I'm Troy Doss with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. You may recall that when we were taking public testimony, the Volunteers of America came in and they requested that there be a zone change for a property they own in the Central East Side. The property is currently zoned IG1. It's an industrial zone. It actually falls in the industrial sanctuary classification. But on that site is a preexisting woman's treatment center that's been there really since the 1930s, and then daycare was added there.
 approximately 1990s. They'd like to redevelop the site with the same use and expand it, modernize it, but the current zoning does not allow for that. So their request was, can we rezone it to EX, which is a mixed-use zone, and would remove it from the industrial classification. Okay.
 The Central Eastside Industrial Council was concerned about the loss of industrial land there. We tend to agree with them on that. And so we were directed to try to find a way to allow the use in this situation that wouldn't completely change the Bay Zone. So what we've done is we've proposed...
 an amendment for the Central East side that basically would say, if you're an established existing use in the Central East side, and you already have group living, community service, or daycare uses, you can redevelop on site. And you can redevelop to a FAR floor area ratio of three to one. That gives them approximately 120,000 square feet of development potential. It's consistent with the current plan
 approach towards industrial office uses in the district, and Volunteers of America said this would work perfectly for them, and it's consistent with the direction that the Central Eastside Industrial Council has asked us to go. This would be as of right, so it's not a conditional use? As of right. So it's not subject to a 10-year renewal? No. Okay.
 if you follow these guidelines, unless you discontinue the process. If you discontinue, then we'd go back to the industrial use classifications primarily. They'd have to go through that process. You know, just by way of history, Volunteers of America acquired a lot of property in this corridor at a time when it wasn't deemed to be very attractive. You know, it was not the most valuable dirt in the city, but from donors and people through their estates who gave land. So they have some sites. Yes.
 And they held on to them, and now, of course, it's a very desirable area with access to transit. So I think that's why there's strong sentiment on the council to allow them to develop a public benefit like this.
 So I'll turn this back over to the mayor, I believe. Well, very good. Certainly I'll move it. Second. We have a motion and a second, so we'll continue that. I believe we're all very supportive of this, and I want to thank you for working with the Central Eastside Industrial Group to forge what I think is a really common-sense proposal here. VOA has done a lot of great work in the community over the decades, and we certainly want to see that continuing.
 It's also a brilliant solution. Well done. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Next up is Table M, South Waterfront. Troy, can you walk us through the potential amendment? Yeah, this one, there was a request from Zydel. They're putting a master plan together for the Zydel yards. And one of the things that this proposal and eventually OHSU is probably likely to find as well is
 When we adopted the South Waterfront Plan, we established a greenway setback, and we do want development to be set back from that. But on top of that, there was a height setback that was applied. And when you look at how it's applied to the district, it works really well when you're measuring east to west from the edge of the greenway setback.
 But when you look at how the Greenway comes in around the barge facility, it really starts to impact properties much further into the district, and it affects three primary development parcels, two of which are currently in play. So what they had asked is that we find an approach that would allow them to go forward. What we've proposed is that although we would maintain the Greenway setback exactly where it is and around the bargeway, we would straighten the line for the height setback so that really –
 You still have a setback for development, but in terms of taller buildings, in this case 150 feet as opposed to 125 feet, they would not be affected by this provision. What's the difference between the two slides? Okay.
 The one to the left is showing how the height setback is kind of following the contours of the districts along the top of the bank that's more associated with the Greenway setback. And what we've done is we've straightened that line out to be more specific to just height. Again, the Greenway setback has remained. So what you see on the left is really showing that setback. On the right, you're seeing what would be the height setback. It's hard to see, but there's sort of a little divot
 about halfway down on the left there. What that represents is the bottom of their spillway, and that's why it dipped in the way it did. It does, and in fact, you see another one that comes up here, and that reflects actually an old culvert that used to be in the Greenway that's no longer there. It's been restored. But anyway, we were showing...
 We were contouring it based on the contours we had in 2003. Things have changed. Regardless for this situation, though, going in around the bargeway itself, and if you apply that same logic, it really starts to push back into development much further into the district than was anticipated. Thank you.
 So we recommend just straightening the height setback, leaving the rest of it the same. Well, I like this solution. I think it's a good solution to the height issue without complicating the south waterfront setback issue, which the Greenway requirements, which this council obviously supports. So I'd certainly like to move this as an amendment. Second. A motion and a second. Any further discussion on this item?
 Very good. Moving on to 01, flexible building design policy. Troy, can you walk us through the amendments? Yes. There was discussion and testimony regarding primarily focused on parking structures. If we have city-owned parking structures that are developed,
 Can we create them in such a way that they can be repurposed later on for other uses? This started to strike a chord. We remember other people saying this during the development of the concept plan several years back, saying, well, why not have that similar approach to all buildings, really, to the extent possible? So rather than creating a policy statement that really focuses exclusively on parking structures, we put this together that says we want to encourage building flexibility for any structure,
 including parking structures, so that they might be repurposed over time. Well, I think you biased the conversation by showing a photograph of that particular structure. I'll certainly move this as an amendment if there's a second. Second. Great. We have lots of interest. Next up is 02, the Green Loop Resolution. Mark, do you want to come up and join us, please? Thanks, Troy. Thanks, Mayor, Commissioners. Okay.
 So this amendment came out of testimony we received on the Green Loop resolution, specifically from a letter from the Climate Justice Collaborative, and thinking more broadly about...
 the city-wide system of city greenways and the comprehensive plan and how to sort of forward other projects around the community. So the Green Loop is definitely part of a system of the city greenways throughout the city. We've been working a lot with the Lents community, Green Lents, and forwarding Lents Green Ring specifically. And we'd like to also add some other projects to think about city-wide, not just in Lents, but also in North Portland and
 potentially in the Sullivan's Gulch Trail as well. This amendment would sort of give the authorization to city staff to kind of raise their level of engagement, sort of citywide, to kind of forward these kinds of projects. It's a holistic sort of effort to improve parkways and these greenways throughout the city. As we work on the Green Loop, we can forward other initiatives as well. So that's sort of the bulk of this amendment. Mayor, if I could just make a comment. I'm going to support this, but I think it's redundant for a couple reasons. One is...
 We're doing Central City 2035, and if we take this to its extreme, everything that we're doing in 2035, someone could say, well, we want some consideration for something outside of Central City. And by definition, we are limited in our focus to the Central City. Number two –
 This says we're authorizing people to work with community partners. I don't want there to be any doubt that we are currently engaged in those conversations. In fact, the North Portland Greenway has been a longstanding priority of this council. Completing the 40-mile loop, figuring out this vision, linking it to Sullivan's Gulch. I mean, these are all bedrock city policies. So I just want to say I'm happy to support this, but...
 Technically, we're talking about Central City 2035, and I think we shouldn't just take each of these up each time because some group feels like we haven't given adequate weight to something that's beyond the scope of the project. But I don't want the quote, you are authorized to work with the community, to be interpreted as we're not already working with the community. These are things that the council is deeply committed to.
 and we technically don't need an amendment to reaffirm what we're already doing. Could we do a friendly rewording of this? Because I'm compelled by what Commissioner Fish just said. Could we say are authorized to continue to?
 Because I agree with you. This sounds like we're starting something new, but in fact we're continuing an established policy. We're clarifying it and codifying it in the 2035 plan. But Commissioner Fish is right. If somebody just picks this up and reads it, one could get the impression we're just starting from scratch, and we most certainly are not. Is that acceptable to everybody to make that wording change? And I think the legislative history is now clearer about –
 Again, I don't think it's necessary, but I'm happy to second it. Good. Then I'll move it. Great. Very good. Parking. Mauricio, do you want to come up and walk us through some of the proposed amendments with regard to parking? Yes. Mauricio Leclerc with PBOT. Let's see. We have two. Okay.
 N2 and N3, so jumping right in. The first one, we owe our thanks to our staff at BDS and BPS. They highlighted the potential loophole and a way in which our intended loss may backfire on us. So basically, we define surface parking a certain way.
 And since the 70s, we've been trying to minimize the amount of surface parking, and we regulate parking policy in the central city by limiting the amount of surface parking and by limiting the amount of parking that can be done with our new development.
 We've done this, this code does both, further limitations to surface parking, as well as more limits as to how much parking you can build. Well, it has come to our attention, thanks to BDS and BPS stuff, that you could interpret surface parking as
 You can have a surface parking lot and put a carport on top, like a light roof, and suddenly that would become structured parking. That's exactly why we don't want to do that. So in a way, to preempt that sort of interpretation of the code, we want to clarify what we mean by that. So basically here it says that it has to actually have a building on top of it to be structured parking.
 Oh, yeah, sorry, here. So that's the language basically says surface parking and structure parking with no gross building area above are prohibited. So just a little thin roof over the...
 A parked car is not structured parking. Likewise, we want to clarify that if you are on top of a building, you could park there. Like we do have in some smart parks. That is okay. So, so long as you have a building, a full building below it or a building above it, that we consider it structured parking. If not, it's just surface parking. I think that would clarify the code.
 So I'll move on a second. There's a friendly amendment which I just noticed. In Part A, it says, but nothing above it. Could we perhaps say no building area above it? Because we wouldn't mind if there was solar panels or something. No built area above it? Yeah. Yeah. I think that clarifies it even better. No area above it. Can you? Yeah.
 So let me ask you another question. Today's Willamette Week had a suggestion that we tax the hell out of surface parking in order to encourage development. And I'm reminded that Charlie Hale's chief of staff, Josh, when he ran for council in 2002, ran on a platform of taxing the hell out of surface parking lot. And I think John Russell was a big booster of that. And there might have been strong opposition from another developer at the time. I'm just reminded of it as we're going through this. Yeah.
 I'm not going to put you on the spot. I'm just noting that it's been something that's been kicked around as changing our tax code to tax impervious service differently as a way of encouraging development. It has nothing to do with this. Right. I withdraw my comment. But it does support the idea that we've been trying so hard since the 70s to redevelop the surface parking lot. We don't want to actually encourage more by not clarifying what the code means. Okay.
 And this one requires somebody to introduce an amendment. All right. So Commissioner Fritz found a friendly way to change that. Do you want to take that as a motion? Yes, please. Second. We have a motion. We have a second for N2, N1. Of course, we move to the technical package. So next up is N3, OHSU parking. All right. So on that one. One moment.
 So with the parking, because I don't have the entire code language in front of me, it's hard to know exactly how that technical amendment works. And so it would be our recommendation to check in with the code writers and see the full context. So there might be, after we've had a chance to look at it, there might be a further clarification. Okay, and can somebody work on that while we're in session and bring it back to us before we leave?
 Is that on? So it's the three. We have A, but we don't have B and C. And so, yeah, we can do our best. Okay. Yeah, let's see if we can get it done so we don't have to revisit it. It just says related. But you were not addressing any of those, right? You just wanted to be talking. You're just changing the word nothing to no built area. Yeah. That's at least in our conversation. Okay.
 I'm not changing anything in BNC. Okay, so we'll let, you'll just make sure that there's no lack of parallelism, whatever the word is. Okay, good. So we're at N3. All right. So the second one is OHSU's in a letter, also PSU signed it, that basically said that they're okay with the work that we've done on parking. We've actually further limited how much you can build in South Waterfront
 But they are explaining a concern, which is valid according to staff, that the rules for preservation parking, which is basically parking after your building has been built, you can build more to meet your entitlement,
 The way we wrote the code doesn't quite work to how their master plan is being implemented. So basically they want a little bit more flexibility to be able to do the things that are in the master plan. Basically the idea would be to be able – they don't want to – they haven't been building parking with each building. They've been trying to bank it so that like a campus, a normal campus has buildings, and then parking is grouped in a special place. So they've been doing that by –
 what this new code does is provide a trigger. You need to have less parking than a certain amount to be able to qualify. That would disqualify many of their buildings from getting the parking that they had accounted for in their master plan. So long story short, this gives them the flexibility to keep doing what they're doing, to create the parking that they need, and to continue to create their master plan, to fulfill their master plan. Mauricio, I've been spending a lot of time down there lately in –
 And the parking, the existing parking is beyond capacity. And I think with the new buildings online, it's going to continue to. But the beauty of the way they have configured their parking is to get it off the streets and get it to places as quickly as possible, which I think is important. Is there a downside to this? Are we opening the door to something that's unintended? Well, we're trying to avoid that.
 Well, in terms of the total amount of parking, not necessarily because we have actually lowered how much they can ultimately get. We're trying to avoid an adverse effect, which would be that if we do not adjust what we're trying to do now, each OSHA student would be forced to build parking with every new building and actually try to build as much parking with every building as possible to compensate for what they cannot do according to the code. So in a way –
 We're trying to avoid overbuilding parking and allow them to build it when they need it in a more strategic manner. So I don't think there's much of a downside. And we're limiting this to medical offices and colleges and to the South Waterfront area, which has already unique circumstances, has an established campus, and it's very hard already to build parking there. There's very...
 It's very expensive to build, especially underground. So I think we're not under the danger of overbuilding parking in this district as a result of this change. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? I just was willing to move it forward for the point of discussion. I do have some concerns about whether it overly broadens it. I'll second. We have a motion and a second then on N3. That takes us next to Height and FAR.
 Rachel, do you want to come up and walk us through some of these proposals? Joe, thank you. I'm just a member of the discussion. Good afternoon. Rachel Hoy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So the next table that we're going to walk through is Table B. So that should be at the front of your packet. These are the two items that we're going to talk about.
 So this first item, this is a discussion item, so no amendment has been put forward. The request is to increase the FAR on the half block at 87 Southwest Stark. So the current FAR on this half block is 4-1. The request is to go to 6-1. I will point out that this whole area from the Markham Bridge...
 To the Broadway Bridge, along the riverfront, the FAR is 4 to 1. So staff's recommendation has been to maintain that FAR at 4 to 1. Generally, we have lower FARs along the waterfront to align with lower heights. And this, I would just point out, this site can receive bonus FAR up to 3 to 1.
 So I just want to turn that over if there's further discussion that you would like to have about this particular item. It can receive bonus three to one on top of the four to one? That's right. These are their base FARs. So all of these sites have the ability, including this one, to get an additional three to one bonus.
 I'm trying to just remember what's there. Is it like a record store and a tattoo parlor? That's a parking – I'm sorry, that's a surface lot. It's a surface lot? At this particular site. And it is, again, the way we've outlined it, the request is for that half block. The half to the north is within the historic district. And what's the – what rationale has been put forward for this increase?
 Part of the rationale was the proximity to just to the west. The FAR is nine to one, so an interest in having an FAR similar to the adjacent sites.
 So, I guess our rationale has been it's also – this is kind of a narrow area along the waterfront, and we've typically – the pattern we've maintained is a four-to-one pattern along our riverfront. All right, good. I don't sense any urgency there.
 to put forth any amendments on that. Is there any further discussion anybody wants to have on this particular item? Very good. B-5, River Place Height and Master Plan Adjustments. Joe, I think you were. I have to. I'm sorry, Commissioner. I have to excuse myself due to my family's ownership interests in properties that could be impacted by the changes in height.
 so I will excuse myself. Duly noted. Don't go far. So next up, B5 River Place Height Master Plan Adjustments. Joe or Rachel, I'm not sure. I'm just going to start out, and I want to recap a little bit. We did talk about a River Place...
 testimony that was received, and through that testimony, the owner of the site had requested additional height allowances at this location, as you can see highlighted in red on the map. They did not request any increases to density. And I just want to point out, this is a different proposal than the one that went before the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 A little background on the site. As you can see here on the slide, the current heights are mostly at 125 feet. There is some area at 150. The existing floor area ratio of the site is 4 to 1.
 And the map to the right shows the Planning and Sustainability did vote to increase the maximum heights from 200 on the western edge of the site, and it slowly decreases from 150 to 125 approaching the river.
 The PSC also raised the FAR on the site from 4 to 1 to 5 to 1 for this area highlighted in red. Their rationale there was to maximize redevelopment potential of the site and its inclusion of affordable housing in the future. So the property owner request...
 is requesting basically the same building height limits common to the adjacent South Waterfront Sub-District.
 Those heights range from 325 to 150 as you approach the river. In addition, the request was for one iconic building up to 400 feet within the redevelopment area. The owner suggested that the need for this additional height was to help meet public objectives, especially in the case of the concept they submitted there,
 The concept included a publicly accessible park that, combined with access ways, is close to two acres of the eight-acre site. They also proposed a taller building as a way to achieve allowed densities while still including these additional public benefits. Okay.
 So I'm going to turn this over to Joe. Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So I just wanted to walk us quickly through the rationale that we brought to building the recommendation that's in front of you today or the proposed amendment. When we looked at the height allowances on this site, the proposal and the current owner who started this discussion with the Planning and Sustainability Commission has a particular idea and development program.
 When we're setting allowances, we're setting allowances for that, but also in case another developer is ultimately and another plan is ultimately going to be what's built here. But we want to put in place allowances that make sense with the location and with our approach to height in the central city and on the waterfront. Okay.
 These seven sort of considerations that are on the slide here are versions of the same ones that we have been talking about for a while now that we've used elsewhere in the central city.
 Principle number one is that height increases in Central City 2035 are only coming through a bonus, and that is true of this case. The current base height limits would stay the same, but we're talking about allowing more height but only through a bonus, and that bonus is our inclusionary housing program to start with.
 Secondly, we're continuing something that you've talked a lot about, which is to protect public views. And here we have a public view from Terwilliger of Mount St. Helens. And it's from a pull-off. It's a full-on public view with a viewing area. And when you look at the proposal, that's why there's this lower height swath cutting through the center of the site. So we've managed to do that.
 Part of what we see in talking with the particular proposal that's on the table now is that, indeed, for the amount of development that we would like to see on the riverfront and in Riverplace, to bring it even up to what is allowed today, because in that first generation of the development of this site, it was built at a lot lower density than is actually even allowed, because it was built in the 80s and the 90s.
 When you allow buildings to go vertical, you open the ability to have more open area, circulation area in these open spaces. You have more options to get a better design to introduce a relatively large precinct, a new large development into our city and into our waterfront. So that was a compelling argument and one that we've used on the Broadway corridor in the post office. This is not a new thinking. It just was compelling when applied to here. Thank you.
 So when we thought about those approaches, we have a precedent that we've already negotiated and deliberated through for an extended period of time, and that's the rules that we use in South Waterfront.
 And so we looked at those in addition to the height allowances, and we're going to bring those up and apply them to the site, as Rachel will explain next. So we have a precedent and a set of approaches that talks about how close towers can be together. How do you get visual and physical?
 permeability, ways through the site so it doesn't just become a wall. How do you look at shadows? How do you look at the public realm? Those we're bringing up into the proposal as well. So we have that precedent to use here.
 In that precedent, like I said, and elsewhere in the central city, we considered the impact of where we allow more or less height on adjacent parks. And in this one, we have an interesting situation where it's adjacent to Waterfront Park. And if we're able to get, by going vertical, more open space on the site, it'll arrange that so it's next to the Waterfront Park. That could be one of the biggest additions to that open space system that we've made in a while.
 We want to leverage major transit investments. We have streetcar here. We've already invested. It's up the hill but near our extension of the MAX line as well. And we're going to be investing in the city of New York.
 The whole discussion started, and possibly even at the PSC, there was enthusiasm for reinvestment in the waterfront. It doesn't take necessarily this scale to do it, but when we step back and look what was right for the site and consistent with our plans, that's the basis on which we made the recommendation that Rachel's going to give you.
 So I'm going to walk you through a couple of slides to further lay out the proposed amendments. This is the view corridor that we're talking about from Terwilliger Parkway, a view of Mount St. Helens that Central City 2035 preserves. Here is another aerial showing you how the view corridor crosses the site. Okay.
 And so just to talk through some of the proposal for height here, we'd like to propose that the base height remains at 125 across the entire site.
 The red arrows point to two areas. I wonder if my cursor works. Yeah, so these two red arrows point to two areas outside of the view corridor that may go up to 325 feet. This height is the maximum that can be achieved in South Waterfront.
 As Joe mentioned, also similar to South Waterfront, staff has put together some code language that's in your packet for additional standards that would be required that these be narrower towers should the project want to go to these heights.
 Other proposed heights within the site, within the view corridor itself, in this area, the proposal is up to 250 feet, and this goes down as you approach the river to 150 feet.
 There are also proposed additional standards that would apply to the entire site that will require special building spacing. So as Joe referred to, to avoid these kind of long walls through the development. So special spacing between buildings, special orientation of buildings, so we have better visual permeability through the site. Okay.
 So here is another picture of what the view would look like with these potential height opportunity areas, as I mentioned. Can I ask you a question? Given that you've made a lot about narrower buildings to protect sight lines, why does this picture look like Co-op City? Okay.
 And this is just the way that we do our modeling. We haven't sculpted these buildings at all. It simply is just to show – Just to be clear, listening to Joe, under the view that he expressed, there would be lots of separation between buildings and discrete corridors. It would not be a wall like this. These are not buildings. That's correct. These are just an envelope. Yeah, this is the –
 the FAR envelope. Yes, that's correct. It's important to note that we don't want to misrepresent either way, like by designing something that's our fantasy. The design review process and these rules we put in place are going to make this work no matter what development team or proposal moves forward. Just by way of an interesting exercise for some other day, do this exercise on the south waterfront as a...
 is allowed versus what is actually built. And you'll see that actual results may vary considerably from the envelope. And it also, Mayor, varies considerably from what was expected. Because I was on the Planning Commission when we heard similar arguments that there would be plenty of views down the green streets and that really there would be a lot of ways to see through because of the sculpting of the buildings. And my impression is that really hasn't turned out so well.
 So I'm quite concerned about this one. So this is a slide, interesting, showing you a cross-section from downtown Park Avenue down to the waterfront. This actually cuts straight through the building that we're in, the 1900 building. So it gives you an idea of what we've done here in gray and black. It's a profile of the existing buildings. Okay.
 The orange line shows you the recommended heights that are in the recommended draft. So you'll see from the transit mall at 460 the gradual step down to the river in the heights. The area in green are the proposed amended heights for the River Place area. So it would go up to 325 even though behind it is 250? Yes, this is to show you, yes, the area in green would be if those...
 That would be the amount that they could go up to, the maximum amount as proposed, up to $325. It still does represent with the bluff in this area. Is the $250 mean sea level or is it above ground? Where is the $250? Above ground. Okay. So, in fact, it is stair-stepped up. Yes. If we were to approve this amendment, it would stair-step up.
 Did my point make any sense, or is it one of these things where I have cartoons on the inside of my eyes? No, you said it's a step up. Okay, great. All right, good. It does stair-step up, and this diagram shows how that works with the grade differential between the top of the hill and the waterfront. It's still a step up. Yeah. Got it. Good, thank you. Just checking. Sure. You're welcome. So just to summarize, so there are a set of five proposed amendments to put forward, so I'll walk through those and...
 So the first one is to apply a height opportunity area. So the areas in red on the map would be considered height opportunity areas. In these areas, bonus height may go up to 325. There would be additional standards that would apply similar to South Waterfront for the building massing that would result in narrower towers with these areas should a project decide to go to those heights.
 The other heights on the site would range from 250 to 150 as you approach the river. Number two, there would be a requirement for additional standards that would apply to the entire site that would require additional spacing between buildings and orientation of buildings to allow visual permeability through the site.
 Number three, require a master plan for the site. So Joe talked a bit about this. This is a tool, new tool that we've revised in the Central City Plan that would provide an urban design and development framework for the site. It would address...
 Site elements, for example, the location of open space, connectivity through the site for public and private streets and access ways, as well as requiring shadow studies to preserve light and air on parks and adjacent open space and the waterfront. Number four, safety.
 This is also an element of the master plan. There is, as I mentioned, an open area requirement within the master plan for this particular site. We've proposed that there would be open area adjacent to South Waterfront Park.
 And that is the open space just adjacent to this property. It is adjacent to the waterfront, and they would be required to have some level of open space to improve the access to the waterfront.
 Number five is a minor technical amendment, but one that we do need to make that corrects the view corridor that you saw mapped from Terwilliger Parkway. And it's updating our scenic resource protection map to align with a more correct elevation for the site.
 So those are the five amendments on the table, and I'd like to turn it over to the mayor. And I want to hear from Commissioner Fish, but can we move these as a package? That was our thinking. Mayor, I just have a couple of questions just to clarify this before we move anything. So, Joe, I got a couple letters from people saying you shouldn't do this because it's spot zoning. So could you address that for me?
 Right. And spot zoning, it's, I'm not a, spot zoning has a bad name when in the cases where it's applied for the particular benefit of a particular property and in the past it may have been for a particular property owner outside of the context of the overall plan. That's sort of it's the baggage that that concept carries.
 And so when you consider your major rezonings, you want to do it in the context of the area around it, and that makes it not a spot zone, but...
 full-on contextual thinking. And that's in part why we wanted to go through those considerations, because I wanted to show you that, yes, this is a property. It's a big property. But the way we're thinking about it is consistent with the rest of what we've tried to reason through in 2035, and we're doing it as part of 2035. So thank you. Second question.
 is the only – you said this is subject to the bonus to get the height, and is the only trigger for the bonus inclusionary housing? Correct. So you couldn't get the height because you want to add commercial space? Correct.
 The only way to access the bonus system in this location is to use the inclusionary housing program. Once you've satisfied that, you could move on to transfer provisions that are available in the code, but the threshold is inclusionary housing. And so that's, from your point of view, part of the public benefit? Correct. And that's even when we did this in the past. That is the heart of the public benefit, yes. And my final question is,
 Since we're talking a lot about design, how it looks, master plan, could you just give me just a quick reminder, what's the council's role with respect to either design or the master plan?
 If at some point we go forward with this plan. Well, and I'm going to make sure. The master plan is a new provision. The master plan requires that the phased development of the site be thought through in a public process that's overseen by the design commission.
 upon appeal. I believe that the master plan process will end up in front of city council if we're not able to. That is baked in as a safety valve. It is, yes. And does the design, and you anticipated my final question, the design review commission would oversee the master plan process
 Are there specific design guidelines that can be applied to any tower above a certain height? Do we have that option to put that requirement in? Well, we've baked those into the rules that we've imported from South Waterfront. So that would go to design review? Yes, that actually sits in the code and we've added some of the amendments that you're making today, add guidance to the design review process as they look at the master plan. Okay.
 If I could just make one clarification to add to what Joe has said. Commissioner Fish, you asked about the triggers for the bonus and if it would be inclusionary housing. The only, just to be clear, so the proposal we received was for, it's a
 It's a concept for residential development, and certainly that would trigger affordable housing. If there was a building that came in and it was a straight commercial, no residential development, they would have the choice of going to the affordable housing fund, or they could go to the historic resource transfer fund.
 They have a choice if they're a purely commercial building. I'd want to know more about that because the whole thing has been framed in terms of a benefit around affordable housing. And one of the things I don't fully understand is what the off-ramps are that could result in height without that benefit. And while we can't – it may be that for market reasons or other reasons it never gets built if we proceed with this, but I want to make sure there aren't other ways.
 around IZ because, to me, that's one of the few compelling parts of this. And, again, that would just be a straight commercial building, which is somewhat we see mostly a lot of mixed use now. And most of our projects are triggering affordable housing. You build 20 units or more, and you've triggered affordable housing. Couldn't we just say that there's no bonus for a commercial building? Well, one could, yes.
 But just to be clear, even if...
 How many acres is this, Rachel? It's an eight-acre site. So even if it was eight acres of strictly commercial building, if it needs bonus floor area to build out its program, it will need to participate in the inclusionary housing program. And just for a strictly commercial building, the approach is not to build units but to pay into the fund. And that we've structured the – so that's –
 It still is part of the inclusionary housing program, but it might not necessarily have housing on the site if there is no housing on the site. We haven't seen eight acres of exclusively commercial development in the central city, I think, almost ever.
 Very good. Well, first of all, thank you for doing the work. Thank you for making these amendments that I think address some of the public interest issues that have been raised, open space access to the river, making sure that tower width and spacing requirements are put into place, protecting the view corridors, the visual permeability issues that Commissioner Fritz has raised. With that, I'd like to move it.
 So, Mayor, I have some unresolved questions about this, but I think it is worth continuing the conversation, and so I will second your amendment. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I appreciate that.
 Next up, Master Plan L2, Sharing and Consolidation of Resources. Rachel, I think you're up for this. Yes. So this is, again, dealing with our new master plan provision for the central city. This is a new approval criterion that we're proposing. This is coming from working closely with BDS.
 as we're finding that some of our master plan sites are beginning to do their own master planning and getting ready for the city submittal. We're finding that this is a new approval criterion that would be very beneficial. It is...
 in the vein of let's have these projects show us how they can efficiently use resources and their space on site and how they can consolidate. So, for example, consolidate parking and consolidate access to parking, their mechanical equipment, trash and recycling. So it's also a way to show how we're going to maximize the use of ground floor for more active uses. Okay.
 I'd like to move this. Colleagues, are there any questions? We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion or questions for Rachel? Very good. Now we're to bonuses and transfers, part two. Our next item is G-
 to allow FAR transfers from open space. Rachel? So this proposed amendment to allow FAR transfers from open space, staff supports this amendment as it will provide an additional pool of FAR for the bonus and transfer system. It offers another option to meeting development and density goals in the central city.
 The slide before you provides the necessary code updates that would be needed simply by adding OpenSpace or OS to the list. And I'd like to turn it over to Commissioner Fritz if there's any more discussion on this amendment. Very basic thing, so I move the amendment. I'll second it. It seems very straightforward. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion?
 discussion on that particular item. Moving along to item G3, that's transfer within a sub-district, sometimes known as the SEIU proposal. Joe, do you want to talk about this one? Yes, thank you, Mayor. I understand nobody's offered amendment, but there was a request for discussion on this. Is that correct? Correct. I was not thinking of offering an amendment, but as time has gone by and I've looked at the complexity of this, I think there might be merit in moving it forward, at least for discussion.
 I didn't tell you that yesterday because I had only just thought about it. Well, great. So the proposal that was considered by the Planning and Sustainability Commission and then considered again in the city council process from SEIU is to change the transfer within a subdistrict. One of the two transfers that the new central city plan would allow and make –
 A transfer that with certain triggers would only make transfer floor area available for commercial development of a certain scale. If service workers...
 working in that building make 50% medium family income. The way that the transfer would be administered and recorded is that to get the transfer, the developer would have to provide building development services with a covenant that records that this condition is in the property's records, in the property's deeds, and
 Um, as, uh, the, um, building is built and the building is operated, if at any point in that time this, uh, condition is not being met, that enforcement mechanism would require, uh, uh, would, uh, create the opportunity, uh, to be enforced through court action by a third party. So this is something new. Um, but, um, it, um.
 not just through a zoning enforcement action, but it could be raised through a court proceeding. And the historic property transfers would still be available. That was the idea.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission and staff considered the notion of finding means to promote living wage jobs, especially in the service sector, especially in our central city where so much of those jobs are exhausted.
 exist is a worthy goal. And like many worthy goals, the zoning code and this particular zoning provision we don't think is a workable or effective or appropriate place to try to do that. And let me just explain.
 Actually, Joe, if I could maybe cut this short. I share many of your concerns, and I'm not convinced that this is entirely the right way to move forward either. But I don't want this to get lost because I think it's a very important concept. So rather than going into all of the pros and cons now, this is one that I'd really like to just continue the discussion. And I'd like to explain while I'll second this with a condition.
 We put strings on all kinds of actions we take, discretionary actions. We say in opportunity zones you have to meet certain wage goals. We say in grant agreements you have to meet city policies. I can go chapter and verse. The principal objection on this is that you have made an argument that the zoning code is not where we should address this, that it may be an otherwise laudable goal. I'm not sure –
 when and how we're going to address this if we don't at least seize this moment to say, okay, let's keep it on the front burner because I think what we're talking about is justice for janitors. Let's be very clear here. We're talking about a discretionary act of the city in which we're saying as some kind of condition, we don't want you degrading area wages and exploiting people.
 Now, we already do that in all kinds of ways. We recently adopted a statement of principle on a community benefits agreement. We say on all of our affordable housing you have to meet a prevailing wage. I agree with you. It may be that the zoning code as an instrument is not ideal, and there may be particular reasons why it would be difficult to enforce it.
 But along with Commissioner Fritz, I see this as an opportunity to frame the issue and ask you not just to come back and tell us why this doesn't work, but to give us options for something, like I said, that's a first cousin that gives us some leverage through this discretionary act to maintain area standards in the service sector.
 And, again, you may come back and say we've looked at it and we still can't find an answer. But all we're doing now is saying we want to continue the discussion in January, and so I will second the proposal. So it's moved by Commissioner Fritz and seconded by Commissioner Fish. All right. This will be for commercial buildings only? You all should tell us. But this –
 Was the proposal just for commercial building? Yes. It's just for commercial. Yeah. And just to put it in a frame, we're glad to bring it back. We're glad to bring this back. And what I'm sure we'll recommend is a policy statement of some sort about where the city is in a contractual or a development agreement. Can I make a suggestion, Joe? That we do that. Because we have found your office to be incredibly creative and creative.
 even where you disagree with the premise of a question. I would just say a follow-up meeting with Commissioner Fritz's office and my office to do some brainstorming. And still, you may at the end of this come back and still say we're barking up the wrong tree, but we want to have that conversation. That's my intent, too. So certainly don't go home tonight and start working your way at it. So, Mayor, so we don't actually have an amendment.
 on the table at this point, so we would have to come back with an amendment sometime in the future. We could either come back on January 3rd, we have that date penciled in as a possible date, or we could bring it back on January 18th, and you could consider it before the...
 Thank you. Thank you. But I believe we have to announce the next meeting at this meeting. Isn't that right, Lauren? I would say let's tentatively say it will come back on January 3rd because I think we want to keep this on track. And that can always change. But you need a placeholder. Or can't we just take the language that was proposed to the Planning Commission and advance that? This has never actually been in the ‑‑ there has been no language that the Planning Commission did not recommend for this at all. I think it actually gives us more ‑‑ I thought they had a amendment they rejected, though, or something.
 No, no, they discussed the issue. It's similar to the discussion we're having now, Commissioner. Are there other items that would be heard on January 3rd? We don't have anything else on the list for January 3rd at this time. And if we put it then, because I agree, Commissioner, we want to kind of keep working on it. Did you have a...
 suggestion, City Attorney? I think you're headed in the direction that I... You are coming back for the amendments package on January 18th. So you could bring language at that meeting. You can introduce it then so that you don't have to have a separate hearing. I would. I think, you know, given the holidays and everything, I think the third is the optimistic. Is that acceptable? That's acceptable. The 18th?
 Thank you. Let's plan on that. So, Sally, why don't you tell us where we are and what the schedule is going to be going forward. Great. Okay. So, on this – excuse me. Yes. First of all, we have to go back to the parking item. When Mauricio was up here, you asked for an amendment to the parking item. Yes. So, just to clarify, Commissioner Fritz's amendment was to add but no –
 No building area above it. I recommend that you change it to no gross building area above it. Yeah. And that's as...
 standard Scrivener, so it's consistent. And then as far as the SEIU thing, I just want to clarify, it sounded like there was a motion and a second, but that was just for the concept, so there's not an actual amendment. I just want to be clear on the record. That was clarified subsequently that there was no formal amendment on the table, so it's withdrawn. And then we might bring something on that at 18th. And I'm hearing no objection to the Scrivener on the parking issue. So we don't need to move and second that again then? That's actually what I said.
 in the first place. I heard building. I apologize. Great. Okay. So the PowerPoint slide that we have up shows January 3rd at 2 p.m. We do not need that meeting. We've just decided. So we are not going to have that. I guess I don't love you, but I think you're probably quite relieved to have a bit of time off. So we will be publishing... But hold that date. It's going to be eaten up by five today. So hold that date. I put first dibs on it. Thank you.
 So on January 5th, we will publish the amendments report based on the feedback we've gotten from you at these last three meetings and the items that you brought forward prior to beginning the hearings. And then we'll have our hearing on January 18th, and we'll take it from there.
 Very good. That concludes the Central City 2035 discussion for today. We're going to continue the conversation on January 18th at 2 p.m. time certain. Next item, 1311. Establish annual sale price cap of $375,000 for the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Colleagues.
 The Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption, otherwise known as HALTI program, includes a 10-year exemption to low to moderate income homebuyers purchasing new construction homes, making homeownership more affordable for families in Portland.
 The Portland Housing Bureau is required to establish an annual sales price cap for the whole T program by January 1st, 2018, which may be up to 120% of the Portland median sales price for the 2017 calendar year. So that's January 1st, 2017 through November 30th, 2017.
 The Portland 2017 median sales price as provided by the Multnomah County Tax Assessor's Office is $375,000. The eligible income of Holti homebuyers must be below 100% of AMI, $74,700 for a family of four currently.
 To maintain the affordability of the Holti units for low- and moderate-income homebuyers, the Portland Housing Bureau is proposing to set the 2018 Holti sales price cap at $375,000. That represents a 7% increase from the current 2017 sales price cap of $350,000.
 This is an annual administrative action for the implementation of the whole T program that requires council review and approval. Today we have Portland Housing Bureau Program Manager Andrea Mathiason here to discuss this further and answer any questions that you may have. Come on up. And Kurt, are you coming up too? Not yet. Okay, very good. Hello. Hello.
 Hello. You're welcome. Thank you for your patience. Oh, thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, Andrea Mathiason, Portland Housing Bureau. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for that very thorough introduction of this item. I think the only thing that I would add, in addition to just reinforcing that this is an annual administrative step required for the program by state statute, is that we're
 The current sales price cap for the program is $350,000 for the 2017 calendar year. And we've reviewed the actual sales prices of the homes that sold within this calendar year. And although the sales price cap is set at $350,000, the
 average sales price in actuality has been about $315,000. So we do set this cap. $315,000, yes.
 We do set this cap annually at about 100% of median county sales price. We have generally not gone up to that maximum allowed, 120%. But we don't typically tend to see the actual sales prices being maximized at that amount. So I did want to share that information with you and ask if you had any questions. Very good. Are we ready for public testimony? Yes.
 One moment. Carla has just recused herself. Well, mine's been meant to be. Probably not. We have done this on consent in years past, so it may be that I'm saying no, maybe yes. Any public testimony, Carla? I have one person, Jennifer James. Is Jennifer here? I'm here, but I'm sorry. I didn't want to testify on that. I just thought I had to sign up.
 Oh, yeah. In the future, you don't need to sign up to come in. No worries. Yeah, not a problem. The resolution? This is a resolution. Please call the roll. Thank you, Andrea, for your typically crisp and to-the-point presentation. And you do a superb job at the Housing Bureau. It's a pleasure to have you appear before the council. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you. Aye. Resolution is adopted. Item 1312, amendments.
 And my understanding is Commissioner Fritz will be back in time for the vote on this. 13-12 approved Portland Housing Bureau to participate in the Home Purchase Assistance Program, a Freddie Mac pilot mortgage loan product that provides down payment and closing cost assistance to low and moderate income homebuyers through approved participating mortgage lenders.
 Very good, colleagues. One of the biggest obstacles to homeownership is savings to cover the down payment and closing costs. We've heard a lot about this of late. The Home Purchase Assistance Program is a new program proposed by the Portland Housing Bureau to help families cover these upfront costs. The Home Purchase Assistance Program provides low- and moderate-income homeowners
 homebuyers in the City of Portland up to 8% of the mortgage amount for a down payment and closing costs associated with the housing purchase.
 This program is being piloted by Freddie Mac. This is the government purchaser of mortgage loans. And Portland has been selected by Freddie Mac as one of the only five governmental jurisdictions to participate in the initial rollout of this program. Assistance provided by home purchase assistance program is provided by first mortgage lenders in exchange for charging a slightly higher interest rate on the mortgage and does not require city funds to implement the program.
 The Home Purchase Assistance Program is targeted to families who can afford the mortgage loan necessary to own in the City of Portland, but exceed income limits of programs that can provide assistance with down payments or closing costs. Today we have Portland Housing Bureau Program Manager Andrea Mathiason still here.
 and HPAP Program Coordinator Ira Bailey available to discuss this further and answer any questions. I see Director Krieger is here as well. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mayor. Welcome back and welcome. Kurt Krieger, Housing Director. Ira, I know, is on his way. You've gone so quickly through your agenda that I suspect that he was tracking time and thought he had a little bit more. That's all right. We still need you to stall because I can't take the vote until Commissioner Fritz returns. Oh, okay.
 Wonderful. Well, just to frame the issue, when I came to Portland, we had an excellent history of homebuyer assistance, down payment assistance within the urban renewal areas.
 And we were pretty well capitalized within the interstate corridor urban renewal area. But we really had nothing available for someone living outside of an urban renewal area. And as you well know, a state statute limits the city to some 15% of the land area to be designated an urban renewal area. So we were missing out on a huge swath of the population. And knowing that we...
 couldn't really justify using ongoing general fund revenue for down payment assistance citywide. We decided to tap the hydraulics of the private sector to recognize that long-term lending presents an opportunity. If people are willing to accept slightly more debt over the life of the loan, we could essentially generate for themselves
 down payment and closing costs. So I think it's an elegant solution to a longstanding problem. We're honored that Freddie Mac has the confidence in Portland. This has taken a few months to put together, but Andrea and Ira have run this through the community-based review process, and we're very excited about this. So I'll let Andrea take it from there. Thank you, Kurt. Again, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, Andrea Mathiason, Portland Housing Bureau.
 We could dive into the technical mortgage lending requirements of the program, but we are not going to do that today. Instead, I did just want to provide a very high-level example of what the program can offer.
 So for a household that is looking to secure a mortgage of about $300,000, this program could provide them with cash for closing costs and prepaid mortgage insurance to the tune of about $18,000.
 And so that is very helpful to these households, particularly because their ability to prepay that mortgage insurance lowers their monthly costs in a significant way.
 The amount of cash, that $18,000 that the first mortgage lenders are providing, is placed as a lien on the property for 10 years. There is no interest rates, there's no payments, and it is forgiven if the property owner remains in the home for 10 years.
 The income limits for this program are being proposed at 140% of area median income. It's about $104,000 annually. Those are consistent with some of the other low- and moderate-income homeownership programs administered by the Housing Bureau.
 We attempted to structure this in a way that would work with other programs that we're currently offering. The mortgage credit certificate program, for example, this program works nicely with that so that homeowners can leverage all of the available homeownership assistance in order to overcome kind of the challenges that exist in the homeownership market currently.
 This program does also require education, first-time homeownership counseling, so that homebuyers are aware of what this product requires of them. It requires lenders to also provide them an analysis of what that increased mortgage interest rate means over the 30-year life of the loan if they were to stay in the home for the full 30 years.
 I think one other additional thing that I did want to clarify is that we anticipate, based on information from the mortgage lenders that we will be piloting this program with, is an estimated 100 to 200 homebuyers may utilize this program annually. And, of course, that's just a projection. It's not something that's been available previously.
 and I just wanted to ask if you had any other questions about the program as it's currently proposed. On what basis was Portland selected? You know, I think that that's a good question. I would defer to Director Krieger. I believe that he held some relationships with Freddie Mac and under some of his previous employment that allowed Portland to enter into conversations about piloting this program. Great. Director Krieger? Yeah, I think.
 I'd like to say that this is probably the power of networking. Indeed, Freddie Mac is based in McLean, Virginia, which is Fairfax, where I last came from. Their director of single family has a long history with a longtime associate of mine who's in the audience, Jim Stratton. He used to be the director of the New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority. She was his director.
 When she went to Fannie, or Freddie, excuse me, Freddie Mac, they continued a very strong working relationship. And Jim approached me after I had become Bureau Director with the concept. I did meet with Freddie Mac a couple of times in Washington, D.C. as I discharged my duties as a board member of a nonprofit called NALFA, the National Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies. So it's been maturing for about the last year. And, you
 We're pleased that they have the confidence in our market. They wanted to make sure they had a West Coast market partner. Great. Thank you for reeling this in with us. We appreciate it very much. Is there a public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fritz? Thank you for explaining it to me ahead of time. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 It's an incredibly innovative program which addresses the barriers that some people face to homeownership. So hopefully we'll be able to demonstrate through this pilot that it works here in Portland as well and build on it. So thank you both. Congratulations. Aye. Saltzman. Yeah, it sounds very exciting. So good work. Aye. Wheeler. Excellent. Again, Director Crear, thank you for your significant efforts on this. You have my gratitude. Thank you.
 And, Andrea, thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1313. Authorize acquisition, construction, and permanent funding not to exceed $21,700,000 using North McAdam Urban Renewal Area funds to acquire certain real property located at 2095...
 Southwest River Parkway for the development of a 203-unit affordable rental housing project and authorize a 99-year ground lease to River Place 3 Housing Limited Partnership or another bridge housing corporation affiliate. Colleagues, the River Place Parcel No. 3 development is another example of the great partnership between
 between our office, the Housing Bureau, the Joint Office for Homelessness and Prosper Portland. This project will be a 13-story entirely affordable building with 203 multifamily residential units. Our commitment to develop deeply affordable units continues with this project. It'll include 90 units that will serve households at or below 30% MFI. 20 of the units will be for permanent supportive housing
 Ten units are vouchered units specifically set aside for veterans. Portland Housing Bureau's Investment Committee approved the project based upon new criteria after requesting that the Bureau adjust the proposed terms.
 We have a couple of amendments, one to update the Portland Housing Bureau approval in Section 1, finding 15, and include the correct Exhibit A, and another from Commissioner Fish around finding 7 language regarding funding for permanent supportive housing units, and you should have that language in front of you. To tell us more about this development opportunity, we have the Housing Bureau's Director Krieger.
 Yes, thank you very much. And I'll be joined by Cynthia Parker, the President and CEO of Bridge Housing. And I think it would be fine if she came up as I introduced the subject matter. We have a PowerPoint presentation spooled up for you. Thank you, Carla. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Good afternoon. Mr. Scheer, hi.
 We have two presentations. One sort of a backgrounder since we have two members of council that may not have been on council when the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area was last recalibrated. And then the specifics about River Place Parcel 3. I provide a bit of history here. Okay.
 The River Place Parcel 3 came to council last year. Excuse me, the URA came to the council in 2015, and there was a...
 Careful discernment by the city council to evaluate the URA and to ensure that family-sized housing was part of the development program going forward. Up to that point, only the Grays Landing project undertaken by REACH with PHB support had been constructed.
 So the council passed a resolution which stipulated several things which needed to happen. The affordable housing set-aside was increased from the long-standing 30% to 42% for the life of the district.
 The rights for the development of a site within the North Macadam Urban Renewal Area was identified, and Prosper Portland and PHB were directed to work together on the procurement of a developer for that site. This map shows you generally the entire boundaries, including the merged
 adjacent education URA. And when we undertook this project, it was a Prosper Portland-owned site. So they led the procurement effort. But PHB was joined at the hip to make sure that we had at least 200 units of affordable housing, with at least 62 of which were going to be affordable to people with incomes from 0% to 30% of AMI.
 And it's worth mentioning that Commissioner Fish was very directly involved in the negotiation for that deep investment in affordable housing. Kurt, can I just add one piece of history? Because I wish we did a historical slide on every project because we forget our history, and then the council turns over and history begins with the closing documents. And I want to take a moment.
 to acknowledge two events which predated 2015 that are critically important. One was the demise of the Education Urban Renewal District and its replacement with an expanded urban renewal district in South Waterfront. And I won't go through all the details, but that was a very contested discussion, lots of moving pieces.
 The demise of a freestanding education URA created an opportunity to expand the existing boundaries. But I want to pay particular tribute to a former commissioner and a former nonprofit leader who in either 2014 or 2015, Commissioner Fritz, my memory is a little cloudy, but it's one of those two, either late 14 or 15 years.
 And Gretchen Kifori, the founder, the commissioner who actually founded the Housing Bureau and is literally the mother of the CDC movement here, with Susan Emmons, who was one of our most respected advocates, came to council and threw a, let me put it this way, raised their voices loudly.
 at this council and said that the council, and it wasn't directed at any member of this council, it was the council generically, had not, in their view, met its promise to the community around South Waterfront. This predated you, Kurt, predated the mayor. This was a... But there were some other people at the table...
 who had been involved for years around this. And I don't remember, Commissioner Fritz, a hearing in which there was more heat generated from activists, even today where we're used to lots of heat from activists. When Gretchen Khafre raised her voice, it got everyone's attention. And what she did is she challenged the council to not only honor its commitment but double down. And as a result of that and partnerships and conversations and a lot of work,
 we got the second site and additional resources, the bump in the, in the set aside. And, and,
 Dan Saltzman and a whole lot of other people deserve some credit who were part of those discussions. But I want to just acknowledge Gretchen Kifori, who's no longer with us, because she came in and was a singular voice in getting our attention. And it did set in motion a number of things. And I think it's fair to say we would not be here today had she and Susan Emmons not come in and educated the council about where they felt we were lacking. And so I honor both of their work in this regard. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner, for that background. So the next slide talks a little bit about the contours of the procurement itself. April 9th of 2015, RFP was put out on the street with a minimum expectation of 200 affordable units between 0 and 60 percent of AMI, and at least 90 of those affordable to people between 0 and 30 percent of MFI. And as you witnessed in many of our other projects, that's a particularly deep dive. It's a very deep investment in equity.
 Bridge was in heavy competition with two other very worthy contenders, but they ultimately prevailed. And they prevailed with an initial plan of 365 units. It's been modified slightly. Cynthia will discuss some of the permutations they've gone through.
 They had a particular interest in an anchor grocery of 30,000 square feet. Also, they spent a lot of time working with about 20 different grocers to try to secure that, but Prosper was not in a position to provide financial assistance since they were investing in Forth and Harrison. So that ground floor retail has been right-sized to the available resources.
 Parking is provided and 203 affordable units from 0 to 60 proposed. Of those, 90 units as specified would be from 0 to 30 and they break out into three categories. There are 70 housing choice vouchers provided by Home Forward, 10 Veterans Affairs supportive housing vouchers, and then 10 units are made affordable through the net operating income of the overall project. So 90 units in total
 And under Commissioner Saltzman, $19 million was set aside to undertake our portion of this project. With all that, the bridge housing proceeded with the option to purchase with Prosper and design the project.
 They got notice to authorization to proceed in April of 2016. On November 9th of 2016, we had a gaping hole in the budget because the value of tax credits was diminished by the promise of lower corporate income taxes. So we worked throughout the winter and spring of last year to fill that hole and bridge through their resourcefulness, which is exactly why we selected them, was able to commandeer other resources to enhance the capital stack.
 We then authorized them to go into full construction drawings in August, which they did do. We have been, as you know, in a very tight labor market, and materials and labor have both been going up about 1% a month. So when they initiated final design development and construction specifications in August, it took about five months for all that to be wrapped up, and we experienced 1% a month inflation over five months, which was a $4.7 million gap. Okay.
 So Cynthia came back to the Housing Bureau with her partner, Williams and Dame Development, to try to partner in that resolution of this problem. They were willing to cover about half of it, but they needed some assistance. So the Housing Bureau showed a willingness to provide $2.7 million of additional revenues
 available at the conversion of the loan to a permanent loan, but we also needed additional public value. You had previously approved your permanent supportive housing resolution. We asked for at least 20 units of the vouchered units to be provided with services to be fully robust permanent supportive housing units. We also felt that it was necessary to secure the public interest in the land.
 And as I've explained to some of you in preparation for this hearing, we initially looked at ownership of the land under the West Tower, the affordable tower. And I took that proposal to the Housing Investment Committee, and they had a split vote on the issue. So we continued to work the issue between November 28th and December 1st, last Friday. And since then, Bridge has consented to buy the land from us.
 from Prosper at a discounted price to sell it at the same discounted price for $2.7 million essentially. And we will then lease back the property to them to undertake the project. Prosper
 procured one project with two towers, and it's important to recognize the Prosper Board's intent in that regard. So we have negotiated a provision that says that they will undertake the second building, what's so-called East Building, no later than...
 December 31st of 2020, or the Housing Bureau can replace Bridge with a replacement developer. We have every reason to believe that they will perform. It's to their best economic interest to do so, but we also want to make sure that the entire property gets built.
 So before you today are approval of two loans, one for $19 million of North McAdam tax increment and one for the $2.7 million over and above the baseline of 19. So it's $21.7 million. We're also asking your approval for the execution of a purchase and sales agreement in substantially the form provided with the replacement Exhibit A, which the Mayor explained.
 which would be and a ground lease between PHB and River Place 3, Housing Limited Partnership, the ultimate borrower.
 I would say that the appraisal for the underlying tower has been performed, and we're essentially getting a piece of land value to $4.7 million for $2.7 million, and we are in turn then leasing it to Bridge for 99 years to ensure permanent affordability. So I want to assert that the public value in this project is very strong, and it actually got stronger as we negotiated longer.
 And this is a project that does need to close by the end of this year because tax credits will be valued lower next year with the lower corporate tax rates. So with that, I do want to recognize that Saban Beto from the Housing Bureau, the underwriter, has worked through the Thanksgiving holiday on this project.
 the entire holiday, including weekend. And Javier Mena and the housing finance manager, Carl Dinkelstiel, have been very deeply involved with this project all along. So without them, it would not have gotten to this state of readiness. Cynthia? Yeah.
 Great. Thank you, Director Kueger and Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I'm Cynthia Parker, and I'm the president and CEO of Bridge Housing. And with me is Nicole Peterson, who is the vice president and director of Bridge Housing in Portland. So we're going to talk briefly about the project, but I also wanted to just comment on
 Commissioner Fish's recollection and tribute to the two women who had spoken up so early on about housing here in Portland. Gretchen was a friend of mine back in the 70s, and I knew her well. I think it's fitting that we're here today to continue to move on with this doubling down and hopefully build this housing, which is so desperately needed in this town.
 So having said that, I'm going to just briefly run you through this project and talk a little bit about some of the challenges that we've had. Frankly, we're very challenged in the housing world right now because, as stated by Director Krieger, some of the proposed changes with the Tax Reform Act, the House version changed.
 uh... promises to eliminate uh... the uh... volume cap bond program which is paired with the four percent tax credits uh... that particular uh... version of the bill does pass by Christmas as promised uh... then we will have all of the taxes and bonds issued under volume cap in a variety of states uh... go away and the tax exempt status will
 be terminated on 12-31 of this year. So thanks to the Bureau for their speedy help in trying to move this along and we certainly appreciate the staff's
 working through the holiday and helping us get this moving. And by the way, in plain English, with the change in the corporate tax rate, if the pricing of a tax credit drops to 80 cents on the dollar or something like that, we would not have been able to do Gray's Landing or a number of projects with tax credits that diminished. And that's what Kurt alluded to. And those two changes at a time when we're getting so little support from the federal government, it's really a one-two punch. Absolutely. Absolutely. It's a...
 It really threatens to reshape really the small amount of housing that we're able to create in this country with this tool right now. So we're working very hard with a number of people, including our friends at the Bureau, to try to issue any lobbying or entries to our congressional members. So please get your telephones out and let people know that this is going to be a real problem.
 So with that, let's just move on to this particular project. And I'm going to call upon Nicole also to help me with this. But basically, you see in front of you the project itself, which as proposed is a phased development. The first tower, which is 203 units tall.
 is 100% affordable and it is currently envisioned that the second building, which is a wood frame, 177 units of housing would be phased and would also be affordable. That's what we plan on doing. The project team is Hoffman Construction. We have Dan Dinkridge. Sorry, Dan. I was thinking of his grandfather.
 here today to talk a little bit about construction costs, which have certainly gone quite crazy here in Portland over the last few months. And then we also have Anchor Moisen Architects. I'm sure you know them. They're the architects at the Sitka and Ramona here in Portland. And then our advisors have been Dame Williams, Dike Dane in particular. He's been working with us for a number of years.
 As said, the project itself was awarded to Bridge in 2015 back in July, and we have worked quite diligently and expended a great deal of money to move it through the variety of processes that...
 are in front of us. Both sites, both projects are moving along at exactly the same level, so they are both permitted and shovel ready. But the financing for the 100% affordable building that's located in the tower is the one that has a plan of finance completed, so there's still work to do on the second phase.
 The 203 units in the project do consist of 90 units that are below 30% of AMI. Seventy are supported by project-based vouchers that are provided by Home Forward. Ten are veterans' VASH voucher units. And then again, as mentioned earlier, 20 are permanent supportive housing.
 And then 111 units are at 60% of area median income to managers' units. I'd note that Bridge is very involved with supportive housing. We have developed over 12,000 units of housing. We have 2,000 in our pipeline under construction right now. But of those units that we've developed, 1,040 are permanent supportive housing.
 So we have a deep commitment to that type of housing. We know what it takes to provide the services, and really to be successful, those two can't go without the other, really, to make them effective. I would also add that we have about 1,020 supportive units in our pipeline right now, so we intend to complete those in the next couple of years. Thank you.
 The tower itself is about an $86 million project, and of that, the construction costs are about $54.7 million. Those are the hard costs of construction. It roughly equals about $250,000 a unit, of which $100,000 would be supportive by funding from the Bureau and the City of Portland.
 So one of the reasons you see such a high price tag is that Portland is beginning to become quite a high-cost area, and you all know that you're rapidly moving up against Seattle in rental prices. I was just comparing some of those from the Seattle market where I have a home and just came down from this morning. But...
 One of the techniques that we've used to inject more tax credits into the building itself was to use the IRS allowance of developer fee to increase the developer fee to $8 million, of which $5 million will go back into the project. So it just is an artifice.
 in order to get tax credit investment dollars back into the building and not use public resources for the city's coffers. Impact Capital, who is our partner, they partnered with us on the Abigail and a project out in...
 Hillsboro will be the resident services provider. They are a provider of veteran services. And some of their programs will include financial literacy and management, homework clubs, parenting, education, health and wellness. And then, again, services that are helping to coordinate the VASH vouchers and the veterans who will be living in the building.
 So of the city's funding, about $19 million will come from the North McAdam URA, $2.7 million from the North McAdam URA as well. So that was the second $2.7 that Kurt mentioned. And then there's a waiver of $3.3 million in system development charges, which is very much appreciated on our part.
 So both of the PHB loans will close simultaneously, as will the debt financing. And as said, we are using the – we will purchase the land using bridge funding, then move that back immediately into the City of Portland's hands, and you will lease it back to us for 99 years. So that's essentially how that deal will work. Okay.
 I really don't have much else to say. I think that this has had a long and challenging road. First, at the beginning of the year following the election and the promise of tax reform that did impact pricing, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, and then, of course, now as we're moving ahead and looking at this additional threat,
 But completely eliminating the program, we know that we all have to move quickly if we want to save this housing. So thank you. I just have a couple of final comments. We talked a little bit about Block 45 last week, and there are some differences between the two. Block 45 on Grand and Holiday is in a qualified census tract, so that actually gets a basis boost. The tax credits are actually worth more in that location.
 So in this instance, the leverage ratio is three to one. We're leveraging $3 of outside private financing for every $1 of public finance. And those partners include National Equity Fund in for $28 million.
 Key Bank and Oregon Housing and Community Services, some $17 million. This was the first and only project in the city of Portland to use Department of Justice settlement money from the Credit Suisse lawsuit because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had purchased some mortgages that were bundled by Credit Suisse, and they were found to be defective.
 So we benefited here in Portland from that. Bridge, as mentioned by Cynthia, is putting their own cash in the deal, and there's also a $40 million permanent loan on the project from Barron's multifamily capital. So it's important to recognize that we're leveraging a significant amount of outside resources.
 The project not only will meet the long-term permanent affordability expectations of the city, but they'll be contracting with a minimum of 20% women, minorities, small businesses, and it will be a LEED Gold sustainable project.
 That concludes my comments. Very good. Before we – well, let's see. We need to put the amendments on the table, but how many people do we have signed up to testify? I show two. Why don't we do that, and then we'll put the amendments on the table. Let's put them on first so they can testify to them. All right. That's fine. By the way, just one question, Kurt.
 because I think it's important for people. You kept talking about leverage. So my understanding is that the public investment per door, if you will, is about $100,000, and the rest is private equity and other sources. So when we're talking about the public's return on the investment.
 We're about $100,000 a door, and the rest comes from people willing to make investments in this through tax credits and other sources to get loans for the difference. Absolutely correct. So that's a pretty attractive ratio in terms of leverage. Very good. Colleagues, I move the mayoral amendment.
 To update the Portland Housing Bureau approval in Section 1, finding 15, and to include the correct Exhibit A. Second. I have a motion. Commissioner Fish seconds. Commissioner Fish has an amendment. Mayor, I have an amendment which we've cleared with your office, which would amend the ordinance Section 1, finding 7, by striking and replacing the second sentence as follows.
 Of the vouchered units, 20 will be for permanent supportive housing units. Strike. If no service funding is available for the permanent supportive housing units, then the requirement for said units is terminated and replaced with the following. The city, county, and our partners will prioritize finding the funding and services for these units in order to remain consistent with the stated goals outlined in Resolution 37323.
 Very good. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Colleagues, any other amendments to put on the table at this time? We'll go ahead and leave those amendments open. We'll take public testimony and then vote. Thank you very much for your testimony. Tim Davis and Shannon Milligan. Come on up. Three minutes. Name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, let us know. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Shannon Milligan. I'm a resident of the Abigail. It's an affordable building in the North Pearl District. It's built by Bridge Housing. I am a single mom of two kids. I'm a small business owner and I'm a Portland native.
 before I tell you about how great it is living at the Abigail. I'll tell you a bit about how it's changed my life, actually, before I tell you how great it is to live at the Abigail, I'm going to tell you a little bit of background history leading to our residence at the Abigail and Bridge Housing. Seven to eight years ago, not once but twice, my children and I were displaced from our home. As the Portland housing market began to change,
 Two go-arounds of packing up our things with a month's notice, and ironically, both times, we moved all of our things into the same exact storage unit. We were unable to secure a place to call home in the time allotted. It was a complete nightmare. We couch-surfed. We stayed with friends and relatives in both Vancouver and Beaverton while we commuted into the city to look for rentals daily and to go to work. I don't know if you've ever lived with your daily items stored in the trunk of your car, but it isn't easy. And like I said, we did that twice.
 I wasn't willing to change schools for my kids. In addition to the other changes that we were facing, my kids, they were stressed. My son was struggling in school. It was all out of their control, and it was out of my control as well.
 Each time we looked for housing, the prices climbed higher and out of our budget. The inner city where we lived had very little amount of family-sized rentals. We couldn't compete with other rental candidates that showed up at the open houses. They presented dual incomes. They appeared more stable. And so time and time again, we were struck out. So we finally landed a new rental. It was well beyond our budget. It was substandard in many ways. But we stayed there for five years.
 During this time, I told others that I experienced renter's PTSD. I would worry about my lease around renewal time. I'd worry that my landlord would raise my rent higher, impacting my already impossible budget. And he did. Would he want to sell it? Would he have us move it or would we move again? Should I even be asking for necessary repairs, thinking in turn that he's going to think that I'm costly or that I'm a nuisance tenant? And again, raise the rent.
 And if we were to move again, the market prices are even higher. Where would we go? Although we had a place to live, I was very anxious with the constant what-ifs and juggling my finances. I began to research affordable housing in Portland, and I read of plans for the Abigail. It wasn't far from our home. I watched it being built, and I dreamed of living there. I kept an eye on Bridge Housing's website, and on day one of the open application period, I went in and I turned in an application. Okay.
 And in August of 2016, my two children and I moved to the Abigail. We moved into stability where I took a deep breath and I was able to shut down all the what-ifs that were bouncing around in my head in all those years of unstable living. Our building is diverse. We have varying income levels, ages, races, and backgrounds. It's a community. My family, along with many others of my neighbors, were flourishing, and we don't have the worry of how to simply live.
 It's safe. It's energy efficient. Like the presentation showed, we have support services from Impact Northwest with financial classes and events that bring all of the neighbors together. And I feel more connected in this building than I did anywhere that I've lived in years. Thank you.
 It's near where I work. I can focus on growing my business. My kids can focus on school without distraction of thinking we may move. And I can be of support to them through college. And I can once again return to contributing to my own retirement funds. Living in affordable housing has changed my family's life for the better. I desire you all to take this into consideration when planning for the future of affordable housing here in Portland and with this project.
 Thank you. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you so much for taking the time to come and tell us your story. I'm glad it worked out for you. There was one other gentleman. Is that correct? Yes. Tim Davis. Is Mr. Davis here? Mr. Davis has left. Very good. Please call the roll on Amendment 1, which was the first one that I put on the table pertaining to the –
 Section 1, finding 15. And Exhibit A. And Exhibit A. It's part of the same amendment, swapping out Exhibit A. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Commissioner Fish's amendment, please. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Any further questions before we move on to the main motion? To the main motion, please call the roll.
 I imagine there's lots of people in Portland who are absolutely terrified not knowing what's happening or knowing what's happening with the federal tax code changing. And this is a bright light in the midst of all that darkness that people did work all the way through the Thanksgiving weekend and up till this very minute and just...
 We're absolutely determined to get this done by the end of the year. So thank you, Director Krieger. Thank you to Bridge Meadows. Thanks to everybody who was involved in it. And thank you for coming to tell us, Shannon, of really why we're doing this. You put the face on it, so thank you. I'm proud to live in a city and be serving on city council where people try to do the right thing and can do so very quickly when the needs arise. And I have to say that I'm sure that Gretchen Kofori is here today. So I love you, Gretchen. Aye.
 Saltzman. Fish. I'm sorry? Fish. Okay. Saltzman fish. That's a new combination. That's a new one. That's a new one. I could only wish. I'm open to being adopted. I want to echo what Amanda just said about Gretchen. She mentored both of us. And most of the times that she summoned me to her apartment was around where she thought I was falling short.
 And we miss her greatly, although her spirit lives on and her daughter, the county chair. And I also want to acknowledge Susan Emmons. I can't think of someone who had a bigger impact on affordable housing. And, you know, once upon a time, she actually shaped the editorial policy of the Oregonian around focusing on the needs of the very low income. So I honor both of them. Dan, you launched this process as the housing commissioner.
 Kurt and the PHB team really brought it forward, so congratulations to you. And, Mayor, a lot of good ideas come to council, but unless there's a closer, they don't get done. And by my count, in the course of a week, you have closed 443 units of affordable housing in our community, which is probably a record.
 One is the largest housing development that we've ever done of its kind. And I'd have to go back over history and ask Kurt to help me, but when I look at the numbers here on 0 to 60 and 0 to 30 plus the PSHs in this apartment, in this project, I don't think there's anything comparable other than something that Home Forward has done. So I congratulate you for meeting the needs of people really desperately shut out of the private markets and who desperately need our help.
 I met Bridge Housing many years ago when Dyke brought some folks over to introduce me, and it was his vision to bring them into the River District, and I think they have fully met the trust which we placed in them with the Abigail, which both is a standout project and the testimony today speaks to how successful it is beyond just the beauty of the building, but the services and the way it's run.
 This took a lot of creative financing, and we are up against a clock and a gun, so congratulations on that. It's part of the ethic of our housing community, which is there's no barrier we're not going to work through, but it took a lot of work. Mayor, I think the 20 PSH units and the commitment we've made is a hell of a down payment on the policy which you have helped lead.
 And we will work with you to find that funding with the county and our partners because it's a shared obligation. I have the same sense of pride that Commissioner Fritz does, that we live in a community that can achieve something like this. And today I'm proud to cast my vote as an aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, everybody, that pulled together to keep this project alive. And really, it's a mind-boggling accomplishment.
 To those of you who don't speak the language, to those of us who don't speak the language of housing, it's really mind-boggling to see all these numbers tossed around, all these different sources of funding that somehow magically come together. And I'm sure it's not magic. It's a lot of hard work. And so I just want to thank, you know, the Housing Bureau, Kurt Krieger, Cynthia Parker, and Bridge Housing, Prosper Portland, Mayor's Office, everybody that really kept this project alive because it will produce...
 A lot less PTSD on people like Shannon who are going to be living in this new development.
 And I was struck, Commissioner Fritz, you inadvertently referred to Bridge Housing as Bridge Meadows. And it just made me think, gee, what a great marriage that would be, getting Bridge Meadows, which creates intergenerational communities for foster kids, married with Bridge Housing, which just has an outstanding track record. So that's going to be one of my goals in my final year here, maybe is to forge that relationship a little bit better. Always got to help. Yeah. Thank you for that idea. But this is really, I'm very proud to have had some association with this project and pleased to vote aye.
 Well, I certainly see my role here is to continue the excellent leadership that started this project all those years ago. Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish reminded us, again, it's appropriate to do the history that brings us here and makes the approach to housing in our community unique. We are not Tokyo. We are not Montreal. We are not Montreal.
 And we are not Singapore. We are Portland. And we have our own issues, our own obstacles, our own desires, our own culture around development. But what we all agree is we need more workforce and affordable housing, and we need it yesterday. And Commissioner Fish has done a great job, or I can call him Commissioner Saltzman Fish. I think that sounds nice.
 has done an excellent job of keeping permanent supportive housing front and center. And Director Krieger, I want to echo all of those who say you used a lot of creativity here. I'm still trying to figure out a lot of the lingo around housing. I do know a thing or two about bonding capacity and finance. I think you've put together a capital stack here that is very innovative and thoughtful, given the resources that we have. I think you're leveraging resources in a really –
 responsible and creative way. And it's important to combine those two things when you're talking about finance. I also just want to put an admonition out there. Things change.
 on January 1st. Things change with the passage of the Tax Act, and it will have implications for our ability to develop these kinds of projects. The cost will go up, and some of the tools that are currently available to us may not be available to us in the future. And that's just the reality under which we have to operate. We'll continue.
 to be responsible and creative in our approach. So thanks to everybody who worked on this. Thanks to folks, you guys, who took your Thanksgiving weekend and took time away from your families and other opportunities to help make sure that we got this done. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you.
 One last item, and it's a fast one, folks. It's a second reading. Item number, for those of you wondering, 1314 we covered this morning, and that was noticed in advance, so that leaves us with 1315. Please, Carla. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority.
 Colleagues, this is an issue where we had a first reading recently. We had a presentation. We took extensive testimony on this item. This is a second reading. Is there any further discussion? Commissioner Fritz. Yes, I believe what we did, Mayor, was to ask Transportation to talk with the property owner for Exhibit 25 to come up with a resolution to the concerns that were raised. So could I get an update on where we're at with that and whether we need to amend the ordinance? Yes.
 to make it clear that we're actually, my understanding is we're not going to be exercising the purchase eminent domain. Hi, Mayor, Commissioners, Marty Maloney, Peebot-Rideway. So we did meet with Mrs. Hayes, and we did actually come up with an alternative design for we're able to actually...
 work the sidewalk away from her property, so no permanent rights will be acquired. We will, however, need temporary rights from her, just like it pretty much will be uniform with the rest of the property.
 We're not positive what we need quite yet on the temporary construction easement, but the area that we have, I would recommend not changing what we have. We can actually acquire less than what is needed with the dedication. But...
 The problem is though that it does say that we're going to take a permanent taking there. So I would not be comfortable even, I mean obviously you've come to this agreement, but it means that what we would be voting on is not what's actually going to happen. Yeah, we could actually, if you would like, we can actually go back and change it just to show a temporary right. We've in the past, if we've needed any less rights, we could actually do get the temporary construction instead of the dedication.
 If we had a temporary construction easement, we wouldn't actually be able to get a permanent right. But we can go back and actually just amend it if you would like. That's no problem. I would feel more comfortable if that's okay with you as the Transportation Commissioner. Sure.
 Thank you very much for your patience. No problem. It was good to meet with her and come up with a positive resolution. I heard she was very pleased with the responsiveness of the city and you in particular, so thank you for that. So procedurally, I want to make sure I understand what we're doing. Are we continuing this process?
 Yes. Or should I move to change the easement from permanent to construction and move it over to next week? If he brings a substitute next week, we can just adopt it with an emergency clause. Yeah, that sounds like the greatest way of doing it. Okay, so we can actually just switch out the exhibit just to show a temporary easement instead of the permanent. Okay, I think that would be easy. Thank you very much. I'm certain.
 No. Very good. So this item, item 1315, is continued to next Wednesday? Correct. Very good. Thank you very much. So done. We are adjourned. Thank you, everybody. So did you? Hooray. Well done. So when you come back, I'm going to put you in the can on this. Thank you. Oh, Glenn. So you're going to need to bring back a substitute ordinance that makes this an emergency.