Ready to go? Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, December 5th morning session of the Portland City Council. Sue, please call the roll. Udailey. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Salsman. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of the testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for anything that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. First up is communications. Sue, the first individual, please. Item 1216, request of Kyle Ranson to address council regarding public safety and small business in Portland. Mr. Ranson, are you present? Yes.
 I don't see him. Maybe he'll show up later. Jennifer Noonan. I'm next person, sorry. 12-17. I'm doing your job. Sorry. Item 12-17, request of Jennifer Noonan to address council regarding Antifa in Portland. Well, we're making fast time today. Next individual, please. Request of Tom Allen to address council regarding affordable housing in Portland. Is it snowing outside or something that I'm not aware of? No.
 Oh, he is. Okay, very good. Where do I go? Just right up here, and the microphones slide around, and if you could just state your name for the record, and when you have about 30 seconds left, you'll see a yellow light flash, and when your time is up, it'll go red. Welcome. We're glad to have you here. Thank you. If I can start? You most certainly may. Oh, my name's Tom Allen. I'm a real estate broker and small-time, long-time landlord. Okay.
 So I'm here to talk about the housing issues. So first question I had, are any of you landlords or have been managing property before? I have done. You have. Okay. Thank you. As you probably know, being a landlord is not easy. I spent years and years having a full-time job. When I was done with that, then I'd go and work on properties, fix them up, deal with tenants, etc.
 it's tough. And it's one of the ways that a lot of small-time Americans like me can get ahead. It takes a lot of work. And I think some of the legislation that you're doing is driving people like me out of business, where soon the only people that can be landlords are going to be the big corporations, the big companies, just like you see with Walmart and Amazon, and people like me get crushed. There's...
 One law that specifically I wanted to address that you put into effect, and that's the example is if I have a house, I rent it to somebody. At the end of the year when the lease is up, by law, by your law, I have to renew that if they want to stay there. Or I can choose to pay them to move out of my property. Okay.
 which is unfair to me. And the problem with that is if I change my mind, if I want to get out of the business, I have to either pay them to leave my home or it eliminates owner-occupied buyers from buying that house. Because their lenders require that they move into the property within 60 days usually after it closes.
 So you're not only damaging me, giving tenants more rights to my property than what I have, and you're eliminating a lot of people from potentially buying the property. Not only if they don't do an owner-occupied loan, they're having to put a lot more money down, but the interest rates are higher. So that's one thing. It's like that needs to be looked at. On top of that...
 I look at some of the numbers that you use, some of the properties that you've bought, and it's like there's no financial accountability. I don't know if there's anybody that's dealing with this that really knows the numbers. I know you had people, Ron Garcia, I think, was one of them, that was on the housing board that he got drove out. And it seems like...
 You know, you shouldn't have to pay $300,000 a unit to buy a property when you can find it for $75,000 or $100,000. You know, if you have people that know what they're doing, and I just, it's unsustainable. And people like me end up paying because the way you're paying for the housing you're buying,
 It's getting added to my property bills. What do I do? I have to raise the rents. Thank you. Anyhow, I know I've taken probably too much time. I appreciate it. Not at all. We appreciate your coming in and sharing your perspective. Sorry I walked in late. No worries. No, thank you. You were right on time. Thank you for being here today. Next individual, please. Thank you.
 The next two are together. Oh, sorry. 1219 and 1220, request of Nancy Metella and Sabina Hilding to address council regarding the Department of Energy's decision about high-level nuclear waste disposal. Excellent. Welcome. Thank you both for being here today. Sabina is going to go first. I'm Nancy. I'm Sabina Hilding. Okay.
 The topic is high level toxic nuclear waste, not exactly touchy feely for a breakfast meeting.
 Every few years another plan to deal with the national volume of nuclear waste left over from bomb making, 1945 to 1989, during the Cold War and after, is floated by the U.S. Department of Energy. Under the Trump administration, a plan whose deadline for comment is December 10th, that's now changed to January 9th, 2019.
 involves renaming some high-level toxic nuclear waste as low-level toxic nuclear waste. The bottom line of this plan is to find a cheaper and faster way to sweep the issue of much high-level toxic nuclear waste under the rug and call it clean-up.
 The U.S. DOE wants to redefine the statutory term of high-level waste, HLW, resulting in its reclassification, redefinition from what has been set forth in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982.
 Hanford Nuclear Reservation is the worst toxic waste site in the Western Hemisphere. This USDOE reclassification has huge geographical implications for Hanford's leaking 177 high-level radioactive waste tanks, amounting to 56 million gallons stored at Hanford, 240 miles up the river, the Columbia from Portland in Washington State.
 If high-level waste is reclassified as low-level, many remaining tank wastes could be left in the tanks and also underground beneath the tanks. Additionally, the USDOE has not said how they will classify low-level versus high-level. The devil is in the details which are not disclosed. Edwin Lyman from the Union of Concerned Scientists notes the USDOE should not be making any changes in its requirements that would result in a reduction of safety.
 We are concerned with the possible misuse of this definition. This definition change could potentially provide less secure ways of dealing with the existing plumes of underground waste and the future leaks of more waste below the 177 tanks. This reclassification gives too much leeway to the USDOE. Removal of the high-level waste in the tanks and in the VEDOS zone, the underground water zone, must be a priority.
 As representatives for us, your constituency, we are asking our Portland City Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler to weigh in on this USDOE proposal plan by sending the city's objections. And I have a letter here, which all of you should have in your notes from the city secretary. We feel that the USDOE has not revealed enough information. Any questions?
 Commissioner Fritz. Could you please email that, what you just said, or have you already? I have, and I will be happy to give you a real copy. Okay.
 Actually, if you could just... I think we all got copies. We got copies of the letter. If it's possible to email it, because then I can forward it on. Or you could give me the copy or give it to the clerk. That would be fine. I'm the city's representative on the League of Cities board, and it just so happens we're meeting on Friday, so I could see if there's other communities who would consent. I'll be happy to email anything you like, Commissioner. Thank you very much. Anybody else? Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is Nancy Metella, and I've been before you before with issues like bull run water, landlord-tenant, et cetera. Excuse me. This is the most important issue that I have ever been involved with, and I've been involved for 30 years. Yes.
 there's a precedent of Oregon government officials commenting on USDOE plans for the toxic waste remediation at Hanford. In 2011, then-Mayor Sam Adams and Oregon members of Congress helped to stop radioactive waste from being trucked through Oregon on I-5 and I-84 to be stored at Hanford. And I think a couple of commissioners were here then.
 Yes. Sorry. Mayor Adams appeared in person with 200 citizens to testify at the public hearing. Most recently, Oregon State Senator Lou Frederick of District 22 testified against the current proposal at the Portland Information Meeting about the proposed reclassification. He
 He has been a constant watchdog and voice for us with regard to Hanford for 40 years. He was actually born there. We are here to ask that you take up the voice also because you can make a difference, and it sounds like Commissioner Fritz is doing so.
 The Oregon DOE has already come out against the current U.S. DOE plan, but this is not enough. You represent over 800,000 people who will be affected by the tank leakage if the remediation doesn't work.
 The proposed concrete grouting is unlikely to last more than even 100 years, much less thousands. We ask that you become educated about the proposed plans and that you force the U.S. DOE to conduct yearly and transparent updates. And they must be held accountable for the timely education of the residents along the Columbia River."
 Nobody really virtually knows about this situation. The Tri-Party Agreement made many decades ago states that yearly public hearings are to be held, and that hasn't happened for four years. The world of radioactive waste is extremely complicated and requires diligent watchfulness. Not only do we ask that you submit the letter to USDOE, but we ask that you maintain vigilance over the frequently changing plans.
 The ramifications of the proposed U.S. DOE move to downgrade the waste treatment is frightening for the Pacific Northwest and beyond.
 Why will it matter? It's our drinking water. It's our fish. It's our crops. It is life for a thousand or more years. Thank you. Thank you both. Appreciate it very much. Commissioner Udeli, did you have a comment? Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. Similarly, could you email that to me? Certainly. Colleagues, if it's okay with you, I'll consult with government relations to see if we could do some kind of joint letter. I appreciate this very timely notification. That would be my recommendation. Great. Can I add something just real quick? Sure.
 The real question is, what kind of a site do we want up there? Thank you very much for your activism. It's a fair question. You bet. Thank you for coming in today. We appreciate it. Did either Kyle Ranson or Jennifer Noonan show up?
 Very good. To the consent agenda, I understand we had at least one item pulled. My understanding is item number 1235 was pulled. Is that correct? Correct. Anything else? None else. Please call the roll on the consent agenda. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Consent agenda items are routine city administrative business, but today's consent agenda had a couple of items that I just want to briefly highlight. Today we codify the results of the November election, specifically measures 26-200 and 26-201.
 We also have three inclusionary housing projects, which will provide 134 units of new rental housing, including 13 affordable housing units. These projects join the other 37 private sector projects in the inclusionary housing permit approval pipeline, making a minimum of 276 units affordable in otherwise market rate developments. I vote aye. The consent agenda is adopted.
 Next item, please. Time certain. Yep, we're good. Time certain, 1221, please. 1221, 2018 Steve Lowenstein Trust Award. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Before I begin, I would like to welcome our honored guests, the Steve Lowenstein Board Chair, Joe Hertzberg, and Board Member Margie Harris. Thank you, Mayor.
 Colleagues, as you know, this award is named for attorney, author, and civil rights activist Steve Lowenstein. Steve was the founding director of Oregon Legal Services, a Peace Corps volunteer, and an advocate for social justice. He also worked in City Hall as chief of staff to our good friend, former commissioner Mike Lindbergh.
 Steve wrote that the recipient of the Trust Award, quote, shall be that person who demonstrated the greatest contribution to assisting the poor and underprivileged in the city of Portland, Oregon. This year, the board has selected a transformative community leader dedicated to our youth and improving safety in our community, and she is Adrienne Livingston.
 Adrienne is the Anti-Sex Trafficking Director of WorldVenture, and she works proactively with the community and with at-risk youth who are vulnerable to exploitation. Adrienne, we are honored to recognize and to celebrate you today and your incredible work in our community and to pause to reflect on the great legacy of Steve Lowenstein. Joe, this is, I think, collectively one of our favorite conversations.
 council items and every year you come forward with another community leader that we get to celebrate in Steve's name. Thank you for the leadership that you've given to this organization, both you and Margie, to keep Steve's name alive and to recognize outstanding community leaders. And we're blessed to have a lot in our community and this is a chance that we have to recognize some of the best of the best. So with that, Joe, I'll ask you to take it away.
 Thank you, Nick. I want to say that most of these years, the person that's been up here is Michelle Harper, who we tried to make chair for life, and somehow she managed to
 retire from the chairmanship, but is still on the board. I want to take two minutes to talk about Steve a little bit, because I think most of you didn't know him personally. Dan, you may have, but Nick knew his mom in New York. She was a real firecracker. That's an understatement. Steve's amazing career sounds almost like fiction. He was in Sergeant Triver's office at the creation of the War on Poverty,
 He was with the Ford Foundation in Ethiopia and Chile, helped start a law school in Ethiopia, founded Oregon Legal Services and the Oregon Law Foundation, and wrote the definitive history of Jews in Oregon. Yeah.
 Sort of like there's an old story about a lawyer who dies, and when he gets to heaven, he says, how can this be? I'm only 50 years old. And St. Peter looks down at the big book and says, well, we looked at your hours. You'd build clients and thought you were 90. And I think Steve was taken when he was 52 because they looked at this resume. Yeah.
 As Nick said, he was Mike Lindbergh's chief of staff in the days when Bud Clark and Frank Ivancy were mayor. He was known as a straight shooter, consensus builder, passionate advocate for the disadvantaged. And all these years after his death, I think that his influence is still felt here. Every one of you has in your bureaus.
 many of them in key leadership positions, who considered Steve to be a mentor and a role model. When he died, he created this trust, and every year we present the Steve Lowenstein Award in this chamber. This is the 27th time. And Adrian joins a distinguished and select group of local heroes, mostly unsung, who,
 I want to say it's an honor and a privilege for us to be able to give these people just a little bit of the recognition that they deserve. And it's the most humbling thing that I do every year. A few of our board members are here, and I'd just like to introduce them. Monica Garacki, Michelle Harper, Jamal Folsom, Art Alexander, several of them former city employees as well. Thank you.
 Margie is going to introduce Adrian and Margie as both a board member and Steve's colleague in Mike's office. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Margie Harris. I had the pleasure of knowing Steve Lowenstein when I worked on Mike Lindbergh's staff for many years. And I'm here to introduce Adrian, as Joe said. Adrian Livingston is well known to many of you for her longstanding commitment to social and racial justice in the city of Portland.
 And this year we're honoring Adrienne, as Commissioner Fish said, for her role as the Anti-Sex Trafficking Director for WorldVenture in Portland. There were many nominees this year, and however, it was Adrienne's commitment to deter sex trafficking in our community and her efforts to raise awareness and provide preventive education and training.
 and to connect victims with support services that elevated her to a level of recognition for the Lowenstein Trust Award. To effectively address sex trafficking in Portland, Adrienne emphasizes the importance of community coordination and collaboration among schools, community organizations, social service and government agencies, and of course, law enforcement.
 In her work, Adrienne speaks out to hundreds of community members. Some are in church settings, some are in educational settings or community settings, and her preventive strategies protect young people from becoming victims.
 There is a model curriculum that Adrienne has contributed to, and it is designed for at-risk youth and emphasizes a very proactive, informed approach to protecting themselves from becoming victims of sex trafficking. Participating middle and high school girls are gaining insights from Adrienne's work. There is a girls' empowerment curriculum.
 that has been developed through Adrian's efforts, and it's about learning how to have a healthy relationship, how to establish safe boundaries, and how to learn verbal and physical self-defense skills. Adrian's very engaging teaching style helps students become aware of the common tactics that are used to entice people into an underworld of sex trafficking.
 Adrian's role with the Mentorship Support Collaborative focuses on training members of the faith community to become mentors for sex trafficking victims.
 As a native Oregonian, Adrienne is a graduate of Jefferson High School. She received her bachelor's degree in marketing, international business, and international studies, nice combination, from Oregon State University, and her master's of arts in intercultural studies from Western Seminary.
 Adrienne is also a member of the East Portland Rotary's End Sex Trafficking Now Committee, a member of the World Evangelical Alliance on Human Trafficking Task Force, and a past co-chair of Multnomah County Victims Services Implementation Team. So you can see why Adrienne is an excellent choice for the Low and String Trust this year. One of Adrienne's colleagues is a woman named Carolyn Walker.
 And when I interviewed her as a reference for Adrienne's nomination, she had very eloquent words to say about you. She said, Adrienne has a shining spirit, and the work Adrienne is doing is in the fabric of her being. Goodness emanates from you. So this morning I learned that Adrienne's last name, Livingston,
 is in fact a translation of the German name Loewenstein. A happy coincidence. And perhaps another reason subliminally why this award is so appropriate for this young woman. So on behalf of all of us as board members of the Loewenstein Trust, and I will echo what Joe said about how humbling this experience is every year,
 It's my honor and pleasure to introduce to you our 2019 Loewenstein Trust Award winner, Adrienne Livingston. Thank you. We'll suspend the rules. I have to say, for me, it is also humbling because I do this work because it's me. You know, I want to help protect our youth. Thank you.
 And so to be recognized for this work that I do it not for recognition, it's still an honor and extremely humbling to be recognized. So I would just want to say thank you first and foremost to that. You know, I got started in this work because, well, one, I think many of you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Saltzman, we served together on the Portland Children's Levee. You know that I love kids and it is about our future and protecting them and that we took
 together help to give money to organizations that work with at-risk youth, you know, after school, so many in our community. Commissioner Fish serving on the Volunteers of America Board, and it's about building and keeping strong communities. And even some of the, you know, individuals that that organization works with are those that are at risk for being trafficked.
 So for me, this is who I am. I am called to do this work. I never thought I would be working in this area of sex trafficking and fighting it and making people aware of it.
 But it was a movie that I watched that really highlighted the international trafficking that was going on at the time. And it was really highlighting the United Nations and how they were, unfortunately, some of the U.N. peacekeepers were the participants of actually doing those commercial sex acts. Thankfully, there was someone to blow the whistle. The name is Whistleblower. When I watched that movie, I became really angry because I thought, how dare the protector become the persecutor? And they weren't prosecuted.
 So after that, I looked, how can I get involved? And when I started looking, I saw, oh, wow, it's happening in the city of Portland. And this is our context. So once I understood our context, I too wanted to get involved. Unfortunately, at the time, I couldn't find a significant way for me to get involved. There were opportunities to contribute money, which is necessary, as well as to volunteer at events, which is necessary. But I wanted to do more.
 And thankfully, it was about a year and a half later that I knew. I was like, you know, what I want to do is help people get connected and get engaged once they learn out about this issue. And from there, talking with WorldVenture, what they wanted to do as an organization is to help educate their churches on this issue. I believe that all of us have a role, whether it's nonprofit, churches, organizations.
 government to health professionals, utilities, schools, we all have a role to play. And so for me, where I could really help was even in our churches and educating them on what is this issue, how do we help internally, addressing even the issue of ending the demand, which you then have to talk about the issue of pornography and how that's a huge driver of the demand of sex trafficking.
 But also prevention. And as Margie has mentioned, the curriculum that myself and a colleague have developed, it's a sex trafficking prevention curriculum for middle school and high school girls. And it's one where we teach about healthy and unhealthy relationships. We teach about boundaries. We let them know that they have a voice, and their very voice is a tool. Because what happens is you have traffickers and pimps that actually –
 look like boyfriends to these girls. And they start out looking healthy, but they turn unhealthy. So we want our girls to recognize what are these signs and what does it look like when you're in a healthy relationship and not a healthy relationship. So you start using your voice. And honestly, in my opinion, it's not just sex trafficking prevention. It's even domestic violence. It's helping girls just learn what is it to have a healthy relationship.
 A part of this is that knowing with our girls, we know we need to teach boys. And thankfully, I think there are some organizations out there that are starting to address this issue with boys. But because gender is very different, so we have to educate girls on one thing and boys on another.
 A part of this work, though, as I have been doing it, I understand that I cannot do it alone, and nor can my organization do it alone. We have to look at collaborating and doing things together. One organization that I work with, which was mentioned, Mentor Support Collaborative, is, again, about educating the church on becoming trauma-informed to get engaged with this issue. Thank you.
 Now, you hear me saying the church a lot, but for me and for those that I work with, even if we represent church, it's about our girls and our boys and really protecting our communities. And in that, we even work with law enforcement. And one thing that we have learned, it was about, I think, between 2012, 2016, where the city of Portland did contribute a lot of law enforcement to this issue. I think we had about eight law enforcement that were helping. Since then, since 2016, it's only two.
 And what we do know is human trafficking is the second largest international criminal industry. The first is drugs. And what I've heard from law enforcement is that it's only increasing, especially because of the Internet and with social apps. Our youth are becoming that much more vulnerable. And what these pimps and traffickers do is they exploit vulnerabilities. So my encouragement to you as a city of Portland is to look at –
 You know, it's prioritizing this, saying we do need to put now more law enforcement to this issue because it is about us protecting our youth. Does it only happen to girls? No, it happens to boys and it happens to older adults. But I know that when we start talking about youth and saying, wow, the –
 The primary age of someone being recruited into this is 12 to 16 years old. What 12 to 16 years old wakes up in the morning and says, I want to prostitute my body? They don't. So they're tricked. They're manipulated. They're coerced in some way. So it's for us to say, even as the city of Portland law enforcement, we do want to put more behind this, because it is only increasing. And that's what we have seen not just as the city of Portland, but even worldwide. Because the internet, it has no boundaries.
 And therefore, with this issue, it's all about the money. Money has no boundaries. It's green. And when you think about it, with these Pimpson traffickers, it's tax-free. So this is an easy way, unfortunately, for them to exploit another for their own purposes.
 and for them to get money and to really exploit another individual. And our bodies are not meant for this purpose. So for me, this work, I love the fact and I'm privileged that I can do this because the very organizations that even the Portland Children's Levy works with to support, if we can support at-risk youth, if we can support those that need mentors because they need to have a healthy life,
 male role model or a female role model, we are actually helping to fight this. So I'm thankful that I have served with several of you already on some organizations that are, maybe it's not directly working with this issue of trafficking, but if you're working with that very vulnerable population, we are helping. And so the only plea I would have is let's look at law enforcement, and let's look at as a city of Portland, what more can we do to put more
 of those individuals out on the street for this. We, you know, part of me is also saying with our churches, we have our role. We want to make people accountable to this issue is happening, we need to wake up. We have to wake up. If we don't wake up, it's only going to get worse. And we want it to get better. So all of us have a role, and I'm thankful that I can work with many of you, even in this room.
 meeting some of the board members already, meeting Margie and hearing from an organization last night with working on the immigrant and refugee issue in that crisis, that has a connection. We're going to work together. So I'm excited that I can do this work and to do it in collaboration with others. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very nice. Joe, are you going to officially give her the award and just remind us again what the award is? Margie, you want to do that? Okay. Okay.
 So every year we give a stipend to the award recipient of the Low Interest Trust, and it's a $7,500 contribution to further their work.
 And that's what this check is. And there's also a lovely plaque that is done by a colleague and associate of Steve's whose name is, Joe? Victoria Corbett. Yes, who does this beautiful award. It's nice, yeah. Yeah. That's lovely. Mayor, can we get a picture with the entire Lowenstein Trust Board and the recipient? Absolutely. Absolutely.
 Congratulations. I would just like to personally thank you, Adrian, for all your contributions to helping kids have better lives. I appreciate your service on the Children's Levy Allocation Board. I know you put in at least a couple tours of duty there. But, yeah, this issue, you know, a lot of us just –
 don't want to accept that it really exists, especially here in Portland. But, you know, I've certainly seen over the years that it's a real issue. And I think, you know, we had some people just testify about nuclear waste at Hanford. And, you know, these... And so it's kind of... Sex trafficking, nuclear waste issues, they kind of, you know, they go in cycles. People kind of...
 get really alarmed when something's going on and then you know things kind of go underground for a while until we get the alarms going again so thank you for ringing the bell all the time that we need to make sure we need to accept this is a real issue for our youth so thank you
 I'd also just like to acknowledge, if I could, your comments about public safety and law enforcement. I appreciate that, and I agree. And one of the consequences of having fewer and fewer officers over a period of many years is that the specialty units all got pulled back.
 We heard a conversation the other day about the graffiti unit and who's responsible for actually prosecuting repeat offenders around graffiti. Well, that used to be the Portland Police Bureau that used to have police detailed for that specific investigative purpose. Then you have raised the question of trafficking and police.
 Where are the specialty units that are focused on investigating and prosecuting those who are engaged in that kind of activity? And I want you to know a long-term goal here is to make sure that those things do get prioritized again by making sure that we have the tools, the training, and the adequate staffing to be able to accomplish those things. And, of course, this council is unified in its decision to go back to Salem and talk about auto theft again.
 once more and changing the rules around auto theft. And assuming we are successful there, we will, of course, need law enforcement personnel to be able to enforce that as well. So I appreciate your bringing that up as part of a larger context. And now I'm going to make a pitch.
 So I thought my days on the Children's Levy Allocation Committee were behind me, and Commissioner Saltzman has brought me back into that capacity. So I just want you to know there is always an opportunity for you to return to that important position, and I would be thrilled to work with you again in that capacity. Thank you. Congratulations. This is a token of appreciation that you absolutely deserve.
 deserve. Thank you for your leadership. Thank you. Could I just say one more word? I want to thank you all for allowing us to do this
 in this chamber with your attention every year. It makes a real difference to us and to the recipients. And I know for you, you get these proclamations and celebrations all the time, one after the other. For us, this is once a year, and it makes a real, real difference to us. Thank you for your time and attention. If I may just respond, it's an absolute joy to have an uplifting and insightful conversation like this. So...
 I appreciate the thanks, but it's really us who thank you for bringing these things to our attention. In fact, Joe, if you want to give out an award every month, we'll host you. I also would like to acknowledge Ascenta Lawrence on my team who helped pull this together and present it to council. I've been on the council for 10 years, and I think this may qualify as my favorite award.
 event of its kind because it's so affirming. And I worry a little bit that we're in a trough as a community where we've allowed this sort of cup half full narrative to overwhelm almost everything we do. And it's almost like there's this negative frame that's been set either at the federal level or locally. And we're having a hard time digging out. Yeah.
 We live in a community that has so many wonderful things going on. And what often doesn't get acknowledged is the heroes, as you said, Joe, the people in the front lines doing the work. We don't tell those stories much, and we don't have a place anymore that regularly tells those stories. So we have to have events like this to celebrate progress. Thank you.
 and people that are in there fighting for our values. And so we thank you for giving us the chance to co-host this with you. So let's get some pictures. All right. So we'll go back here. Margie and Joe and the recipient go in the middle. You're in the air. You go all the way up. You're all going in here. You go in the middle here. Oh, that's it. That's it. That's it.
 All right, we'll look at this camera first, and the count of three. One, two, three. One, two, three. And now one here. There we go. Thank you. We're all done. Thank you all. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you for bringing that, Commissioner Fish. That was a fantastic presentation, and we appreciate your leadership on keeping these in front of the public and in front of the city council.
 So we are, it looks like, two minutes early, so I'm going to go to two second readings first. Could we go to 1240, please? This is the second reading. Item 1240, repeal code for single-use plastic checkout bags and polystyrene foam food containers. Okay.
 and replace with code prohibitions and restrictions on single-use plastic. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. This reading was heard previously. We took extensive public testimony. The last time we heard it, an amendment was entered into the record, and today we take the final vote. Please call the vote. Before you do call the vote, what's the number again? 1240-1240. If you could just give me... This is the... Why don't you go ahead and read it, Sue, if you could, please. Okay.
 Again. I'm sorry, you already read it. I apologize. This is the single-use plastic. I just wanted to find out where it is in my packet. Thank you. Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? Thank you. Pete Chisholm-Winfield from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Amy Rathfelder from the Mayor's Office, and Cynthia Castro in my office. I appreciate the very thoughtful consideration and the measured approach. I am encouraged that we're going to continue working on this and see how this first step works and then do more. The serious step that plastics blows on our environment cannot be understated. Right now there's an accumulation of millions of tons of plastic, three times the production.
 the size of France, twice the size of Texas, called the Great Pacific Garbage Patch Floating in the Pacific Ocean. And we can all do more to help stop this, both by reducing our use of single-use plastics, throwing them away in the right place when we do use them or reusing them. Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this. I. Fish. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for bringing this important issue forward. Portland has long been an environmental leader
 And this is an important next step in the latest in a long line of local initiatives, dating back to our climate action plan and curbside composting and banning the bag and so many more. You know, I've heard from small business owners, including their umbrella organization Venture Portland, that the small business community is on board because they want to help the environment, and less waste helps their bottom line.
 We all know about the dangers of plastic pollution in our oceans and in our beaches and streams, but we also see plastic waste in our parks, our natural areas, and streets. This is a small step toward creating a healthier city and a healthier planet.
 I want to thank the staff of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the environmental organizations that partnered with us, members of the disability community and other engaged citizens, and the public for their input. I proudly vote aye. Sol Smith. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, and also thanks to the Surfrider Foundation.
 Wheeler. This was a large coalition, very actively engaged, very focused. I want to thank all of them, the staff at BPS, Amy Rathfelder from my office, Surfrider Foundation, all of the businesses who participated in helping to shape this. As I said last time, this is the first step of many, but it's an important and necessary and I think well-measured first step. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended.
 Could we also take care of item 1249, a second reading? 1249, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for the construction of the North Jensen West of North Pavilion Avenue water main improvement project at an estimated cost of $1,010,000.
 Any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, I'm sorry to disappoint everybody. We don't get to go to Italy. Just to answer some of the concerns that were raised about asbestos in pipes. Asbestos is a public health issue only when the material is dry and friable, not when it is wet.
 We are required to and do monitor asbestos levels in the water every nine years by the Safe Water Drinking Act. The last samples we tested for asbestos were taken in 2017, all came back negative. And we have never detected asbestos in our drinking water since we began monitoring in 1992. Thank you very much to Teresa Elliott and the entire team at the Portland Water Bureau for all your work and for the project which is actually going to replace it.
 the pipes and we appreciate the rate payers for funding this. Aye. Fish. Aye. Salzman. Aye.
 We alert. Aye. Ordinance is adopted. So, colleagues, I've had a request from Commissioner Udaly to do the pulled item, if we can do that relatively quickly. That is item 1, 2, 3, 5 on the grounds that we already have PVOT staff here and waiting. So why don't we move that up to right now, 1235. Thank you, Mayor. Item 1235. Yes.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Metro for participation in the Sidewalk Labs replica pilot test in an amount not to exceed $152,433. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. Well, before I turn this over to staff, I'd just like to say that I am very excited about this project.
 the more information we have about how, when, and why our streets are being used, the better we're able to plan for and accommodate those demands and make the city work better for everyone. And I think my biggest concern, I imagine many members of the public would be concerned about privacy. So I just want to assure everyone that this is de-identified location data and information
 It is not about tracking individuals. It's about the collective use of our streets. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to staff. And again, this was a pulled item, so brevity would be appreciated. Absolutely.
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council Members. As Commissioner Udaly noted, we are here to seek your approval to enter into a pilot with Metro. This is Elliot Rose sitting to my left here from Metro to represent their interest in this effort, as well as Kevin Martin to my right for Smart City PDX.
 This effort was been an ongoing working effort with Metro to determine, along with TriMet, how and why we might enter into this pilot. So this has been a long thoughtful process. We are not here deliberately, or we are here deliberately, but we are not here having not thought this through
 A to Z, privacy, security, taking all these considerations into mind, as well as determining why would we go this route. So with that in mind, we are here to seek your approval. Sidewalk Labs Replica is an advanced data modeling tool focused on...
 almost exclusively on transportation and transportation patterns. It is akin to what we do today in our planning division with respect to how we model behavior, how we model traffic patterns, et cetera, along with how Metro themselves do advanced traffic modeling and pattern identification on an annual basis. This is core to the work that we do to understand how our investments might impact transportation across the city, different jurisdictions, across different populations. Thank you.
 With that in mind, what Replicate is? Replicate is a tool that provides what is called a high-fidelity synthetic representation of how people travel during a typical week. What a synthetic population is in a – I'll try to simplify this. It gets incredibly complicated, and I can't probably explain it to you. You're on an elevator, and you have five floors. Perfect. That's exactly what I need.
 What they do is they take census data and then they layer in underneath the census data additional inputs. In this case, it's GPS data coming off of cell phones along with various other sources. For example, the data we get from scooter companies, they'll layer this in to try and tell a story so that we can get down one layer deeper and understand at almost a household level, in a representative way, how people are traveling throughout the city.
 This is, again, core. This is not the type of data that has been available up to this point. Industry is now coming to us with these types of solutions, and we would like to take the next 12 months to enter into this pilot, to actively work with Metro, TriMet, and our BPS partners to assess this information to see if it meets our needs. The core thing about this, we will set forward acceptance criteria. That is what we need to see this tool do, and if Sidewalk Labs does not meet these, we will not pay a cent.
 So they have the 12-month period, this 12-month pilot, to show us that what they're telling us they can do, they can actually do it. If they in fact can do it, this could be game-changing for how we do what we do at PBOT.
 With respect to when we make investments, being able to see in an aggregated fashion how these things are changing, what is changing, is it making an impact, and how so. This is the type of information today we collect on a project-by-project basis via surveys, via hand counts, the various ways it's expensive, it's labor intensive. This tool could fundamentally change that game for us, and that's what we're looking to do.
 So with that in mind, I open it up for questioning. We are here to answer whatever questions or concerns you have. But again, we view this as a very strategic effort that is in line with Council's ambition to make the government more data and technology driven. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for your presentation. The council is due to consider the privacy policy coming out of the Smart Cities work early in the new year, which we directed to come back at that point. So I'm going to presume that since there is a clause in Exhibit A about the change to the scope of work that you –
 staff will be bound by the council's action, even though it's going to happen after this? Absolutely. And we, again, with Kevin here, we are working closely with the work that BPS is leading on the data security and privacy within the smart city space right now. And we will ensure that as the contract is defined with Sidewalk Labs, that that is in compliance with what we, the city, have laid out. Great. Thank you. Yeah.
 And I'd just like to add that replica starts with data that has already been de-identified. They are not handling that personalized information at any point in this process. Correct. And any information we do receive from sidewalk labs will be, again, there will be no PII within that data. It will be at a level where we cannot trace that down to an individual and their individualized movements. That's not what this is about. Okay.
 Excellent. Thank you. Very good. Is there a public testimony on this item? I assume somebody pulled it. Lightning. Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity. One of the concerns I have on this is dealing with my good friends at Google and Alphabet that also created the Sky Lab and also Mr. Bloomberg on this is that, as you know, Google...
 can't keep their information private. And this is what we're talking here. We're not talking little players coming in here and grabbing data. They are planning on taking this city and making it into what they want with this data.
 This is about autonomous vehicles, their end game, their most profit on this. They are going to gather data through your credit card companies, through other locations, and they are going to utilize this data to do an experiment.
 digital infrastructure in this city in the way that they want to see this city move forward and create opportunities for Google, Alphabet, and Sky Labs. The reality here is we need to keep very close information open.
 on this data. We need to have a real clear understanding. What is your end game here? What do you want from this city? We saw what happened with the shared economy when they came in and said, we're going to share your economy with the taxicab companies. Well, have these taxicab companies sit in here and ask them how much they've shared our economy with us. We are dealing with the technology
 tech companies here with a lot of power, a lot of clout, and they're not coming in here just to play games. They're coming in here to route everything they need, to get the data, everything they need, and they will also be looking at the buildings, the structure of the buildings, how we build the buildings, and they are coming in to redesign our whole city. Now I ask one question to Google and my good friend Larry Page.
 Are you going to take care of us in this city like the tech companies did when they said it's a shared economy? In this synthetic population, let's not be fake Silicon Valley. Don't call our population here synthetic. Okay.
 We're real people. We want to know what you're going to do with this data. We want to know what your end game is. And we want to know everything you're doing. I want to look above you, Larry Page. Every move you make, I want to know what you're doing and what direction you're going.
 What you're going to do in this city. Remember, we're doing just fine right now. We don't need Google. We don't need Alphabet coming in here and doing a takeover of this city. So again, I want this to be watched very close on privacy concerns and protecting the interests of the people of this city from these technology giants. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Sorry, Ted.
 I have to second the motion on that because when I listen to music on the computer and then I go into a restaurant and I pay for a meal and they switch their music and they start playing music that I was listening to, that's not privacy.
 And it's very offensive, I find, to be doing that. And Google and Facebook and I've got to say the GOP, the CIA, the FBI, they all let Tesla, they let everybody into the electoral process and the Supreme Court,
 They just let everybody into the electoral process. And we could see that with the popular vote being for Hillary and then by district the GOP took it. You know, that's just wrong. We need to stop all this. And, you know, Facebook and Google did not help with that. You know, they're not...
 political. They just go with whatever's going to financially help them. And we need to stop that. Okay, and the second thing is about P.
 Okay, they already know where people are in terms of demographics and how people use the metro and the MAX and the buses. And the reason I know this is because...
 They want to take the max stop down at Skidmore from the poorest, most disabled, most elderly people. They want to stop that stop.
 in 2019. Also, I go around to all the social services and there are no benches for anybody at any of these social services. So they've taken the poorest and the most disabled and the most elderly people and left them without benches to sit on while they wait for the bus. And you go to the most...
 economically wealthy parts of town, and they've got the best benches and the best covers, and there is nothing for people like me who are in Salvation Army who have to carry their stuff around and their feet swell and they crack and they end up in the emergency room having to have their feet operated on. I was in Providence like six times.
 And I had no place to sit down, you know, at any of these social. So they already know how to demographically figure these things out because they've, you know, denied service to disabled and elderly people. So why should they, you know, have that 12-month thing? They don't need it. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. I don't know about good yet, but morning. Good morning.
 My concern is, what are you thinking, seriously? I mean, since 9-11, our privacy has gone out the window. Have you thought about that? I mean, she brought up a good point, bad analogy, but good point, about, you know, you talk about something with your friend, you talk about a health condition, and you happen to have your phone next to you, and next thing you know, you've got advertisements on your electronics. I know you guys have seen it. It's not crazy, right?
 They do monitor us already. Why are you going to invite more of this in? Why are you going to invite more invasion of privacy that we've already given too much away of because of 9-11? Why are you going to do that? I mean, as far as transportation is concerned, TriMet insisted that we use these lovely little stupid cards to –
 Get around these Hop Cards, okay? These Hop Cards track me everywhere I go. It's on the app. Look it up. It already tracks me. It's not only when I swipe my card. It's everywhere I go. I can't wait for this to get into court and be challenged. Oh, no, George, I wasn't there. Look on my Hop Card record. It tells you exactly where I've been.
 Why are you going to give away more of our privacy when we have so little already? I don't understand. Please, think this through some more. It makes no sense. I defer the rest of my time to Lightning if you'd like it.
 Thank you very much. He's already spoken. Thank you. I just want to say one thing. No, you've already had your chance to testify. You throw me out. Excuse me. Excuse me. You are in violation of council rules. Lightning, sit down. Lightning, lightning, sit down. You got your three minutes. We'll take a recess. Session, any further questions of staff?
 So are we back up? Thank you. Please call the roll. It's a non-emergency. Oh, I'm sorry, it is. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It will move to second reading. Thank you. Next item, please. 1, 2, 2, 2. 12-22. Approved findings for...
 to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize a competitive solicitation for the use of the alternative contracting method of construction manager general contractor.
 for construction of the Southwest Capital Highway Multnomah Village-West Portland Transportation Stormwater and Water Main Project. All right. We have a large group of staff here, Chris Warren, Lester Spitler, Steve Zinkathy. Probably I mispronounced that, Steve. If I did, please correct me. I apologize. Teresa Elliott, Michael Jordan. Welcome.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Chris Warner from PBOT, alongside Mike Jordan from Bureau of Environmental Services, Teresa Elliott from Water, and, as you said, Lester Spittler from Procurement. We're here today to recommend an authorization of an alternative contracting method on a three-bureau partnership along Southwest Capital Highway between Taylor's Ferry and Garden Home. It's about nine-tenths of a mile.
 We thought it would be a good opportunity not to just move through this milestone, but also to highlight the significant partnership and shared investment between our bureaus.
 To say this project has a long history is an understatement. At the lower left of the screen, you will see a snapshot of a letter from Sweeney written by Mary Ann Fitzgerald in 1993, addressed to then Commissioner Earl Blumenauer. The letter states that Sweeney's highest priority for the 1994 Capital Improvement Plan is pedestrian and bicycle facilities along the entirety of Capitol Highway, including this segment that we're discussing today.
 In the ensuing years, this particular segment has been a tough nut to crack, and we have not been able to secure the adequate funding to move forward until recently. PBOT received a federal planning grant in 2008 to develop conceptual design, but there was a major shortfall in terms of dollars for construction. It wasn't until 2016, with the voter-approved Fixing Our Streets program, we had the confidence to relaunch the project and reengage the public.
 That vote provided $3.3 million of Fix Our Street funds to the project, and that leveraged another $5 million of transportation SDCs that we had already committed. Even then, it took an additional $2 million from the state legislature and Governor Brown and $10.5 million from our partners in environmental services to be able to fully fund this project, which has an estimated construction value of around $18 million.
 That number puts us in the position to use the alternative contracting method to deliver the project, but we do think this is a tremendous opportunity for the area.
 Before I describe the scope of the project, I'd like to highlight the significant outreach this project staff has done with our community partners and what we have accomplished. We've been working with a volunteer neighborhood group called the Capital Highway Subcommittee that has been weighing in on the project design details and impacts. Some of the members are here today, including Chris Lyons, who has been the chair of the committee, and they've been a fantastic group that really have helped us move forward on this project.
 In addition to the subcommittee, we've had two open houses, three community walks, three newsletters mailed to 700 addresses, 10 e-bulletins sent to 800 addressees, and we provided on-site construction consultations to more than 50 affected property owners.
 The transportation scope of the project includes continuous sidewalk and protected bike lane on the east side of Capitol Highway, where people walk on a narrow gravel path next to the traffic, and it gets a little bit muddy in the winter. On the west side of the road, we will feature a combined multi-use path to reduce property impacts on the steeper side.
 Four crossing improvements will line up with consolidated bus stop locations, and we've been coordinating with TriMet, and several side street improvements will be provided, including sidewalk on Dolph Court and a paving of a gravel section of Southwest 42nd Avenue. Sidewalk on Dolph Court all the way to the park? No, I think a little... Is it all the way to the park? A little bit, though. I don't think so. No, no. There is some.
 That's very exciting. Yeah, okay. There will be some. There will be some not all the way to Duffield. You can walk back and forth. Yeah, this is really great. Yes, that's a great project. In summary, we're excited to move forward with the project that has been decades in the making. I think we can say this has been on the city's bucket list for a while, and so hopefully we can cross it off.
 We are particularly thrilled to have the partnership combined resources of BES and water to make this a cohesive project that uses public funds efficiently and to have our partners in procurement services help us with the alternative contracting methods. With that, I'll hand it over to Mike Jordan to talk about the work of BES. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, thank you for having us today. Thanks for being here.
 You can see on this next slide some rather vivid photos of some of the challenges we have managing stormwater in this area. And I think one of the historic challenges with this project that's been going on, as Chris mentioned, for decades, has been the management of stormwater in the area. This area annexed into the city, quite frankly, mostly after development occurred. The development that's occurred since annexation has predominantly been infill development.
 The development that occurred during that era occurred without lots of local street improvements.
 And without local street improvements, it's very difficult to manage stormwater because there are no curbs and gutters and there's nowhere to deal with that. Hence, many of the local private citizens in that area have built their own facilities. Some of them we know about. Some of them we don't know about. But they have managed to be able to transfer stormwater from uphill above them to downhill below them,
 but not necessarily doing that systemically. So where the water went after it left their neighborhood, that was somebody else's challenge, quite frankly. And so you can see some of the results of that kind of intermittent management of stormwater. Further, the soils up in the West Hills do not percolate. They're tight-knit clay soils, and so infiltration does not work very well in this area.
 Historically, the Bureau of Environmental Services position has been that if you're doing street improvements, it's PBOT's responsibility to deal with those issues. But quite frankly, that's not happening in this area. The project wouldn't move forward without a different approach. As you heard from Chris, the total budget for this project is somewhere around $18 million. $10.5 million is for surface water management.
 The next slide shows you some of the changes in our approach. We've had to take... The challenge with Capital Highway is that it is part of what needs to be a much larger system of surface water management. And so what we've agreed to do
 is not only provide some linear facilities within the right-of-way to help manage the stormwater as the project evolves, but also provide connections to detention and treatment facilities that are off the right-of-way. So there are multiple sites that we're going to be developing, one of which is on Dolphcourt.
 that we've acquired land for. We are currently acquiring land down at the end of 42nd, I believe, to do another one of those. You see some illustrations of those facilities here. So our commitment is to...
 build facilities which will both detain and treat the stormwater that eventually finds its way back into woods, tryon, and Vermont creeks. And so with that, I'll move on to the Water Bureau.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Teresa Elliott. It's common practice for infrastructure bureaus to coordinate and identify capital improvement and maintenance needs at the beginning of big, major projects. Our planning staff learned that PBOT and BES were working on a major project in this portion of Capitol Highway.
 and we looked at our assets and decided that it was worth it to the Water Bureau and the rate payers to join the project. We will be upgrading about a half a mile of our water main that's in Capitol and going from a six-inch pipe to an eight-inch pipe and changing to more current pipe materials.
 relocating and replacing fire hydrants and upgrading a regulator device and then adjusting our meters and services along the way. The replaced main we're actually designing as a seismic pipe so that it is better able to more resilient and it better able to handle seismic events and it's larger size will help us meet the growing needs of this community.
 The Water Bureau is covering the cost of the water system upgrades to a tune of about $1.5 million plus or minus something, depending upon the actual price of the contract. And then having all three bureaus upgrade their infrastructure at the same time does save the city money. It saves the ratepayer money, and it's a better use of our contract time so that we don't have multiple conflicting contracts.
 Thanks, Teresa. So, as you can see, this is an exciting time for us to work with our partners at BES and Water, and also to work with the community in terms of a huge need for the community and us being able to work together to really deliver results. I also want to thank Council for the Fix Our Streets program that you sent out to voters, because without that money, we probably couldn't have really turned the dial up in order to get this project delivered. Thank you.
 On the next slide, you'll see kind of the project funding, and that includes $22 million, which includes the soft cost of the 18. The construction would be about the 18 million, but the other costs are included in this. So this is a major project for the city. It's a very exciting project, and I would like to just take the moment to thank all of the staff from all the bureaus that have worked on this. I see Millicent Williams and Steve Sigothy from our staff have spent countless hours within the community working on this. So it's a...
 Pretty exciting project. I think on the next slide we'll take a look at the schedule. After today's milestone, we aim to have the RFP posted shortly and being out after the new year. Pre-construction services and final design will take place through the spring, summer, and part of the fall of 2019.
 Construction, we hope, will begin in the fall of 2019 and lasting around 12 months. So the project should be substantially complete by the end of 2020 with a final pavement overlay during the dry weather season in spring of 2021. So now I'd like to hand it over to Lester. He's the city's chief procurement officer to talk a little bit about the alternative contracting method. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm Lester Spittler, the Chief Procurement Officer. I'm going to go over the findings. So the project team reviewed and analyzed three different delivery approaches for this project and determined that the CMGC method would be the most advantageous. As far as some of the findings...
 We don't believe that the use of the CMGC request for proposal will diminish competition at all. We actually think that it might increase competition because there's so much risk involved in the contract and because the contractor will be able to participate in the design phase. So we'll have a representative committee review proposals, and the criteria will include experience, key personnel qualifications, subcontracting plan, fee, and others.
 The project team also believes that a CMGC process will result in cost savings because the process allows the contractor to participate during design, lending their experience to provide feedback and propose value engineering ideas. This collaboration usually results in a more practical, constructible solution while maintaining design integrity and quality. It also reduces the likelihood of change orders because the contractor gets to participate in design and therefore is not receiving something that they didn't have the opportunity to provide feedback on.
 Another highlight in the findings are the public benefits that the project sees, a CMGC that will achieve. This is a complicated project, as was described previously, involving three bureaus that must be complete in 2020. A CMGC method promotes schedule efficiencies through the early contractor involvement and incorporation of time-saving approaches and ideas.
 The city also seeks to increase opportunities for women minorities to work on city construction projects, as well as to increase opportunities for disadvantaged minority and women-owned and emerging small businesses to work on city contracts as prime contractors or subcontractors.
 This project, because it's estimated to be $18 million, will be subject to a community equity and inclusion plan. That agreement will get executed post-contract award with a selected contractor, and the agreement itself will have goals for minority and women and diversity in the workforce of the construction project, as well as subcontractor utilization for certified disadvantaged minority and women-owned and emerging small businesses.
 The project team also believes that a CMGC approach will help with the sustainability goals and intends to provide incentives for tree preservation during construction. And lastly, under public benefits, due to the complexity and necessary coordination required for a project like this, the team believes that neighborhood and community impacts will be handled better with the CMGC process by ensuring that the contractor team has that experience and the necessary resources to involve the various stakeholders during the planning and construction phases of the project.
 In a competitive low bid, we would not be able to take those qualifications into consideration, but if we issue a request for proposals for a CMGC, that will be something that we ask proposers to address and include in their proposal, and the team will be able to evaluate it and select the most advantageous approach. So with that, our recommendation to Council is to accept the findings, authorize the project's exemption from the competitive low bidding requirement, and authorize a competitive request for proposals for a CMGC process. The project team is here if you have any questions. Thank you.
 Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Seltzer. I was just curious, what's the confidence level around the $18 million price tag? I'll let Steve answer. Morning, Mayor and Commissioner. Steve Sigothy, Capital Program Manager, PBOT. Thank you.
 I would say using the rating system that you see in our ordinance, it's moderate. We're at the 60% design milestone now. So that's kind of appropriate for a moderate level of confidence. And we're going to proceed to a 90% design and estimate, which will have high confidence.
 And of course, as Lester mentioned, having that construction team on board during design will help us really narrow down and reduce that level of uncertainty as we move forward in 2019.
 Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Saltzman, if I could add to that from BES's perspective, we are developing some sites in a neighborhood where it's very challenging, and because of what I mentioned regarding local street systems and private systems and the percolation of the soils, and so I think moderate is the appropriate level of confidence regarding this. We're
 We're doing some things we haven't done before, so it's going to be a challenge for us. And if I might just take a second, I also wanted to acknowledge having walked through those neighborhoods with some of the folks who live up there, acknowledge their persistence over lo these many years to keep going.
 the problem in front of us. And then lastly, I want to acknowledge our staff, the design staff and the watershed planning staff. This was not on their radar screen a little while ago, and they've been asked to try and keep up with our friends at PBOT who are moving at light speed for a project this size, and they've done a great job. So I wanted to acknowledge that. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Public testimony, please.
 We have six people signed up to testify. Four of them would like to go together. So we will take Maggie and Tom Allen first and then call up the four next. That will be fine. Thank you. Okay. This is just me. All right. My comment is just on contracts in general and how contracts are made and monitored and negotiated. Okay.
 A while back, I lived in Florence, Oregon, and I went to a clinic there run by Trillium, and they had a contract with the state for health care, which is different from transportation, but health care, transportation, education, all those things are related. So what they...
 decided what Trillium decided to do was not hire the number of doctors that they were required to hire under their contract for this clinic.
 And in order to get away with it, they decided that their receptionists were going to, when people called in to make an appointment for the doctor, they would go ahead and make an appointment for the doctor that did not exist. And so in that way, they could even charge. So these people would come in and think they were getting an appointment with the doctor. Right.
 They, in fact, were just going to see a nurse. And then they could charge the state for that doctor visit because the patient called in and made an appointment for the doctor and the receptionist took it but said, oh, yes, the doctor's very busy. He won't be able to see you for three or six months, but you can see the nurse. So somebody, I don't know who,
 wrote Governor Kulongoski at the time and said, and, you know, because they were lucky, they went and looked up the contract and found out and said, Governor Kulongoski, you know, now you know about this, you've got to tell people. So...
 One thing I notice about states is when they make contracts or cities or, you know, federal people, they don't want to get egg on their face.
 and monitor these programs and contracts and find out they're not doing their job or they're doing something they shouldn't be doing, which is charging the state for doctor's visits that they didn't give to the people. So I guess what I would say about contracts is
 is don't go in and do this and this. Everything looks fine. Everything sounds fine. Really monitor your contracts. That's what I would say. Excellent advice. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next individuals, please. So if these four would come up, please. Marianne Terrell-Levine, Chris Lyons, Patty Waitman-Ingritson, and Eli. Okay.
 Rest Crow, I believe is the last name I see here. Welcome and good morning. Thank you for being here. And we're not going to go and sign up for it. However you'd like to do it. Sure, you bet. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Chris Lyons. I'm a Southwest Portland resident and chair of the Southwest Capital Subcommittee of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association.
 A number of us are here today to speak in support of this project. If you have driven this one-mile stretch of Capitol Highway, which is the corridor into southwest from the Crossroads area, you've no doubt seen the lack of sidewalks, the lack of bike lanes, the lack of stormwater control, and until recently, a 35-mile-per-hour speed limit through a residential area.
 Apart from the road itself, the only real improvement is what we affectionately refer to as the goat path, which is a muddy trail that meanders along a ditch beside blackberry bushes, under tree branches, and around parked cars that force you to have to walk, force any brave pedestrian to have to walk into the road to be able to get up the road.
 For nearly three decades, Marianne Fitzgerald has led efforts to advance this project. It's been talked about, planned, partially designed, and funded, but never actually done. And as you heard today, that's in part due to the engineering complexity with the project.
 yet it's remained Southwest Portland's number one priority for all those years. So in 2015, we created the Southwest Subcommittee, Southwest Capital Highway Subcommittee, specifically to rally local residents and push for the change. A dozen local residents initially did some canvassing in the neighborhood along the entire stretch, about two blocks out from the highway. And today we have over 200 members that are part of the subcommittee.
 Our efforts have also enjoyed the support of the Multnomah Village Business Association, Oregon Walks, the Portland Commission on Disability, Friends of Spring Garden Park, Friends of Woods Park, Tryon Creek Watershed Council, and the West Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District.
 All this support helped to lead us to secure funding through Fixing Our Streets, which has allowed the project to leverage additional funding from other sources. So thanks to all of you and to Commissioner Novick who helped make that possible. Over the past three years, our subcommittee has had 11 meetings, two walking tours, and there's also been nine city-sponsored open houses.
 Perhaps most importantly, local residents have worked together to successfully reach consensus on what we all want to see in this project. And it's not been easy. There's been numerous tradeoffs and sacrifices we've had to grapple with, but there's also keen recognition that these improvements are long overdue. At each step, we've worked with PBA and BES to ensure that the neighborhood's preferences are reflected in the design.
 And the coordination between bureaus, as you heard from Chris Warner earlier, which now includes the Water Bureau, has been instrumental in the process and could serve as a successful model for future improvements in Southwest. So with all that, thank you again for your support for this project, which will greatly enhance the quality of life for residents in Southwest Portland. And we look forward to construction beginning about a year from now. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it.
 Um, City Council. Um, I am Patty Waitman Ingeritsen, and I am a long-time resident of Southwest Portland, and I have lived on Capitol Highway for 43 years.
 I am also the captain of the Baton Tour L'Ouest, the one that goes on marching band. Excellent. And I'm very involved in Multnomah Historical, and I want to share that Capitol Highway was 99 West. It was a road to the Capitol, and it was a main road in Portland's history. Okay.
 We had young children that were raised on Capitol Highway, and they learned at a very early age how busy and dangerous Capitol Highway is. We have witnessed and cleaned up.
 Many accidents swept up the glass over the years, and we have experienced water in our basement, which has caused a lot of damage. Safe sidewalks, curbs, and bike lanes and safe crossings are desperately needed, and we are excited that at long last these improvements are planned as part of the Capital Highway Project. We are hopeful that our water issues will be resolved by the BES portion of the Capital Highway Plan.
 Area residents, and especially Capitol Highway residents, have given strong support for the much-needed and long-overdue project. We are excited and greatly encouraged the Capitol Highway project will bring improvements that will benefit everyone. It has been a long time coming, and this is my third Capitol Highway project that we have studied over the years. And this one's going. Excellent. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Mary Ann Terrell Levine, and I live near Capitol Highway, near Dolf, where the holding pond is going to be. And I would like to thank you all for letting us have our testimony today. My topic is stormwater mitigation. First, I'd like to thank BES for succinctly their testimony as regards to the stormwater service, and maybe I'll make it under three minutes then.
 The city of Portland needs to treat each neighborhood equally, but every neighborhood wants the city to know that we are different from the rest. And in Southwest, we have hills and water and impermeable soils, and we have overdevelopment primarily in housing, which means that we don't have water absorption or retention. Houses take up too much space there.
 Capitol Highway needs this improvement for road traffic and earthquake resiliency, and we thank you for the support. Improvements include stormwater management and road water runoff treatment before the water enters the watersheds of Trine Creek and Fano Creek. And to that end, BES plans four holding area basins for filtering and or slowing water release, including Basin 3 on Dolph Court near my home,
 These basins convey retained stormwater and road runoff water for filtering and slower release, reducing the possibility of residential flooding, like Patty's, like my neighbor's. Flooding that did not happen in my neighborhood before the development in 2014 of housing.
 Now these basins won't solve all the residential flooding, but it will in cases reduce the chances of residential flooding. And before I forget, I spoke with the Fish and Other Flora and Fauna last night, and they asked me to please relay their thanks for all your support.
 So thank you for fixing Capitol Highway, including stormwater and the runoff treatment in the management areas. And I would like to encourage the city and PBOT and BES to do more to mitigate and treat road water and reduce the pollution and local flooding. Last, I'd like to thank Mary Ann Fitzgerald for campaigning Capitol Highway for the past 25-plus years.
 Chris Lyons for heading up the subcommittee, Steve Sigethey and PBOT and BES for shepherding the plan through. And I'm grateful that we're going to get it done this time. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, good morning. Morning, sir. Thank you very much. Actually, I have made a couple of notes. One of it is to start with thanks to Steve Sigethey for bringing the project to this level of success.
 one of the main attractions for us to move to Capitol Highway was a need to make a handicap accessible house. Where we live is not too far from it. However, we have 14 steps and we found this property to move in to make a handicap access. That was the sub attraction. The main one was on the bus stop. So we're very much public transportation friendly and
 That was all a good part, till we actually moved around the capital highway a little bit. We realized it's just not really possible to, you know, bike or even more so to walk. You know, going to Barber Boulevard and Transit Center or the villages, at best during the day is dangerous, during the night is practically impossible.
 So I made a commitment to... When we met Steve and it sounded like the funds are somewhat provided through the taxation and the level of work they've put in it, it seems like, God willing, it will be a successful process. So that was a...
 success, that was a hope for us that this will eventually happen. So I committed to Steve two things. One, to name the bus stop after his name. I'm gonna make a bus stop there. We're gonna call it Segity's Bus Stop. And my second commitment was to provide milk and cookie every day during the construction. Well, the every day just popped out but I thought maybe at least once in a while. So that's one we really appreciated.
 You know, the 35 miles speed limit was, you know, it actually meant, you know, 40 or 45 or 50. So with this 25, you know, tremendous thanks for making that happen. It's at least at 40 right now. So hopefully there will maybe police presence or even, you know, those signs that indicates the speed. That would be very, very good.
 And the stormwater is actually a bigger problem that I am personally facing right now. My final point is, you know, if you're planning to develop some, you know, a residence, it's very difficult to go through a permitting process for that very reason that it's not, you know, they don't have the blessing from you, if you will, to, you know, allow permitting for people who are planning to build it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate all of it. Thank you. Does that complete public testimony? Yes. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. You daily. Well, thank you, everyone, for being here today and for your presentation. For many years, walking, biking, and getting to transit along Southwest Capital Highway has been, I'll say, challenging. This is especially true for people with mobility challenges.
 This is a message that the community has delivered to City Council loudly and clearly over and over again for at least 25 years, and so I am pleased that this project will bring significant progress on the issues. Every day, tens of thousands of people depend on Capitol Highway to get to work, school, and shopping. In the coming years, it's also going to be a vital link to our regional light rail system. Thanks to this project getting from place to place along Capitol Highway,
 will be easier and safer for people, especially for vulnerable road users. At the same time, this project will have significant environmental benefits.
 Thanks to the partnership and investment from BES and the Water Bureau, we will address longstanding need for better stormwater management along the corridor. So I want to thank the bureaus here today for their willingness to work together and their effective collaboration. I'm also very pleased with the efforts around public engagement, and I, of course, expect that will continue through the coming stages of this project.
 I especially want to thank the community leaders who have advocated for this project. We probably would not and could not have done this without you. You never gave up. You pushed us to be creative and collaborative, work together to deliver an innovative solution. So thank you for your tireless advocacy. Today we're one step closer to delivering the street you deserve. Thank you. I vote aye. Fritz.
 I don't think I really thought we were ever going to get to this day, certainly while I was on the council. So thank you so much. When I moved to Portland in 1986, I was seven months pregnant with my first child, our first child. We lived on Dolph Court, which was why my extreme excitement over potentially getting stormwater facilities. Soon after my son was born in August, the rain started. And one of the first things I did during that time was to dig what we called the Panama Canal to allow the water to get to the storm drain from the puddle that was...
 precluding access to the house.
 And my parents-in-law lived in that house for many years. I think they might have delayed their move to Cherrywood Village had there been sidewalks that you could walk to Barber Foods, that you could walk to Multnomah Village. And those sidewalks are going to be really crucial when the light rail goes in. I still walk the Goat Path several times a month and travel this section every day on the 44 bus. So it's really a very personal project for me. Thank you.
 want to start by thanking Patty Lee and Dorothy Gage, who were very strong supporters of strong women in Southwest who are, I think, present in this chamber today. And thank you, Dorothy and Patty, for your leadership. Marianne Fitzgerald couldn't be here today, but she certainly has been stalwart. She got the Capitol Highway sidewalks done outside Markham Elementary School that were done maybe 20 years or so ago. So I
 For those who say that it takes time to get things done, yes it does and you have to stick with it. And then you have to engage new and sometimes long-time residents to come and help push it over the limit. So thank you to everybody who's been involved, particularly Sylvia Bogut, the Executive Director at Sweeney, and Leonard Gard, who for a long time was the land use planner there. They supported volunteers like all of you, like me, and made us successful activists. Thank you.
 And also thank Marty Suchek, who for the longest time was the Multnomah Neighborhood Association Chair and who was very committed to this project. Steve Novick, former Commissioner Novick, was an assistant that needed to get done. The partnership of water and environmental services was absolutely crucial. And I really appreciate this. This is a signature project, not just for Southwest, but for the whole city, because we are recognizing that doing it all together is going to save money, be more efficient, and be more efficient.
 and make it an overall good project. So I would be very interested if you could send me the details of the detention facility. I'm just absolutely thrilled by that. And it comes, you know, every single member of this council has had a part of this project or has a part of it now. So thank you, Commissioner Newdaly, for bringing it over the finish line. Commissioner Fish, the park at Spring Garden is going to get a little bit closer to having a connection of a sidewalk all the way down to the fire...
 at 30th. Commissioner Saltzman, most of this project was done while you had transportation, so thank you for your support and that of your staff. Thanks to Mi-Sung Kwan on my staff, and Tim Crail, my chief of staff, is out of town. He's miffed that he's not able to be here today. His property is actually near Barber Foods, and we'll be getting a sidewalk outside his house with all jurisdictions.
 The care I know will be taken to the magnificent beech tree that's in his front yard. He doesn't benefit any more or less than anybody else on this project, and we didn't have anything more, in fact, a lot less than many of the other advocates, but I wanted to mention that on the record, and that we are very, very grateful for everybody who's been a part of this project for many, many years. Fish? Fish.
 Well, I want to also take a moment to go back in history. And I remember early in my tenure as the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Environmental Services, there were two big issues that the community presented us with. One was a challenge to do a better job of coordinating with both residential communities and business districts when we did capital spending.
 And we've tried to honor that by doing more engagement, being more flexible in terms of when we do the work, avoiding conflicts with holidays and community events and the like. And I think we're continuing to learn and improve. But that was a clear directive that we received. The second...
 And this occurred initially under the leadership of Commissioner Novick and then Director Treat and then has been brought forward by the current leadership team, was to strengthen our partnership with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And, in fact, there were conversations about maintaining a master database of public and private projects so that we were better coordinated. The goal, though, that I remember was leveraging our resources –
 but also coordinating them so we could get the bigger bang for the buck. And I can't think of a project which created more challenges than Southwest Capital Highway in terms of putting that model into action. And I remember many, many conversations in the briefings that I got and with the community and
 And frankly, I think it's a minor miracle that we've reached this day. So I want to echo what a number of people have said about the tenacity and perseverance of community members. And Mary Ann Fitzgerald has got to be near the top of my list of someone who just constantly was beating the drum here about the need to do this. But this reflects, this particular project reflects...
 a fairly new approach of our infrastructure bureaus working together, pooling our resources, staying in our lanes because each of us has different funding sources and we have different requirements, but thinking about big opportunities to partner for the benefit of our community.
 And I'm very proud that we've reached this point, that we've had community members coming and testifying in such a positive way about this. And I know there's been highs and lows along the way, but we are now poised to do something really great. And we continue to learn from these projects.
 But BES is deeply committed to strengthening that relationship with PBOT and working in concert to stretch the tax dollars. So I want to thank those going back in time that were fighting for this during the early days. I want to thank the current leadership teams for bringing us across the finish line.
 And as long as I have the honor of leading the Bureau of Environmental Services, Director Jordan and I will be working to look for opportunities where we can partner like this and get great outcomes. Mike, thank you very much for your work. This has not been easy to get to this point, but this is cause for celebration. I'm very proud to vote aye. Saltzman. Well, this is really a day to celebrate. This has been a very tough day.
 but an important nut to crack in terms of providing residents in southwest Portland with a better means, a safer means of getting from Barbara Transit Center to Multnomah Village and points in between and to tackle the tough issues around stormwater. I, you know, having been in charge of BES and PBOT, I'm well aware of a lot of the finger pointing about who's responsible for what when it comes to surface water management.
 And it's always a big number. I was surprised when Mike Jordan just said it's $10.5 million out of an $18 million project. So it is a very tough issue that has to be dealt with, particularly in the Southwest, with the geography and the soil conditions. So I'm really happy to see three bureaus come up here in unison today to support this project.
 And I want to thank Steve Sigothy for all of his work, too, in shepherding, you know, making, I went on a community walk and I went to an open house, but there's been a lot of community involvement. And certainly, you know, Marianne Fitzgerald and Patty Lee, you know, Lou Large and my memory of who's been really staunch advocates of doing something here for a long time. So I'm really happy to be able to vote and to make this project a reality. Aye.
 Wheeler. I love the partnership here between the various bureaus in city government. We are working I think very effectively as an enterprise We're bringing together the different bureaus that all have a role to play in making a larger community project successful And I think it goes without saying this particular project would not have happened but for the community being personally and actively engaged and
 in making sure that this got across the finish line. So thanks to everyone who was involved. Commissioner Saltzman, I know you worked very, very hard on this as Transportation Commissioner. Commissioner Udaly has done a masterful job of rising to the occasion and going up that learning curve very, very quickly with her team. So there's a lot of good things to celebrate here. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next item is 12.
 1241. 1241. Update solid waste and recycling collection code, add definitions, and align terminology with Metro. And I don't want to cut anybody off prematurely, but I do just want to make note of the fact that we have a rather full agenda. Thank you. Good morning. Besides which, that's a very tough act to follow. Yes. But you can do it. We will be brief. We're here to update solid waste code on Metro.
 commercial composting and our clean fleet. The work we've done in Peaches. My name is Bruce Walker. I work in the Solid Waste and Recycling Program for Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. The Peaches and Winfield is going to give a very brief update of some of the code components that
 I just want to acknowledge that we, the foundation for this work was laid with getting more businesses to do commercial composting and for haulers, the clean fleet, getting the newer diesel trucks that reduce emissions. The groundwork was laid when we were back in Office of Sustainable Development over 10 years ago.
 And I'd just like to acknowledge the work of Commissioner Saltzman in leading that for the environmental benefits this brings.
 and for the cost effectiveness that was brought to the table under his leadership. So it's additional steps by businesses, both the commercial composting and the haulers that are purchasing the additional trucks. We put a lot of time into it, and it started 10-plus years ago. Thank you to Commissioner Salzman for the leadership.
 your predecessors on previous councils to move these items forward and continued work such as other policies such as the plastics reduction strategy adopted today. So thank you to all of you. Now for today's ordinance, Peaches and Winfield. Thank you.
 Hi, again, Pete Chisholm-Windfield, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Mayor, Commissioners. I just wanted to go over a couple of things that we think are highlights and then give you an opportunity to ask any questions.
 Metro recently adopted administrative rules to increase commercial food scrap recovery. The City of Portland actually did so quite a long time ago in 2008. But what we're trying to do with the code is align our language with Metro so that we're in concert with them. In addition to that change throughout the code, there are some housekeeping items like taking out old dates,
 removal of appeal fees which no longer apply, and also taking out out-of-date figures. We decided not to put figures back in just because we put our goals in the climate action plan now and we feel like that's the best place to put that information. We also include a statement of the standard of service quality for commercial customers
 Just want to make sure that because we do that to a certain degree, we want to make sure that that's a part of the declaration of the policy. We also, as renewable diesel became available, and we have allowed that through administrative rule emergency process about a year ago, we want to update our definitions of biodiesel.
 And then the clean fleet, so the clean fleet policy is really about restricting the truck age. So the update here, as we developed the policy in the past, the residential trucks were on a different timeline than the commercial trucks. That all has been implemented now, and so we're just trying to merge that together and advance that policy in a way that makes sense today, whereas a decade ago we didn't have the federal standard for the 2010 trucks.
 So that effort is to merge the policy, to streamline it, and to update it in a way that makes sense for reducing emissions and makes sense for the companies that provide the garbage and recycling service. And that's all I had for highlights. Any questions? Very good. Any questions at this point, colleagues? Public testimony? Just one speaker, Maggie. Two minutes, please. Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen.
 Good morning. Hi. I'm for the composting of the vegetable scraps because if you have an infrastructure for that, then you can start on urban farming. So bringing in and allowing spaces in urban areas where people can grow vegetables
 actual food and eat it and then compost their scraps. And if you've got a system going that, you know, allows for composting and a space for composting, then you can start having some urban gardens, which would be a really good thing. And I hope that's the way of the future. And I hope, yeah,
 We can have more. I want the scooters. I want all the electric stuff. In fact, I just want you to take away all the cars from the inner city and just block it off and let people go around in electric small vehicles because it would increase the...
 It would enliven the economy. Nobody, you know, people driving around don't buy things. You know, if you want to liven up downtown, turn it into a more pedestrian area.
 electrified transportation system. I mean, you've got the MAX, which is good, but I think the scooters are good as long as they follow 16th century marine traffic law, which is if you're a smaller vehicle,
 versus the bigger vehicle. The bigger vehicle must maneuver around the smaller, slower-moving vehicle. Thank you. Okay. Appreciate it. Any further discussion?
 This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please, 1242. 1242. Accept the proposal lump sum amount of $3,756,000 from the Record Steel Construction, Inc., for the design build of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Washwater and Hyperchlorite Piping Replacement Project. Good morning, Larry. How are you? Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 I didn't mean to damage the furniture. It's all right. Good morning. I am Larry Palat, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a guaranteed maximum price contract award to Record Steel Construction Inc. for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Wash Water and Hypochlorite Piping Project Replacement.
 I'm going to just call that the project from going forward. The project for $3,756,000. On August 23, 2017, this council approved Ordinance No. 188559 to allow procurement services to utilize alternative contracting methodology for this project. We selected a design...
 The Bureau selected a design-build process. The proposals, three proposals were received, evaluated by a four-member evaluation team, mostly city staff and a member from the city's minority evaluator program.
 Record Steel Construction, Inc. was determined to be the most qualified and responsive proposer. The notice of intent toward the project was issued on July 10, 2018. This report seeks approval of the guaranteed maximum price of $3,756,000, which is, fortunately, 1.15% under the engineer's estimate.
 BES, along with Procurement Services, worked with Record Steel and identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor and supplier utilization of 22 percent of the hard construction costs. In addition, in an effort to develop diversity in the upcoming struggling community workforce, the city has also established aspirational goals for apprenticeship participation –
 This is pretty unique to this project. For a total of 20% of the total construction hours, of which 25% would be directed towards women and another 25% directed towards people of color. RSCI has committed in their proposal to achieve the city's aspirational goal as follows.
 Work committed to Oregon-certified DMW ESB firms, 22 percent is committed. And hours committed to Oregon State registered apprentices of 20 percent of the total project hours. Apprenticeship hours committed towards women, 10 percent of that. And apprenticeship hours committed towards people of color, an additional 10 percent.
 There is identified so far a total of $832,000, 22.1% of the DMW ESB subcontractor participation. There is a DBE firm at $830,000, which is a supplier, which is a very good thing because we don't see a whole lot of those.
 Record Steel Construction Inc. is located in Boise, Idaho. They are therefore not an Oregon State certified DMW ESB contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration and are in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions relative to the bidding process, I can answer those, or Muriel is here from BES if you have specific project questions. Colleagues?
 I just want to give a shout-out to the apprenticeship component of this, and there's obviously a great opportunity to work with some of our local partners, Oregon Tradeswomen and others on this, so I think that's a really positive opportunity.
 addition. And I hope we see more of that. It's a relatively new thought process really started kind of by BES and I think it's going to be a good thing. Fantastic. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for that as well. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Good work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Reports adopted. Thank you. Next item is 1243.
 1243, accept bid of James W. Fowler Company for the price agreements for urgent rehabilitation of sanitary and storm sewers project for $9 million. $9 million.
 Good morning. Again, I am Larry Palat with Procurement Services. You have before you the Procurement Report recommending a price agreement award to James W. Fowler for a total of $9 million. Price agreements no more than a three-year period will be utilized as the needs are presented and the specific projects identified in Portland Bureau of Environmental Services budget process. The task orders are for projects of medium to large scope and will be completed as expeditiously as possible.
 January 24, 2018, this council approved an ordinance, number 188784, for the chief attorney officer to competitively solicit for these services. The city advertised the bid number 943. Five bids were received and opened on October 9th. The city issued a notice of intent to award the price agreement on October 17th. No protests were received. The bids were deemed responsive to the requirements. Thus, it is recommended that this price agreement be executed.
 This is the second time BES has actually engaged in this type of process. They've determined that the time and effort savings based on the process is significant. The subcontractor equity program, the workforce training and hiring programs, shall apply to all task orders coming forward from this price agreement, estimated at $150,000 or more at the time the task order is issued. There is an aspirational goal of 20% of all subcontracts applying to all work orders in addition to the overall contract.
 James W. Fowler will perform all necessary outreach to disadvantaged minority women in emerging small businesses. They will fulfill the corresponding requirements, and they will submit the required documentation to procurement services for approval prior to the execution of any task order.
 So the standard bidding methodology requires bidders to predetermine and list their subcontractors at the time of award. However, under this price agreement, J.W. Fowler will determine the subcontractors at the time each task order is developed. This process allows Fowler to maximize their use of disadvantaged minority women in emerging small businesses. As the scopes of work become clearer and final, they can do significant more targeted outreach,
 to pull in more certified firms. J.W. Fowler is not a state of Oregon certified firm, but they do have current business tax registration, and they are in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions relative to the bidding process, I'm still here, and we have BES available for specific project questions. Colleagues, I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. Motion from Commissioner Fish. Second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Thank you again for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Excellent work. Thank you. Aye. The report's adopted. Larry, I understand you want to read the next two items together. Is that correct? Yes, please. Sue, please read items 1244 and 1245 together. 1244, accept procurement report concerning signature authority increase pilot project.
 and 1245, extend pilot program allowing increase in chief procurement officer signature authority for contracts that fall under city code 5.33.34 and 5.68 through March 31, 2019. Good morning again. Good morning again. Not much has changed. I don't know how I got that wrong. It's good to see you again, Larry. Thank you very much. It's been such a long time.
 Portland City Council passed Ordinance 188-527, July 20, 2017, which increased the contract signature authority of the Chief Procurement Officer from $100,000 in professional services to $500,000 and from $500,000 in goods and services and construction to $1 million.
 For the period encompassing fiscal year 7-1-2017 through 6-30-2018, procurement services entered into approximately 963 procurement agreements, which includes purchase orders and contracts in an amount of approximately $393,514,626.52. Of these, 87 contracts were of sufficient monetary value to require authorization by this Council.
 This averaged almost two presentations per week. The council has been in session. The mayor said at one point last year he'd seen more of me that day than his own family. I feel sorry for him. The full report with all of its specific breakdowns is in front of you, but just to highlight, this total is actually 11 construction contracts, 19 goods and services contracts, and 46 PTE contracts, fewer than it would have been had we not had the increased signature authority.
 This would have almost doubled the amount of time you'd have had to listen to me, and you should be grateful. But the net hard dollar savings in time and materials is almost the cost of a full-time staff person, and significantly more than that if you consider staff on the elected officials, where we didn't account for that. We don't know how much that is. And if you think about the fact that all of that time is then spent in other productive work,
 we've got a very significant savings. We should also give consideration to the fact that the infrastructure bureaus have seen a tremendous improvement in turnaround time for their projects, from bid opening to notice to proceed. The greatest benefit to all bureaus who engage in contracting for either professional services or minor construction contract is that work times are more manageable and predictable, thereby creating efficiency in the contracting process.
 There was a concern on the part of this Council that these significant increases in authority in some bureaus would immediately –
 The average PTE contract is $291,000, not close to the $500,000. The average construction contract moved only to $682,000. The average GNS contract went to $754,000. So we didn't see some big, huge jump. And all of these are still well under the approved maximums.
 So this concludes the report that I have that was required by this council when they approved the ordinance. We have a follow-on agenda item. They've been read together, which is a more forward-looking discussion. And for that portion of this time, this is the Chief Procurement Officer, Lester Spittler.
 Morning, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners. Thank you. So we are asking in Item 1245 to extend this pilot program for additional three months for many reasons. The first reason is just to maintain continuity for our Bureau customers. Larry mentioned the turnaround time, work being more predictable, and projects getting delivered for our Bureau customers. Large, high-dollar, high-visibility projects are unaffected by this pilot program.
 But most importantly, procurement services in conjunction with our bureau customers, we're actively going through our code sections 533, 534, and 568. And we're giving it a refresh, if you will, and we intend to come back in front of council with a more comprehensive list of revisions to our code that will allow us to be more solution-oriented and customer-focused to our bureaus, but also more streamlined and transparent for our contractors and vendors and external stakeholders.
 With your approval in the fall bump budget process, we have been allocated additional resources, and we will be reorganizing our team to provide more intentional customer service to our infrastructure bureaus, specifically to meet their capital project delivery needs.
 This pilot, this item simply extends it for three months to give us a little bit more time to work with our customers, to work with external stakeholders to make sure that list of revisions to our code is comprehensive and, you know, is fully vetted and people have had an opportunity to provide feedback on. So with that, we ask that you accept the report to Council Item 1244 and pass the emergency ordinance, Item 1245. Larry and I are here for any questions. Colleagues, any further questions or follow-up?
 Let's put the report on the table before we go to public testimony on the ordinance. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Do we have public testimony on the ordinance? We did not. Very good. Any further questions, follow-up, please call the roll on the report. Udaly. Thanks for the report. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I'm really pleased with how this has turned out and very happy to support moving forward with it. One thing that you didn't mention was the improvement in the state-certified firms for minority women and emergency support businesses. Thanks to Yesenia Carrillo and my staff, she looked into are we doing better with minority and women's businesses.
 businesses, hugely better. So a million more in overall construction contracts, small increase in certified firms for construction, but double the amount of certified firms with professional, technical, and expert services. So that just goes to show that when you have the authority and you can move quickly and put some pressure on, then we're getting better outcomes. And so that, to me, is very persuasive, and thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Salisbury. Aye.
 Well, this was a very impressive report. I mean, I'm impressed with the significant results, both in the decrease in the amount of time you've had to come here and put things on our agenda. No offense. I think I've insulted, but that's okay. Don't take it personally. But that's, you know, on a day like this, when you look at our agenda, and we have a lot, a lot of items that really has cut down. And also the fact that, you know,
 The contracts haven't creeped up to the maximums, so that's impressive as well. And then as Commissioner Fritz just mentioned, the utilization of minority businesses is very impressive, and women-owned businesses are very impressive too. So it sounds like an experiment worth making permanent. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler. Aye. Reports adopted to the ordinance, please call the roll. Udalli. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Sussman. Aye. Wheeler. Made a good case for this. With regard to the turnaround and continuity for customers, obviously this is working well, and we should continue it for the three months. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you both. Thank you.
 Next item, and colleagues have been told that we need to read these separately, so we'll start with 1246. 1246, authorized conveyance of city-owned property located at 6431 through 6435 and 6445 Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard to PCRI Northeast Housing 2 LLC.
 and funding in an amount not to exceed $5.7 million to its affiliate, King Park Apartments Limited Partnership, for the construction of a new affordable multifamily housing development located in the Interstate Corridor Urban Renewal Area. Very good. Thank you and welcome. Thank you. We have Director Callahan here and we have Director Fitzpatrick here. It's great to have you both.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm pleased to be here this morning to bring you this exciting new affordable housing project from PCRI, Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, located on the corner of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Rosa Parks Way.
 It's my honor to be here today with PCRI's Executive Director, Maxine Fitzpatrick, who served PCRI and her community for more than 25 years, and PCRI's Michael Fu and Julia Metz. And are you Andrea? I'm sorry, Andrea, I forgot your last name. Debnam, also of PCRI. Before I turn it over to Maxine Fitzpatrick, I'd like to share with you a few details regarding the project.
 Can you see the screen? Yes. Okay, great. Yeah, thank you. The project consists of 70 new affordable homes with an emphasis on family-sized housing. Thirty-five percent of the units are set aside for very low-income families. The project is estimated to provide 198 new residents permanent affordable housing in North and Northeast.
 This project is part of the city's comprehensive North and Northeast Neighborhood Strategy, which both acknowledges and works to address our actions in regards to gentrification and displacement. Thank you.
 This is the second affordable rental project funded under the strategy to be developed by PCRI. The Beatrice Morrow just opened its doors with 80 new units last month, and we are proud to have been part of that project as well. This project, the King Parks Project, will prioritize families with long-term ties to the North and Northeast neighborhood and those who've experienced displacement, as well as serving 20 formerly homeless families with long-term voucher support.
 PCRI has partnered with Colas Construction and the National Association of Minority Contractors and expects to well exceed the city's requirements for minority women and emerging business participation. I believe Maxine and her team will talk a little bit more about that, but they're expecting to reach 30% participation.
 Today before you, as you heard, is the approval for the director to provide financial support to PCRI in the amount of $5.7 million. This is actually leveraging four times the amount of funding that comes from other sources, so it's a great investment for the city.
 And we will also be conveying the land to PCRI as part of this transaction. And so with that, I am honored to turn it over to Maxine Fitzpatrick. Thank you. Good morning. Director Callahan did a really good job of explaining much of the project information.
 What I'll say here at this time is that we're really excited to be once again able, as a community-based organization serving North and Northeast primarily. However, we do, based on the establishment of the organization, have housing in 34 of Portland's 95 neighborhoods and with the greatest concentration in North and Northeast Portland.
 based in North and Northeast Portland. We have been there since 1993, serving the needs of lower-income residents, and we're excited to be able to once again do a project of the magnitude that we can
 instead of doing smaller projects. The largest one we historically did was a preservation project and that was 88 units and that was done in about 19, 2002 to be once again able to do housing
 that can address the drastic, first of all, displacement that has occurred, and then the serious situation that we have with housing affordability in the community, combined with our capacity to provide housing.
 services, which we'll kind of talk a little more about as we go along. PCRI is fully prepared to deliver once again on this development and encourage the commissioners and the mayor to authorize the conveyance of the land. Thank you.
 I'll just say one other thing about the name of the building. The community is really, really excited to be able to honor and recognize two of our historical heroes and heroine, that being Martin Luther King, and then the other being Rosa Parks. And I know I don't have to tell anyone in this room about the efforts that they put into,
 equal opportunities for African Americans in the U.S. So it's an honor to have Rosa Parks Way and Martin Luther King Boulevard intersect and PCRI able to develop housing. It will make the community residents, particularly those that have been displaced, feel really, really good about their community again. So thank you. Thank you.
 It's going to be called King Plus Parks? King Plus Parks, yeah. Apartments, yes. Thank you. And since you mentioned that, I want to thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your efforts in making this possible. And we promise we won't disappoint you. Okay. Thanks. Julia? Why don't we start with Michael and go over the finance? And you want to get into a little bit more detail about the finance and Michael? Sure. Good.
 So in terms of this project, could you pull the mic a little bit further and just introduce yourself? Hi, my name is Michael Fu. I am a housing developer with Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives. And in terms of...
 Bringing this project together truly is a public-private partnership. In terms of the financing, we have financing represented from the federal government, the state government, the important contribution from the city of Portland, and additionally two sources of private financing. This is a low-income housing tax credit project where 11.28 million of the sources will be provided through private equity by U.S. Bank.
 Additionally, we have $5.7 million in permanent debt that is being contributed through Umpqua Bank, and they also are giving the project a construction loan in roughly $15.5 million.
 Additionally, from the state of Oregon, as noted before, we have a 9% low-income housing tax credit award for this project and additionally $400,000 in OHCS GHAP and $162,275 OHCS low-income weatherization funds.
 From the city, we have $5.7 million in loans from the Portland Housing Bureau, additionally the contribution of the land. And from BDS, we have SDC waivers, property tax exemption that's administered through Portland Housing Bureau in partnership with Multnomah County, and the Affordable Housing CET waiver. And additionally, home forward, we were awarded 20 project-based Section 8 waivers.
 which allow us to lower the rent for our residents. So thank you.
 So I'll just, and I'm Julia Metz. Good morning, I think, still. Good morning. So just briefly, I know that you've already gotten a little overview of the unit mix, but I did just want to highlight, again, emphasizing that over 75% or over 70% of the units will be family size units, meaning two and three bedroom. But beyond just the bedroom count, also the square footage of these homes.
 really are meant to serve a family. So similar to projects that PCRI has done in the past, that's always a very big priority for us to make sure they're adequately sized for a family to live in them beyond just the bedrooms. Thank you.
 And I won't go through this entire table, but it does show again the different income breakdowns in addition to the unit mix. And so as it was noted earlier, we have about 30% of the units will be project-based Section 8. We have, and then 64% of the units will be for 60% AMI or below. Okay.
 And then just to highlight a few of the community benefits of the project and going a little bit deeper about what was brought up earlier. So again, the project team is, of course, PCRI. Our contractor is Colas Construction, and then our architects are Merriman Barnes Architects. So, of course, Colas Construction is a minority general contractor, and then Merriman Barnes is a woman-owned business.
 And so that contributes to our professional service numbers of 80% minority women emerging small business. And then again, our construction is anticipated to exceed 30% minority women emerging small business participation. And these are numbers that we have at the very least hit or exceeded on previous PCRI projects.
 Beyond working with certified firms, another big priority for us on the workforce front is really working with partners who are able to prioritize both training and just generally who's on their staff to support especially minority and women in professions where they're not usually represented.
 And then the building itself will be Earth Advantage Gold certification. So beyond energy and water savings, of course, this provides a very healthy, safe home, reduces use of resources through construction and so forth. So both benefit for the folks that are living in the homes as well as the community as a whole.
 And then lastly, we have received grant funding from the Metro Placemaking Grant and also have some funds through the Piedmont Neighborhood Association, which will be contributing to a public art component, which we're working with a local black artist on that process. And she'll be engaging other artists of color to create a piece both related to Honor Rosa Parks, as well as to tell the story of Piedmont.
 the black and African-American community of Portland. In terms of the project's timeline, we've received land use approvals, and permits are ready to be picked up at BDS. We have HUD approval for our project-based Section 8. We have OHCS approval for our 9% LIHTC award. Construction and permanent loan, we have credit approval.
 our approval today from City Council. And then shortly after that, we'll have our LIHTC equity approval from U.S. Bank. And our anticipated start of construction will be this month toward the end of the month. And we're looking forward to completion in 2020. That'll be February. So thank you so much. Thank you. Fisher, Fisher. Well, I'll wait till we're finished. Very good.
 And just one final thing. Good morning. My name is Andrea Debnam, and I represent the Resident Services Department for PCRI. And we have the distinct pleasure to ultimately serve the residents that will reside in this development. And I just wanted to point out that, you know, ultimately while resident services is designed to support and help our residents ensure that they maintain their housing, it's important to note that, you know,
 Ultimately, PCRI's goal is to really address the generational poverty that exists in the black community at a greater level than pretty much any other community that exists in the city of Portland, which is...
 which is why our resident services department has other programming really designed to address that, such as our financial education services, our homeownership department, IDAs, and so forth. So our intention is really to make those services available to the residents at King Park's
 as well as our other residents with PCRI. So I just wanted to make that be known that that is our intention with the residents of King Parks that will reside. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Is there any public testimony on this item? So I have a couple of questions. Commissioner Fish, I'm sorry. First, I want to start with Director Callahan. I'm heartened that so many of the units are deeply affordable and that you also have the Section 8 vouchers to keep the rents down. Yes.
 Have we identified opportunities for permanent supportive housing units at this development? Commissioner, most of the families are coming out of the homeless families service system, and they will be coming with service supports. But we have not required permanent supportive housing as an additional requirement on this project. And that was part of the NOFA? No.
 The PCRI submitted the NOFA in serving homeless families, but we have not done an additional requirement for permanent supportive housing on this building other than the requirement for the 20 families that the PCRI already submitted for coming out of the homeless family system, which will have services. But the additional units will be prioritized from the North and Northeast preference policy strategy. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz? Director Fitzpatrick, I think I saw that you're going to be retiring. Yes, one day. Not just yet. That's not today. That's not tomorrow. That's not too soon. I was famous in parks for announcing people are retiring before they actually do. What we're doing is we're really working, Commissioner Fritz, to take PCRI into the next phase of this history. I was looking at our 10-year report,
 this morning. To me, it was amazing. In 2000, our net assets were like $900,000. If we take a look at what we've been able to collect
 complete and due over the course of the last 18 years. I just think it's amazing. But then I also think that PCRI's future is even greater than its past. And so looking at how we can have an organization like PCRI kind of lead the way in showing how we can address
 the issues that exist in our communities around not only affordable housing, but the poverty that causes the need for it. Commissioner Fish has talked about permanent supportive housing. And when I think about that term, I'm thinking, like, why does permanent
 situations have to exist. What is it? Can we do to look more deeply into what's causing that situation and come up with solutions? That's what we did with affordable housing. I'd love to be able to talk to you some more Commissioner Fish about my thinking as well as our organizational thinking where we're not just looking at supporting people in their current situation into perpetuity unless there's no other way.
 Well, it's really beautiful that after 25 years in a really challenging environment, you're still thinking of what's the next steps, what's the next level. So thank you very much for your service to our community. Right. And as you can see around the table, we have incredible staff at PCRI. So I think...
 But for the most part, they're almost as smart as me. No, actually. Actually, I think they're smarter. Also, for serving on the Development Review Advisory Committee, so this has been greatly appreciated.
 Thank you. And I also just want to give a shout-out to PCRI. We hope Maxine's with us for a long time, but if she isn't, they also had the foresight, and this was allowed for in the NOFA, to bring in a third-party project manager. So the day-to-day details of the project will always be well-reviewed.
 well overseen, regardless of whether it is Maxine or whether it becomes a successor. Yeah, we've planned for that, Mayor Wheeler. And I appreciate that. I'm always looking to succession strategies. I think that was a very, very smart move. I'm happy to share that with you. Awesome. Thank you so much. Any further discussion? Any public testimony on this item, Sue? No.
 We have two people sign up, Maggie, who I believe has left, and Diana Ogas. Very good. All right. Thank you so much. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning. Hi. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, I thought that –
 The specific item number, it did hit on a lot of good points. One thing that I felt that wasn't really mentioned was how it could also – there wasn't anything that was depicted for the Fair Housing Acts. And with Commissioner Fish bringing up permanent supportive housing, it does play into one of our public testimonies that was presented this morning for item 1218, where a gentleman was talking about –
 His circumstance of being a landlord property owner and also a small business in itself and the conditions that he's been put into based off of how the marketing trends have progressed. So with that said, I do have...
 Some reservations as far as whether or not those kinds of things have been addressed, whether it is a fair housing complaint and whether or not it is going to also provide a solution to the permanent housing situation so that other citizens that are trying to maintain home and livelihood aren't going to be put out onto the streets.
 That's all that I have to say. Thank you so much for your time. Very good. Director Callahan, did you want to respond to those two items? First of all, compliance with the Fair Housing Act, and second of all, does this in any way lead to further displacement?
 Thank you, Mayor, for the opportunity. Let me address the last question first. This is a vacant parcel of land that the Portland Housing Bureau and its predecessor, Portland Development Commission, have owned for quite some time. So we will be adding housing to the community and will not be resulting in any displacement. Thank you.
 Secondarily, there are two populations that are prioritized for this building. One is families coming out of the homeless family system that will be supported by vouchers from Home Forward. So people with very low incomes will be able to afford permanent housing for themselves and family.
 and also the priority of families or households that have historic ties or have been displaced from North and Northeast Portland who would like to come back to North and Northeast Portland. Both of these preferences have been thoroughly reviewed by fair housing attorneys and comply with fair housing law. So we're addressing both displacement and homeless families as well as adding new affordable housing stock with this project.
 Thank you. Any further questions? Commissioner Fish. Did I hear you say that this property was once controlled by then PDC? Yes, it has been in the portfolio for quite some time. And was it transferred to the Housing Bureau as part of the creation of the Portland Housing Bureau? I believe so, yes. And do we know what PDC had once contemplated for this site? No.
 I don't know the full history of the site other than at one point there had been plans to do a condo development on the site, and there was a development agreement that had not been able to materialize going forward, I think partially due to some of the issues we faced in the last recession. But that contracted development agreement was –
 It terminated, I think, in approximately 2014, if I believe. I don't know what the plans before were for. And when it transferred over, then it became subject to our strategic plan and our values. So, I mean, this is not the first time there's a piece of property that was once contemplated for high-end condos that is now serving low-income residents, and I'm surprised.
 It's the second time I've been pleased to be reminded that with the transition, we got a change in the use of properties that were once maintained by PDC that then came over to the Housing Bureau. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll. Udaly. Well, this is an exciting development, and I'm glad to hear that you're not retiring quite yet, Maxine. And, of course, I'm very pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 Fritz? It's disappointing that the people who yell at the Mayor and the Housing Bureau for not producing housing quickly enough or at the right rates are no longer in the chambers, and the reporters aren't here either, because 80 units just opened, and this will be another 70 units. A great partnership with a renowned community organization that has been led by Maxine Fitzpatrick for 25 years and has significant results.
 But, and, these projects are not easy. You know, the ribbon-cutting part is easy, but the actual getting to the ribbon-cutting is not at all. So thank you, Mayor, for your leadership, and thank you, Director Callaghan, Director Fitzpatrick, the whole team. This is a great project. Thank you.
 Fish. I'm glad that Commissioner Fritz reminded us that these are not easy projects, particularly with the Trump tax plan and its impact on low-income tax credits and the market. We had a page in the PowerPoint that showed all the various financing sources, but it is truly a remarkable accomplishment when all of that funding streams can be put together so a project moves forward, and it takes enormous –
 tenacity to make that happen. So congratulations to PCRI. One of the things that I really like about this development is that of the 70 units, all of them will be affordable at 60 percent of MFI or below. And what that means is people on fixed incomes, people who are entry-level workers, people starting out, formerly homeless, are
 In other words, it will be serving people that the market is not serving right now. And, you know, sometimes because of the law, because of other constraints, we serve people higher up the food chain. It's nice to serve them. It's essential that we serve people living in poverty, because if we don't, they'll be on our streets and in our shelters. Their children will not be going to school ready to learn, and the community will suffer for that. So, yeah.
 It looks like a great project, and I'm also pleased that Home Forward has stepped up again and put some Section 8 vouchers in, without which would not make – would not obviously make it possible to make some of these three bedrooms so affordable. So congratulations to everyone who brought this forward, and I'm pleased to support it. Bye. Sal Smith. Well, when we celebrated –
 I think it was around 2006, we had a big celebration at the corner of when the council renamed Portland Boulevard Rosa Parks Way. We had a gigantic celebration at the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and the soon-to-be Rosa Parks Way Street. And I know we all talked about, you know, we wanted to have a statue there that somehow commemorates these two great individuals.
 and I remember looking around and seeing this big empty parcel of land, wondering what's that all about, and what's going to happen with that? Well, I soon got more intimately involved with that piece of property when I became housing commissioner,
 But I think that, first of all, I want to say that this project, the King Parks apartments look great. And I think all the people that were there that day to celebrate would say this is a project very worthy at this historically significant intersection in Portland. But, yeah, I want to thank Maxine Fitzpatrick, Shannon Callahan, who was my housing advisor at the time, and David.
 Ernest Warren, your most capable attorney, and I believe he's maybe a board member too. But we had some very frank conversations about this piece of property. And I'm very happy with the direction those conversations went and that it's –
 Just as we celebrated the milestone of the Southwest Capital Highway improvements earlier this morning, this is a milestone, too. They actually have the development plan and money ready to go to make this project a reality, too. So this is really a great day. So I'm very happy to support this project and vote aye. Wheeler.
 Well, there's a lot to celebrate here. And I think it's also we remember – it's important that we remember there is some accountability here as well. The fact of the matter is displacement and gentrification, redlining, lack of access to loans and discrimination –
 are an unfortunate part of our city's history, but they're also a very real part of our city's history. And therefore, I think it's important that through projects like this, we acknowledge...
 that history because by doing that it allows us to heal some of the wounds and it allows us to move together as a community. And it also lets us stand out as one of a small number of communities around the country who have really tackled this issue of displacement and gentrification head on in an intentional manner through projects like this. As Commissioner Fritz mentioned a moment ago, this has been a really busy week.
 when it comes to housing those of lower income or people who lack access to safe and affordable housing in our community. We all started at Hazel Heights with that ribbon-cutting ceremony. Then yesterday we were at the Charlotte B. Rutherford,
 Ribbon-cutting ceremony this morning. We added a number of multi-units to our affordable housing mix, and now we have King and Parks to celebrate. I couldn't be happier to see these 70 units of affordable housing being added to the city's stock. And, of course, it's mostly targeted for northeast areas.
 Northeast Preference Policy Families. I believe this will be a strong addition to contributing to the overall north and northeast housing strategy, which the community, of course, requested of the city council.
 And there are many partners that I could thank here, but I'll keep the list short. First of all, PCRI, and of course, Maxine Fitzpatrick for your exceptional leadership on this and getting this very complicated project over the finishing line. And I particularly want to congratulate you because it's so quickly on the heels of the success of the Beatrice Morrow,
 where we were what, three weeks ago, two and a half, three weeks ago, celebrating the opening of yet another preference policy, lower income focused housing development in the city of Portland. I certainly want to thank Housing Bureau Director Shannon Callahan. She has only been the director for a very short period of time, but she has proven to be an exceptional leader around housing policy over a period of decades.
 and this is just one more success that you've helped shepherd through. I'd like to thank Cupid Alexander from my office, who helps me see straight on projects like this and helps explain the finer details and keeping on top of it on behalf of the mayor's team. So I thank you. Most of all, I want to take this opportunity to thank Commissioner Dan Saltzman.
 And I'm going to do this more and more just because he is close to the door.
 both literally and figuratively speaking. And I just want to acknowledge that the vision that he championed on the city council with regard to the North Northeast preference policy, it's now coming into play. It's becoming part of the standard business of the Portland City Council. Dan doesn't get the credit he deserves sometimes because he's very quiet, he's very reserved. But.
 But it actually took courageous leadership to push the preference policy through. And it was courageous on the part of the city council, including Commissioner Fish, who's been a former housing bureau director, and Commissioner Fritz, who was on the council and working hard to make sure that this policy was successful.
 I owe and others owe a debt of gratitude to you for your leadership so that we can sit here today and celebrate successes like this. So thanks to all of you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted, and congratulations. Thank you. Next item, 1247. 1247, authorized funding in an amount not to exceed $12,900,000.
 $77,742 to C.K. Henry Building Limited Partnership for the rehabilitation of an affordable multifamily housing development located in the downtown waterfront urban renewal area. What? You're back again and you want 173 more units of affordable housing? We are.
 Director Callahan, go for it. Thank you very much. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm pleased to be here today to bring you this project from Central City Concern and to be joined by Sean Hubert and Rachel Moss. I'm just throwing it out. There's a person before that with a PHB. That's perfect. Okay. One more. Yeah. I like to embarrass people. Oh, okay. That's not my – oh, sorry. A little PowerPoint issue. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 So, Mayor, this project is really a threefer for us. First of all, it preserves and rehabilitates 153 units of low-barrier housing. It adds an additional 20 new units of low-barrier housing. And it seismically upgrades an unreinforced masonry building in the heart of the central city, ensuring resident safety and protecting an important community asset for decades and decades and decades to come.
 The Henry serves a high needs population who receive supportive services and are transitioning from homelessness. As Central City Concern, the owner of the project is working with the service partners including the Veterans Administration, Care Oregon, Department of Community Justice, and Old Town Recovery Center.
 The existing residents, just to address this issue in case there's any questions about displacement, will be relocated into other buildings prior to the commencement of the construction so that the building can be completed and redone without disturbing the residents as they work to reestablish their lives.
 I'd like to also comment that Central City Concern is also exceeding the city's requirements for minority women and emerging small businesses. They expect to have approximately 24% of their hard costs associated with those businesses. And we'll be working with Colas Construction on this project, who will also be working on the King Parks project. Okay.
 The city's contribution to this project works out to be just about $75,000 per unit for a very high-needs population. Central City Concern is also leveraging a significant amount of outside resources. And as I said, this meets our larger city goals regarding unreinforced masonry buildings, especially as they are housing very vulnerable populations in our downtown core.
 And with that, I would like to turn it over to the project team at Central City Concerns.
 Thank you, Shannon. And good afternoon. I am Sean Hubert with Central City Concern. The Henry Building has long been a workforce in both Central City Concerns and the city's ending homelessness efforts. It's a rather unique affordable housing resource offering both transitional and permanent housing options to people with very high barriers to traditional housing pathways.
 Programs in the building include those serving homeless veterans, people transitioning from corrections, and recuperative care for homeless individuals with acute health conditions. You can see some of the outcomes of the building's programs on this slide. Over 750 people are served each year in the Henry Building. When you think about that over a five-year period of time, that's 3,750 people.
 And we're successful in more than doubling the incomes of the clients while they're in our services in the building. You can see that the average income at move-in is about $5,800 per year, and upon exit is about $13,100 per year. And on top of that, our transitional programs in the building have an over 80% success rate in terms of placement in the housing upon exit.
 Turning to the next slide in terms of the conditions at the building, Central City Concern acquired the Henry Building in the late 1980s and converted it from office use to housing as one of the state's early tax credit deals. We've gotten a lot of mileage out of that almost 30-year-old investment, especially given the intensity of the building's use.
 The current needs of the building include envelope and roof water intrusion issues, degrading structural elements, particularly relating to the sidewalk vaults and some basement beams, aging and costly elevators. We're down from two to one remaining. Plumbing and electrical deficiencies and really just an overall aging and costly infrastructure and low-efficiency fixtures. And so we're really looking to do an overall upgrade and put this project into use for the next 50 years.
 As Shannon mentioned, one of the aspects we're most excited about as part of this preservation is that we have found a way to add 20 additional new units of affordable housing into the building. This was accomplished by better utilization of space around light wells as well as capture of some of the first floor commercial space and was really no small victory given the fact that this is a building on the historic register and we had to go through National Park Service approval, which if any of you have done that before, it's a timely and complicated endeavor.
 We're also – Mr. Kurasan, when was this building built? Do you know? It was 1908. 1908? Okay, thanks. I think at one point it housed the downtown post office. You can still see the marble steps and areas of the building related to that use. We're also improving and expanding the community and service space in the building, which will help to strengthen our outcomes, which really are focused around health, income attainment, and social connectedness, all of which are vital for long-term improved resiliency to homelessness.
 And as also mentioned, we're seismically strengthening the building, including all new seismic cores, diaphragms, and masonry attachments. So with that, I'm happy to take any questions. So will it be fully seismically upgraded?
 It's going to be – we did not go through the mandatory. We went through the – do you remember the correct term, Rachel? The voluntary seismic. The voluntary seismic. So it's done to what KPFF, our structural engineer, says have been sort of the standard seismic rehab of the last two decades. But will it comply with our plan for the next 20 years?
 That's a very good question, and I don't know what the requirements are going to be. I can tell you that one of the things that we have struggled with, and I served on the city's seismic committee looking at this issue,
 multifamily is a very challenging type of building to seismic retrofit. And in a project like this, if you are to,
 to have to remove all of the interior walls at that point, all the unit walls, all that kind of thing, you actually get into a very high cost. And so when we took a look at, if we were to have to do something like that, that would be an additional about $15 million, which makes it a very cost-ineffective approach for a small incremental gain on the back end.
 So, Commissioner, we are meeting some of the seismic requirements, and I think we're getting into some details that I would actually ask some of our program staff and as well as Sean to come up and address. Actually, you don't necessarily need to do that. I support what we're doing so far. I don't want to invest $13 million of city money if it's going –
 going to need more in the next 20 years because you certainly don't want to move the residents out again. So if I could get some more information, if you need to come back for an additional allocation, I certainly would be open to that. As we're doing these projects, we need to make them seismically safe and we shouldn't be asking private investors to do what the
 In the current standards, there's something called life and safety, and so this is going up to a full life and safety upgrade. And I know we've done that at the garages as well, so maybe that's what our standard is going to be, but I certainly think we need to be considering the long term. Thank you. Does that complete your presentation? That completes our presentation. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No testifiers. Well, that leaves us one option. Please call the roll. Fritz.
 173 units, and it sounds like it's going to be really, really nice once it's done. So thank you for your work on this. Aye. Fish. Great partner, great outcome, 99-year affordability restriction, and we're serving the right mix of income. So this is another terrific accomplishment today, and congratulations to all who are working on it. Aye. Sossman.
 Yes, this is an outstanding renovation, and I'm glad to see this old building getting a new lease on life, literally, and that it will be housing many of Central City's concerns, clients and Central City concern. The statistics you just rolled off about entry income and exit incomes and things like that really demonstrate how much you're improving the lives of individuals and how much that improves the quality of life of our city. So thank you. All right.
 Wheeler. Well, the city is obviously pleased to see the addition of these new affordable housing units and the preservation of many, many others.
 The need is clearly withering. So this is something that's pretty easy to get behind. The project contributes to the city's goals and the community's needs for developing supportive housing. And last but not least, I want to thank Central City again for yet another fantastic partnership. There's, again, a lot to like here. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Let's see. Commissioner Udaly, are you pulling 1248? Why don't we go ahead and read that, Sue, just for the record? Item 1248, amend contract with Just Bucket Excavation, Inc., in the amount of $190,038 for the Southeast 50th Avenue through Southeast Division Street to Southeast Hawthorne Boulevard project to comply with ADA requirement and to accelerate project completion.
 Commissioner Udaly has requested that this be returned to her office? Correct. Very good. Thank you. Last but not least, item 1250. And we're fixing the screen right now. Why don't you go ahead and fix the screen first? I know you're trying to multitask, and I'm making it harder on you. Thank you. 1250, amend grant agreement with Portland Parks Foundation to transfer $1,050,000 city funds for the Wildwood Trail pedestrian bridge.
 Commissioner Fish. Mayor, Portland's 30-mile Wildwood Trail suffers a major flaw. It's crossing at the Burnside Bridge. With an average of 18,000 vehicles passing daily, pedestrians are forced to dodge traffic without a safe crossing. The Portland Parks Foundation is spearheading the effort to build a bridge at this intersection before a serious tragedy occurs. A committee of local community members is leading the effort to make this project possible.
 To give us a brief presentation today, we have Dennis James, Program Specialist, and Robin Johnson-Craig, Capital Project Manager from Portland Parks and Rec. Take it away. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 This ordinance will simply go ahead and authorize Parks Director to amend the original grant agreement that was executed back in March of this year. Essentially, what will happen is that the director will then have the authority to allow Parks to certify a transfer of $1,050,000 to Parks.
 Portland Parks Foundation. There are a couple of sources of funds for that total. $200,000 will actually be coming from Metro, and that has been provided to PBOT, although there's no mechanism as of this point for those funds to be transferred to PPF.
 there's another $850,000 in PBOT grants and SDC funds that will be included in that total. So, again, this amendment, the first amendment to that agreement, will simply update the funding for the project and also allow for the director to sign the agreement that will allow the transfer.
 concludes our presentation if there are any questions very good colleagues any questions this is a pedestrian bridge right correct yeah i was just looking at the figures and i noticed the cross section of the bridge and it's like six feet wide which strikes me as kind of on the narrow side but um i believe that my colleague might be able to speak to those kind of details so the the if you could introduce yourself and bring the mic a little closer
 My name is Robin Johnson Craig. I'm the grant manager for this grant agreement for Portland Parks.
 The pedestrian bridge is being designed at six feet wide. It's meeting the PIVOT minimum requirements for width. It is defined as a pedestrian bridge and not a multi-use bridge, which would add bicycle capacity. The Wildwood Trail is a high-challenge trail according to PPNR trail standards, so there are no bicycles allowed on the Wildwood Trail, so there is no intent or expectation that bicycles would be using this bridge. Okay.
 Yeah, I guess, yeah, that was established. I'm just curious whether six feet is adequate for pedestrians going both directions to, you know, not queue up there or something.
 So that is something that the Portland Parks Foundation has considered, and it's something that during the tenure of Commissioner Fritz's as Parks Commissioner, also had those questions forwarded to Portland Parks Foundation. And because of the extreme cost that would be incurred to add that width to possibly an eight-foot-wide bridge, it was not considered a viable option. Okay. Thank you. Any further questions?
 Great. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. All right. Call the roll. New daily. I...
 Thank you both for your presentation, and thank you, Robin, for all of your work on parks projects that you've done with me over the five years I was in charge. And it's important to remember that this is largely a privately funded bridge that the Portland Parks Foundation has cost managed. So they fundraised $2 million. And so to ask private funders to raise it significantly, even higher...
 I found unreasonable. This allocation includes, as was mentioned, all of the allocations from Metro, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and an additional $350,000 that I approved as one of my last acts as Parks Commissioner to make sure that we could finish up this project. So I'm very happy that construction has already started, hasn't it? All right.
 Well, they're looking for the permit from PBOT end of December. I must have just seen them doing all of the surveying, because certainly the last time I went by that, there was a lot of activity going on. So I was like, ooh, it's getting started already. So I'm looking forward to seeing the finished product and appreciate Commissioner Fish for your leadership of the Bureau and this project from now on. Thank you.
 Thank you for your presentation. This is simply authorizing the transfer of funds that have otherwise been allocated to this project. We still have a long way to go, and we certainly hope that the cost of materials for this project don't go through the roof because of unnecessary trade wars. Aye. Saltzman. This is a great project. Happy to support it and eager to use it once it's completed.
 I just want to make a comment on this morning's agenda. It looked very long at the beginning to all of us. You know, with all the significant decisions we made today on transportation, on water and sewer infrastructure, housing, and parks, it's just been a pleasure. You could keep this morning session going all day as far as I'm concerned. All right.
 Wheeler. This has been a project in the making for a long, long time. And I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for shepherding it through and making sure that the city was doing its part to deliver. And Commissioner Fish continues that cause. And I know Commissioner Udaly is going to be working hard with the PBOT crew because there are some challenges there with regard to transportation.
 But the bottom line is that for many, many years, parents with little kids have been dashing across Upper Burnside, trying to get from one side of the Wildwood Trail to the other side of the Wildwood Trail. And as one of those parents who formerly had a small child making said dash across Burnside, I think this is fantastic. I think it's aesthetically pleasing. I think it fits in with the...
 the nature of Forest Park, and I think it fulfills a very, very significant public safety concern. So I want to thank everybody who had anything to do with this, including the friends and the people in the private sector and the community who made it happen. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted, and we are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, December 5th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Please call the roll, Sue. Hugh Daly. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Salzman. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist or if you are representing an organization. Please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. If you could please read the first item, Sue.
 Item 1251, authorize a memorandum of agreement between the City and the Portland Police Association to amend the current collective bargaining agreement in effect between the City and the Portland Police Association to include the classification of public safety support specialist classification as part of the Portland Police Association collective bargaining agreement.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon, colleagues. The item before us functionally resides in the world of labor relations and would normally be presented by labor relations who is in the room today. But I'd like to take the unusual step, given the significance of this milestone, to present the item myself. Thank you.
 In early November, after months of negotiation, the Portland Police Association formally approved the terms and conditions by which the public safety support specialists, otherwise known as PS3s, would be included in the PPA. That includes specifics about the program, such as scope of work, training, and wages. Now, Commissioners, it's our turn.
 With the approval of this agreement, we're clearing away for the program to begin in earnest, starting with the posting of the PS3 position and recruitment. But first, I want to make sure that the community understands what the position is and what it is not. Thank you.
 Fundamentally, PS3s will assist the Portland Police Bureau in responding to non-emergency calls that do not require police authority, which means that they'll spend a large portion of their time in the street in their own specially marked vehicles. They will not be behind the wheel of a PPB patrol vehicle.
 In June, when this position was approved, I listed some of the duties our PS3s will undertake. Those duties have not changed. PS3s will write police reports for non-emergency situations that do not require police authority, such as vehicle break-ins with no suspect information, bike thefts, burglaries with no suspect information, and the like.
 They will respond in the community to non-injury traffic collisions, also making themselves available to pedestrians, bicyclists, and other community members who are in need of assistance. They will be in the community conducting follow-up on property crimes where there is no specific suspect information, placing an emphasis, of course, on victims' rights.
 They'll assist officers in searching for missing persons, such as elderly adults, vulnerable adults, and children. They will go on walking patrols. They'll attend your neighborhood meetings and other community events. And they'll generally serve as ambassadors of goodwill for the Bureau in the community. This list is not exhaustive, but it's just a snapshot of the kinds of things the PS3s will be detailed to do.
 There's quite a bit of work currently performed by sworn members that does not require police authority. The work I've just mentioned are a few examples. V.
 For example, it takes about 18 months for a sworn officer to go through their certification and their training process. Not every single call requires a sworn officer with certification and training and a firearm to be deployed. There are many situations, including the ones I just described, where PS3s could be deployed instead.
 To hire PS3s means that we increase the bandwidth of officers who are sworn, who are trained, who are certified to engage with the community. We give our officers through this program the time to do more than run from call to call to call. It's a better allocation of our scarce resources. Public safety support specialists will be non-sworn Bureau personnel.
 They will not be police officers. They will not carry firearms. They will not have the authority to make arrests. They will not be able to detain community members.
 We've confirmed with the state that they do not need to be certified by a DPSST because they don't meet the Oregon definition of a police officer. Police officers have the authority and the responsibility for enforcing laws, enforcing criminal laws. PS3s unequivocally will not have this same authority.
 This program has been set up to maximize seamless integration into both the Portland Police Bureau and the community. Rather than having a siloed unit, the 12 PS3s will be decentralized and distributed amongst the three precincts. Like officers, they'll report directly to sergeants, but their work will be substantially different.
 This is not a community engagement or community policing unit per se. As Chief Outlaws expressed repeatedly, the work is not something that should be performed by a single detached unit, but rather community policing is a philosophy that has to be embodied throughout the organization from training to policy to hiring.
 As such, PS3s will be deployed throughout the Bureau and not serve as a stand-alone isolated unit. PS3s will unequivocally not be manning front desk for our precincts, as some have suggested. There are already people in place who do that work and a union that protects their ability to conduct that work.
 To be clear, we agreed with PPA leadership on this point. Council has agreed as well. Prior to the unanimous vote to approve the creation of the position, Council offices engaged in a conversation about the scope of the work for PS3s,
 My office met with commissioner offices in order to provide the class specification and answer any lingering questions. There was a lot of energy and excitement around the program, and that remains true to this day. Nothing about the program has changed since June.
 Many of my remarks today repeat what has already been said in these chambers, outside of City Hall, and in private conversations. What I'm asking the Council to do today is to approve one more needed step in this process. Council's action would formally include PS3s in the PPA.
 something that was promised by my predecessor and two of my colleagues when the PPA contract was renegotiated and passed in 2016. With this step, the city will be able to fulfill a long-held promise to the community and begin the process of recruiting PS3s.
 I'll echo Commissioner Fritz's previously expressed sentiments to say that we need PS3s out on the streets as soon as possible in order to assist Portlanders. I hope to expand the number of PS3s within PPB well beyond the initial 12 personnel. As Commissioner Udaly and I have both noted, officer presence is not needed for every call.
 We're overloading our officers with work that could be delegated to non-sworn staff. We don't have to. It's a waste of limited resources. The expansion of this program, as its efficacy is assessed through data, will help lead the Bureau to a stronger community policing model.
 I'd like to give my colleagues the opportunity to ask questions about the program. For that, I've asked to be present Nicole Grant, my senior policy advisor, who has worked on this program for many, many months. Thank you.
 Captain Erica Hurley of the Portland Police Bureau Training Division, Mark Amberg, who is the Deputy City Attorney, and Jarrell Gaddis, who's the Labor Relations Manager. And I see Deputy Chief Robert Day is also with us. I don't know if you want to participate, but you're certainly invited to do so. Just here for decoration, sir. Good. We'll have you up at the mic then.
 Welcome. Thank you for coming on up. And if my colleagues have further questions, this would be a good time to answer it. Nicole, if you have anything to add that I neglected to add, please feel free to do so. And as you speak, if you speak, could you please state your name for the record?
 So, Commissioners, I'm Nicole Grant, Senior Policy Advisor to the Mayor. For the record, I just want to invite my colleagues up to answer any questions that you may have about the tentative agreement or the program specifically. Well, I guess I'm curious to know what kind of training will they have?
 So this is Captain Erica Hurley with the training division. There's a six-week program that we're going to put them through, and so it's modified, obviously, some of the skills that an officer would need. They will not go through. But we do have the...
 Most of the classroom or much of the classroom that an officer will go through, they will go through. So they will take implicit bias classes and procedural justice classes and those kinds of things as they go forward. We'll have a class that talks about what calls that they will take and how to handle those calls. Report writing classes, of course, because they'll need to know how to write the reports for the things we're asking them to do.
 They'll have a driving course because they have vehicles that they do need to drive throughout the city, as well as some just basic safety issues for themselves, as well as for traffic. We're asking them to do things like traffic control and those kinds of things. Those are learned skills, and so they'll have a class on that. They will also be CIT certified.
 And we're doing the Portland Police Bureau is doing the training. That's correct. It's a six-week course at the training division of the Portland Police Bureau. Thanks. I have a question. Commissioner Fish. Can someone explain to me why after the bargaining that occurred, there seems to be this conflicting vision between the police union president and the mayor's office about what the actual role of these PS3s will be going forward?
 How do we reconcile that since presumably we've been bargaining over the very issue that now seems to be in dispute? I'll answer that, Commissioner Fritz. Or Fish, excuse me. I apologize. I actually don't understand Daryl Turner's position on specifically whether PS3s will be manning the front desk precincts. That issue was settled.
 late last year by BHR, we made sure to kind of carve out duties that would absolutely not have any overlap with positions that are protected or within AFSCME. And so that quote caught us by surprise and is factually untrue. Well, but it's a – what we're talking about prior to the action that you're asking us to vote on today –
 What it illustrates to me is a bit of a disconnect between the vision of our labor partner and the vision of the city in terms of what these positions will be, what our expectations are going forward. So are we setting ourselves up for endless disputes and grievances with PPA over exactly what is the job description, or do you feel confident that we've ironed out
 in the negotiations what the scope of authority is consistent with the mayor's opening statement? I feel that we have. Our discussions with the PPA and Jarrell and Mark, please feel free to chime in, were fairly kind of clear. And we have very clear documentation as well that lays out the job duties. You all were provided with copies of the class specification in June. That is what we agreed to. And so nowhere in those documents does it say that,
 they will be engaging in front desk or administrative or clerk work, excuse me. So I'm not concerned about there being future conflict with the PPA. I, again, don't understand where that language came from. And when our discussions with the PPA concluded, we were all absolutely on the same page. Terrell, do you want to add anything to that? That's accurate. We were at the table for a long time, and at no time did administrative duties come into the conversation.
 And to be clear, if that had been part of the conversation, we would be at risk of violating
 the recognition clause that we currently have with AFSCME for the positions that they represent within the police bureau. Is that correct? That is correct. And furthermore, we met with AFSCME and PCL and went over this exact spec to make sure it wasn't
 violating any of their current job descriptions, that it wasn't mirrored. So we involved the unions as well. That was brought to our attention by Commissioner Fritz that asked for us to engage with Portland City Laborers and AFSCME when we were creating the job spec. So we made sure that it was explicitly not having anything to do with the body of work that AFSCME and Portland City Laborers currently do.
 Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Mayor, for continually briefing me about this over many, many months. So one of my questions, Nicole, you work for Mayor Hales and were part of getting the contract. There's been some comments in the press about this being rushed through before Commissioner Hardesty gets here, which I find extraordinary considering it's two years since the contract went through. Why has it taken so long?
 Negotiations with the PPA are long and belabored. You know, we have been in conversations with them since late last year, but the conversation around CSOs, now PS3, began in 2016. Likely actually, even before then, the contract itself was ratified in October 2016. And so with that, the language in the tentative agreement specifically addresses
 CSOs, now PS3s, being included in the PPA bargaining unit and the city and PPA engaging in discussions over the feasibility of a program. Those discussions began in earnest with the advent of Mayor Wheeler's administration.
 And I don't quite recall when in 2017 they began, but it was later in the year. And we've had ongoing conversations about the scope of work, training, et cetera, the uniform, whether they would carry firearms. That conversation had to be internal initially, so among city stakeholders. And then we had several meetings with the PPA over time to get to the June council hearing where the classification was finally approved.
 And then with that, formal bargaining began. And this is more Jarrell's wheelhouse, but they began in late July as opposed to soon after the June council date due to scheduling conflicts on the part of PPA representatives. And so here we are today after a 30-day ratification period with PPA. And so there have been, you know, points at which this has been protracted because of, I think, the mechanics of this process and procedures.
 Say no more. Delays, yeah. Thank you. Because you have summarized my impression, which is that this was not what I went through a lot of trouble to bargain for in 2016. And so I will keep that in mind in the upcoming contract negotiations, and I'm sure all of us will. You mentioned uniforms. Where did you come down in terms of what these staff will be wearing? Green polos or jackets and tan pants.
 With, like, a patch that basically has the PPB logo. It's kind of a cross between Parks Rangers and something else? Yeah, I think so. Okay. Thank you. Mayor. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you. So we will be hiring 12 PS3s. Is that correct? I wasn't here in 2016, so I don't know how that number was arrived at. But I'm wondering if...
 Anyone has an opinion on whether that's an adequate number and can tell me how those PS3s will be distributed across the precincts? I can speak to the first question, and I'll have Captain Hurley address the distribution. I actually reviewed the June council hearing in preparation for this one, and Commissioner Seltzman, you asked the same question then earlier.
 There was no kind of magic number with 12. It was simply a resource issue with, you know, how much money could be allocated for the program. The idea being that after data is collected, that an expansion of the program would be assessed or reassessed. Great. Thank you.
 So you asked the question about how we're going to allocate. So they'll go to the precincts. There's three precincts, and we'll divide them most likely evenly through. But we actually are in the process right now with our Strategic Services Division pulling numbers. And we may end up actually with an additional one at east, which is busier than, say, north, which may not be as busier. Those are decisions that will come with the data as to when or where they are most needed. And then they will be divided equally.
 in the busiest times of the day, right? So we'll have a couple of shifts. Probably not a midnight shift is usually the calls that they would be taking and won't be coming in at 2 or 3 in the morning. But all of that will be based on police data of when those calls that are appropriate for them to take are coming in. So you kind of led into my next question about data. I mean, we have existing data on the...
 levels of priorities of calls, right? And we must have some sense of how many of these calls would be appropriate for a PS3 versus a sworn and armed officer. So I realize that we need to collect data after the initiative begins, but I am also curious...
 if there's any kind of estimation on the impact on the workload of the officers once this work is delegated to the PS3s.
 So those numbers we are looking at. One of the problems that we came across when we started looking at this data is the way that we classify things. So initially going into it, in my thought process, I'm looking at a priority seven, which is our lower priority calls for BOEC, and thinking those would be appropriate for PS3s. But after looking for how we prioritize things, that's really more about when or how quickly we expect someone to respond to the call. If it is a...
 a missing persons call, that's a very high priority for us, right? But that's still something that's appropriate for a PS3 to help.
 So unfortunately, the way we pull our data in and put it in the system right now with priorities is difficult for us to just pull a number. We have this number, many priority sixes, right? So what we've done is we've sat down and gone through all of the priorities and kind of determined what of those types of calls would be appropriate for our PS3. And SSD is working on those numbers for us to determine, okay, this is a welfare check
 but it's a welfare check that's not appropriate for a PS3 or it's a welfare check of an elderly person that is appropriate for that. And so, unfortunately, data isn't always brought in the way we need it to be, and so they're working on those numbers because we couldn't do it by strong priority like we thought we might be able to. But we are working on that, and those numbers will come out. Okay. Well, I'm going to be very curious moving forward because really my greatest hope with the PS3s is that in 2020,
 delegating work to the PS3s, we can get a clear picture of adequate staffing for actual sworn armed police officers, which is something that I don't feel like we've ever really arrived at. Is there a set plan for reporting back on the outcomes of this initiative that will be presented to Council and available to the public?
 We will do whatever you ask of us. Okay, I'll be asking for that later. Okay. You talked to other unions to ensure we weren't infringing on their territory, but were any other unions considered for representation of the PS3s?
 No other union was considered since it first established a part of PPA. But we wanted to include them to make sure that the job functions are not blurring the lines in regards to the work that they do. So that was very important to us. Okay. And then my final question is I see in the –
 Minimum qualifications required, two years of work experience. I guess presumably that's any kind of work experience, but it does say, which could include two years of military service or four years of reserve military service. Will there be any additional weight given to applicants who have military service? Yes.
 in the hiring process. Mark Hamburg with the City Attorney's Office. Commissioner, I think the only preference would be under the Veterans Preference Law, which applies to any applicants that would be given preference in accordance with the Veterans Preference Law. I mean, I certainly support developing job opportunities for veterans, but I think in this instance, yes.
 I wouldn't want to see an emphasis on military service, given the concerns in the community about the increasing militarization of our police force and the intent of these positions to kind of build better relations with community members. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Captain, thank you for those questions. Commissioner Ndeli, you reminded me, you mentioned that they might be doing welfare checks on non-forceful entry or...
 What kinds of de-escalation training and crisis intervention training for people, particularly experiencing mental or medical illnesses, will these people get?
 So we included the 40-hour CIT training. So they will be CIT trained before they leave the six-weeks academy. So that's a piece of it. And then we have specific classes about some of the medical understanding that we give to Advanced Academy. Those will be done. That's only a couple-hour classes, but the 40-hour CIT class will be specific for that.
 In your next report, do some analysis on whether the six weeks training is adequate enough and in particular whether just one week of crisis intervention training and an hour or two of medical training is going to be sufficient.
 You'd like, I'm sorry, you'd like me to do an analysis to determine that? Yes. Yeah, we can get you the exact hours. Points of evaluations of is that enough to prepare these people to go out and do the kinds of things that we're going to be asking them to do. So looking at it and based on what we already give for a law enforcement, at this point in time, yes, I think it is.
 Again, 40 hours of CIT training is what we give our advanced academy students, so our officers that are headed out get a 40-hour class, so they're going to get that training. Now, at 16 weeks in the academy and stuff, of course, they get more of that training. Our expectation for a PS3 is if they end up on some of these calls that are escalating to that level, our expectation is that they will call law enforcement to come in and help.
 But what's about medical training? How much medical training will they get? They're going to have basic first aid classes, so they will have that, and they'll have some of our...
 evaluation classes. But again, if it's rising to that level, they will have the understanding that the training for them will be to call medical or call to a law enforcement in order to intervene. Right. That's my concern is if they're checking on an elderly person who may be having some medical problems, obviously they're not going to diagnose and treat those problems, but they need to at least to be recognizing that they need to call. Yes. So I guess that would be my. So that's what I'd like you to consider in your training evaluation. Uh-huh. Do they need more? Yep.
 Absolutely. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. So I'm curious, what other cities have programs like this that you've determined are successful and that we're modeling after? Go through the research that we've done.
 I didn't go through that part. That was the Bureau. So Portland's actually a little behind the curve on this, and Eugene has a program, I believe Ben does, San Jose, California, Lake Oswego does, and they're all kind of very successful. Gresham. Gresham as well, and they're all very successful. And the challenge really has been for some of these programs in integrating CSOs in many of those jurisdictions, but they all have different names, honestly, into –
 their agencies. There has been a concern with mission creep, for example. And so I think we've done a really good job with, you know, in working with PPA and carving out duties to identify responsibilities for our PS3s that would not make mission creep an issue. And so this was kind of ratified with an overwhelmingly positive response among the PPA membership. And so, you know, I think
 our Bureau members are looking forward to the inclusion of this program, they will have less administrative work to do in that regard. So one of the other duties that PS3s can take care of, for example, is writing police reports. And so a lot of the time that our officers spend responding to non-emergency calls will be –
 kind of passed on or delegated to PS3s. And I think with that, we'll see a successful program here because this is helping our officers do their job and it's also improving community trust. Okay, thank you. Commissioner, you do have a question? So CIT crisis intervention training, is that? Yes, that's correct. Okay, just wanted to clarify. My last question is really just wanting to give
 the panel an opportunity to clarify a point of confusion in the public, and that's that these positions were meant to interact with or aid people in the midst of a mental health crisis. It's my understanding that that was not the original intent, and perhaps my colleagues who were here when it passed could speak to that. Yes, that's correct. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 And they, in fact, won't be. They won't be. Yeah. We're not looking for that. To clarify, the crisis intervention training is for them to identify so that they understand what to do, not for them to actually be the ones that give care or do that. That's not the point. The CIT is for them to have an understanding. Great. That's what I thought, but it's one of those things that's come up repeatedly. Thanks for asking. Thanks for clarification. Great. Thank you.
 How many people do we have signed up for public testimony, Sue? We have six signed up. Very good. Bring them on up. Three minutes. Name for the record. Please, when your time expires, that's when the red light comes on, please stop. Will the first three come up? Dan Handelman, Philip Wolf, and John with Portland Resistance. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. I'm going to try to skip through a lot of our testimony that we sent you by email because some things came up during this testimony that changed it.
 but not our opposition to your passing this today. The previous discussion in June was on the consent agenda. There was no public involvement in the discussion of what these officers are going to do. The contract specified they're going to be community service officers. They're now being called specialists. So these are Portland Police Bureau personnel who are not officers. They're going to be basically enhanced desk clerks with pepper spray.
 There's been no discussion about how they're going to be held accountable if they do put their hands on a civilian or if they use that pepper spray. I want to know more about what accountability mechanisms there are. It is also really shameful that after what happened in 2016, that this was put on the consent agenda before and put on with no real lead up and no community discussion before today and with paperwork that says that this is mostly internal for the city.
 These are community officers. I mean you said they're not community police officers. All officers are community police officers. So this is about community policing, community engaged policing. So the community wasn't engaged in defining what they're going to do. And the fact that there's still confusion with Daryl Turner and the PPA about what they're going to do, I think Commissioner Fish was on the right track. You're going to end up with disputes about what they're supposed to be doing or not. And I think it would be good for us to have that clearly defined.
 But I think we in the community were hoping that they'd be doing more. That we are seeing too much of the armed police officers showing up at protest actions and whatnot and escalating situations just by their presence. We were hoping to see unarmed officers. In England, as we know, most of the bobbies do not carry firearms. Instead, we're having only 12 out of 900 officers who are going to be technically unarmed, even though they're going to actually have pepper spray on them. And there's discussions about maybe giving them tasers.
 It was only today that we learned that these officers aren't specialists, they're not going through DPSST. One of the things that was discussed in the press that they might do is gather security footage and that's something I thought that the Forensics Unit did already and I don't understand why you'd have new non-sworn officers doing that when you already have a Forensics Unit.
 So we're really urging you to delay approving the contract until the community gets more of what we need. Some of the things that didn't come up in the previous contract and specifically the citizen review committee is asking you to change their standard of review. And they were told by somebody in this building, you have to wait till the contract comes up in 2020. And here we are revising the contract in the middle of the four-year block. So it's clearly not
 fair to be making this change without discussing and opening up the rest of the contract and the things that caused all the disturbance and a great public outcry and the police shoving people down the stairs of this building and pepper spraying them out on the street. So I'm actually surprised there are not more people here today, but there was a very short turnaround and we only learned this was coming up on the agenda on Friday. So I really urge you to answer some of these questions, particularly about the accountability issue. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John. I'm representing Portland's Resistance. Hello, members of council and Mayor Wheeler. Portland's Resistance calls for the council to oppose this amendment to the police union contract, this unnecessary giveaway to the Portland PPA, negotiated without transparency or community engagement and thinly veiled as an emergency, as a slap in the face to a city which has repeatedly voted for police reform. The 2016 contract was a disaster that keeps getting worse.
 Many of our members were involved in the community opposition surrounding the 2016 contract approval. At that time, it made no sense for Mayor Hales to rush through an agreement when Mayor Elect Wheeler had just one office in part by campaigning on police reform. With more than six months left on the contract, numerous individuals and organizations asked at that time, where's the fire? Why is this an emergency that needs to be rammed through despite community opposition and a lack of engagement in the process?
 At that time, the people of Portland were told that millions of dollars in 9% raises and other benefits for the PPA was a worthwhile investment because we were buying an end to the despised 48-hour rule and starting on community policing by having unarmed police respond to low-level calls. Well, as you know, the district attorney turned the 48-hour rule into something more like a 48-day rule.
 And now today, with scant community input and another agreement crafted in secret, the council is considering further concessions to the police union. Who are the people of Portland represented in today's decision?
 The people of Portland voted for police reform in 2016 and were denied a seat at the table. Organizations like the League of Women Voters, the ACLU, Don't Shoot, and AACP, and the Albina Ministerial Alliance showed up to ask that the contract wait for the new mayor to take office. Mayor-elect Wheeler had campaigned in 2016 and actively campaigned,
 on actively demilitarizing the police, implementing mandatory body cams, and increased emphasis on de-escalation. Instead of delaying the contract adoption, community members were violently shoved and thrown out of the building to be gassed by the police force, so giddy about the contract that they adopted it with a record approval of 95%.
 The city did not drive a hard bargain in 2016, and the proposal before you today weakens the contract further. Now in 2018, the people of Portland historically elected the first African American woman to serve on our council. A community activist, experienced policymaker, and outspoken police reform advocate, commissioner-elect Hardesty's experiences and perspectives would be extremely valuable in this conversation. So why is today's proposal an emergency that can't wait another six weeks?
 The people of Portland have spoken and said that we want police reform with more transparency and accountability to the community. This proposal provides neither. Thank you. Sue, can you scroll it? Is that possible? Oh, there it goes. It's doing it on its own. Thank you, Philip. Thank you. Next three, please. Next three, please. Peggy Zabrowski, Joe Walsh, and Maggie. Can we bring the screen up again?
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Peggy Zabrowski. I'm a citizen. And you all know what the community wants, or at least a large portion of the community, which is an unarmed police force. There are successful unarmed police forces in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Norway, Iceland, and New Zealand.
 all of which countries have a far, far lower rate of murder than in the U.S., killing of one human by another. In Oregon, 27 officers have lost their lives, sadly, 27 officers since 1878. In Oregon this year, 33 citizens have died at the hands of police.
 I am totally in favor of unarmed police officers. But I think if we put the officers in the way it's being described here, they become a poorly regarded adjunct to the regular police and not respected.
 I don't think that the described duties allow them the possibility of going into situations where we've previously seen citizens lose their lives and resolving them. I don't think this is answering our desire for police reform.
 although I laud the intention, I don't think we'll get there this way. And I wish you would look over this proposal and change it so that unarmed police officers are officers and have a leading role in our police force. I'm not comfortable having people with guns sitting behind me here. It's comfortable, and we don't need it.
 There are situations in which people hurt other people and need to be shot, and you can have a special force that does that. But what we see at protests and in the community, especially in poor communities, especially in communities of color, is police escalation of situations. And so we really need to totally restructure. And that's all I have to say. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. There are so many loose ends on this. It feels like a dirty, filthy mop. That's what it feels like. You're going to take 12 people in the beginning, and you're going to disarm them, and you're going to send them in the community, I presume in uniform. I am not a big fan of the police department. Really not.
 I think most people know that. But I don't want somebody going out to somebody's door, knocking on the door, and getting blown away. And the person that's with them may get blown away because he doesn't have a gun. The whole setup is stupid. How stupid can... I mean, are you guys trying to outdo Trump?
 That's how stupid this is. Why don't you give it to social services? Why don't you give it to the people on the street that know what's going on? Why don't you give it to the cops, for God's sakes? The worst thing in the world is for a cop to come up to somebody and got a gun on his hip or doesn't have a gun on his hip, has mace. What is the matter with you?
 You know, we come here over and over and over and beg you not to do this crap, and then you get into trouble, and then we come back and we say, we told you. We're now trying to get out of the JTTF, and we told you over and over again, don't join us.
 But you wouldn't listen. And now you've got really nice people coming, Dan Haldeman, logically presenting really good arguments to you. And what do you do? You sit there and you put it under an emergency, which means all five of you have to vote on this. Not one of you sitting there today says, what could go wrong here? Well, let me tell you, a whole bunch can go wrong. And we will nail you to the wall when it does.
 Because these guys, or women, are going to get the shit details. That's what they're going to get. They're going to get the details the cops don't want to do. And it's going to be a waste of money. It's going to be a waste of time. And I can't believe my buzzer has not gone off. It must be afternoon because I'm tired.
 But I'm tired of coming here time after time and telling you you're going to fall off the cliff. And you do. And then you get all upset when it hurts. Or you mumble when you leave meetings, Mayor. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Okay, there's a couple of things. One, regarding the protesters. Now, when you have disabled people who come down and protest, who are in wheelchairs or walkers, or say they can't hear, or say they have difficulty verbalizing...
 and then you tear gas those people or say they can't walk, like physically I would not be able to run away from a police officer. I'm that bad off. So I worry about disabled people being tear gassed who are not being violent. Like if I were to go down and sit down and protest somewhere with a sign,
 I would worry about being pepper sprayed by an officer. I'm torn because I'm pro-gun control, but we're armed to the teeth in this country. So both what these people said are true. One is...
 an unarmed officer could go up to a door and get blown away. And the other is I've had people tell me that they feel safer in England because of the unarmed cops. Another issue is we've got...
 disabled women, one who didn't end up going to jail because she moved, who were kicked out of Director's Park. One was in a wheelchair and she was kicked out of Salvation Army because she went to a hotel and then she tried to get back in and she only got so many nights and was kicked out and she ended up in Director's Park and the cops came and kicked her out and she left. But then there's another woman who
 who I don't want to describe her to specifically because that would break her privacy. But she's nonverbal in terms of being able to make sense. But she screams and she goes through the public garbage. And the thing is she was in Director's Park and she was screaming. And so the unarmed...
 park ranger called the police and the police came and they arrested her. And the thing is, is I gave this woman a bag of chips and we attempted to have some conversation and she's not able to communicate verbally in a way that you and I would understand, but we were able to use hand signals.
 and I was able to get sort of the gist of her intention. And I worry about...
 disabled people ending up in jail who are not able to communicate their intentions and ending up like maybe Sandra Bland or, you know, being physically at risk of dying or grave injury because they're not able to communicate with officers. Okay. Appreciate it. So, yeah.
 And one more testifier, and that's Mary Seip. Very good. Thank you. Oh, Mary, we haven't seen you in a while. I know. I've had some other commitments that have kept me awake, and I've missed you all. But I saw you Monday night. So my name is Mary Seip, and before I say what I want to say, I want to throw out two questions that other people might have. Are park rangers sworn officers, and are they under the PPA? No. No. Okay. Okay.
 And then also a question that came to my mind is how does this training compare to the other programs that were mentioned, like in Eugene and Gresham and Lake Oswego? It might be interesting to take a look at that. I just have to say, you know, when I come here and I testify, I try to make informed decisions.
 and I try to do my research and understand, and today I'm a little bit confused. When I read this, it seemed very clear to me that this was pretty simple. Back in June, the decision about the public safety specialist was made. All of that's been done, and what we're looking at today is simply that
 putting them under the PPA collective bargaining agreement. It seemed pretty clear and cut and dry. But then I have to say, I was a little disappointed
 in that I read all 44 pages of this backup material and printed it and highlighted it and kind of understood it. And a lot of questions that were asked and a lot of comments that have been made today just kind of made it appear that not everybody has done as much research as I've done in understanding, because there were a lot of questions that were asked that are right here in the materials. And I just kind of want to...
 make sure that maybe we shouldn't be kind of slowing this down and taking a look at it and making sure that it's very clear what the duties, you know, of these –
 unsworn officers are going to be, and that there isn't some conflict and some problems. I think Dan brought up some good points. And so I'm kind of like on the fence. I think I support putting this under, I think, the collective bargaining agreement. When I go through all this material, it seems appropriate to me.
 But then when all these other questions come up, I'm kind of like, well, you know, did this really go through due process? And are we really clear about everything? And is this job description and this training, is everything set in stone? Or do we need to kind of talk about this a little bit more? So. Okay.
 Very good. Thank you. So why don't we bring the team back up, please. By the way, Sue, that was the list, correct? A public testimony. Very good. The list is closed. Why don't we bring the team back? I'm going to answer a couple of these questions.
 And I appreciate you, Mary, sort of teeing me up for what is actually in the material. So first of all, this is us going back to the memorandum of understanding, which is provided in the documents that have been provided to the public. And the very first exhibit, Exhibit A, which is referred to in the actual text of the agreement, the agreement is one page.
 On the back of the agreement, it is signed by representatives of the city, the police chief, Daryl Turner, who is the PPA president. It refers under the third item on the agreement. It says public safety support specialist classification specification is attached as Exhibit A. Exhibit A actually lists all of the specific functions.
 And I'm going to read the entirety of it because I only gave you a subset of it. Write police reports for non-emergency situations that do not require police officer authority and do not involve potential evidence, suspects, or a crime scene.
 2. Respond to non-injury traffic collisions and facilitate information exchange between involved parties. Coordinate tow services for disabled vehicles. 3. Conduct follow-up on property crimes where there is no specific suspect information, either by phone or in person, or...
 with an emphasis on crimes, victims' rights, and referrals to other cities' bureaus is necessary for process, evidence, or property, including writing reports and properly securing property. Number five, attending neighborhood meetings, community, and or public events. This does not replace...
 Attendance at such events by sworn officers. And that is important in paren. Six, assist police officers in searching for missing persons such as elderly adults, medically fragile adults, or children when there is no reason to believe that they're a threat to themselves or the community. Seven, assist with inventory and maintenance of PPB-issued equipment, excluding weapons and ammunition.
 Number eight, assist drivers, installed vehicles, and some and other necessary assistance respond to pedestrians, bicyclists, and other community members in need of assistance. Nine.
 Broadcast and receive messages via police radio and mobile data terminal. Maintain contact with field units. Ask for assistance when appropriate due to incident type and scope. Ten, assist with temporary street closures, detours, and other public service duties identified by police supervisors. Eleven, summon a police officer for situations they encounter in which enforcement action is necessary. And then it goes on to...
 more description. In the same document, the question around accountability came up. PS3s are subject, and the officer will correct me, but PS, Officer Hurley, PS3s are subject to all directives, the same as anybody, any police officer in the Bureau, and they go through internal affairs for accountability issues, the same as police officers.
 I could not answer the question about how training compares in, say, Eugene. I don't have that level of specificity. I don't know if Officer Hurley or Nick, if you...
 I'm captain. I apologize, of course. Sorry about that. I apologize. No worries at all. We created our training based on those job descriptions you just did. Our job descriptions are not the same exactly as those other areas, and so we looked specifically at what you wanted them to do, and we created a six-week course to answer to that. So I don't know exactly what others trained. So is it also a fair statement? The question came up, why the number 12th?
 And there were two reasons in my mind why the number 12. Number one, 12 is what we could afford in the budget cycle, given that we are also making a significant ask for sworn, trained, certified officers. But I also didn't want a large program rolling out. I wanted a small, effectively a pilot program so we could find out what was working and where the glitches are. I think we all acknowledge with the new program being stood up, there will be glitches.
 and therefore I wanted to be able to evaluate with a smaller group of people what was working, what wasn't working, how we needed to refine the training or the support systems or the protocols. So I wanted to get that on the record as well. Anything else? I have a few questions. Commissioner Daly. Thank you. Thank you. So this question.
 This initiative, I think, originally was called for by the community. Community advocates wanted community service officers and community policing. Today it feels like the goalposts are moving. I don't know if that's due to a lack of consensus within the community or a failure on our part to be clear about the intent and the process that we've gone through.
 So I have a few more questions to clarify some of that. Other than the name, what substantive changes have been made to the PS3 initiative between the time it was established two years ago in the contract and today?
 I actually wasn't involved in the contract negotiations, so I can't speak to, as Commissioner Fritz can, for example, to what specifically was laid out then or whatever the expectations were. My understanding from the very beginning, as far as my involvement is concerned, was that this was part of the Bureau's community policing effort and that we did not want desk clerks. We didn't want any paper pushers, so to speak.
 There really was a desire to have them out in the community serving as non-police first responders in non-emergency situations, and that has been consistent. What concessions, if any, were made to the PPA? I mean, this did take a long time to work out, but it's been suggested we made concessions. Would you agree with that characterization? Yes.
 No, I wouldn't agree with that characterization. We didn't make any concessions. Okay. And it doesn't seem like Mr. Turner is really helping with the confusion on the matter. What kind of public engagement and involvement was undertaken in the last two years? I think just kind of offline conversations, honestly.
 outside of council hearings and, again, the offline conversations, I wouldn't say that there have been any community forums, for example, on this specific issue. And so we absolutely could have engaged the public better around this, especially given that it was essentially our house. Nick, I have to interrupt you here. I profoundly disagree. I ran on this platform.
 I ran on this. I probably presented this 150 times at forums all throughout this community. And what I said was that at the time we were calling them community service officers. I guess if there's any concession we made, it was in the naming, calling them public safety support specialists because they're different.
 the union was concerned that there would be a conflict between who is and who is not a police officer under the legal definition of a public safety officer in state statutes. And so there was that.
 There is no question that this is consistent with 21st century policing, which is having more people who are in the field who are not carrying firearms, who are there to help resolve conflict in the community or address issues of conflict.
 but not related to emergency situations. So the kinds of things that are described in Exhibit A, which are the kinds of things that I've been talking about for at least three and a half, maybe four years at this point. We haven't moved off that ball at all.
 My apologies, Mayor. My question was more to if any of our community boards, commissions, or committees had given input on the development of this job description.
 But we don't usually have community engagement on contract negotiations. That's the job of HR, and it's our job to know what's going on in the community and to give them direction, but that's why we have executive sessions. I haven't had the pleasure of going through a police union bargaining yet. Oh, you're going to have that. I am so excited, and thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. It sounds like we took what advocates said they wanted.
 And then we developed the positions. That is all. Thank you.
 Further questions? If I could just add to that. The issues with the contract that people were so upset about was, one, paying an extra $6 million, a 9% raise in order to get rid of the 48-hour rule and to encourage recruitment, and two, body cameras and whether the officers would get to see the 42 and the body cameras. This was not one of the big arguments. In fact, it was completely non-controversial. Everybody said, yes, this is a really good thing. We think we should do it.
 So I think it's really important to make that clear. Actually, I'm looking at Dan Handelman. You're right. Dan Handelman always has some concerns about various things, and so it was included in the things that you said. But as a general matter in terms of things that people were yelling at me and giving me death threats for, this was not one of them. Yeah, I'll just speak for myself. Most of the community feedback I've gotten on the PS3s is, what the heck's taking so long? Get on it. So here we are. Any further questions? Yes.
 Sue, please call the roll. Udaly. First, I want to note the differing opinions we heard from community members today. We have...
 Some that want us to disarm our entire police force, and we have others who don't want these officers to be unarmed because they don't think it's safe. So as usual, we can't please all of the people all the time, but I honestly believe this is a positive step forward and will do good for the community and for the Bureau. The path to today's vote has not been easy, nor has it always been clear.
 It's important to me to acknowledge, as I mentioned earlier, that this was a result of a hard-fought victory by community advocates. I also want to honor the community service program, as it was then called, which was a significant reason that one or more of my colleagues approved the 2016 Portland Police Association contract.
 I believe it's important for us to follow through on the implementation of a program that has been promised and in development for the last two years. I am one of those people that has been asking, why is this taking so long? And the program will continue to evolve. I want to make a few final points before I cast my vote, mostly to clarify confusion in the community. And I wanted us to take...
 the lion's share of the responsibility for that confusion. We are not doing a good enough job informing the public, let alone engaging them and meaningfully involving them. And I think it's crystal clear that especially in issues that come, when it comes to the police bureau, that we can never do too much. So I just want to acknowledge that. The PS3s are not the same as mental health first responders.
 They were never intended to be mental health first responders. I believe we need more of both, and I want to see clear steps that move us in that direction. The PS3s, however, will improve police service by helping to address the increasing number of low and medium priority calls, meaning that high priority calls are gotten to faster.
 Equally important, I hope the PS3s will improve community relations by normalizing the idea within PPP and throughout the city that every call for service does not require a response by an armed officer. Two, I'm disappointed once again by Daryl Turner's mischaracterization of the city's actions and the true job function of the PS3s.
 I am now officially asking for a report in one year that can be shared with the public that will demonstrate the outcomes from this initiative.
 Three, I am not convinced these positions need to be represented by the PPA. I understand that council made this decision in 2016, but I believe ASME, SEIU, or potentially a laborers' union would be better suited to represent positions PPA has no experience with. I will expect to revisit the PS3 program when we begin to negotiate the next police union contract. And I intend to also engage other unions to see whether there may be a better alternative.
 Four, and finally, I want to flag a concern with the fact that the section for minimum qualifications, and I brought this up earlier, specifically calls out military service as acceptable job experience. I fully support efforts to create employment opportunities for veterans, and I understand we, by law, have to abide by the veterans' preference policy. However, I hope that hiring committees will consider the intent of these positions
 community desires and give equal weight to a diverse range of job experiences, such as social workers. It's clear that the work is only beginning. I want to give special thanks to Nicole Grant from the mayor's office for getting us to this point. I look forward to having meaningful engagement with my colleagues and the community as we chart our path forward together. I vote aye. Fritz.
 Thank you for all those comments, which I support, Commissioner Udeli. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for bringing this over the first hurdle, not really the finish line because there's more to do. But after two years, we are going to be able to start this program up. Thank you, Nicole Grant, for your, I would say tireless work, because I think it's been very tiring. I appreciate it very much, as well as yours, Gerard Gaddis, and Mark and Captain Hurley, and the Police Bureau.
 Contract negotiations, you never get everything you want, and I think there was some discussion about whether having the Portland Police Association represent these folks was the right choice.
 My concern about that has only been confirmed with the misrepresentation by the police union and the amount of time that it's taken to do this. And that will certainly be part of my consideration when we start up contract negotiations again. But again, that contract was about increasing the pay and getting rid of some of the most egregious problems in terms of discipline and other grievances with a view to adequate staffing of police, both
 both sworn and unsworn officers. Because in other venues, when we go out into the community, oftentimes when we have community communications here at council, we hear from people, why are you not looking after us in our neighbourhoods? We hear, why are you not responding to our calls when there's so many people, police officers, downtown demonstrations? And this will help. We do have more sworn positions now. We have...
 more positions. We have 90 vacancies now in the sworn positions, so there's still more to do, but still we have more officers, more positions than we did in 2016. And so to my mind, at least part of the intent of the contract has been successful in improving our staffing, and I know that this is going to help more.
 and I do want to thank Mary Siper for, as usual, your thoughtful testimony. You mentioned park rangers. That was one of my concerns in the discussions over the last many months, that we not duplicate, in particular that we not make these positions such that they would poach our park rangers, and I think that, Jarell, you've done a really fine job of doing that in partnership with the Parks Bureau staff, so thank you for that.
 relieved that we're finally getting going on this. Thank you to Christina Nevis and my staff who works on police issues, and Tim Crail, my chief of staff, who was one of the chief insisters on having this program in the contract. I want to begin by thanking the Mayor in his opening statement and then the panel for clearing up a lot of the confusion. And I share Commissioner Udaly's ongoing concern that we find ways of
 better communicating with the public and with key stakeholders. I will say in the 10 years I've been on this council, it's never been more difficult for a variety of reasons, some structural, some just the nature of the world we live in. But I do think that this hearing served a useful purpose in clarifying some of the issues. So I want to thank everyone who participated. And I just want to be very clear, the community...
 advocated successfully for the creation of these positions. We agreed to fund these positions in the last budget. Today we're taking the – we also previously crafted the positions, and that came to us over the summer, the classifications. Today the action before us is whether to amend a contract with the Portland Police Association to actually implement these classifications and move this project forward –
 a piece of a reform agenda which is long overdue. And as the mayor noted, he not only ran on this, but there's been a sense of impatience on this council about us rolling this out. That's the step we're taking today. And following this vote, we need to implement the program and we need to show some success to the public and, if necessary, make changes. So with that understanding of what brought us here, I vote aye. Sal Smit.
 Well, I just think, as has been said by my colleagues, I think these jobs are designed to reduce conflict in the community, but also to ease the, make the job of our highly trained police officers, who we spend a lot of time and money in getting them to be highly trained and skilled, to do their jobs better too. So I think this is a good program, and I wish it all the success. Wheeler. There have been two important waypoints that we've passed this week.
 related to public safety in the Portland Police Bureau. And I'll tell you as mayor, there is nothing that I do or that my team is engaged in that is more fraught with peril than police matters. And I think I've been crystal clear that I have a lot of respect for Chief Outlaw and the men and women of the Portland Police Bureau. The job they do is extremely difficult and often dangerous.
 But to strengthen the police bureau and keep it relevant and make sure that it continues to be a leading bureau, we also need to be accountable, and we also need to be responsive, and we need to be reflective of the community that we serve. Earlier this week, we had the first meeting of our community group, the PSAP, and it went very well, and the conversation for those who participated was positive.
 and they picked their leadership, and the feedback I've received has been overwhelmingly positive. Here we are now supporting the PS3 program, which, as many people have said, it's a beginning. Yes, it's a waypoint, but it's a beginning. But I think it's an important beginning, and I think it's a strong statement about how we want our police bureau to evolve in the years ahead, to become stronger, more connected with the community, more relevant, and more accountable.
 And what both of these waypoints have in common, the PSAP earlier this week having their first meeting, and this today, is that Nicole Grant has been running the traps on both of them. And that is not to say that everybody else in this room, all of you who are here on this panel, we couldn't do it without you, without the expertise, the leadership, the support that you brought to the table today.
 But this woman has bled this project. She's cried this project. She's fought hard for this project. She's advocated tirelessly for this project for the last two years. And I've watched her do it. And it's been a thing of beauty. Nick, I owe you, I'll call it a mini apology or maybe one beer paid forward. I interrupted you.
 during your testimony. I will not do that again. That was rude and unprofessional, and I apologize. However, I was jazzed because this is something I've really been talking about a lot in the community. But you deserve a shout-out today for your leadership and your contributions to the community. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Yeah, can we take a two-minute break, please? We'll take a two-minute recess.
 Are we ready? All right. We are now back in session. Next item, please, which is 1252. Item 1252.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to transfer daily administrative functions of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services from the City of Portland to Multnomah County. And to establish the financial structure that will allow both the city and the county to continue to contribute financially to the successful operation of the Gateway Center. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. And I'd like to start by moving to replace Exhibit A with the substitute Exhibit A. There was a technical change on page 6 and 7 of this intergovernmental agreement providing for two installment payments to the county instead of one lump sum. This will help to better track and account for any carried over funds in this agreement. So I'll move that. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fish. Call the roll on the substitute. Aye. Aye.
 Hi. Hi. All right, substitutes on the table. Okay, thank you. The Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services was created in 2009 as a one-stop triage center for survivors of domestic violence and their children. It was formed by the City of Portland in partnership with Multnomah County. The center is a convenient and comfortable setting to access a variety of services
 including crisis and safety planning, restraining order applications, crime reporting and prosecution, assistance with custody or divorce, and other civil legal assistance. Center staff and the agencies at the facility use a survivor-driven service model and recognize that survivors are the experts in their own lives. They work to ensure that the survivors at the Gateway Center...
 are closely integrated with the public safety system, and they have been successful in that effort. Almost one in four referrals to the center comes from police officers, and now more than half of all protective orders or temporary restraining orders in Multnomah County are filed at the Gateway Center itself with the assistance of center staff. Rather than coming down to the county courthouse, the Gateway Center is a much more comfortable environment for a survivor to obtain a restraining order.
 And since its creation in 2009, the Gateway Center has provided services to 25,000 survivors in crisis. On average, the Gateway serves 4,000 survivors per year, of whom more than 50% are people of color. These survivors often visit the center multiple times to receive advice, services, and, as I mentioned earlier, obtain restraining orders.
 Since its inception, the city and county have jointly supported the center, with the city providing the funding and oversight of the center's operations and the county providing access and providing access and certain information technology. And the county also owns the property that the center is located at and provides security officers and also staff from the district attorney's office.
 The center has an advisory committee which is co-chaired by a member of the city council and a member of the Multnomah County Commission. While reviewing the Gateway Center's provisions in the previous intergovernmental agreement in September of 2018, the city and county concluded that the center and its participants would be better served by an overhaul to the center's administrative structure, merging it with the county's Department of Human Services.
 The county already supports programs and departments providing complementary services and also has expertise in administering programs that must comply with the same regulations that are applicable to the center. So merging the center with the county's Department of Human Services will enable the center and its partners to focus more fully on improving outcomes for participants rather than on administration.
 So I hope that my colleagues will join me in voting yes to support this today. And I believe we're going to start by, well, we're going to start by inviting up County Chair Deborah Kofori, who's been a great partner in this effort here, Martha Strawn-Morse, the Director of the Gateway Center, and Pam Hahn, right? Did I get that right? Yes. Pam Hahn is with Legal Aid, and Legal Aid is one of our participants at the Gateway Center as well as serving on the Advisory Committee.
 Start with you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for inviting me here today. I'm Deborah Kafoury, Multnomah County Chair. Unfortunately, the rates of domestic violence in our county are staggering, with nearly one in four women experiencing domestic violence during adulthood. This is an issue that affects all of us.
 And it was with that in mind that nearly 10 years ago, Commissioner Saltzman led the formation of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. In doing so, the City of Portland and Multnomah County took an important step to providing a hub where survivors of domestic violence can access the critical services that they need during what can be one of the most terrifying, dangerous, and loneliest times of their lives.
 The Gateway Center has become a national model for services. In one place, survivors can access culturally responsive services, they can obtain a restraining order, receive mental health services, and engage in safety planning services. Moving the administration of the center from the city of Portland to Multnomah County's Youth and Family Services Division just makes sense.
 Our Domestic and Sexual Violence Coordination Office already coordinates with the Center and our partner organizations to provide many of the services offered within. And, as the region's safety net, Multnomah County has ample expertise in the provision of social services.
 By transitioning the administration of the Gateway Center to the county, I am confident the excellent level of service already provided to survivors will only continue to improve. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your tireless dedication to this issue, for your vision, for your passion, and your commitment to ensuring that survivors have the critical resources they need and a welcoming place to access them. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm Martha Strawn-Worris and I'm the director of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. And assuming approval of this agreement come January 1, I will still be the director of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. Only I'll work for the county instead of the city. And first, importantly, I want to thank you for your enduring commitment to the Gateway Center and the survivors that we serve.
 As indicated by the numbers that both commissioners have shared, your investments go a long way and serve a lot of people. And as a frontline worker, I assure you that your support is both changing and saving lives.
 When Commissioner Saltzman first fought for and won support for the Gateway Center, there was some skepticism about whether this was the best investment of city funds if the goal was to serve survivors of domestic violence. Commissioner Saltzman saw that the city had an opportunity to essentially prove the concept's worth. And now, nine years later, there is no question that the Gateway Center is a valuable and vital component within our larger service continuum.
 So with the Gateway Center's worth and position well established, it's time to move alongside the local team of public servants who specialize in services for domestic and sexual violence. Those experts, in large part, work for the county.
 Our county, Multnomah County, has been a national leader in this field for many years and continues to be on the cutting edge when it comes to serving survivors. I'm excited to have the Gateway Center become part of the county's Domestic and Sexual Violence Coordination Office. There is strength in numbers, and when it comes to serving survivors, the numbers are clearly on the county side. I know the Gateway Center will only get stronger with this move and be even better equipped to serve survivors.
 I want to thank you, Chair Khafre. Without your support, we absolutely would not be sitting here. I really, really appreciate it. The crafting of this agreement made urgent work for many people on both sides of the river, and the effort was a really stellar example of what two bureaucracies can accomplish when working cooperatively towards the same goal. And I really appreciate everybody who helped, but particularly Aisling Coughlin from Saltzman's office, Commissioner Saltzman's office, and...
 Liz Smith-Curry from Chair Kapouri's office, and Robert Taylor from the city attorney's office. And I also want to say thank you to my longtime finance team of Jen Raines and Ben Smith, who are also here today.
 And though I'm technically going to move over and these investments are moving over, I want you to know that my stewardship of these investments will not change. I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure the highest and best use of these funds. And I look forward to staying connected to this council through my relationship with the commissioner named as the co-chair to the Gateway Center Advisory Council and will happily report to this body with the county support on request at any time.
 And finally, I just want to say my deepest thanks to Commissioner Saltzman for his vision and leadership and partnership on this project. I really can't say enough to thank you. I would note that your integrity and heart have been an inspiration, and your leadership will continue to influence me for all of my days. It's been my absolute honor to have worked together with you to build the Gay Ways Center.
 In my experience, you've been exclusively guided by what would be best for the people we are trying to serve. Your leadership has meant that generations of citizens will have improved well-being and a higher quality of life. And I'm so proud to have the opportunity to carry on your work. And I believe that my ability to do so will be enhanced and improved by this move over to the county. So I want to thank all of you for your support of our work and this agreement.
 Thank you, Martha. Ms. Hahn? Good afternoon. My name is Pam Hahn. I'm a supervising attorney with the Portland Regional Office of Legal Aid Services of Oregon. I've been representing survivors of domestic violence in family law and protective order proceedings for almost 20 years.
 Legal aid has long participated in the coordinated community response to domestic violence and has been on the ground at the Gateway Center since it opened its doors. Funding from the city has allowed legal aid to add staff and increase the critically needed assistance that we are able to provide to survivors of domestic and sexual violence through the Gateway Center. We currently have legal aid staff on site at the center four days a week and have close to 1,000 appointments with survivors each year at the center.
 It is now our primary, although not our sole, means of intake for survivors in Multnomah County. Domestic violence agencies and culturally specific organizations know they can send clients to Gateway for immediate access to legal assistance, with confidence that they will receive trauma-informed care in a safe environment.
 The co-location of various agencies at the Gateway Center allows our staff to be able to provide more holistic services for clients by referring them to partner agencies when we identify needs while meeting with clients, whether it is counseling, state benefits, meeting with the DAs, housing assistance. Rather than just providing phone numbers to our clients, we can set them up with appointments with partner agencies to meet their needs on-site.
 The Gateway Center is a vital community resource, assisting survivors in achieving safety by accessing services from multiple agencies without having to run around town for various appointments while trying to balance their work schedules, child care, and public transportation.
 Navigators efficiently access the client's needs and refer them to appropriate partner agencies. The center is well integrated into the larger domestic violence continuum, which helps ensure that appropriate services are provided as efficiently as possible in a survivor-centered and warm setting.
 The current structure for providing services at the center has been developed over the last several years and adapted to the needs of the clients and of the service agencies. Community partners who either provide services on-site or refer clients to the center have an expectation that although the management of the center may be shifting to the county, it will continue to function in the professional and high-quality manner that it has under the city's administration.
 In addition to direct representation of survivors, I have also been deeply involved in the coordinated domestic violence response in Portland and in Multnomah County. I currently serve on the executive committee of the Multnomah County Family Violence Coordinating Council, and I'm a past chair of that council. I also serve on the Multnomah County Fatality Review and the Consulting Committee for the Domestic Violence Enhanced Response Team.
 As part of that larger domestic violence response in our community, I have a deep familiarity with the domestic violence services provided by the county, and in particular with the role of the county's Domestic and Sexual Violence Coordination Office, or DSVCO. The DSVCO plays a leading role in ensuring that domestic violence services and responses in the community are coordinated and collaborative.
 Their expertise will help ensure that the services provided at the Gateway Center are well integrated into the larger community response. I would like to conclude by thanking the city, and in particular Commissioner Salzman, for their ongoing support for the Gateway Center, as well as the legal services provided there by our agency. Thank you.
 Thank you all. So I have a question. I don't know whether this goes to the county chair or to the administrator, and I'm going to support this IGA. It makes perfect sense, it seems to me, to transfer the operations to the county in the way that's proposed. But...
 During these conversations, was there any thought given to spinning off the Gateway Center as an independent 501c3? And is it possible that that discussion could arise sometime in the future? And may there be some benefit of having it operate independent of local government? I could probably answer that. So when the Gateway Center started and the whole planning process around it started back in probably 2007 –
 A lot of the existing 501c3s were very concerned about the Gateway Center coming on the scene, primarily because they felt it was going to interfere with their fundraising efforts. So we have made a commitment at the outset, although we do have a 501c3 that's already part of the Gateway Center. It's very limited, and it's not an agency, or we don't solicit money from anybody, but every once in a while people want to give us money, so we're set up to receive it.
 But that was sort of one of the covenants we entered into with the existing providers is we wouldn't compete against their efforts to raise money for their missions.
 If I could add, Commissioner Fish, that being part of the institutional response to domestic violence, I think, is really important. As we've mentioned a number of times here, we're the premier access point for restraining orders in Multnomah County, which requires an ongoing partnership with the Multnomah County Circuit Court. And I'm very confident that they wouldn't let a satellite courtroom, or they would struggle with partnering with a 501c3 for a satellite courtroom, you know, sort of similar work.
 We have a very important role as an adjunct institutional response that I really believe requires government backing. Thank you.
 Very good. Any further questions? Commissioner Fritz. I have a question about funding. I noticed that we're transferring 826,000 or nearly 827,000 ongoing that was part of the city's budget into the county's budget, which is, of course, appropriate. There's an additional question of a 62,000 ongoing to fund an administrative supports position that's currently one time. What happens if the city doesn't have any ongoing money available
 As part of this agreement, we are funding that position at an ongoing level. That's outside of the budget process and commits next year's council to fund it. But page two at the very bottom, Commissioner Fritz, actually quantifies the city baseline support level at $943,415. So the way I read that is it's the ongoing funding plus the administrative support position plus administrative services all rolled into one.
 How does that work in terms of budgeting authority notice, all those kinds of things? We're essentially approving an ongoing funding in a hearing like this. I guess it's an aspirational, but it's also a commitment that we are making, I think, to the county to compensate them both for some of the administrative overhead that we currently pay to ourselves for the Gateway Center
 and to make one of four positions at the Gateway Center that's one-time funded, make it ongoing because it is a front-line position that's very important to survivors. And is the City Budget Office aware of this? I see our director nodding her head, yes. Yeah, maybe once this panel is done, I could get Jessica to answer that question. Thank you. Any further questions for this panel? No.
 Jessica, why don't you come on down? Thank you very much. Excellent presentation. I appreciate it. Thank you, Chair Kofori, for being here. Thank you for being here, Director. Good afternoon, Council. Jessica Kennard, Interim Budget Director. Yes, so there is an ongoing funding need as part of this agreement that Council is committing to today, and that will need to come forward through the direction to develop process with the 19-20 budget development.
 I thought we couldn't commit future councils to make decisions like that. So I believe under the terms of the IGA, it's not a forced commitment, but you are committing with this IGA to that funding level. And if that funding level is not provided as part of the budget, then I believe under the terms of the IGA, the IGA is dissolved. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent. Public testimony. Two testifiers, Joe Walsh and Mary Seip. Please come up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon again. And I'm still Mary Seip.
 I'll go ahead and get started just to move things along. Again, I did some review of this item, agenda item, and it seems very appropriate to me, and I just want to express my support. It's kind of ironic. The reason I missed this morning's city council meeting was because I was at the courthouse helping a friend file for a restraining order in a domestic violence situation. Okay.
 So I'm really supportive of the work that the Gateway Center does, and anything to make them financially strong and to support the success, I totally am in favor of. It's kind of funny. As I was sitting here, I was thinking about I have a deep, dark secret that I've kept for over 30 years, and that's that I was a victim of domestic violence. Yes.
 And probably I'm not a person that you would expect to hear that from. And it just tells me how important these services are. If I had not had the opportunity, I mean, I did most of what I needed to do to get myself out of my situation myself. But had I not had the services available to me to learn from somebody, to go to them and figure out how do I do this safely and what do I do? Okay.
 And so I strongly support this, and thank you for the work that you're doing, and keep it up. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. This is going to be an unusual presentation because Mary and I rarely agree on things. So I agree with everything she just said. This is really a good idea, at least what's on paper so far.
 I wish them well. And every once in a while, you guys do something that makes me smile, and this is one of them, I hope. I would really like to keep the smile on this issue for a long time because it's important. And I wanted to testify because I want the community involved in this stuff
 And I don't know all the reasons why the community is not down here backing this or the community is not here objecting to it, whatever their opinion is. It's left to a lot of us activists and Commissioner Fish is getting tired of us being here. So those people that are watching this, I would plead to you, whether you agree with us or disagree, please come. Because I get tired of me.
 So please come, and I would thank all of you, which is a rare occasion also, if you support this and you transfer the administrative ability over to the county and you pay for it and you make sure they don't run out of money. We have great faith in the county in this. We hope they do a good job.
 Thank you for your patience, and I'm giving you back time. It must be that in the afternoon time goes slower because this never happens to me in the morning. So thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion, any further questions? Sue, please call the roll. You daily.
 Well, first of all, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for helping shepherd this into existence. I want to thank Chair Kofori and the county for receiving it. I know that you will be excellent guardians. I had the pleasure of touring the facility last year with Commissioner Saltzman. And besides it just feeling like a very safe, welcoming, cozy space for families, it's a great place to be.
 I was especially impressed with the satellite courtroom. I know as someone who has had to access legal assistance and appear in court, that's a very intimidating and sometimes unsafe space for victims to be. So I would certainly want to see that continue.
 This is obviously an issue that hits close to home for a lot of us. If we haven't experienced domestic violence ourselves, then it's very likely that we know someone who has. And this is some of the most important work that we can do as government. I vote aye. Prince. Prince.
 Thank you to each of our honoured guests, and thank you that we know it's going to be in really good hands moving forward, and the right hands moving forward. So thank you for that. Commissioner Saltzman, I remember the day that we opened this. I was honoured to be there as a new commissioner. This is part of your legacy, and it's really demonstrating what a white male ally does in supporting people of colour, women in particular, in our community and making sure that...
 Everybody has the services that they need to survive and thrive. So thank you for all of your work on this, including this one. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your partnership with Commissioner Saltzman in getting it over to the county and into safe hands.
 Not that it wouldn't have been in safe hands with us, but I think nobody would dispute that no subsequent city commissioner could possibly be more enthusiastic about it than Commissioner Saltzman. And so, therefore, it's kind of like a mic drop occasion. Thank you. I. Fish. Well, Dan, congratulations on your stewardship of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence. Thank you.
 I know you've done a couple of exit interviews recently, and I wasn't there in person, but some of the feedback I've heard is that you look to both the Gateway Center and the Children's Levee as among your greatest accomplishments. And this certainly would not have happened without your perseverance and persistence. And I've sat next to you for 10 years, so I know something about your persistence. Yeah.
 And your sense of humor, which I think is underrated, by the way, I would say, generally. As long as I'm on the council, I will support the city's baseline support level, although I do think the county got off a little easy with the county baseline support level because I read this paragraph. I don't know what it means. So hopefully we won't have litigation over that, Deborah. But it looks a little looser. We actually have a number. Yours is more aspirational.
 But this program does a lot of good in our community, and one way we can honor Dan's legacy on this council is to make sure it continues to thrive. And as Commissioner Fritz said, in transferring over to the county, we know under Deborah's leadership it will be in good hands. So I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, colleagues. And I want to just start by thanking...
 the team of people who work to put this intergovernmental agreement together at the city and some at the county too. And I'll start with Chair Kifori herself. When I approached her earlier this year about this notion, it was during a holiday. I know you were somewhere else and we talked via the phone and I think she said, well, let me think about it. But before she could really think about it too long, she called me back and said, yes, let's do it. So
 So it didn't take her long to get there, and I very appreciate her support. And the one thing Chair Kofori and I agreed on right away was that we should get Aisling Coghlan involved in making sure this effort really comes to fruition, because we know sometimes counting the city, despite their best intentions, sometimes things can bog down and dissipate. So Aisling, who is my former chief of staff,
 And a very good friend of Chair Khafre's agreed to take this position, and she has done a great job in shepherding this on time and on budget. Two good things. So thank you, Ashley. I want to thank Robert Taylor of the City Attorney's Office, Ben Smith. Ben Smith is with OMF. Ron Zito is with Bureau of Human Resources. Jen Ford with the Office of Management and Finance.
 Andrea Baraclaw with the city attorney's office. Heidi Brown, also city attorney's office. And then I just also wanted to acknowledge Liz Smith-Curry, too, for her efforts on the county side to get this agreement. And then finally, and last but not least, Martha Strawn-Morse, who has been the director of the center virtually from its inception. Thank you.
 And she has done a great job in taking what was maybe a great idea or a good idea and really making it operational. Finding the people, establishing the protocols, getting the navigating, the other nonprofits on board with this idea. As I just mentioned to Commissioner Fish, there was some resistance to this idea.
 So at a time, sometimes there was a time back in 2007, maybe I wondered whether the Gateway Center was ever going to come into existence. Today, I think everybody agrees. No one can believe we didn't have the Gateway Center years before we did. They can't envision a service, a system that serves domestic violence survivors well enough.
 now without the Gateway Center. So that's a real testament, I think, to Martha's good work. And we are part of the established system right now, and that's great. So I'm very pleased to support this agreement. Aye. Wheeler. Well, there's very little I can say that my colleagues have not said.
 better than I possibly could. But once again, here we are, Dan, near the end of your tenure, talking once again about something that would not have happened but for you, having the courage and the commitment and the tenacity to carry it off. Earlier today we were talking about the preference policy that would not have happened without Commissioner Saltzman's, at the time, very courageous commitment
 to see that through. Chair Khafouri and I were joking earlier because we've gone to a number of events together this week, and they seem to have you as the intersect, and here we are again today. And, of course, earlier in the week, we were talking about the children's levy as being something that would not have happened but for your persistence and your vision. So, once again, Commissioner Saltzman, I'll just say this. We're going to miss you. This community will miss you.
 but the legacy obviously is going to continue to live on. There isn't a better partner for this than Multnomah County and Chair Khafouri. I think this is a center of target, perfect fit. I'll just make a commitment today, and that is as long as I am the mayor of this city, we will live up to our end of this deal. We will meet our commitment target. We'll continue to work with you at the county and make sure that the Gateway Center continues to be as successful as possible.
 And who knows, in the years ahead, maybe we'll be successful enough that we can close it. So thanks, Dan, for your leadership. Thank you, Chair, for your leadership. Thanks to everybody who worked so hard on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thanks, Commissioner Fritz. Next up, 12-5-3.
 1253, authorized $130,000 total in grant funds for the Constructing Civic Dialogues Grant Program and the Office of Community and Civic Life. Commissioner E. Daly. Well, thank you, Mayor. Oh, good. I was looking around the room for Director Rhee. There she is. So previously, then Office of Neighborhood Involvement had long invested in neighborhood mediation services to help Portlanders work through conflict.
 As I said during the hearing on the Bureau name change, becoming the Office of Community and Civic Life is about much more than rebranding. Instead, the new name signifies our intent to revisit all of our current practices and partnerships to ensure they are truly in alignment with our mission to serve all Portlanders in our efforts to connect them to each other and the government.
 Today's ordinance reflects one of these changes. With that, I'd like to introduce our panel for today. Everyone please come forward at the same time. Today's presenters are Director Suk-Ri, Carrie Ko, Rachel Bernstein, and Brandon Lee. Well, the good news is late on Wednesdays we have plenty of chairs. Take your pick.
 Yes. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. My name is Sukri and I have the pleasure of serving as director for the Office of Community and Civic Life. Today, our team will present for your approval five investments through the Bureau's Constructing Civic Dialogues program. These investments focus on providing training and support to the volunteer leaders who serve their neighborhoods, communities, and city.
 You will hear from staff about the program, grant partners, and how it works in practice. And then two of our community partners proposed for funding will speak to what they offer to Portlanders. And I will share with you how and why we have reimagined what was previously our neighborhood mediation program into what we are now calling Constructing Civic Dialogues.
 As you may know, the Bureau and the City have been investing in mediation services for at least two decades. Since fiscal year 2002-2003, we have allocated more than $4 million, an average of $240,000 per year.
 As best as we can reconstruct from final reports, this was an average of 119 mediation cases per year. And we've gleaned from the reports that only one mediation was done in a language other than English. And that was in Spanish, and that was last year.
 Also, over the past two decades, we have become wiser across many sectors of our society about the benefits of early investment, whether it is in early education and early life, preventative health care, maintaining roads and bridges before the point of failure, or saving for retirement sooner rather than later.
 Civic Life has applied this upstream thinking to the $260,000 line item for neighborhood mediation this year. Rather than investing all our limited resources for when individuals cannot effectively communicate to the point that they seek third-party intervention, we propose to invest half of those resources to go upstream.
 So this year, $130,000 remains dedicated to providing mediation services for individuals, neighbor to neighbor. Resolutions Northwest, our partner for 20 years, continues in this role. And this year, we're proposing that $130,000 be dedicated to equipping our volunteer leaders, working in neighborhood and community groups, often on topics of importance to the city, to prevent and better manage conflict.
 as well as build group practices that promote healthy difference in dialogue. And we are very excited to share that these services will also be offered in Spanish, Arabic, Somali, and with American Sign Language, reaching communities we have not previously served through this program.
 Upstream approaches by design also reach more people than downstream approaches targeted for individuals. This is reflected in the final report for fiscal year 17-18. Resolutions Northwest reported that they provided 84 closed mediation cases, so approximately 168 individuals. They also reported 155 hours of closed facilitation cases serving 745 people.
 Further, we know that many conflicts are actually inaccurately characterized as tension between individuals when they're actually symptoms of structural or systemic conditions. For example, many conflicts reflect dynamics of gender, race, income, power, and ability, and these flare-ups between individuals are often symptoms of deeper and underlining dynamics within groups. I think we could all think of an example when an individual or individuals became the casualty of group dysfunction.
 Constructing civic dialogues invests in both helping to prevent communities from falling into the river, as well as helping to pull them out downstream. We must acknowledge that the level of attention we are experiencing in the community is not simply about individuals who do not get along. There are larger dynamics at play. Our response must include investing in our collective capacity to create positive conditions for civic dialogue.
 Thank you for your attention as our team and community partners present this ordinance for your approval.
 All right. Hello. I'm Carrie Ko with the Office of Community and Civic Life, and I support the Constructing Civic Dialogues program. I'm going to offer some information about the program, the partners, and the outcomes. So Constructing Civic Dialogues intends to build community capacity to promote the common good. Our guiding purpose is to foster the understanding of different perspectives, generative publicization,
 dialogue and constructive conflict to lay the foundations for a Portland where we all belong.
 In practice, this means equipping city employees to facilitate more productive and useful interactions between different perspectives that also recognize systemic conditions. It means developing within city networks the tools for culturally appropriate conflict resolution. And it means putting our equity, intentions, and goals into practice.
 Through prioritizing upstream work like disability culture, justice-oriented community engagement, and inclusion-centered dialogue, our community partners bring the expertise of their staff and trainers to enable the city to better meet our goals.
 In this time of divisiveness and hateful fervor and systemic support for calling people's very dignity and lives into question, supporting constructive conflict and employing a multicultural approach to our programming matters to Portlanders. This is an opportunity to enact a positive vision of good governance, and practically speaking, to increase the number of partners and program styles to enable us to reach a wider audience.
 The current project timeline begins January 1st and ends June 30th, 2019. In that time, our plan is to work with five grant partners to serve 1,600 people through 73 opportunities for training, dialogue, conversation, services, and events.
 Civic Life sought applications from community entities with demonstrated experience in the following areas. In applying equity and inclusion to civic processes, to fostering interconnected communities and a sense of belonging amongst diverse members, and providing multicultural, multilingual, and community-specific engagement.
 Out of 24 applications with asks of over $900,000, the Grant Selection Committee recommends the funding of these five applicants.
 The Aorta Collective is a queer, multiracial, and feminist organization devoted to social justice. They work from an intersectional approach to liberation through training, consulting, and facilitation. They will focus their work on conflict resolution and facilitation skill building through six workshops and post-training consultant support.
 The Disability Art and Culture Project addresses disability culture, disability justice, intersectional identities, access, intimacy, and advocacy. They will provide five workshops that go beyond the logistics of accommodations and into access intimacy, a phrase that was coined by Mia Mingus that embodies, quote, a sense of freedom, bringing people closer to build and deepen relationships, end quote.
 Oregon Humanities. They are a nationally recognized leader in creating spaces and training facilitators who can hold generative spaces for conversation, learning, and the cross-pollination of ideas. They offer an approach that centers on rigor and face-to-face engagement to dig into challenging and important topics. They will be offering 50 facilitated conversations with 1,000 participants on a variety of topics and training 50 facilitators.
 Training for Transformation. They use experiential learning, equity expertise, and trauma-informed practices to develop and facilitate courageous conversations, courageous dialogues. They have a long history of leading equity work in public institutions, and their project will focus on offering workshops on racism and trauma to raise awareness, increase understanding, and build tools for resiliency. The Vanport Mosaic. Mosaic.
 The Van Port Mosaic celebrates community history by elevating and preserving the stories of those often marginalized to create a future where we all belong.
 Their award-winning work has grown from a singular oral history project into an annual week-long festival of memory activism. They'll be hosting five facilitated story circles with different cultural communities and an engaged audience of listeners to harvest an understanding of different cultural approaches to conflict, resilience, and resistance.
 Through these partnerships, we will reach an expanded audience and provide more multicultural and multiracial approach to constructive dialogue across the city. These services and trainings will be offered free of charge to City of Portland networks so that employees are better equipped to engage our constituents and for community members that are part of the city networks to be better resourced to engage with their neighbors, members, and one another.
 City networks is an intentionally broad phrase and will serve as a guide and an evaluation mechanism rather than a means of hard and fast exclusion. The networks include bureaus, programs, advisory bodies, boards, and commissions, and our existing community partners, such as neighborhood coalitions and diversity and civic leadership partners.
 Civic Life staff will support outreach and engagement of the participants. Accommodations will be available for any and all of these opportunities. And program information will be distributed through city networks, website, social media. At the end of the grant period, we will be evaluating the program to adjust, make changes, and prepare for the next grant cycle. That may include extending the grants or opening a new application process.
 Our intention is to renew these partnerships for up to two more years beyond fiscal years, beyond June, contingent upon the budgets and lessons learned through these first six months. We are requesting that you pass the emergency ordinance today so that we can get started immediately on our work and be ready to launch January 1st. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Rachel Bernstein, Partnership and Training Manager at Oregon Humanities. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners, and thank you to the Office of Community and Civic Life for helping coordinate today's presentation. Oregon Humanities brings people together to share, listen, learn, and struggle with one another about questions that impact communities across our state.
 These are conversations about big questions that can't be easily answered and ones that center and highlight issues of power, justice, and equity. Our goals and outcomes for these conversations are exploration, sharing with and listening to each other, and building community. We're not setting up debates and identifying winners. We're creating opportunities for Oregonians to understand each other.
 We know there's power in learning about historic and current impacts of racism, then discussing how those impacts contribute to our sense of place and vision for the future, in questioning what it means to be a good person and exploring our complicity in perpetuating inequities. Reflecting on these questions in the company of others through conversation is one important way, among many, for people to think about their beliefs and their relationship between what they think and how they act in the world.
 Here at Oregon Humanities, we run a program called Conversation Project, and we've been partnering with organizations and leading conversations like The Space Between Us, Immigrants, Refugees, and Oregon, with Southeast Uplift at the Portland Mercado, and Exploring Power and Privilege with Courage, Creativity, and Compassion at and with Cascadia Behavioral Health Care. For this project, we'll partner with organizations across Portland to facilitate those 50 conversations.
 The people who facilitate these conversations are conversation project leaders, ask questions and create a space for people to reflect on their own individual experiences, share ideas and questions they are struggling with, and hear a perspective other than their own. When conflict does arise, conversation project leaders frame it and move through it with the group, surfacing fears and biases, power imbalances, which are often below the surface of conflict.
 Additionally, we will lead reflective conversation trainings for City of Portland staff and networks, which will teach skills in leading these kinds of reflective discussion trainings. Our model is highly experiential and focuses on the choices we make as facilitators that lead to spaces of reflection and conversation. And during the training, we brainstorm practical applications of how we might get people thinking and talking with each other in places where people are already gathering.
 We're looking forward to being a part of this expansion of programming that allows the City of Portland and networks to convene conversations that increase trust, build understanding, and invite people to act and think differently. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great afternoon. Thank you.
 My name is Brandon Lee, co-founder of Training for Transformation. It is my honor and privilege to be here before you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. First, I need to recognize the efforts of the staff of the Office of Community and Civic Life. Truly appreciate all of your efforts thus far. And today I'm just going to share a couple of highlights regarding our process, purpose, and a couple of highlights from our workshops on racism and trauma.
 So an effective way to confront bias and rebuild a shared vision of community is through our training workshops. They are multifaceted and dynamic using diverse formats that maximize engagement, sharing, and learning. The purpose of our racism workshops, racism and trauma workshops, is to confront bias, humanize our collective experiences, and transform traumatic events into healing opportunities.
 A few highlights include post-traumatic growth, resiliency, reconnecting to our cultural strengths, and relying on communal and ancestral wisdom to excel under pressure. Thanks for your time and consideration. Thank you. Any questions? Public testimony on this item. Sue? We had two people sign up. I'm not sure if they're here. Maggie and Courtney. I don't see Maggie and I don't see Courtney. Very good. Any further questions before we call the roll?
 Thank you. Excellent presentation. We appreciate your being here very much, and thanks for your hard work on this. Sue, please call the roll. You daily.
 Thank you everyone for being here today. As we continue to reintroduce the Office of Community and Civic Life and expand our efforts to reach new audiences, it is critically important that we explain how each of our actions fits into the larger vision for the Bureau. This grant program will help the Bureau establish new partnerships, which is critically important if the goal is to truly serve all Portlanders. Thank you.
 We cannot govern effectively or solve our most pressing problems if Portlanders are not engaging with us and with each other. These grants are coming at a time when we as a city need to proactively invest in our capacity to engage in constructive dialogues. I think we could have used some constructive dialogues on one of the items we heard earlier today.
 not pointing any fingers, it's a tough one. And I am pleased to help move us in that direction. I also hope today's ordinance is a clear illustration of my and Civic Life's commitment to review all of our existing practices and our willingness to chart a new path forward where necessary. I am genuinely excited about these applicants and projects. I wish I could attend...
 every event and training. Alas, there are 73 of them, and that will not be possible. But I'm looking forward to how this program will advance our Bureau's mission, our city's mission, and build capacity within our communities. So I'm very proud of my Civic Life team for creatively and collaboratively getting us to this point today. I want to give special thanks to Director Rhee, Carrie Coe,
 Georgia West and Michelle Rodriguez. You know it's a long day when you mispronounce the name West. For helping us deliver on the promise of a bureau that will tirelessly work to connect Portlanders to each other and their government to promote the common good. Of course, I vote aye. Fish. Well, Commissioner Daly, thank you for your leadership. Thank you.
 Director and team, thank you for the excellent presentation. Congratulations to all the grantees. I note that the Vanport mosaic is in the house, although they weren't on the panel, and I think there may be some other folks. But it looks like a great list and a worthy endeavor, and I'm very pleased to support it. Aye. Solzman. Well, thank you, Commissioner Udaly and Director Rhee.
 And the award-winning grantees, I look forward to the contributions you'll make to better civic life in our city. Hi. Wheeler. These are great partnerships, and I want to thank all of you for being part of this. And as was said right up front, this is an expansion and an enhancement of the kind of outreach and development opportunities that already exist through the Office of Community and Civic Life.
 Director Rhee, I want to thank you for your passion and your commitment to this kind of programming. And Commissioner Udaly, thank you for bringing this forward. This is a very positive development, and I'm very happy to support it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And we are adjourned.