This is the Wednesday morning, December 4th, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good morning. Could you please call the roll? Good morning. Sorry. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here.
 Wheeler. Here. And now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first reading. Mr. Walsh, that is becoming a regular thing where when legal counsel is speaking, you do that. I would ask you not to do that in the future place. It's very disruptive and it's rude.
 Sorry, please continue. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. Mr. Walsh, if you continue to do this, you're out of order. We will ask you to leave. The major is the oxygen. We will ask you to leave. We will ask you to leave.
 You do not need to move while legal counsel is reading the rules of order in the quorum, and you know that well. Shut up! You can't tell him he can't move. I can. Yes, I can. I can, and I just did. I can, and I just did. Thank you. Carla, first up is communications. Can you read?
 It's pretty much every week. The mayor is not singling out someone with a disability. No, I'm not. He's being passive-aggressive and childish. Not me. Not the mayor. Although I can be very passive-aggressive. I'm the mayor of Portland, Oregon. We're the fifth most passive-aggressive city in the United States, I've been told.
 Yeah, and rising. Carla, first up is communications. Can you call the first? Did the attorney finish reading the rules? I don't think so. I think we got pretty much as far as we needed to get on that. If you're helping your fellow Portlanders. Thank you. There you go. Well done. Communications, and let me see if we have people who'd like to come up together. It looks like we have three people who'd like to come up together. Is that correct, the first three? I'll read them all. Great. Thank you.
 1097, request of Amelia Salvador to address council regarding announcement of the annual award recipient of the Portland Immigrant Statue. 1090, request of Sankar Raman to address council regarding announcement of the annual award recipient of the Portland Immigrant Statue. And 1099, request of Joe Rossi to address council regarding announcement of the annual award recipient of the Portland Immigrant Statue.
 Good morning. Welcome to Portland City Council. Hey, Joe, before we get started, am I correct that your daughter got elected to public office last year? Yeah, that's correct. And what's her name and where does she serve? Gabrielle Rossi. She serves the East Multnomah County Soil and Water District, position one. Good for her. How is that going? It's going really good. She's our first elected person in the family, so I'm pretty excited. We'll keep some seats warm up here. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Council. Thank you for having us this morning. My name is Amelia Salvador. I'm with the Portland Immigrant Statue Project. We're here this morning to share with all of you and acknowledge this year's award recipient. Every year we award an award to a worthy candidate. The Portland Immigrant Statue is a life-size bronze statue located on Northeast 98th Avenue and Sandy Boulevard.
 The location is ideal as it's close to the vicinity of the Portland airport and really is a welcoming landmark to people, newcomers that come to Portland and visitors. So this year we collaborated with newly awarded nonprofit, the Immigrant Statue.
 And it was a great fit for us to work with them and Sankar because we share the same vision and mission of immigrants coming to Portland. So I was really excited to work with Sankar to identify a couple candidates. I'll go pass the mic to Sankar.
 Thank you. Thank you. My name is Sankar. I'm from the immigrant story. Members of the Portland City Council, Mayor Wheeler, and the residents of this great city of Portland. As for the general adage that everyone looking to make a new life migrates west, I too arrived in Portland to work in its great state-of-the-art technology company, Intel. Just like any other immigrant, I worked hard. I wanted to make this industry the best of the best in the world.
 I lived here for a long time now, long enough to have seen the good and the bad. I have mourned the death of loved ones. I got married. I even got my son to graduate from high school and start a career of his own. I have had many rights violated.
 of passage. Yes, this is my home now, and I'm not going anywhere. Prior to 2016 election, I never felt the need to talk about my professional qualifications or to provide a rationale for my existence or justify for my belonging in Portland. But the recent political climate changed all that.
 When the political rhetoric began to deliberately target immigrants for political gains, when the rhetoric inspired actual government policies that affected immigrants and refugees, when the divisive talk began to embolden people to go to places of worship with a gun and shoot to kill, I needed to do something.
 I cannot just sit by and watch this one go by. So I started to tell the stories of immigrants and refugees. The goal, to create empathy so that eventually we could perhaps create a community of inclusion, one in which we recognize that we all share a common humanity. At the immigrant story, we believe that stories can bring our community together. We also believe in creating conversations that are important.
 We do this by bringing our stories to public spaces in order to ensure that we can demonstrate how deeply we care about this core value, the diversity of our citizens. That's why I wanted to thank you for hosting this public display at the very center of our community. When you share these stories, you change the narrative of our country. During the holiday
 If you want to give, please think about organizations like the immigrant story. Support these organizations. There are many, and they do a tremendous and important work bringing attention to these issues. If you are in need of a New Year's resolution, think about your neighbors and become a wise for those who do not have one. If you are in a position of authority,
 Pledge to consider the diversity as a value and not merely some goal to hit or some numbers to meet. My point is reflected in the author Liba Bray. This is how change happens. One gesture, one person, one moment at a time. Thank you very much. And please keep Portland diverse and welcoming. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it.
 I'd like to introduce myself, Joe Rossi. I'm the co-director of the Portland Immigrant Statue along with Amelia Salvador. I appreciate Zakhar had a collaboration with us, the immigrant story and the Portland Immigrant Statue.
 We're here to honor one person today out of the hundreds that would certainly qualify for this award. We have a very visible statue to welcomes visitors, international visitors to the Portland Airport and our community. It was hosted on our 100-year anniversary at Park Rose and every year we like to select a person that epitomizes the award.
 is really meant to say thank you to a member of our community who comes to this country, loves his country of origin, continues celebrating it, equally loves America, its opportunities. It becomes a bridge and a role model for people coming to this country and for us, as people who are already here, tirelessly working physically that helps other people.
 So I'd like to ask permission of the mayor and city council that when I recognize this person, he's able to stand up and approach the table to receive his award. Without objection. Thank you. Well, I'd like to announce that 2019's Portland Immigrant Statue Award recipient is Dr. Bahar Bouti. We'll suspend the award. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Mr. Rahman, before you leave, would you please give a copy of your testimony to Carla? Yes. I think a number of us would like to get a copy of it. Thank you. It was not only timed to perfection, but it was a beautiful statement of principle. And if you wouldn't mind sharing that with us, Carla will then make sure we all get a copy. Joe, thanks for what you did. Just wanted to say thank you again. Yeah, you bet. Thanks, Joe. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
 Next up Carla looks like 1100 and 1101 would probably like to come up together. 1100 request of Jan Campbell to address council regarding the Riverplace master plan and 1101 request of Wendy Rom to address council regarding the Riverplace master plan Welcome thanks for being here. Thank you. It's great seeing some of the commissioners that I used to work with so Thank you for inviting us
 My name is Jan Campbell. I reside at the Douglas, which is the apartment house in this area designated to be torn down. I have been living there for 20 years and it is my home as well as others that live there. How many of you have been displaced because of urban renewal?
 It is terrible feeling because this is our home and our neighborhood. Also, it makes it more difficult when you have disabilities and need accessible housing. As most of you know, I was a disability project coordinator for the City of Portland and Multnomah County for many years. One of my responsibilities was to work with architects in getting permits when it was regarding accessibility. I actually worked on this apartment complex to ensure its access. That is why I moved into it, because of the affordability along with the location and access of the public transit.
 People like myself don't have options that others may have. I need to be near services, public transportation, sidewalks, and I can go on and on. My unit needs to be large enough to accommodate my wheelchair and my specific needs due to the disability, and that is hard to find. Individual apartments only have a few accessible units in their total, and many of these are old ones that are not accessible, and the new ones are too expensive.
 Because I do not meet the criteria of low income or affordable housing, I fall into the market rate units that can only be costly and still not meet my needs. I am not the only one that faces these obstacles. I work on the ADRC for Multnomah County, and every day we get people calling who are medium income and cannot afford a place to go or need accessible housing.
 River Place is a neighborhood. We have shops, restaurants, a variety of housing, and many people living there. Some people living in the Douglas have lived there since it was built. Some of these individuals are individuals who are disabled and older adults. In recent years, they've done major remodels of these units.
 Accessible and moderate income is very difficult to find and can take months to find one that meets my individual and other individual needs. I really don't expect you to understand how difficult it is. You need to experience it. I get it. Let me give you an example. As some of you know, I worked here with Vera Katz when she was mayor. After she retired, she became quite frail and I saw her many times on the streetcar.
 And she would say, Jan, I now understand why you advocate so tirelessly, because I now need these accessible features. She got it. She lived it. I hope that you understand that displacing people from their homes and neighborhoods can leave them without any housing or housing that does not accommodate their needs in order for them to live independently. We now have a low-income and affordable housing that was built on land that was not developed in that area, and this is good. No one was displaced.
 So please, when you make your decision, you realize how many people you are impacting and changing their lives. Even people who live in the condos with change in the makeup and character of their neighborhood, some could feel a reduced sense of belonging or feeling out of place in the home they own. There have been studies done on high-rises and how it affects mental health issues. Can I propose that the speaker get an extra 30 seconds, Mayor? You bet. Thank you. Continue, please.
 And I just had one other thing to say, and I gave you a longer testimony because we had to cut it, but I am not advocating against development, but I am advocating against displacement. Thank you so much, and it's been great seeing you all again. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Wendy Rahm from the West End. As DNA Land Use Chair, I'm speaking on behalf of the Downtown Neighborhood Association to raise concerns about the River Place development proposal and especially the rental properties known as the Douglas Apartments. This rental apartment complex has nearly 300 units built in the 80s and 90s, many three to four bedroom units suitable for families, and it includes units that were specially designed to be ADA.
 Most importantly, it is a neighborhood of rental units in the missing middle affordable housing category, crucial for the city and most especially for the central city. Today, it is a lovely thriving neighborhood. A little history. The last time we destroyed an entire neighborhood was in the 50s and 60s. You recall Albina being replaced by the Colosseum and the thriving Italian Jewish neighborhood demolished to create the South Auditorium.
 After the Italian Jewish neighborhood was lost, history tells us great shame ensued and was talked about for years. I learned about it in a PSU class just a few years ago, so the shame endures. The next threat came in the 70s when existing neighborhoods on the east side were threatened with demolition as a result of a Robert Moses inspired freeway plan.
 That demolition was fortunately stopped thanks to public protest and a humane city council. Since then, we have master planned only industrial sites, large parking lots, or undeveloped properties, but no existing neighborhoods until now.
 This threat to an existing neighborhood, the Douglas Apartments, is the result of a last second Central City 2035 spot upzoning of the 8-acre River Place site approved by City Council. I believe City Council was sold a bill of goods when you were convinced to vote to upzone this neighborhood. I want to think that you didn't fully realize the human cost involved at that time.
 There are many other serious problems with hyper development in this isolated island waterfront site, including major transportation hurdles with a tripled population. But loss of this valuable rental housing and the displacement of so many people is the most serious of all. The design commission cannot address demolition of an existing neighborhood since it doesn't fit any of their criteria approval criteria.
 Therefore, we come to you today. A small part of the site could be demolished for development, but I sincerely hope you can revisit your broad brush decision to up-zone and do whatever you can to save the Douglas apartments. Thank you for letting me speak. Thank you. Thanks to both of you. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for recognizing me to spend more time. Thank you.
 And that concludes communications. Next up is the consent agenda. My understanding is 1109 has been returned to Commissioner Fritz's office. Has anything else been pulled? Yes, we've had 1112 requests be pulled. And who requested that? Lightning. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz. I just want to note that the passage of ballot measures 26204 and 26205 are on the consent agenda as proclamations. I just want to thank the people of Portland for once again supporting ballot measures that protect the Bull Run watershed and allow the Water Bureau to operate efficiently. Aye.
 Fish. Commissioner Fritz, would you remind us what the vote tally was? It remained the same as it was on election night. It was 89% for the ballroom watershed protections and 85% for mutual aid. Congratulations. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Consent agenda is adopted. Next item, regular agenda. Well, let's see. Sorry. Hang on. Next item is going to be time certain item number 1102. Okay.
 appeal of the Southwest Hills Residential League against the hearing officers decision to approve with conditions a one-lot partition with concurrent environmental and planned development review adjacent to 1315 Southwest Broadway Drive LU 18-119-056 LDP ENPD
 Let's see, and that's 11. Colleagues, the last time we heard this matter, Council heard from all parties, including the appellant's rebuttal. The oral record was closed and the written record was held open until today at 9.45 a.m. We're back to deliberate this item.
 And if there is no further discussion, I will accept a motion and a second for a tentative decision. Mayor, I need to declare that since the hearing, I have visited the site and walked on both sides of the street on a dark and stormy afternoon.
 And so with that, I'm very sympathetic to the neighbor's concerns. However, I don't think that there's a better solution than the somewhat imperfect solution that the staff has come up with. And therefore, I move to deny the appeal and uphold the hearings officer's decision. Very good. The motion has been made. Is there a second?
 I'll second it. Any further discussion? I'd like to have a little discussion about this. Commissioner Fish. Well, I'd like to hear my colleagues. So, may I? I'm going to, sorry. It always feels like the Wizard of Oz from behind the curtain over here. I want to make sure that council recognizes before there's a vote, that there needs to be a minor change to the condition related to transportation, if this is the motion that you end up voting on. The exhibits that were referenced in the hearings officer's decision
 were changed as a result of a public works process. And so we would have staff from BDS
 essentially replaced two words so that instead of referring to exhibit H 42 C it would refer to the exhibits that are in the public works and this was discussed at the last hearing because the H42 C is gravel and as a result of the public works It was updated to asphalt on the south side, and I'm sorry that took so long. I'd like to take a one-minute recess
 Thank my colleagues who did a little wheeling and dealing here and got it all moved forward. So we'll start with 1119, please, Carla. 1119, amend towing and disposition of vehicles code to clarify when a vehicle may be towed. Commissioner Udaly. We've even brought some props. Wow, look at that. Sorry, I didn't notice we were back in session. Oh, my, look at that. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is, uh, no, I am on the wrong item. What's the item number? Uh, 1119. 1119. Oh, I had the 18. Okay. This ordinance clarifies an existing practice around reserving on-street parking in a meter district. It will amend our code to make it clear when a parking reservation takes effect and when parking enforcement can order a tow to enforce a temporary street use permit.
 Here to provide details and answer questions is Parking Enforcement Supervisor Donald Hunter. Yes. As well as Mike. Welcome, both of you. You bet. And take it away. Okay, I'll go ahead and present. So the way it works, so if you're... I put your full name in the record. Oh, yeah, sorry about that. Mike Krebs, Parking Division Manager, PBOT.
 I'm Donald Hunter, Parking Enforcement Supervisor, PBOT. Thank you. Okay, sorry about that. So what happens is when you have a construction thing going on at your business and you want to rent the space on the right-of-way in front of your business to put maybe some pods or some construction vehicles or something like that, you pay the city $70. Okay.
 You pay them $70 for each space. And then what happens is the parking enforcement officers go out and place delineator signs up, temporary. Each metered space downtown has a little metal plate by it.
 and this metal plate on the bottom has a magnet, and it sticks to the metal plate, and we set those up. If there's not a metal plate in place, we go ahead and put on the plastic cover on the signs that let you know that parking is temporarily prohibited in this area for whatever the designation is on the actual sign.
 And so the officers document the date, the time, and who actually installed the delineators or the signs. And then what happens is the next day we can start towing the following day once the sign is in place and verified. And then what happens is you bring in your construction equipment and notice there's a car parked there.
 You then call up parking enforcement, parking enforcement comes out, we take pictures of the sign, make sure the sign's still there, make sure the car does not have permission to be there, and then we actually tow the vehicle. Once the vehicle is towed, the owner has the right to appeal before the hearings officer. And up until about two years ago, the hearings office was finding in our favor...
 under the current Title 16 code, but two years ago, the hearings office took a different interpretation that they had done in the past. And so what we're asking today is to change that to make sure that we do not have to verify the signs every single day.
 Because the current hearings officer believes that the current code states that every single day we have to go out and make sure these signs are erected properly. And there's about 700 or 800 of these signs out there right now which would require us to go out and verify daily every single sign. We currently don't have the capacity to do that. And so in the code change we're requesting is that once it is up, no further verification is necessary.
 We believe that's a good thing because we verify it, we put it up, and we verify it once again when we actually get the call to actually make the tow from the space. So we set it up, get called, confirm it's still there, and then make the tow. So, Mike, I just want to be clear about something. If we support this ordinance, there would still be an additional...
 Check prior to towing to make sure that yes, so you call us that that's the safeguard for The member of the public correct. We will come out verify the officer Oh, see yes, the sign is erected properly take a picture of that sign in in conjunction with the car that's parked in there so you can take a picture and
 the car parked right in front of the sign. So we do confirm it when we get called back out that we will not tow it. If the sign's not properly there or if it's not there at all, we would not tow the vehicle. Or if we did tow the vehicle, it'd be at our expense and not at the owner's expense.
 It's kind of a business agreement. People hired us, or actually they purchased a service from the city. I would like to rent this space, city of Portland, for $70 a day. We'll rent it to you and we'll make sure that's cleared out so you can conduct your business. We think it's good for us to uphold our bargain. You paid $70 a day and you expect that spot to be there to put your pot or your trash cans or your dumpsters, whatever that may be, or your equipment.
 So this is our practice, been going on for decades. Donald can vouch for that. It's been going on for decades. But what recently caused it to come to our forefront was the hearings office interpreted as we had to verify these signs every single day. So that's what we're requesting the code change for. And in the code, as you see, we're just asking that it does not have to be verified once it's in place at the original time until we actually go back and see it's parked improperly.
 I WILL SAY I AM NOT A FAN OF HAVING TO TOW CARS BECAUSE IT IS A STRESSFUL EXPERIENCE. IT IS A HASSLE. IT IS AN EXPENSE FOR THE OWNER. BUT WE HAVE TO BE ABLE TO ALLOW PEOPLE TO DO THE WORK THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE. AND WE HAVE TO OCCASIONALLY TOW CARS. AND AS MIKE MENTIONED, THE CAR OWNERS STILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO APPEAL IF THEY FEEL THAT IT WASN'T PROPERLY DONE. AND WE ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
 noticed and if we have to go back every day and check 800 signs the cost I imagine would have to go way up because we can't provide that service for free and it's it's really not a good use of our time.
 So I support what's on the table here. I'm just wondering with the parking kitty and the various other ways that people can use their phones to pay for their parking in the future, you might look at, could we just call the person who's parked the car and tell them to move it within 15 minutes or it's going to be towed?
 I was wondering that as well. I mean, you can't just stand on the street and holler whose car is this, but... But for people who have done it with technology, you know, we know who they are. We can call them, and that way...
 we get the same result without them incurring a tow charge. It's just something to look into. That might make sense. I don't know how feasible it is right now, but it might even be faster than a tow in some cases. So it's something we could explore for sure. Because the last thing I want to do is tow someone's car. I mean, some of these folks are in a hurry. They just don't see the sign. And so we take towing very seriously. That's the last thing we want to do. But there are times when...
 hey, I've got a construction, I got a cement truck here, and someone's in my spot, and I got to pour some cement. So we do do that. Mayor, if I may, and this is slightly off topic, but since you're here, Mike, I just wanted to make sure I understood this. Okay. So from time to time when I'm walking around the city, I see a situation where there's construction going on, and a lot, and the developer or the contractor
 has moved the fence onto the road, and it usually results in blocking the bike lane, but it physically intrudes onto the street, which seems to me different than what we're talking about today. But what is the law with respect to that piece?
 Yeah, that would not be in our, that's issued by I think BDS and those folks and the permit center. I would, I don't know for sure, sir. I don't have an answer for you on that one because that does not normally involve parking enforcement. But it is interesting. This is, it's one thing to say we're renting you the parking spot.
 In which case you can put you know, whatever you want in that spot and have access to it, right? It's an entirely another thing to move the fence and and block off a sidewalk a bike lane or intrude into the into the roadway And it at some point I would appreciate Clarification as to what our ground rules are in that area what I can do sir. I can contact the folks that have
 approve those kind of things and allow those kind of things to occur and I can have them get back with you or your staff. Yeah, what they inadvertently or inadvertently creates is a lot of user conflicts. Oh definitely. So I'm just interested in what are the Commissioner? I want to thank you for raising that. It's oddly timely. I purchased a couch from a individual last week who
 who had a broken jaw and broken wrist because he was driving west on Rosa Parks. There was a utility sign, one of the big kind of, you know, vinyl orange signs in the bike line. He swerved around it and hit some wet leaves and wiped out. And so it's a real...
 danger and we a lot of different road users use our bike lane as a storage space and it needs to stop but that is a more of a permitting issue when
 when there's construction than a parking issue. So I'm actually following. I found out the date, time, location of that accident, and I'm going to be following up to figure out who had that permit. When appropriate, I would appreciate an update on that just to better understand what our rules are and how they're being violated. Okay. Happy to do that.
 All right. So, Mr. Hunter, did you have anything to add, or is that it for the... No, I don't have anything to add. I think Mike covered it pretty well. Okay. Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have three people. All right. Maggie, Steve Entwistle, and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. Morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, and I want to thank you for this presentation.
 well-ranged, assertive, not aggressive conversation. And one thing that's unfortunate, and I'm sure your daily has stepped out, because when we talk about any kind of funds related to parking, more and more people are getting a little bit confused, I think, about what's city money, how does money get into the tri-met system where there's so much more recently public concern about fare enforcement. And so...
 possibly one of you will be curious enough to ask when the $70 is collected to rent these spaces, where does that money go and how does it get used? And although I was glad for the scope of the conversation, the fact that we got into bicyclists and pedestrian safety, I do think that the other issue that kind of should be touched on, I think when it's first presented, the idea of just taking out the little pole
 attaching it to the magnet sounds like $70 covers all the cost recovery, but maybe that should be addressed in a more diligent way to actually talk about what the estimated average expense of dispatching is because it's going to change if you send somebody out and it's a place where they only have one parking space that they're securing for a pod $70 still probably covers it if it's a whole block of places then we're kind of getting a
 Somebody can make the argument personally that we're getting too much money if we're covering a long string of parking spaces. So I don't know if anybody else will want to have that addressed, but there it is. Thanks very much. Thank you. Good morning.
 Okay, so my question would be, yeah, how much money do you get from the parking meters and where does that money go? That's an excellent question that I'm sure that all citizens of Portland would like to know. And then the other thing I would say is I'm looking forward to the day when there are
 places to park on the periphery of Portland and then people just get around with a scooter or you know some other electric form of transportation and It's just bikes and scooters around You know say a
 mile or two, you know area and and you know when you're talking about Aging and disabled people, you know, you can use those neighborhood electric vehicles that can be adapted for Disabled use so yeah, I
 Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. TRN 3.112. Thank you. Is that complete public testimony, Carla? Yes, that's all. Any further discussion? This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to the second reading. Mayor, may I propose that we take up 1121? If we have staff here to present, absolutely. It's a second reading, and then we'll find out if we have staff. Yeah, we have staff for several others here. Carla, 1121, which is the second reading. Come on up.
 1121 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and Provide payment for construction of the Arbor Lodge Kenton sewer rehabilitation project number e 10978 for an estimated cost of five million three hundred and fifty thousand dollars. This is a second reading We've already heard a presentation and take testimonies. There any further discussion Seeing none, please call the roll
 Fritz. Aye. Udailey. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And Joe, you are here on which item? 1120. Carla, can you read 1120 please?
 1120, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Northwest Thurmond Street sewer reconstruction project, number E10696, for an estimated cost of $4,680,000. Commissioner Fish. I have some brief introductory remarks, and you have a PowerPoint, right? We do. Do you need Carla's help with that? We do.
 So if Carla and Asenna, if you could help them set up the PowerPoint, I'll do the opening comments. Colleagues, this project will allow the Bureau of Environmental Services to replace undersized pipes in northwest Portland. The project will protect public health, properties, and the environment. It will reduce the risk of sewer backups to 31 properties and street flooding risk at 16 locations. Just a few background notes.
 This project is in the Willamette Heights neighborhood. There have been six reported basement sewer backups in the project since 2008. And then we'll get into the other details in a second.
 Here today to give us a brief presentation is Joe Dvorak, Design Services Division Manager, and Julia Sheets, Project Manager, both of whom work for the Bureau of Environmental Services. Welcome, and thank you for rearranging your schedules to accommodate Council this morning. You're welcome. Good morning, Mayor and members of Council. So we have a very short presentation and also here to answer any questions that you may have. And I'll turn it over to Julia Sheets at this point. Thanks.
 Thank you. For the record again, my name is Julia Sheets. I'm the project manager on the Northwest Thurmond Street Sewer Reconstruction Project. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and commissioners, for having us, and thank you for keeping us on our toes. The project, as Commissioner Fish said, is located in northwest Portland in the Willamette Heights neighborhood, and the purpose of the project is to increase sewer capacity.
 As Commissioner Fish stated, there have been six reported basement sewer backups in the neighborhood since 2008, and the city actually received complaints about the basement sewer backups four years ago from the neighborhood. This project directly addresses those complaints, and upsizing the sewer will resolve risk of basement sewer backups at 31 properties throughout the neighborhood, as well as risk of street flooding at 16 locations.
 The project will construct, replace, or rehabilitate approximately 4,800 linear feet of sewer mainline using both open trench and trenchless construction methods. And in some areas the sewer will be upsized from 10 inches in diameter to 21 inches in diameter, so a fairly significant upsize. The project will also improve access to the system for future maintenance due to some abandonment work that we are doing under the Balch Gulch Bridge.
 Additionally, BES is partnering with the Bureau of Transportation to construct nine curb ramps which will improve ADA accessibility in the neighborhood. There are several challenges on this project, one of which includes historical landslides that have occurred within the project area, most recently in 2017. The photograph here is from a landslide that occurred in 1950.
 And the photograph also illustrates a second challenge that we have on the project, which involves a trolley that used to run up Northwest Thurman Street in the neighborhood that has since been abandoned and the tracks have since been paved over. So that results in the project having to remove over 2,000 linear feet of buried trolley tracks.
 An additional challenge with the project is traffic control due to the curved streets of the neighborhood and narrow lanes, as well as a tri-met bus line that runs up Northwest Thurman Street. Additionally, there is high traffic on Northwest Thurman Street due to the Leif Erikson Park entrance to Forest Park at the top of Northwest Thurman Street on the west end. Working around the Balch Gulch Bridge may also prove challenging due to the foundations of the bridge, which are over 100 years old.
 However, this project has included measures to address all of these challenges proactively, including advanced coordination with TriMet, vibration and settlement monitoring, and a stipulation for part of the work to be constructed during the dry season, which we are defining as June through November.
 Public involvement for this project includes community outreach staff having been involved with the community in the neighborhood since project design began. The outreach staff has been involved with both property owners and tenants, impacted neighborhood associations, TriMet as I mentioned earlier, other city bureaus and other community partners.
 Public information has been provided to the community in the form of mailed notices, email updates, next door posts, via the project webpage, the phone hotline, and site visits.
 The engineer's estimate for this project is approximately $4.68 million, and the level of confidence in this estimate is high. We anticipate construction beginning in June of next year, 2020, and we do, as I mentioned earlier, we have the dry season construction windows. We're actually going to need two of those to complete the project. Excuse me. Therefore, we anticipate construction lasting approximately 530 days, or about a year and
 And that's all I have. Thank you again for your time, and we welcome any questions. I love it. Keep that vintage photo up, will you, for a second? I just love these old photographs. I guess that's how we used to do sewer construction back then. Hand dig it. It's hard work. Thank you, Julia and Joe, for, as usual, an outstanding presentation. Colleagues, questions? We do acknowledge this will be disruptive. There's a main access point to Forest Park along Thurman.
 but the community, the folks who live in that area have been advocating for this work for some time and we're pleased that we're now finally able to move forward and make these changes. So thank you both very much. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have three people, Maggie, Steve Entwistle, and Charles Bridgeway Johnson.
 Well, once again, I'm just very pleased to see the bureaus working together to kind of minimize the impact to the neighborhood and deliver more benefit with the curb, PBOT and BES. Yeah. The enhanced collaboration between PBOT and BES is a great story in projects ranging from northwest to southwest to the other side of the river.
 And we're particularly pleased that we'll be able to add the curb cuts to bring the sidewalks up to ADA standards while we're doing this. So thank you for that partnership. Thank you. That was good. You're welcome to go. Thank you very much, both of you. Good morning, Commissioner. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Thanks, y'all. And Leif Erickson, I guess.
 It's interesting that we designated that the Leif Erikson entrance. I can't remember if there's a Leif Erikson Drive up there or not, but his impact on the people that were living there was like zero. The rest of us white folks that came by carry a little bit more responsibility. And I hope... It's been a while since I entered Forest Park from that way, but it'd be interesting to see how much we have that really recognizes the crimes that occurred for us to have control of this land.
 One thing that was interesting when we talk about the impact on this neighborhood was to look back to last week, item 1095, which was the Portsmouth, Arbor Lodge, Kenton sewer rehabilitation.
 When we documented that, when that was documented and presented to council, there were some interesting demographics that really analyzed and talked about who was living in the neighborhood and how things were working. And for this particular neighborhood, we decided not to give that the same level of attention. There's all kinds of speculative reasons why that might be. But...
 The project sounds soundly researched. I don't know if there should be a little caveat, like if the bridge falls down, how much does that change the cost estimate for the project? But I have faith that the seismic monitoring and the settlement monitoring, that's ultra unlikely to happen and that these people will be able to keep the poop out of their basements in the future. So I look forward to you all voting in favor of this. Thank you. Good morning. Okay, yes, go forward.
 Thank you, Maggie. Appreciate it both. This is a, any further discussion? No, just again, want to thank our presenters for their superb work. And we'll be back on a regular basis with a lot of projects throughout the city. And we're, we're hitting our stride and we thank the council for the full support of our work. And thank you, Ascenta Lawrence, for pulling all this together.
 Thank you. This is the first reading of an on emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 1118. Commissioner Udalli, this is going to be yours. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain temporary rights necessary for construction of the Signal Rebuild Southeast 52nd Avenue and Southeast Woodstock Boulevard project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Udalli. Thank you, Mayor.
 This is a signal rebuild project to facilitate left-hand vehicle turning from southeast Woodstock Boulevard onto southeast 52nd Avenue. The scope includes sidewalk infill, ADA-compliant curb ramps, pedestrian crossing improvements, striping and signage improvements, and traffic signals. I know that eminent domain is a trigger word, and I want to assure you this is an extremely small project.
 area that we'll be temporarily working in. And as far as I know, we've received no remonstrances. So here to provide details and answer any questions is PBOT right-of-way agent Ellen Kilmer. Welcome, Ellen. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. To Mayor and Commissioners, as Commissioner Udalli said, my name is Ellen Kilmer with right-of-way acquisition with PBOT.
 And thank you for the introduction As you said agenda item 1118 would authorize eminent domain authority and allow us to offer just compensation to For property rights needed in connection with this project the signal rebuild at southeast 52nd Woodstock The property rights in question would support the reconstruction of the sidewalk particularly the ADA ramps as well as signal improvements at the intersection and
 I would also like to mention that I have made contact with the one property owner that is being affected and they have declined attending today. I'm happy to address any questions that council may have. Not at this time. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. Thanks for being here. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? I believe he left. Steve Entwistle? Yeah, he's gone. Very good. Any further discussion? Commissioner Harts? Thank you for a very thorough presentation addressing in advance all of my concerns. Thank you, council. Yeah, thank you. Carla, please call the roll.
 Udaylee. Thank you, Ellen. I vote aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 1116 Portland Housing Bureau.
 amend affordable housing code to establish a manufactured dwelling park affordable housing bonus density program. Colleagues, when Council approved code changes to establish new zoning for residential manufactured dwelling parks, the changes included an option for park owners to pursue a density bonus. The voluntary density bonus is available to parks where at least half of the dwelling units have restricted affordability levels at no more than 60% of median income.
 The Housing Bureau is here before us to establish a new section of Title 30, the Affordable Housing Code section, in order to implement the Density Bonus Program. Welcome.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Dori VanBockel. I'm a manager of the development incentives team at the Portland Housing Bureau and here to talk to you about implementation of new code for this new bonus program that was put into place into city code last year. So what exactly is the MDP program? It's the Manufactured Dwelling Park Affordable Housing Density Program. We're referring to as the MDP program.
 And as Mayor Wheeler mentioned, this was implemented into zoning code and allows for a density bonus in exchange for affordable housing with a goal of preserving lower housing cost options that are provided for within manufactured dwelling parks across the city.
 The density bonus is voluntary. It's not something that has to be done but is an allowance for property owners to either maintain and increase the density on the site or to transfer that density elsewhere and to another site and that's something that we will partner with the development, Bureau of Development Services in implementation.
 To qualify for the density bonus, MDP, a manufactured dwelling park, would need to restrict at least 50% of the dwelling units within the park, and those households would need to earn no more than 60% of area median income.
 And we're proposing an affordability period of 99 years and a requirement for annual certification of tenant incomes and rents as the Bureau otherwise requires of other projects within our portfolio.
 The process and timeline to date for moving this implementation into effect, the council approved zoning code previously. We have had a presentation to the Housing Advisory Commission a couple of different
 and have received some stakeholder feedback through a couple of meetings with property owners across the city of the manufactured dwelling parks affected by the zoning code. And we're here today to adopt the code implementation. We still have a process of implementing administrative rules to fine tune the operations of the program.
 the day-to-day, what we'll do to process applications and such. By the way, can I just make a comment about this slide? I wish in almost every presentation we got as a council meeting,
 we had a slide that was as clear as this one is in terms of explaining where we are in the process, what our role is, what follows. There's a lot of stuff coming at us, so when you take the time to put this on a graphic...
 It is enormously helpful and I want to thank you for doing that and urge my colleagues to do this as much as possible. Well, I'll thank Cassie Graves on my team, too, who put that together for us. But yes, it's helpful for us, too, to keep track of the different initiatives as well. So the Housing Bureau does have a administrative rule process where we will publish a draft of rules.
 allow for a 60-day period of comment by the public, including a public hearing. So upon approval today, we would be then hereafter implementing that process to implement the rules.
 That is the end of my presentation, but if you do have more questions, I'm happy to answer them. Thanks, Dori. Dori, when you established the density bonus program and you established the levels, did you do some degree of marketing or outreach to find out what the level of demand would be at that level?
 So the part of the implementation in was of the zoning code and so I'm not sure what work had been done at that point since it was part of the establishing of the new zone itself for manufactured dwelling parks or residential so the core of title 30 Yeah, okay, and so that established the 60% of meeting family income amount it also established the requirement that 50% of the units meet the threshold and
 What the Bureau has proposed is the 99-year affordability period, and primarily because it meets the same guidelines as is in our other long-term affordability portfolio. Good. Well, I'll be curious to see what the level of demand is for this. I'm very, very proud of the...
 The base work that was done around the manufactured dwelling parks, that impacts approximately 3,000 units of housing. And so it was quietly done that it's going to have a significant impact. And I really appreciate the work the Housing Bureau has done there. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? I was just going to comment that, yes, the Planning Bureau did look into the market research that you questioned. Good. Excellent. Thank you.
 Thank you. I appreciate it. Any further discussion? Carla, any public testimony on this item? Maggie and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Dory. Good presentation. Appreciate it. Good morning, Commissioner. It's Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. And I'm not sure how to be passive-aggressive about this horrible situation that you put me in with agreeing with both the mayor and Commissioner Fish. But the one thing I think that could have made the presentation even better...
 if we had gone a little bit more vigorously into the equity discussion, the quadrants, and the placement of this housing. But since I wasn't super getting the data from the slide, it was interesting to note that, and it's a bit surprising that in the electronic PDFs for this, which is only four pages, 140,000 manufactured homes. Oh, that's in Oregon. This is interesting. Not Portland. The next one is number three is the Portland area.
 But the main thing that I think would be, when we talk about, usually take it in a binary way, the east side, west side equity, what percentage of these mobile home parks are constrained to the sort of the Killingsworth corridor or the Powell corridor? Obviously, there are a lot of complexities to the real estate market and how housing was developed.
 with Commissioner Hardesty not present today, I think it's especially important that we talk about doing it, even though this was a great presentation with that special process simple slide, to have somebody deal with the GIS so that we know not just statistically what we're talking about as far as MFI people, but also geographically, who are these people, where do they live, Powell in 111th, Killingsworth in the 70s, and stuff like that. And
 be mindful of how far these people are having to go to work and how do we continue to provide them with economic opportunity for growth. Thanks very much. But obviously the package looks like it's gonna do good things and I look forward to your unanimous passage. Good, thank you. Good morning. I agree with what Charles said and I wanna know,
 Why do we have to stop with this zoning in certain corridors? Why can't we have residentially owned Commons in every neighborhood so that we have an equity in that and
 the rich are living next to people who are low income. What's wrong with that? And why can't we zone these in every neighborhood? And why can't we have tiny home villages that are residentially owned commons in every neighborhood?
 There's so many abandoned boarded up homes. If those homes were demolished and taken down and you took over that property and you turned it into a residentially owned commons with...
 You know, four, eight, 12 tiny homes, depending on the size of the property, where they're paying for the liability and they're doing the landscaping and the management because they've collectively come together and thrown in their $200 or $300 a month together to maintain everything. I don't see why you couldn't do that anywhere, no matter what the neighborhood. Why specific areas? Thank you.
 Thanks, y'all. Appreciate it. Thank you both. Any further discussion, colleagues? Please call the roll, Carla. Udainly? This is a really, I think, smart and creative approach to generate more affordable housing. I'm really pleased with the work that we've done around protecting residents of manufactured dwelling parks, which come with a unique set of needs and challenges. I vote aye. Fritz?
 I'm really happy to support this. Pamela Ferguson and Ed Guerin took me around the manufactured home community on Hayden Island when I was campaigning in 2005 and again in 2007 and we knocked on doors and I came to realize what a wonderful option some of the manufactured home parks are and how they're not mobile at all.
 So I want to thank Claire Adamsick for helping to get the policy on mobile homes or manufactured dwellings into the comprehensive plan. In Mayor Hales' administration and then the continued work, good work of the Planning Bureau and the Housing Bureau in making ways that make it legal to encourage this and give incentives for property owners to keep this really useful type of community.
 and at the same time having more economic benefit because they can put the density either on the site or off the site. So it's a very elegant solution and I'm very happy to support it, aye. Fish. Commissioner Fritz, I think Ed Guerin took me on the same tour and some of those manufactured homes on the Columbia were really spectacular and affordable. And let's be clear, this is part of our comprehensive approach to helping people stay in their homes
 avoid being displaced in their homes, which often leads to a spiral, including homelessness and other things. So the more we can do upstream to keep people in their homes, to maintain affordability, the better. This is a step in the right direction. I'm pleased to support it. Bye. Wheeler.
 Well, this is a continuation of a process that started many years ago. As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, former Mayor Hales was very aggressively involved in making sure that manufactured dwelling parks were protected. This is a natural extension of that work, and I'd like to thank everybody at the Housing Bureau who worked so hard on it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 And now, ladies and gentlemen, we can go back to time certain item number 1103. Grant a 10-year franchise to Verizon Wireless LLC, doing business as Verizon Wireless, for wireless communication services in the city. Colleagues, the ordinance before us would grant Verizon Wireless a new franchise for a 10-year term.
 In September of 2018, Commissioner Udaly and I set out priorities for staff for negotiations with carriers on wireless infrastructure. Those priorities were reflected in staff's creation of a new template franchise agreement for wireless carriers, which complies with new federal rules.
 Staff from the Office for Community Technology are here today to answer any questions. Director Perez, good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Elizabeth Perez. I'm the Interim Director for the Office for Community Technology. I'm joined by... Oh, I'm Jennifer Lee. Hi, Jennifer. Hi. Program Manager at OCT. Thank you.
 So I like to do an overview every time we come to council on what our office does. So we are the Office for Community Technology. We are a small bureau that manages access of the public right-of-way by utilities who serve our residents and businesses. The right-of-way is the city's largest physical asset. It's about 20% of the land within the city is right-of-way, which is all the streets and sidewalks.
 and our residents have paid billions to acquire, build, and manage this asset. We recognize that utilities bring benefit to our residents and businesses every day. We've got water, heat, electricity, phone, cable TV, and increasingly broadband. Utilities want to provide these services, often at a profit, and to do that they need to install infrastructure in the right of way.
 The city wants these services for our residents and businesses, but we need to ensure that the services they provide are done safely and our residents do not subsidize the utilities who are installing the infrastructure in the public asset. But we're here to talk about Verizon and the franchise before you today. So Verizon has agreed to the city's franchise requirements. This agreement ensures that Verizon will pay franchise fees at our city rates similar to carriers installing similar infrastructure in our right-of-way.
 Verizon has had a franchise since at least 2006. The ordinance before you today continues Verizon's existing right to operate in the city and incorporates recent changes in federal law. The term of the Verizon franchise are commiserate as required by federal law to the AT&T franchise passed by city council earlier this year.
 The franchise assesses $1,250 per year for every small cell attached to poles in the right-of-way and $8,000 per year for every attachment that is bigger than a small cell. The $1,250 fee was adopted by city council in 2018 and again complies with recent federal communications order on small cells. And the $8,000 fee continues rates first set by the city in 2003. There are few differences between the AT&T franchise and the one before you today.
 AT&D voluntarily agreed to the following terms in their agreement. A prepayment for franchise and permit fees and a non-profit donation of $200,000 to support digital equity efforts in the city of Portland. Due to recent federal law changes, the city cannot mandate any public benefits in wireless agreements. We cannot mandate a donation in the franchise or prepayment.
 Staff did complete the formal franchise process required by city charter, which includes publication of the franchise in the daily journal of commerce. After publication of the franchise, the auditor's office received no objection and the franchise was filed for the council agenda. Second reading will be January 8th of 2020. Jennifer Lee and I are here to answer any questions if you have any. Thank you both.
 Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have six people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Mariah Scott, Travis, I believe it's Backeye, and John Isaacs. Welcome. I don't know if you have a particular order. John, do you want to start?
 Go ahead, John. Did you say me, Mayor? Okay, no problem. Go for it. Yeah. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the Portland City Council. My name is John Isaacs and I am the Vice President of Government Affairs for the Portland Business Alliance. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. The Portland Business Alliance is the greater Portland Chamber of Commerce and the leading voice for business in the region. The alliance takes direction from our members to advocate on their behalf at all levels of government to support commerce, community health, and the shared and sustainable prosperity for our region and our state.
 This year PBA formed for the first time a technology and innovation committee. This committee was formed to reflect and give greater voice to Portland's thriving tech community and out of recognition that over half of Portland area jobs are now with non-tech companies. The quote-unquote tech industry is now an essential part of all sectors of our economy including the public sector.
 Additionally, and perhaps most importantly... Excuse me, did you say that almost half of our jobs are with tech companies or non-tech? Over half of tech jobs are now with non-tech companies, so banks, for example, or government agencies. Yes. I see. Thank you. That is according to the Technology Association of Oregon, who's partnered with us in formation of this committee.
 Additionally, and perhaps most importantly, our members recognize that continued investment in technology is essential for the sustained shared prosperity of the Portland region. On behalf of our 1,900 members and our now thriving Technology and Innovation Committee, I'm here today to express our support for the 10-year franchise agreement with Verizon.
 This agreement will allow Verizon to add new 4G capacity that will improve wireless service for existing and prospective Verizon customers, as well as build new 5G infrastructure which, when fully operational, will fundamentally improve and change how Portlanders live, work, and play.
 High-speed mobile connectivity and the fiber networks that underlie them is critical infrastructure that employers of all sizes prioritize. From local Portland startups and small businesses making niche products to Fortune 100 companies looking to acquire new talent or build new campuses, other cities are competing for the same limited pool of human and financial capital, and 5G connectivity will further elevate the City of Portland above its peers seeking to attract businesses and residents.
 5G will have a transformational effect on how public and private entities conduct their operations and will enable new business models. In addition to high-speed mobile broadband, the massive bandwidth, low latency, and unprecedented speed delivered by 5G technology will enable a tremendous amount of new and improved services and technologies that will improve the daily lives of Portlanders
 and give the city critical new tools to tackle many of our most intractable problems such as congestion, pedestrian safety, emergency preparedness, public service delivery, innovation and education and more. Most importantly, we see high speed mobile connectivity as essential to an accessible, equitable and inclusive economy. Technology has long been a critical tool for inclusion. The coming iterations including 5G will not only continue that trend but could move from merely critical to transformative.
 5G will create new and exciting opportunities for accessibility. For example, the high-speed and ultra-low latency capabilities of 5G will be critical to services that enable communication services for the visually impaired as described in this Congressional testimony. With 5G, more Portlanders will be able to work remotely, reducing commutes and time spent away from their families. And more Portlanders will have real-time, low-cost access to critical communication and information.
 We know that Verizon is committed to building a citywide 5G network that covers all Portlanders, regardless of where they live. Mobile broadband is by its very nature mobile. Verizon builds where the demand is and the demand in Portland is everywhere. Thank you. You got through that in less than three minutes. I'm very impressed. Well done. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Dr. Travis Pocky and I'm the Senior Director of Technology at Portland Public Schools.
 PPS recently undertook a visioning process and outlined the portrait of a graduate. In our highly connected world, it's no surprise that the vision for our future graduates is infused with technology. Our graduates will be inquisitive, critical thinkers with deep core knowledge who are effective users of digital technology. They will be powerful and effective communicators who can use multiple communication tools to convey ideas and information in writing and through video and audio recordings, digital technology, augmented reality, storytelling, debate, and other forms of expression.
 Most importantly, there will be optimistic, future-oriented graduates who will become influential and informed global stewards who know how to use technology to collaborate on project teams with diverse peers locally, nationally, and globally. To achieve this vision, access to technology and the opportunities that 5G can bring, both in the classroom and at home, is critically important. PPS was a proud partner in the creation of the city's broadband plan and has continued to participate in the Digital Inclusion Network.
 to ensure equitable access for all students and families. Schools and students are dependent on access to the internet to improve student outcomes, close the achievement gap, and deliver better learning opportunities for all the students that we serve. The plan recognizes that the city and its partners must take bold actions, like ensuring the development of world-class network infrastructure that all have access to, including 5G.
 With the opportunities that 5G infrastructure provides, we can focus on new ways of addressing connectivity in and between our buildings and reduce overall network complexity, allowing us to provide equitable high-speed access for all while maximizing our limited resources to deliver high-quality, connected educational opportunities for all students. Expanded access in schools allows students to take advantage of advancements in technology, expanding the opportunities and sources to learn from.
 At home, additional options for families to access the internet helps close the opportunity gap. While today's action won't guarantee that all Portlanders have access to 5G, deploying the network is a critical first step. We must continue to work to bridge the digital divide. We support the city's work to bring 5G to Portland and will continue to be a partner in the ongoing work to ensure that everyone has access to technology. Thank you. Sir, you are the Chief Technology Officer for Portland Public Schools? No, I am the Senior Director. Senior Director? Yes.
 Is there someone over you, or are you the... There is. Well, I'm pleased to know that we have such talent at Portland Public Schools because we have a technology oversight committee. The city and periodically are looking for candidates. Excellent. Come help us provide oversight of technology projects, and it's a pleasure to meet you today and to know that Portland Public Schools has a lot of talent. Absolutely. Nice to meet you. Thank you. Excellent.
 Good morning. Maria Scott, President of Skyward, Verizon Company. So I represent both the Portland startups and the Fortune 100 company. We are a leading drone operations management platform. We were founded out of the University of Oregon MBA program in 2012. And we opened our first office in downtown Portland right on Nato Parkway in 2014.
 And we've grown from a group of five co-founders to about 75 people, and we continue to grow our teams here in Portland. We're very committed to staying in downtown Portland and to really expanding the business there.
 When Skyward was founded, it was illegal to fly drones commercially in the U.S., but today there are over 158,000 commercial drone pilots, including me, and drones are important in disaster response, in commercial construction, engineering, media, utilities, real estate. They help companies gather critical data while keeping workers out of dangerous areas and helping businesses save time and money.
 Drones are important tools to businesses in our community. One of our customers is PBS Engineering, and they actually work with Portland Public Schools to use drones to inspect the roofs to protect roof infrastructure and do the HVAC and the roof inspections. We saved a lot of time and a lot of money with that contract. We were able to do that with drones faster and more efficiently. Now today, none of the drones are connected to a network.
 So that's where the 5G and the 4G comes in, because cellular connected drones make it safer and more secure to manage these drones in our cities and in our regions. We can provide even more value to businesses and to our communities. And at Skyward, we're connecting drones to 4G and also to 5G to better serve our commercial customers.
 5G unlocks much more potential for drones. It's a critical resource for our business. With 5G, we get low latency, high bandwidth, and security that drones need in order to fly autonomously and to gather critical data and be able to deliver that data back in real time. So with 5G, a utility company can remotely deploy drones to help detect and prevent
 issues. And an example of this is in the wildfires where drones can actually be used to fly lines and they can inspect where do you have vegetation overgrowth. They can see a problem with circuitry or with a transformer before humans can see that so we can actually get ahead of the issues and prevent some of these gas leaks, wildfires, some of these disasters.
 At Skyward, we're building that infrastructure and services. We're going to unlock new opportunities. And Verizon's investment in 5G makes it possible to do that.
 It's an important technology for our business and the business in our communities that use that technology. Thank you for your support. Thank you, and I enjoyed my tour of Skyward very much. It was exciting to see the work that you're doing, and I'm particularly pleased with the growth of the company, and we do want you to stay here in Portland, so we thank you for choosing Portland. Thank you, Mayor. Commissioner Daley. Thank you.
 This is slightly off topic, but your testimony just reminded me that I'm really interested in the possibility of using drones with thermal sensors to help maintain our urban canopy and spot troubled trees and also maybe help keep them from getting entangled with power lines and falling down and...
 I just want to put that out into the universe and see what happens. It is definitely possible. We have a number of customers in utilities and primarily it's been the utility companies because they're trying to maintain infrastructure and so things like trees, canopy overgrowth, vegetation, it's extremely expensive and time consuming and drones really change that and make it possible. Cool. Great.
 Great. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. Thank you. Next three please Carla. Are Marcelino Alvarez, Maggie and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And were those the last three Carla? Yes. Thank you. Good morning Mr. Alvarez. Would you like to start please? Sure. Thank you. Esteemed members of Portland City Council, Mr. Mayor, I'm Marcelino Alvarez. I'm the Chief Product Officer of Fresh Consulting, formerly CEO of Uncork Studios. We were acquired last month.
 The backdrop to innovation is a well-considered public policy that balances the needs and interests of all its citizens with the aspirations of its entrepreneurial and innovation clusters who seek to create new products and services that often push the boundaries of existing regulations. This public policy must neither favor those with access and capital, nor should it ignore those who have historically been maligned, excluded, and marginalized. That policy rests on a dynamic edge.
 It must not only be adaptable to enable new technologies to evolve, but it also must be thoughtful and consider the potential for any new technology to be used in unexpected ways, some good and others not. Any technology altruistically conceived can in the wrong hands do harm. And so the task before you today, and not just today rather, but for the foreseeable future, is to consider the yin and the yang of any new technology promise as you create policies to cultivate and regulate nascent industries.
 Today I'm pledging my support of Verizon's 5G infrastructure for this city. I sit here before you as a mentor and advocate to the startup community, as a founder, as a service provider to organizations and companies who seek my expertise as they pursue commercialization of innovation, and most importantly as a citizen of Portland. A best-in-class digital infrastructure will allow this city to recruit new companies, maintain its foothold in the global marketplace, and to provide access and services to a broader range of its populace.
 Startups are constantly on a quest to get from zero to one. Infrastructure such as 5G will greatly accelerate their ability to commercialize innovation across a variety of industries, from urban mobility to IoT to mobile technologies. 5G has the potential to do for IoT and those other related industries what the cloud enabled for software as a service startups.
 For those communities that have historically lacked access, 5G has the potential to provide an affordable alternative to high-speed broadband internet connectivity. This can not only help those historically marginalized by plugging them into our networks, but more importantly provide them with the tools to learn, to stay informed, to run their businesses, and to foster innovation.
 My ask today is to not only consider allowing 5G in Portland, but also to think through what a compelling unified vision for Portland's digital and physical infrastructure over the next decade looks like. From that perspective, it becomes clear that without 5G, we will be taking a step backwards, and with it, we'll move our city forward. Thank you. Thanks, Marceline. Appreciate it. Thank you. So my question is, is Verizon under AT&T, because AT&T still virtually owns everything,
 That would be a question. And then also, what is Verizon going to do to protect the security of the marginalized, disabled, and aging if they get online? And also, how are they not going to not be like AT&T when... I think aging and disability, Verizon does the phones for aging and disability, right?
 So I want to know, like, how are they going to help aging and disabled people when they call because they've got questionable charges on their phone or on their Internet and help them figure that out because AT&T ran a total fraud scam on the LifeLink customers and the government had to sue them. So I want to know how they're going to protect aging and disabled people. Thank you.
 Still good morning, commissioners. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson for the record. A record which is a lot of blah, blah, blah. No metrics, no specifics, no data, no goals, no timelines. Just because we say digital divide or something...
 doesn't mean we're helping people. There's a lot of legalistic reasons and arguably moral reasons why you have to approve this since you've already approved AT&T. But when you do this, it's a good place to document where we've had success and where we've had failure at closing the digital divide. It makes one suspicious when there's no data about increased access to
 for poor and minority people. Why don't we talk about it? Because the data is probably not very encouraging. It probably means that the success rate and growth in wealth for white tech bros is still much higher and faster than it is for any other segment. And you have decided to create a presentation which doesn't deal with that information at this time.
 It'll be interesting to go back and review the live video testimony here, and particularly take out a phrase, nor should it favor. We live in a diverse community where some people are opposed to affirmative action and direct measurable things to increase participation for those who've been formerly slighted, excluded.
 We have people whose families in this community have been subjected to genocide within the last 100 or 200 years, probably much more recently. So when we talk about these franchises and the fact that we're giving multi-billion dollar corporations access to money,
 publicly owned and controlled space. Just because the federal law says we can't stipulate public benefits, it's a beautiful time for you to talk a little bit more about how public benefit has, hopefully, or sometimes we don't meet our goals, has not happened. So you would think that whatever's next, SoftBank, Sprint, T-Mobile, when they come around for their turn,
 Hopefully they're listening and they'll do an even better job. As to Maggie's question, international giant telecoms, Vodafone got off the Verizon bus, so Verizon is a domestically centered independent direct competitor of AT&T. I don't know if they do Obama phones, but that is another thing. How these companies are delivering services was not discussed. Thank you. Thank you.
 Colleagues any further questions of staff? This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you all. Next item please is item 1104. Update the bicycle parking regulations and amend fee schedule for land use services. Colleagues this is a second reading. We've already had a presentation and heard public testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion on this item?
 Seeing none, please call the roll. Udaly? Well, I know bicycle parking may seem insignificant to some. The availability and design of bicycle parking has a real impact on whether people can choose to use a bike to travel around Portland or not. We can't.
 Expect people to replace car trips with bike trips if they don't have an easily accessible place to store their bike securely this is why I'm very thankful to city staff from the Bureau of Transportation the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Development Services as well as Portland Housing Bureau for finding solutions that address the need of adequate and secure bicycle parking in new development and
 This was a truly collaborative multi-bureau effort, and I think the outcome reflects the benefit of us working across bureaus.
 So, through this work, we are taking steps to meet our goals related to congestion and climate change. However, we know that code changes are not the only thing that must be done, which is why I'm pleased that my bureau has funding to build over 75 miles of bike facilities over the next five years, many of which are part of projects to make travel safer in East Portland.
 I want to thank Liz Horman, Sarah Figliozzi, and the rest of the PBOT crew, as well as the many staff from BDS, BPS, and the Housing Bureau who all contributed. Finally, thank you to all the community members and stakeholders that participated throughout this project and helped make it as strong as it is. I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you.
 The 2010 bicycle master plan that Commissioner Fisher and I voted for under Mayor Adams directed outreach that found that one of the primary deterrents from bike commuting is having a safe place to store bikes both at home and at the destination. And the Planning and Sustainability Commission heard that bike theft for many families means not replacing the kids' bikes anymore.
 So I'm very pleased to support this. I believe that multifamily housing in particular should be livable for the people who live there. And I support the measure that calls for on large sites to have shared bikes storage places that are not in the individual apartments because, as we heard in testimony, that...
 spaces in the apartments are sometimes put in the wrong place, they're too small, or you're tracking mud and leaves with your bike. So having a shared space in larger development seems absolutely the right thing to do, and I'm pleased to support this. I. Fish? Well, a lot of good work went into this. I want to thank everybody for their contribution, and I'm pleased to support it. I. Thank you.
 Wheeler well, this is exciting because of the collaboration that Commissioner you daily referred to earlier in the research that allowed the City Council to adopt updated and equitable by code requirements first, I want to thank the Bureau of Planning and sustainability the Bureau of Transportation staff the Bureau of Development Services And the housing bureau for developing a code change project that I believe creates a safe accessible and sustainable
 provides the opportunity for secure bike parking as our city grows. I also want to thank the Planning and Sustainability Commission and our volunteers on that commission for asking tough questions, for listening and reading extensive testimony, and for developing the recommended code update that reflects a wide range of potential development scenarios. I want to thank Commissioner Udalli and her team and I'd like to thank everyone on my team.
 This was truly an excellent collaborative effort. What this technical fix means is that more people are able to bike to work or to school because there's more housing with accessible, safe and secure bike parking. It's a win for the climate, it's a win for mobility, and it's a win for equity. I'm very proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you everyone who worked so hard on that. Next up is 1105.
 Establish standards for bicycle parking for certain city funded affordable housing projects They designed but not yet permitted colleagues. This is also a second reading. We've already heard a presentation We've taken public testimony. Is there any further discussion? If not Carla, could you please call the roll you daily? well, I I appreciate this exception that would have
 really negatively impacted some existing projects that have already been scoped funded or enter in the pipeline, but appreciate moving forward with that we're going to have ample bike parking in affordable developments as well. I vote aye.
 Good catch, Commissioner Udalli. I'm very pleased to support this. I also love it when we have two related items to vote on because then I can say my thank yous that I forgot to say in the first item on the second one. I do want to say thank you to Claire Adamsick, my senior policy director, and Tim Crail, my chief of staff, for all their work on both of these items. Aye. Aye. Wheeler? Happy to support it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. One, one, one, five.
 appoint Derek Spears and reappoint Kristen Miner and Matthew Roman to the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. Colleagues, the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission is a seven-member volunteer commission which provides leadership and expertise on maintaining and enhancing the city's historic and architectural heritage.
 The PHLC reviews new development within historic districts and major alteration for historic resources. Members must have demonstrated interest, competence, and or knowledge of historic preservation.
 The appointment of Derek Spears today fills a public at large vacancy on the commission with an individual who is highly committed to ensuring that the city's goals of historic preservation serves all of its people, particularly those communities who haven't had their stories adequately told.
 The reappointments of Kristen and Matthew continue the consistent leadership that they've developed through their service over the past four years. Thank you Derek, Kristen and Matthew for your willingness to serve on the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. I look forward to your continued excellence and guidance. We now have Hilary Adam who's the BDS Senior Planner presenting the report. Good morning.
 HELLO, MR. MAYOR, COMMISSIONERS, HILLARY ADAMS, SENIOR PLANNER BDS. I AM HERE MOSTLY JUST TO INTRODUCE YOU TO DEREK AND INTRODUCE YOU TO KRISTEN AND MATTHEW. I MET DEREK A COUPLE MONTHS AGO AND WAS VERY EXCITED BY HIS ENTHUSIASM AT THE POSSIBILITY OF SERVING AS A PUBLIC AT LARGE MEMBER AND REPRESENTING THOSE VOICES IN THE COMMUNITY.
 that are concerned with the loss of places that matter to them. Kristen and Matthew have been on the Commission now for four years and have established consistent and dynamic leadership and so I'm excited about their continued leadership on the Commission. So I would like to invite them up so you can ask them questions now. Great, thanks.
 And just by way of maybe introducing yourself, if you could state your name for the record, maybe just tell us briefly what you see the path being ahead, what you see some of the opportunities and challenges as being. My name is Derek Spears.
 I remember the opportunity of talking with Kristen about this particular opportunity here. And I'm a kid from the south, from Alabama. My husband is from Arkansas. And we have lived a life that has been presented with certain challenges as we've been married and together for over 19 years now.
 Um, the thing I can see going forward is being able to be a voice, uh, because I do believe the representation and perspective matters on certain things that are happening within the city. This city is, holds a very special place within my heart from when we moved here six years ago, uh, for what is afforded our family and what we saw in the city when we moved here and what it continues to do for us. So I'm extremely excited to be able to provide the perspective, provide, uh,
 that that voice that needs to be had out there to help talk about the things we need to preserve here for Underserved communities and I'm excited to be able to do that going forward. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning mayor City Council members. I'm the chair of the Landmarks Commission and I am willing to step up for another four years at
 whether or not I'm elected chair, but I'm willing to do that. As you know, it's not always an easy position, but I do believe I have a unique ability given my background in architecture and planning and historic preservation and these things all come together.
 But it's more than kind of just good design. This is an interesting time in the city. And we have so many challenges in front of us. And I do think historic preservation helps answer some of those challenges. Not all of them, obviously, but we definitely want to partner as much as possible with city council and other agencies to make that happen.
 And I do want to just tell you how excited I am to have Derek Spears willing to step up to this commission. He...
 As you probably heard, he is from elsewhere, so he brings a unique perspective. He's been enthusiastic about Portland. In fact, one of the things he told me when we first met was that he spends many of his weekends just finding a new neighborhood and walking around and kind of learning about it. So that brings me great joy, and I think he's going to really be able to bring a wonderful new voice to the commission. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you.
 Well, I'm Matthew Roman and I'm privileged to be here with these guys because I love the passion and that's I think what you're looking for in a good Landmarks Commissioner. I moved to Portland in 1994 with my family after studying architecture and I chose Portland because of the urban growth boundary, because of the small block system that we have, the 200 foot block system. So it was a purposeful act to come here.
 And I think I've spent the last 25, 30 almost years trying to add my own mark on it, but to protect what's so unique about it. And I think the biggest challenges that we have going forward is to just how to manage our growth while not losing the uniqueness of our place. And so as we think about the future and the future
 the really important challenges that we have with climate change. I think preservationists today offer a new perspective that's not the freeze it in amber sort of, we don't want anything to change. We want to be part of the sustainability movement where we're reusing our buildings instead of throwing them out and finding adaptive ways to put them to new use and also to help solve the housing issues that we have by being,
 a positive addition to the number of units that are in the city, because we think that historic districts are great places to live and they offer a lot of unique opportunities for citizens of Portland. So I'm passionate, I wouldn't do this if Kristen Miner wasn't here doing it as well, because I know her passion. I just met Derek today, but I can feel it in him. So I think you've got a good one. Excellent, well we're proud to have all three of you serve.
 Colleagues, I don't know if you have any further questions. Just a quick comment. To Mr. Spears and Mr. Roman, thank you very much for stepping up. This is a very important assignment, very time-consuming work, and the quality of your work helps us make informed and good decisions. So we thank you. And Kristen Miner, you've been an outstanding chair.
 Thank you for re-upping for another four years and bringing that continuity of historical knowledge. There are, as you said, enormous challenges that this city faces. I happen to wear rose-colored glasses, so I think in terms of if we get them right, some of the really pressing issues in our community around being a leading green city is
 addressing homelessness, on and on and on, cleaning up our river. If we get them right, I think we become a singular city of our size. And what's exciting is we're making this history as we go along. And there is a big fraction, or I would say tension point, right now between the supply-siders on housing and
 and the preservationists in terms of how we balance the two. It's a very healthy debate, but your voice is needed now more than ever to preserve our history and the places that give us a sense of place. So thanks to all three of you, but particularly to Kristen, who has been serving for some time and is taking this on again. We really appreciate the fact that people of your quality and your background
 are willing to serve in these positions and help us get it right. So thank you. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish to accept the report. A second from Commissioner Udalli. Any further discussion? Please call the roll, Carla. I want to thank you all for your willingness to serve. I'm really fascinated by the work you do. I wish I could
 I'm gonna drop shadow you, but I'm a little too busy these days. But I have a particular interest in how do we preserve beautiful historic buildings while serving the kind of increased need in the community. I almost can't stand to look at old photos of the city and see what we decided wasn't worth saving in the past. It's heartbreaking. So the more that we can preserve what we have left, the better.
 I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you each one of you for the time that you put in, Matthew and Kristen, and thank you for being willing to step up to the work because it's a lot of work. And I'm really impressed that all three of you are here this morning, again, taking time away from your lives.
 It's a little sad that this afternoon we're going to be voting on reducing historic protections in many areas of our city. So your advocacy is going to continue to be needed. And obviously, sometimes the council listens and sometimes we don't. And that's the nature of citizen commissions, which makes it even more challenging to serve in the role that you do and to be willing to continue the passion. So I...
 I hope that somebody will be getting into this seat in 2021 who will continue my passion for historic preservation. Aye. Fish. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. It's a strong panel. Thanks a lot for stepping forward. I vote aye. The report's adopted and the appointments are approved. Thanks again. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next item, 1117.
 amend Joint Office of Homeless Services Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County to authorize fiscal year 19-20 revised budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Colleagues, the City of Portland through the Portland Housing Bureau has a strong relationship with Multnomah County in funding the Joint Office of Homeless Services.
 This partnership is formalized through an intergovernmental agreement between both the city and the county and it was first formed in July of 2016.
 This amendment to the IGA revises the City Council's fiscal year 1920 annual budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services, which entails $214,318 in federal carryover funds from the fall bump process and $180,000 in recreational cannabis funds to provide supportive housing capacity and services. We have
 The housing program, well, actually we don't. And we have two great people here. How are you doing? Good. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Molly Rogers, the Deputy Director of the Portland Housing Bureau. Thanks, Molly. And I'm joined by Christian Elkin with the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Good morning, Christian. Good to see you. Thank you for being here.
 And we have no formal presentation for you this morning, but happy to answer your questions. Colleagues, any further questions on the budget adjustments? Commissioner Fritz. Question regarding the recreational cannabis funding for supportive housing services. How are we trying to target that to make sure that it's available for people who are from communities previously impacted by cannabis prohibition?
 Yes, it is. We are looking to use cannabis resources to expand our supportive housing menu of services delivered by...
 addiction and mental health practitioners. That is actually being managed through the Joint Office of Homeless Services, and they contract that work out to join a nonprofit that hires a multidisciplinary team of folks who can work with our residents who are living in permanent supportive housing, of city-financed housing.
 who need those additional services to deal with whatever issues that arise that may impact their housing stability. In particular, the recreational cannabis tax funds are intended to be used to serve people of color. And how are we making sure that those services are intentionally being provided to people in that category?
 So when JOIN, when we contract, sorry, Christian Elkin in the JOIN office, when we contract with JOIN, we will set forth these stipulations of the Cannabis Recreation Fund and ensure, so when they're hiring the FTE that they're using for the mobile housing team, they will have certain stipulations. Also, when we do coordinated access and all of the entry, we're also ensuring that the vulnerability skills are recognized
 vulnerability assessment risks are made and that we're identifying who needs the services based on the different types of funding that come into the joint office so this isn't the only funding that comes with stipulations that come into the joint office so oftentimes there's a set of criteria that
 the people who are receiving the services have to meet and so this will just be another entry into that set of criteria terrific and if you could please track that as we're going to be having some more conversations about allocations of the cannabis tax if if we uh if you're able to give us information on the demographics of the people being served that's going to be helpful in knowing should we continue to put this money towards that service absolutely we'll include that in the contract language thank you uh commissioner you daily then commissioner fish if i could just add to that a little bit those are
 really good questions and something that I'm a concern that I share with Commissioner Fritz. I just want to add that there is a deep focus on racial equity in the Joint Office. So to some extent that's built into the system. They're really committed to
 closing those kind of disparate impact gaps and serving communities of color in particular. We can't always target funds with a kind of like race requirement, but we can get to, there's creative ways to get to people who have been most
 impacted and and I believe that's happening and there's a lot they have lots of good data. It's almost too much data every meeting I'm a little inundated with with the data. Commissioner Fish. Yeah a couple points one Am I correct that under? Mayor Wheeler's term as mayor we've effectively doubled our contribution to the Joint Office. I
 Over the last four years since the inception of the Joint Office, the city's contribution from 2017 until now has increased by 25%. And so that included what was originally part of the Portland Housing Bureau that came to the Joint Office. And then we increased both the city and the county increased their investments by $10 million. And then we've seen investments since that time in the Joint Office. Okay.
 Yeah, so again, my recollection is we've effectively doubled our contribution. Is that correct, Mayor? It depends how you count it. The gross output has been from $17 million, I think, to $34 last year. Is that correct? Correct. Okay.
 However, I think if you do it the way Christian is suggesting, if you consider resources that were already ongoing, that were previously allocated through the housing bureau. So I think what you're saying is 25% of those contributions are new.
 25% previously existed under the Housing Bureau is that is that what you're suggesting? That's not necessarily I did the math just on the total contributions, but when I when I originally started working at the Joint Office we looked at kind of what came in as existing resources from both the city and the county from the Portland Housing Bureau and the Department of County Human Services and then the additional investments that have been made over that time so I could I
 I could re-look at it with that lens. Could you shoot me an email? Absolutely. I'd like to document that. It's important, and we're going into our budget cycle, so it's important that we hold the line on these critical investments. And the other thing I just want to mention is there are a lot of people who are new to this conversation about how we address homelessness, and all of us get emails from people saying, why aren't you doing anything? What's the city doing?
 And I think one of the answers is to point people to the Joint Office and say, we have a plan. It's a very ambitious plan. It addresses all the nuances of what we encounter on the streets. It's about prevention, rapid rehousing, shelters, and then supportive housing and other services. It's comprehensive, and we don't have to keep reinventing the wheel. As I like to tell people, we have a plan.
 It's bold. We have to fund it. And I thank you both for your work. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Any further discussion? Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. Thank you. Maggie and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. This one's about the contract money, right? So I want to know, again, because Joanne Hardesty isn't here, how many 
 low income or aging or disabled people or You what's the diversity looking like on you know getting a contract from you guys as far as You know how they're spreading the money around to different people Who are getting contracts with the city so Maggie? Do you have a chance to go to the joint office meetings and?
 the big work group meetings and see their annual reports and other things because they produce a lot of work. It's on the website. It answers all those questions. Today we're releasing money, but that's a very good question about how we spend the money. And if you're having difficulty getting that from the Joint Office, would you please let my office know? Okay. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner. Charles Bridgecrank-Johnson and the
 The way this is titled, I think you seized the opportunity to be positive. We could speculate about whether public enthusiasm or public cynicism about local government is growing faster. But when we title these things, amend JOHS intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to authorize revised budget allocation, I think when people vote, they're really trying to vote for people who right in the title would say...
 increased $1 million, increased $1, reduced $1. And then, of course, when you click through onto the PDF, 748259 is the PDF number, why is there no prior and future year? It's such an issue that Commissioner Fish raised it.
 He said, what has been the financial situation for the JOHS since its inception up to now? Are there accounting indications that it's grown 50% or what? But we get just one attachment on page 5 of 7, Exhibit H. And it's really, I don't think any of you can step up and say, this is best practice to snapshot one year ahead.
 and not talk about the challenges of how much of this is as a percentage of total city revenue or expenses. How does it compare to the 217? As Mr. Fish pointed out, there are sources for that and I'm glad he volunteered his office to help us connect us with that information. But maybe public sentiment and the number of public questions would be reduced if there was a better job at
 Putting a better scope of the data in agenda items like this And it may be somewhere on in your packets There's a specific dollar amount that you can talk to about what the net increase is and get that on the record That would be beautiful. Thank you all very much for your time. Thank you any further discussion Carla, please call the roll you daily I Fritz Commissioner fish you helped
 or led the writing of the housing provisions in when you first came into office along with Mayor Adams in getting the Bureau of Housing and Community Development and the then Portland Development Commission to decide who's doing community development, who's doing housing, establishing the Portland Housing Bureau. And I think that was the beginning of a very necessary, systemic way of creating efficiencies and focus
 And then you also worked with Mayor Hales and Commissioner Saltzman in forming the joint office, which again made things more sensible. So that it wasn't that the city was taking care of one group of people living outside and the county was taking care of another. And both the Housing Bureau and the joint office have really done amazing work over the four years that you've been partnering together. I very much appreciate it. I'm glad to be able to support this contract.
 But in particular, I appreciate how much you care.
 We had a senior citizen came into my office the Friday before Thanksgiving around three o'clock in the afternoon and it was one of those bitterly cold days when it was really windy, but it wasn't quite cold enough to open the severe weather shelters. And having tried through 211 and various phone calls to various places to find this individual place, my executive assistant, Mee-Sung Kwon, called over to the joint office and marked Joel in at like 4.30 in the afternoon on the weekend,
 just before Thanksgiving, was able to find a place. And not only that, that we were able to get this individual into a shelter, but then Mark texted back to me, son, over the course of the holiday to let us know that this individual was safe. And we really appreciated that. And so it's not only the really great and focused work that you do, it's the fact that you do it with care and compassion, as does everybody in the Housing Bureau and the Joint Office. So thank you very much. Bye. Fish?
 Well, I'm very pleased to support this. I will be looking to see how we can make even more investments during the budget cycle. And Mayor, you know, you have a lot of responsibilities. Very little power under our charter, but you have a lot of responsibilities and a lot of relationships that are important. I think this relationship between the city and the county, between the mayor and the county chair, over how we're addressing homelessness is...
 is a paramount relationship. And there have been some bumps along the road. But if you focus less on style and more on substance, we are aligned. We have a plan. We're investing in that plan. We are looking for new resources to expand that plan. It is really good work with a lot of terrific people at the table.
 And it is very important to our city that the county chair and the mayor continue to collaborate at a very high level in addressing our number one problem, which is street homelessness. So thank you for your work and the presentation. I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler? So I wanted to answer Charles Bridge Crane's question. Why is the title boring?
 And the answer is because a lot of the work that we do on the City Council is actually just doing the business of the city. And sometimes it is boring. This is the Sixth Amendment revised Exhibit H with the actual awarded fiscal year 1920 budget amounts, which adds $116,917 in carryover federal emergency solution grant funds.
 $97,464 in carryover federal housing opportunities for people living with HIV and AIDS, that's the HOPWA funds, and from the 19-20 fall supplemental budget, we're adding $180,000, which we previously discussed during the fall bump with the recreational cannabis fund. So a lot of the business that we do here
 Maybe we could be more interesting in the way that we put it on the agenda, but a lot of this really is just doing business. In this case, it is allocating federal grants that have very specific purposes, and it is allocating fall bump funds where we've already had the discussion about the use of the funds. So I wish we could make it more interesting and more exciting, but sometimes it just ain't. I also do wanna get to the,
 the philosophical underpinning of the Joint Office, and two of my colleagues have mentioned it, and it bears mentioning. This is a highly innovative partnership
 And I do want to commend all of those who came together in 2015 and 2016 to establish the partnership. Former Mayor Hales had a huge role to play in this. Commissioner Fish, the then Housing Commissioner, had a huge role to play. Chair Kafoury was instrumental in making sure that the Joint Office got off the ground. Many, many other people who worked in the Housing Bureau and in the county's infrastructure and elsewhere
 to make sure that the joint office would work. And while there definitely have been some growing pains and bumps along the road and an evolution in thinking, as we better understood what worked to address the homeless situation, this is still a nationally regarded model.
 I mean, I cannot go to a meeting of national mayors where people do not ask about this model and how it's working, how it was created, how it is evolving with time to meet the needs in our community. And in large measure, because of the success of this model, I am very confident that we will end homelessness in our community. It won't be easy.
 And it won't be quick, but I am confident that through the Joint Office, we have established the right practices around prevention, around shelter, around how to best transition people into housing, and how to keep people successful in housing by creating the support services they need to be successful in that housing, whether it's addiction treatment or mental health services or job training, domestic violence survivor services, whatever.
 I feel that we have hit on the right formulas and we should be proud of the work that is being done.
 The problem continues. We need to scale the solutions, but I believe we've settled on the right formula, and it's largely because of this unique and innovative and important structure that we've created. So I just wanna chime in and say it is important to reflect on the history, and it is important to reflect on the historic contributions that so many people have made because we all share a passion in ending this crisis in our community.
 I'm proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And that leaves Dory the last person to come up for the pulled item 111. Did I miss something? 1122. Oh, I did on the back page. And Dory was all ready to get going. You know what Dory come up because I want you to be able to get to work. We're gonna do this quickly because the person who pulled it left. So why don't you come up. Carla, can you read 111, where was it? 1112.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for 1500 Southwest Taylor located at 9-1-1 Southwest 15th Avenue colleagues any questions any public testimony? Call the roll you daily. I Fritz I fish I I
 Wheeler. Aye. Thank you, Dori. Have a nice day. Last item on the agenda, 11122. Authorize bid solicitation and contracting with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for construction of the Creston Park Play Area Improvements Project. Commissioner Nick Fish. Colleagues, Creston Park near Southeast 45th and Powell is celebrating its centennial next year.
 And as we know, it's in need of some love. This project will remove a decommissioned waiting pool, expand the playground and add accessible play features, add new picnic tables and benches, improve ADA accessible paths. The Bureau estimates the total cost to be approximately $2.3 million. It will be funded by three sources. About half will come from the 2014 parks replacement bond,
 and the balance from the parks systems development charges and parks ADA fund. Parks conducted extensive public engagement and this design reflects the community's input. As always, I'd like to begin by thanking the voters for overwhelmingly approving the 2014 parks replacement bond and Commissioner Amanda Fritz for her leadership on the bond campaign. Parks capital project manager Gary Datka is on hand to answer any questions you may have.
 Gary. Thank you for having me. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I have no formal presentation today, but I am available to answer questions. And Commissioner Fish, if I could just back up on the total project cost. We had a total project allocation of $2.3 million. We're estimating the project construction cost at $1.5 million, which is what we're here for today.
 Commissioner Fritz so I have to ask what was the outcome of the fierce battle over the swings? We have so many swings You know swings are one of those things that all playgrounds really benefit from there's great, you know developmental sensory things that come out of swinging and Creston Park in particular had a very very
 Big outpouring for swings. So we have a number of bays of swings. We also have a group swing, which is great for inclusionary play. And then, you know, just a great play space overall. Is it an accessible playground, technically? It is not technically an inclusive playground, which we've been branching out to build more of. No, no, that's not what I'm asking. Yes, it does need all accessibility. The basic, yeah.
 So will there be an adapted swing? There will be. I think actually we have two adaptive swings. Great. I believe there's also two, I call them little baby bucket swings. They're for toddlers. And then there's two standard strap swings as well, again, as the group swing. Swings galore. Swings galore. That's the perfect outcome. I'm really happy to hear that because that was generated significant community conversations. It is. And yes, Commissioner, the children from Creston Elementary also looked into access from the
 various places and we're very much focused on accessibility. Fantastic. Yeah. This is a terrific park. It has a great tree canopy. It's next to an elementary school. It's in an area that's changing quite a lot and it's long overdue that we upgrade these amenities. So we're
 Very pleased to present this for your consideration. We were able to save most of the big trees, is that right? That is correct. We're actually saving all of the trees within and around the play area. We will maybe take out one to two trees for some of the ADA improvements, getting down to the pool most readily. Brilliant, thank you. The approach from the parking lot to the pool is a difficult one.
 Great and I'll just state the obvious this underscores the urgency for us to find a sustainable O&M funding process. But this park has long been promised. I'm really proud of the work that my colleagues have done on it. Looks great. Thank you. Any further questions and is there any public testimony on this item? I believe she left. All right. It's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll.
 You daily? Well, I'm very pleased to hear about the addition of adaptive swings. I think the first time that I directly engaged with City Hall was probably over 10 years ago with Parks in my mission to increase...
 meaningful, accessible options for children with disabilities, specifically mobility challenges. And I really honed in on swings and installing those adapted swings on playgrounds that are deemed accessible, which I've said before and I'll say again,
 is a really low bar and not inclusive for kids with significant motor impairments. So we have a lot of work to do, but I'm just so happy about that and the larger project, and I vote aye.
 I will echo Commissioner Fish's thanks to the people of Portland, the voters of Portland for approving the bond measure and again thank you to Commissioner Fish for finishing up that campaign. And I am happy to say Commissioner Eudaly that all of the projects have included a much
 much greater awareness of disability and the need and I think almost all of them have adaptive swings So it's really exciting. I think of all of the parks bond projects This one may have been the one that generated that required people in the parks Bureau to work together the different departments both communications the planners open forestry Huge amounts of effort going into getting this park done correctly. So I'm really happy that it's come especially because this was this where we filmed one of the a
 commercial segments for the Fix Our Parks segment. So it's very fitting that it's coming and is getting what we promised when we asked people to continue fixing the parks. Aye. Fish? Nice work, Gary. Aye. Wheeler? Yeah, this is a happy occasion. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Commissioner Fretz, for your great leadership. Thanks to everybody at the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau for
 delivering. Charles Bridgecrane asked a question earlier about whether or not faith in local government was going up or going down. And I don't know the answer to that question, but I do know the way you build trust with the public is you do what you say you are going to do. And this is another case of the Parks Bureau living up to the commitment to the promises that it made to the public during the last
 bond issuance and living up to the confidence and the faith the voters put in the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau in the City of Portland to do what they said they were going to do. We're doing it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned. Good afternoon everyone. It is still December 4th. It's the afternoon meeting of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Are you Daley? I'm here. Fritz?
 I'm here. Fish. Here. Hardesty Wheeler. Here and aged two hours since you saw me last. And now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony. Council, could you do it a little closer to the mic? Sure.
 You may also, is that better? It still isn't very loud. Try again. And read it with meaning. Is your mic on? It is. Let's try this. Better? Yeah, that's good. That's excellent. Thank you. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Fantastic. Thank you. First time certain item, Carla's item number 1123.
 direct all city bureaus to transition from gas-powered to electric and or battery-operated leaf blowers. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. And before we get started, Mayor, it looks like we have some guests. Former Metro President Tom Hughes, Professor Richard Klukas. Would you like to tell us who's joining us today? Welcome. I'm sorry, you didn't hear that. Richard Klukas.
 Who are our guests today, Richard? The guests are students from Portland State University, the class on Oregon politics, upper division political science. Welcome, everybody. Terrific. Thank you for being here. Hey, Tom, it's good seeing you again. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I was so excited about this particular item that's before us today that I forgot to shave this morning.
 I recycled that joke recently. Still good. Still good. I want to apologize in advance. I've got a little strain in my voice. I hope I can still be heard, but it's a temporary thing. Well, we have an all-star lineup. We have a strong resolution. We have a lot of momentum, and it's my honor to kick things off this afternoon. Colleagues, I'm very pleased to bring forth this resolution today directing city bureaus
 to transition to electric and or battery operated leaf blowers. Across the nation, we have seen a shift towards regulating gas powered leaf blowers. Over 100 cities, including Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, have some form of leaf blower ban or regulation. The city of Portland has code through Civic Life, which provides general operating and noise restrictions for the use of leaf blowers. But it's not enough. We're in a climate crisis.
 And in 2017, the city and Multnomah County pledged to transition to renewable energy by 2050. This resolution is a small step in the right direction. A study in 2011 found that using a two-stroke gas-powered leaf blower for 30 minutes emitted about the same amount of greenhouse gases as a 3,900-mile drive in a Ford F-150 pickup.
 As we'll hear from our invited testimony, gas-powered leaf blowers pollute our environment, they are bad for the health of the operator and the public, and they are a noise nuisance. This resolution directs bureaus to transition to handheld blowers to electric or battery-operated by January 1, 2021. When the technology becomes available, bureaus will also transition backpack blowers as well. Beginning early in the new year, we will set up a working group
 who will be tasked with finding an equitable path towards a citywide transition in the future. Here today to further introduce the resolution is my Policy Director, Asenna Lawrence, who will then introduce the panel. Asenna, welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Can you hear me? Yeah.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Asana Lawrence and I am Commissioner Fish's Director. As each of you know all too well, we are in a climate crisis which is wrecking havoc on our planet. In our lifetimes, we have seen global temperatures rise resulting in massive storms, fires in the Arctic tundra, and species extinction. The predictions of scientists for our future are bleak unless we take immediate action.
 Fortunately, Portland has been and continues to be a national leader in green energy and in green technology. We as local government and we as Portlanders are environmentally conscious and are committed to looking at innovative ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and our carbon footprint.
 Fighting climate change takes a multi-faceted approach, from large-scale changes reflected in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Paris Accords, to smaller ones, such as banning plastic bags in Portland, cutting down our use of single-use cutlery and straws, and transitioning our city fleet to electric and hybrid automobiles. Each step, large and small, is important in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and creating a more sustainable future.
 We're proud to bring forth this resolution, which directs city bureaus to transition to electric and or battery-operated leaf blowers. Gas-powered leaf blowers are harmful to the environment, to public health, and to the operator's health. They emit harmful chemicals, greenhouse gases. They produce high levels of noise, of which prolonged exposure can contribute to permanent hearing loss.
 This resolution directs bureaus to transition to electric and or battery operated handheld leaf blowers by January 1st, 2021. It also directs bureaus to transition backpack blowers, which is a common model of leaf blowers, as soon as the technology advances to meet the bureau's needs. Currently, we are told by bureau staff that the technology is just not there yet, but that it's rapidly improving and will be there soon.
 There are five bureaus that we know of that use leaf blowers. Parks, the Bureau of Environmental Services, Transportation, Water, and Fire. Combined, there are a total of nearly 300 leaf blowers. They're used for a variety of tasks, from residential-like purposes of simply blowing leaves around fire stations, to more intense, prolonged use in remote natural areas in Portland, to removing leaves and debris in construction sites from Peabodye.
 The cost of transition blowers will vary depending on the Bureau's needs. Electric and battery-operated blowers have a reputation of being more expensive, but they do not rely on gasoline or gasoline-oil combination for fuel and are thus arguably less expensive in the long run than gas-powered blowers. And some bureaus, parks and PBOT especially, have already started transitioning their blower inventory. Thank you.
 After speaking with our two bureaus, BES and Parks have committed to further transitions. Parks will transition their community gardens program backpack blower inventory by January 1st, 2021. And BES has committed to transitioning their blower inventory as well, which are only backpacks, by January 1st, 2021. They will also hold their contractors to the same standards as their staff.
 The city has existing code language restricting the use of leaf blowers in specific zones by time of day and the sound decibel level within Portland's boundaries. The code can be found on Civic Life's website and will not be impacted by this resolution. Rather, this resolution reinforces the code.
 Beginning in the new year, we will form a working group with stakeholders from various fields, including health specialists, community advocates, minority day labor organizations, city staff, and others to consider an equitable citywide transition in the future. And with that, I'm pleased to introduce our panelists. Our first panel will include Commissioner Vega-Peterson and Jason Trombley, the legislative director to Representative Alyssa Kenny-Geyer. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Hi.
 Good afternoon. Thanks for coming back for the afternoon session. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for taking on this issue, and especially thank you to Commissioner Fish for your leadership on this really important public health and livability issue.
 For the record, my name is Jessica Vega-Peterson. I'm the Multnomah County Commissioner for District 3, which includes much of east and southeast Portland. I'm here today to voice my very strong support for this resolution before you, which begins the process of transitioning our community away from harmful gas-powered leaf blowers.
 I have to say that for all the work that I had done on climate issues, on getting coal out of our energy mix, on pushing us to use cleaner fuels for transportation, I was actually very surprised.
 to learn about the devastating impacts that gas-powered leaf blowers have on our health and our air quality. And I want to thank a lot of the community members who are here today who have done so much work on advocating for this issue. Bringing it to my attention was one of those things that made me realize that there are steps that we can take locally to really look at this issue and the impacts that it's having on our community.
 The step that you are taking today, as has been stated, is one that dozens and dozens of other communities around this nation have taken similar steps because of the seriousness of this issue.
 As we know, gas-powered leaf blowers emit high levels of particulate matter that lead to poor air quality, mainly because of the cheap and inefficient two-stroke engines that are used on most models. And studies have shown that up to 30% of the fuel that's in those leaf blowers actually fails to combust, which means that they are exhausted in extremely harmful polluting emissions.
 The devices also harm our climate at a time when we are faced with a dire need to aggressively combat the pollutions of greenhouse gases. To build on what Commissioner Fish had stated earlier, a 2011 study by the Car Reviewer Edmonds found that you would have to drive a Ford Raptor pickup truck
 235 miles, stopping every 505 seconds to do a cold restart to emit the same level of hydrocarbons as idling a two-stroke leaf blower for less than 10 seconds. We also know that the noise pollution from these devices can harm the operator as well as any bystanders with an earshot.
 Experts say that any noise above 91 decibels can be hazardous, and studies have shown that leaf blowers emit noise that can rise above 100 decibels at the operator's ear. And we also know that these numbers don't tell the full story. The types of the sound waves that are emitted by leaf blowers have been shown to travel farther and penetrate physical barriers, as anybody who has been indoors when there's a leaf blower going outside can attest to.
 We at Multnomah County have been entrusted as our community's public health authority, and we take that responsibility very seriously. We're currently undergoing a process to identify what actions we can take to protect and improve our community's health, and I'll be working alongside our partners at the city to include the impacts of gas-powered leaf blowers in that analysis.
 I welcome and support the step that you're taking today, and I'm eager to work alongside you to develop a process that phases out the use of these leaf blowers in our community in a way that is equitable and that serves to ensure our community is healthy.
 Thank you for stepping up and taking this action today and thank you for this opportunity to testify. Thank you and Commissioner Vega-Peterson, I also want to thank you for highlighting the impact of wood smoke fires as well. I know the county took an important step yesterday due to the air quality problems here in the community in putting a ban on those and I
 That's generated a lot of conversation, a lot of discussion and helped inform people about the real impact, particularly when we have an adverse climate day. So I want to acknowledge that and thank you for that leadership as well. Thank you. Hello. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Jason Trombley and I serve as the Legislative Director for State Representative Alyssa Kinnegar.
 Thank you to Commissioner Fish's office for the opportunity to provide some insights on what was then House Bill 3350 during the recent legislative session, which addressed gas-powered leaf blowers. Today's remarks, I hope, will address two items related to the bill, in particular, note for when your work group convenes in the new year. Both the context behind the legislation as well as some lessons learned from this work as both Portland and Multnomah County work to develop local ordinances. First, some context.
 The bill was a response to energy from constituents earlier in the year at a town hall with representatives Kenny Geyer, Smith Warner, as well as Senator Dunbro. As a representative with a public health background, Rep. Kenny Geyer underscored the health impacts of this issue in her testimony to the House Committee on Energy and Environment on June 18th, noting that studies have shown that, quote, regular exposure to loud noise can cause cardiovascular disease, hypertension, frequent headaches, and increased stress on the body.
 Two cycle gasoline powered leaf blowers contribute as well to air pollution. She noted that populations such as children, the elderly, and asthmatics face greater risk exposure of particulates, especially in the summer months as speed of leaf blowers increase and windows are open. As stated earlier by Commissioner Fish, over 100 cities across the country, including Washington DC, have implemented ordinances related to gas powered leaf blowers.
 Second is guidance for both City Council and Multnomah County governments. As both the City and County move forward with assessing their next steps, I'd like to offer a few points considered based on our work in the committee discussion on June 18th. First is alignment with federal laws. During the June 18th hearing, Advocate Mary Pivito smartly noted that future efforts to address this issue must and should align with the Federal Clean Air Act. I want to thank her for explicitly calling out an important element as this work develops. Thank you.
 Second, for an adopted and enforced ordinance to truly benefit all communities, the process to develop it, engage impact parties and the language itself must be centered around a thoughtful, intentional racial equity and social justice approach applied through both the City of Portland's racial equity toolkit and Multnomah County's equity and empowerment lens. For example,
 An important benefit to phasing out two-stroke gas-powered leaf blowers that is often raised is the positive impact on landscape workers, noting that a number of the workers are communities of color or immigrant communities. What should also be asked or assessed is to what extent are the landscape companies owned by minorities, women, or emerging small businesses? How do we ensure that they have the capital needed to upgrade their equipment?
 Additionally, in some neighborhoods, like mine in Portsmouth and Kenton or the Lentz neighborhood in Representative Kenny Guyer's district, some residents rent equipment from their neighborhood tool libraries because we either don't own them, can't afford them, or there isn't a store close by in their neighborhood where you can actually purchase one.
 Thoughtful, intentional engagement is essential to ensure that possible ordinances at the city and county level actually support and benefit everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both for joining us today. Thank you. Thank you. Our second panel will include Michelle Krim, the city's chief sustainability officer, and Brian Stewart, community advocate. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here.
 Thank you very much Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm for the record I'm Michelle Krim, the City's Chief Sustainability Officer in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. As you know Portland's response to climate change is not new. The investments that have helped us to reduce carbon emissions are the same things that make people want to live, work, and play here. Creating walkable neighborhoods with shopping, restaurants, and parks. Investing in transit sidewalks and bikeways. Protecting and restoring natural areas.
 making our homes and buildings more efficient and comfortable. However, climate change has gone from a challenge to a crisis. We only have a handful of years to take bold actions to dramatically reduce our carbon emissions, but that not only dramatically reduce our carbon emissions, but that also provide benefits to communities on the front lines of climate change, specifically communities of color and low-income populations.
 We need to cut local carbon emissions in half by 2030. That sounds like it's a ways away, but it's only 10 years and we're currently only at a 15 percent reduction. So we have our work cut out for us. By 2050, we need to get those carbon emissions down to zero in order to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. In order to achieve that goal,
 We need to replace gas powered equipment, all of the gas powered equipment in our community by 2050. And the resolution before you today is an important step because it means the city will do a better job of walking our talk as well as setting an important example for others to follow.
 In addition, moving to electric leaf blowers is an important behavior and procurement change that could be transferable to other gas powered equipment used within city bureaus.
 As has been mentioned, besides climate, air quality and worker safety benefits are also important. These two-stroke engines are less efficient and result in higher emissions of particulate matter, volatile organic compounds, and nitrogen oxides, especially in the older equipment. These air pollutants can have acute health impacts, and they both contribute to ozone, which is also harmful to our health.
 And ozone has been on an increasing trend here in Portland due to vehicle emissions, increased sunny hot days in the summer, and forest fires. Emission decreases across all ozone precursors is a move in the right direction.
 The co-benefit of decreased noise pollution is also a bonus for the health of Portlanders. Although it's difficult to quantify the health impacts of the many sources of noise pollution in the urban landscape, we know that noise from leaf blowers at low frequencies can travel far. That noise is at best a nuisance for people nearby and at worst a real safety concern, particularly for workers including city employees that are exposed to the noise of leaf blowers on a regular basis.
 So for all of these reasons, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is in support of the resolution before you today. It's an important leadership step towards advancing bolder community-wide action in the future, and the Bureau is excited to help the implementation of this resolution in any way that we can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is Brian Stewart. I represent Quiet Clean PDX, and I'd like to bring your attention to the presentation that we have. I don't know if you're able to see that. Are you able to see that? I'm going to be comparing the performance of gas-powered leaf blowers to battery-powered models, some technical information. It's all information that's readily available from equipment manufacturers, the EPA, and other government health agencies. Okay.
 I'm going to focus primarily on backpack leaf blowers, that style because they pose the most serious threat to the safety of workers and the public. It's well documented, it's been mentioned that gas blowers emit high quantities of pollutants, toxic chemicals and fine particulates. They're all known to increase the risk of cancer, respiratory and cardiovascular and neurological diseases. Workers operating gas blowers are exposed to high quantities of these toxic pollutants often for several hours per day.
 Gas blowers do not have the pollution controls that automobiles have. They are far more polluting than cars. One hour of gas blower operation creates equivalent pollution to driving a car for over thousands of miles, a thousand miles. And battery-powered models emit none of these dangerous pollutants. Gas blowers also produce carbon emissions at about 12 pounds per hour of use. This adds up to thousands of pounds per year. So using a gas blower for several hours a day produces a volume of carbon emissions similar to an automobile.
 Battery blowers produce 25 times fewer carbon emissions and when charged with what we know to be readily available renewable energy here in Portland, they will produce zero carbon emissions. Auditory health organizations agree that sound becomes dangerous over 70 decibels and above 85 decibels even minutes of exposure will cause permanent hearing loss.
 The City of Portland noise ordinance for leaf blowers sets limits on noise levels to 65 decibels for year-round use, increasing to 70 for fall and winter use. These limits provide protection to workers and the public from dangerous levels of noise. This slide shows why we have a gas-powered leaf blower problem and why noise limits are an essential part of the regulation process to control that. You can see that the vast majority of backpack-style gas blowers that are sold today
 far exceed even the fall and winter limits. Some of them are eight to 16 times noisier than what is allowed. And as you all know, these tools are used year round. As gas blowers produce more force, they get louder. The quest for more power and productivity has led the maintenance industry to embrace tools that are dangerously loud and pose serious health risks to their workers.
 Battery blowers, on the other hand, are much quieter and you can see that they are equally as powerful as the legal gas blowers, which is kind of a myth-busting thing here that's important to note. The initial equipment costs for both types of equipment are comparable. The real difference is the cost of fuel. Gasoline versus electricity and batteries. A gas blower will cost over $2 per hour to operate, which adds up to thousands of dollars per year in fuel costs.
 Due to the efficient electric motors, battery blowers are 30 times cheaper to operate per hour. Batteries, however, are expensive. But even when you include the cost of the batteries, battery blowers will cost half as much as gas blowers to operate over time. I hope this information makes it clear that gas-powered leaf blowers are dangerous tools, especially to the workers who operate them.
 Safe, cost-effective, and powerful alternatives are readily available, which have none of the harmful impacts of gas blowers. I urge you to enact this resolution, but also to push for stronger local regulations that protect workers and the public from these dangerous machines. Thank you. Thank you. Ryan, thank you very much. Thank you both. Council, I'd like to thank your bureaus for kindly answering my many questions about leaf blowers and their inventories. And with that, we've concluded our presentation.
 Thank you very much. So if there are any questions from Council now, we can take them. And we also have testimony, further testimony. Commissioner Fritz. So I'd like to offer a friendly amendment to the resolution. I believe Council has copies and I'll put some over here for the community. Commissioner Fish and Ms. Lawrence already put in, be it further resolved that city bureaus and city contractors do not and shall not blow leaves and other debris onto neighboring properties. I would like to add.
 or onto sidewalks or into the street, except on leaf collection days in leaf collection areas. And the city encourages Portland residents to do the same.
 We accept that as a friendly amendment. Thank you. I'm hoping that this policy, while it currently only addresses city bureaus, I'm hoping it will lead to a citywide ban on leaf blowers. So I'd like to set the expectation that it's really not okay to take your blower, whether it's an electric or a gas, and blow the leaves where somebody else has to take care of them, or worse yet, in most areas of the city that don't even have leaf pick up,
 that they just accumulate, clog the sewers, and really cause hazards for cyclists and other street users. So that's the impetus behind this. Just this morning I saw somebody across the street blowing dust and small amounts of leaves into the street, into the streetcar, and the max. It's just, it's rude is what it is. It's just downright rude behavior, and it needs to stop.
 Commissioner Udaly. Well, I'd just like to add my support to Commissioner Fritz's comments about the desire for an eventual citywide ban. Multnomah County has the worst air quality in the state and Portland has some of the worst air quality of any major city in the world, which is absolutely hard to believe. It's so beautiful. It doesn't look as smuggy as Beijing, but it's really bad and
 I hope we can act. This is a great step forward. I hope that we continue to take swift action. And legal counsel, we can accept that as a friendly amendment or does it require a motion in a second? As long as there's no objection, counsel can accept it. There seems to be no objection, so we'll take it as a friendly amendment. Thank you. So with that, Mayor, we'll move to testimony. All right, Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have eight people. Good. Thank you. The first three, please come on up, are Alan Flint.
 Mary Piverb and Michael Hall. And folks, the microphones slide around about six inches is the right amount of distance. And when you have 30 seconds left in your three minutes, you'll see a yellow light. When your time is up, it goes to red. And I would ask that you please seize your testimony at that time. Would you like to go ahead and start for us? Sure. Thank you, sir. My name is Adam Flint and I also have a cough, so I'm working through it.
 My name is Adam Flint. I'm here this afternoon presenting testimony on behalf of the Oregon Landscape Contractors Association. Today I'm submitting the testimony I'm about to give along with the association's position paper on the use of gas powered backpack blowers in the National Association of Landscape Professions and Outdoor Power Equipment Institute Backpack Blower Safe and Reasonable Use Pledge.
 Many landscape contractors in Oregon are beginning to adopt powered, battery-powered small engine equipment. The technology still falls short in terms of power and run time and is significantly more expensive than traditional gas-powered small engines. However, looking at the track record of technological development of battery equipment over the last five years, we are confident run time, power, and cost should equal gas-powered equipment within the next five years.
 Similar to automobiles, the development of vehicles like Tesla is exciting but not economically viable for all transportation use at this time. As with vehicles, the evolution of this technology gives us great hope gas-powered landscape maintenance engines will be replaced with battery-powered in the near future, naturally without legislation. We feel forcing a ban could be more negatively impactful to smaller businesses, those with less economic means, and minorities who may be less likely able to replace their gas-powered blowers.
 As an industry with likely the largest use of gas-powered leaf blowers, we ask to be included in the discussion and or any workgroup created to formulate future initiatives aimed at increasing battery-powered engines and or banning of gas-powered models.
 Our connection to the National Landscape Contractors Association and the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute can help provide data to help a workgroup come up with an appropriate city policy to help maintain the goal of replacing gas-powered leaf blowers with battery models without an outright ban. Please accept our offer to participate in any workgroup that is formed out of this ordinance if passed.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mary Pivoteau, I'm the Executive Director of Neighbors for Clean Air. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for this opportunity and all the commissioners and especially Commissioner Fish for your work on this and your staff's work.
 I'm here today to express my support for this resolution to ban gas-powered leaf blowers in the city operations. In the 10 years since Oregon Department of Environmental Quality's Portland Air Toxic Solutions Project brought to light the problem of air contaminants in the city, very few actions actually followed that study of understanding the complexity and the ubiquitous problem of air toxics in the Portland area.
 And it should be interesting to note, especially today, as you already noted, Mayor Wheeler, that we have had bad air quality days. And as Commissioner Udeli mentioned, too, Portland's air is often not as clean as we think. And it was interesting to note that 10 years ago, the Portland Air Toxic Solutions Project identified specifically lawn equipment as a major source of contaminants.
 So in that same period of time, it's becoming increasingly clear to me that waiting for our state government to take action is just not going to happen.
 So in those 10 years very little at the state has happened yet in the last 12 months the county as you said as you noted has adopted their burn ban the county and city adopted new diesel contracting standards and this really is a great step forward to see our city and local governments taking action to protect the air quality in our neighborhoods
 So I'm really heartened to see this action. I agree with the hopes and desires of people to see this as a first step towards a wider ban. It's also really heartening for me not to have to spend a lot of time telling you about why this is bad for air quality, that you have so many more people in the room now that can explain that to you.
 But I'm really excited to see the city taking the local action, which is really what we need to see more of, improving the health and well-being of Portland and making all of our neighborhoods places where our children can live joyfully and thrive. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Michael Hall Good afternoon. Hello, my name is Michael Hall and I'll be repeating some of what you've already heard because I've prepared this over the last couple of weeks. I'm on the board of Friendly Streets and I'm a member of Quiet Clean PDX and those two organizations have been working in strategic partners for the last couple of years in a campaign to eliminate all gas leaf blowers everywhere.
 We're here today to advocate for a transition away from gas leaf blowers at the city, county, and state levels. And for more about the damage they do to our environment and to our health, please visit our website. It's quietcleanpdx.org. A huge thank you to Commissioner Fish and to his staff and especially to St. Lawrence. We've been working with Commissioner Fish's office for a year now and this resolution is a great first step.
 We also want to thank County Commissioner Jessica Vega-Peterson and State Representative Alyssa Kenny-Geyer for their advocacy. It was Representative Kenny-Geyer who encouraged us to write a bill for the 2019 state legislature. House Bill 3350 would have eliminated all gas leaf blowers statewide and got a hearing in the House Energy and Environment Committee.
 Representative Smith-Warner and Senators Denbrough and Fagan were co-sponsors of that bill, and our gratitude extends to all supporters of our campaign. You may know that elimination of gas leaf blowers has become a national movement. Organizations such as Quiet Communities and American Green Zone Alliance have helped us and others transition from gas leaf blowers to battery-powered equipment and, where practical, hand tools.
 Closer to home, we have a growing list of supporters posted on our website. We work closely with Mary Pivoteau and Neighbors for Clean Air. We've been in conversation with the Portland Public School Board about policy changes there. Portland Japanese Gardens recently issued a position paper declaring that they want to convert to electric leaf blowers, ASAP. Portland State University is transitioning to battery-powered leaf blowers, and the list goes on and on.
 And at last count, we counted over 170 US municipalities and counties that have regulations to ban or restrict the operation of gas leaf blowers. They're an annoyance to everyone, but more than an annoyance, they generate high levels of greenhouse gases, toxic emissions, and dangerous fine particulate matter and extreme noise. The EPA reports that gas leaf
 Levels causes hearing loss, increases in stress and blood pressure, and leased atonitis, adverse birth outcomes, and cognitive impairment of children. They're hazardous to all Portland residents, especially children, the elderly and those with respiratory illnesses. And how about the impact on Portland's pedestrians and bike riders too? Thank you.
 And the workers who use these tools are at the greatest health risk. Quiet, Clean PDX has a lot of support for making an equitable citywide transition to gasoline blower alternatives, and we're allies with Portland's frontline communities. We should...
 You've only got a couple more sentences. I do. I'm almost there. Please go ahead. Thank you. I appreciate that. We subscribe to the environmental justice statement of Opal, which is environmental justice requires that all people, regardless of race, color, national origin or income, have the same degree of protection from environmental and health hazards. So eliminating gas leaf blowers is analogous to climbing a mountain.
 A long, tough scramble uphill. And our thanks go out to the Portland City Council for helping us build a base camp with this resolution. And we look forward to working with you as we ascend the mountain together. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. I'm sorry. The next three are Stan Penken, Michael Wallace, and Jess Tyler. Stan, I feel like we should give you a bulk discount or something.
 So Mr. Mayor, Robert said you have an office reserved for me, an office space. I believe we should. And full benefits and everything else. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Stan Penkin. I'm a member of the Quiet Clean PDX team. I'm the chair of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. I'm a board member of Neighbors West Northwest Coalition.
 and Board Secretary of Friendly Streets, where this all started some two years ago. But I think I speak for people across all neighborhoods who are subjected to the incessant noise and toxicity of gas blowers and would like to see them just go away. As you've already heard, and I think we all understand,
 Gas leaf blowers are a danger to the environment and to the health and livability of all Portlanders, including those who operate them. Far too often without using the basic protections such as masks and air plugs. I see that all the time. The time has come for us to transition away from this harmful equipment, as so many other cities and municipalities have done across the nation and in other countries as well.
 Thanks to my dear friend and colleague Michael Hall, who first raised this issue at Friendly Streets, and to my devoted colleagues at Quiet Clean PDX, who have helped bring the issue forward, we have today reached a momentous occasion where we can begin to do something meaningful about gas leaf blowers.
 The resolution before you today is an important first step in the direction of acknowledging the harmful effects of gas leaf blowers and that we can indeed address it. And while this is a significant step, we will still have many more steps to take on the journey to transition from gas to non-gas powered alternatives.
 such as electric and battery powered leaf blowers, electric leaf vacuums, leaf sweepers, mulching mowers, and manual tools. Yes, rakes still exist at all levels of government, city, county, state, and hopefully maybe federal someday.
 Thank you Commissioner Fish for recognizing the urgency of taking action on this issue and to Ascendant Lawrence for all our hard work in helping to research and draft this resolution that if passed today will make a bold statement that the City of Portland cares about our environment and all its residents and is willing to make innovative decisions for the betterment of everyone.
 I urge you all to please vote yes on this important step. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. I am Michael Wallace. I am a member of the Noise Review Board, Portland's Noise Review Board, but I'm here in a personal capacity this afternoon. I wholeheartedly support Commissioner Fish's leaf blower resolution. I hope that with this and other efforts we can eventually live in a quieter and more peaceful city.
 Noise is detrimental to individual and collective health and well-being. Street and park leaves and debris can be swept or raked instead of being blown from one property to another and back again. Let's have more brooms and rakes. Thank you. Thank you. For the record, I still own a rake. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. My name is Jess Tyler. I'm a Portland resident and I represent the Center for Biological Diversity where I'm a pollinator researcher. I'm here on behalf of myself and our over 7,000 members in Portland to express my support for this resolution. Gas powered leaf blowers have many negative effects as outlined by previous speakers. I however want to highlight the negative impacts to urban wildlife, especially insect pollinators.
 Many people don't realize, but urban areas, including Portland, are critical refuges for our pollinators because many gardens provide pesticide-free habitat and flowers that feed bees. Right here in Portland, we have dozens of species of native bees, but native bees are in steep decline around the nation, and we must do what we can to protect them from extinction.
 Native bumblebees are, right now, hibernating for the winter in leaf litter and loose soil all around the city of Portland. And when leaf material is removed, bees can be swept up and killed. The excessive use of leaf blowers removes topsoil and organic leaf material, which provides essential winter nesting habitat for the majority of native bees, encouraging more natural, unmanaged landscape and cuts down the use of leaf blowers and leaving the leaves
 provides nesting habitat and food for pollinators and many other soil invertebrates. Noise pollution from gas-powered leaf blowers also is known to harm both humans and wildlife. For birds, noise pollution is known to damage hearing, increase stress response, and alter foraging and other behaviors. City ecosystems are vitally important to many insects and birds because they can provide better food and nesting habitat than many intensive agricultural areas outside the city.
 Several endangered butterflies rely on habitat entirely within cities. Portland supports a great diversity of pollinating insects and birds, but their habitat is degraded by removing organic material and introducing toxic compounds. Gas-powered leaf blowers especially release more nitrous oxides than cars, and this type of atmospheric nitrogen has been linked to vegetative community change, which can decrease the amount of food plants for butterflies and pollinators.
 This resolution also supports Portland's climate action goals and is an important first step towards harm reduction for people and wildlife. Transitioning away from gas leaf blowers demonstrates Portland's leadership on environmental and social issues. I ask the commission to support this resolution. Thank you.
 Thank you and thank you for that interesting perspective on this, Commissioner Udaile pushed us really hard during our 2035 central city planning process to expand the green roof ordinance that we have in place here at the city. And I noticed that a lot of developers are using those green roofs for pollinators. And I had the opportunity, I had some out of town guests that were here over Thanksgiving. We went down to the Nines Hotel
 And they had a great big honeycomb sitting there in the middle of the restaurant. I said, well, where did that come from? They said it came from the roof. And they actually have an entire beekeeping operation up on the roof in order to expand pollinators. And they also have a green roof. And so there's something of a symbiotic relationship. But that's really, I think, important to make that broader understanding.
 broader point that you made and I appreciate your being here to do it. Thank all three of you. Commissioner Fritz. I just also want to thank you for all of that interesting information. Thank you all. But in particular now I'll be able to instead of looking out and thinking oh gosh I need to go pick up all those leaves think oh, I'm going to leave all that nice habitat for the bees. Thank you very much for giving me permission to stay inside. I'd also like to jump in and just say I have told PBOT that I want to turn every
 Property that we own that can't be used for a road or otherwise developed or into pollinator planting areas They might think I'm kidding, but I'm not We should talk I think I know where you can get 7,000 volunteers Thanks, thank you. Thanks all three of you Stan. It's good seeing you. Thank you always. Thank you for being here next three, please Carla These are the last three who signed up Mary's sipe and
 Bob Sollinger and Daniel, I believe the last name is Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou, Lou. And if there's anybody else who wanted to testify and didn't have a chance, if you could just see Carla here as well. Thank you. Mary, would you like to start us off? I almost said good morning. I'm usually here in the morning. My name's Mary Seip, and I hope I can get an office next to Stan's.
 Since I'm here so often. I just want to commend the city for taking this step to reduce the greenhouse emissions and the air pollution and noise pollution. I think taking the lead is really important. And if the city can do it, then I think the city...
 the private citizens can do it too. And you all know me from my work with noise and my concerns over the years about the serious health hazards related to noise. And this is kind of like a double whammy. You know, it's noise, pollution, but it's also air pollution. And we're kind of getting two birds with one stone by addressing this issue.
 It's interesting because I heard the words annoyance and nuisance used, and every time I hear that, it bothers me because I think it minimizes how serious these issues are. It's more than annoyance and a nuisance. It's a health hazard.
 And again, it's a double whammy health hazard. And I really appreciate the testimony of the other people that came. And one of the suggestions I'd like to make is that the work group take the information on that slide presentation and use that to maybe create a campaign to start promoting voluntary work.
 transition to battery operated and electric blowers rather than having people wait until it becomes an ordinance. I think, you know, the bottom line is it's the right thing to do, period. Thank you. Well said. Thank you. Good afternoon, Bob. Good afternoon, Mayor Weller and members of the Portland City Council. My name is Bob Sollinger. I'm the Conservation Director for Portland Audubon Society. We're here today to support this resolution. We really appreciate the work of Commissioner Fish and Asenna.
 For all the reasons that you've already heard today, for human health, because of the noise impacts, because of the climate impacts, because of the particulate matter, this makes total sense. And I would also add to that, disturbance factors as well. When we use these really noisy leaf blowers in parks, it has a wildlife impact as well, especially if you're talking about things like breeding songbirds and birds that are passing through. So we should be aware of those ecological impacts.
 I think was I always had to step out but I think the gentleman who was speaking in the last panel was Alluding to the fact that we shouldn't be afraid of messy parks either That leaf litter has real ecological value And I think we need to be more comfortable with the idea of leaving things like that in our parks It's part of the natural environment, and we shouldn't be afraid of it We don't want parks that are absolutely sterile and so it adds value and there are places We could do less and gain more and we should be thinking about that and
 I would just end by saying that, you know, I think sometimes there's a tendency to look at these things and say, you know, these problems are so big, why are we focusing on something like leaf blowers? I mean, first of all, as the testimony today speaks to, they actually are a big problem. They're not a small problem. They're a big problem.
 But even if they're not, these small steps, this is how we get our heads around and our hands around these huge ecological problems. It's these small steps and a lot of them. And I'm really heartened now. I mean, I go to these restaurants now and I see signs up saying that if you want a ketchup container or a plastic fork or a straw, you have to ask for it. And that's how we shift our culture. You know, the fact that you have to start thinking about your ecological impact, these small things and bigger things add up to everything.
 change we actually need. So thank you for your work on this. Thank you. It's a good day when Bob comes and sings our praises. I'll be back tomorrow. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Daniel Luke and I'm a local inventor and so I guess by now the depredations of the leaf blower are
 Hopefully fairly familiar to everyone. I want to add one other thing to the list which is they're actually slow and They're not really all that great at Blowing I guess they're good at blowing leaves, but they're not really good at collecting leaves so But they might be the default because the only other alternative up until now has been the regular rake which also has certain issues and problems and
 So, as an inventor, I've worked to correct some of those issues and I just want to put it on people's radar that there is another option available as of now to the whole leaf blower stuff, which is a rake that's far more powerful than a regular rake. It's manual. It's incredibly affordable. It's durable.
 And you don't have to bend your back at all to use it. And I'm really eager to show people and city government how it works. I have shown it to a few people. I think some people here that are present are familiar with what I'm talking about.
 as I went out to Wilshire Park recently and demonstrated its use for a few minutes. But anyway, I've also gone head to head with gas powered leaf blowers, the kind that commercial crews use. And in every case, it really hasn't been a contest between my invention and their leaf blower. I've also done timed tests with me and my rake against leaf blowers in a lot of different situations.
 It's probably not going to be believable, but in each case I was able to beat the leaf blower. I cut the time in half in terms of raking a yard, getting a pile of leaves, move a certain distance. I'm not saying that leaf blowers don't have their use case. I suppose they're good for and maybe superior for blowing grass clippings off of sidewalks.
 But when it comes to actually blowing leaves, getting leaves moved from one place to another, they're really not all that effective compared to my rake. So it's called the, I call it the rocket rake, and it's a two-handled rake, and the world has seen nothing like it up to this point. It's incredibly effective, and the people that have seen it would attest to the fact that it works incredibly well.
 Male Speaker 2. Male Speaker 3. Male Speaker 4. Male Speaker 5. Male Speaker 6. Male Speaker 7. Male Speaker 8. Male Speaker 9. Male Speaker 10. Male Speaker 11. Male Speaker 12. Male Speaker 13. Male Speaker 14. Male Speaker 15. Male Speaker 16. Male Speaker 17. Male Speaker 18. Male Speaker 19. Male Speaker 20. Male Speaker 21. Male Speaker 22. Male Speaker 23. Male Speaker 24. Male Speaker 25. Male Speaker 26. Male Speaker 27. Male Speaker 28.
 So looking for what? Do you have it on a website? I have it in my car. Sir, if you could leave your contact information with Commissioner Fritz's office.
 and someone will get back to you. Okay, thank you. Thanks very much. She's gonna put an offer out for 50% of your company. But it's, she runs a tough bar. Hold out for you daily's offer. That's my only advice. I actually live in an area that doesn't have leaf collection. And so it's me for on the weekend, every week for months picking up my leaves. So any help would be very much appreciated.
 Could I say one more thing since I didn't use all my time? Commissioner Fritz, you had a really good point about the blowing into the street. Because one of the things, we call these leaf blowers, but they blow lots of things besides leaves. And like in our neighborhood, in the Pearl District, cigarette butts. If you, what happens is, is they get blown with the leaves.
 into the street and then they float into the storm drains. If you walk through the neighborhood and you look at the storm drains, you will see hundreds of cigarette butts that are now on their way into our rivers and streams and ocean.
 Yeah, and thanks to the Pearl District and the Neighborhood Association and all the folks there who worked hard on the cigarette butt disposal box. That's really good news, and we appreciate that leadership. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Thank you, Bob. Good to see you again. Next three, please, Carla. That's all who signed up. All right, very good. Senator Lawrence, anything, any final words? I think we're good to go. It's a resolution. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly?
 Well, thank you, excuse me, Commissioner Fish and Asana and your whole team. I'm very happy to support this and even more excited to take it the next step further. I vote aye. Fritz.
 Commissioner Udalli and I just met with Professor Klukas' class before this meeting, and we had a discussion about the pros and cons of the commission form of government. And this is actually an example of one of the pros of the commission form of government. When I was in charge of parks, I took a run at asking them about getting rid of gas-powered leaf blowers, and I was told, oh, no, Commissioner, we can't do that. I'm sorry, that's
 That's just not possible. We do all this stuff, blah, blah, blah. So then new commissioner in charge of parks, new parks director, new approach. And lo and behold, Commissioner Fisher's come up with something that the parks staff has embraced. I'll make sure that the Water Bureau does as well, and I really appreciate it. I think there's a lot of enthusiasm on the council. Commissioner Udeli, when I was listening about the...
 neighborhood tool libraries. It occurs to me that really, I know that the Office of Community and Civic Life has a small grant program and there's already a component of equity in who gets those grants. It would be great to add
 the climate crisis being another of the criteria, because it would be really just great for the neighborhood two libraries to be able to get city money to purchase one that their neighbors could share of the battery operated electric ones.
 Commissioner Fish, as you're continuing to work on this and Sena, it occurred to me that the ones that the bureaus are going to get rid of, we should make sure that they're destroyed before that they are disposed of. I'm thinking of guns and such that, so basically smashing off the plastic bits so that if they did end up at a recycling shop or somebody might find them in the recycling bin and,
 think, oh, I'll take myself a nice free blower, they actually can't use it. And make sure that we don't get into the situation like we do with diesel trucks, that because Oregon has lower standards than California and Washington, that we get all their dirty leftovers. So I'll personally volunteer to come and smash some of them up. It'll be really fun.
 Thank you very much to everybody who wrote in. There's a number of you who took the time to come in today. Dozens and dozens of emails and telephone calls on this issue. So it's really something that I think a lot of people have found unprofessional.
 a minor irritation over time or a major irritation over time or a huge annoyance over time. But sometimes we think, oh, in the grand scheme of things, perhaps I should get over my annoyance. Actually, in the grand scheme of things, this is a really big problem for our planet. And I appreciate the, I've learned a lot this afternoon and all the good work. I. Fish. Well, I'd like to start by thanking a number of people who helped get us here today. Obviously, our invited testimony.
 our kitchen cabinet County Commissioner Vega Peterson Representative Alyssa Kenny Geyer and Jason Trombley Michelle Krim and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Brian and Perrin Stewart Michael Hall and Queen a quiet clean Portland Mary Pavetto and neighbors for clean air Kelly Barnes Cameron Stewart relay resources
 Osmani Alcaraz, Ochoa and Vose, Stan Pankin, Bob Salinger, and others. Thank you all for your extraordinary efforts to get us to this day. I would also like to give a special shout out to Sheila Panyon. Sheila was our summer policy intern last year and this year. Two summers ago, she helped us shape our moonlighting policy, and this past summer, she delved deep into leaf blower research. We are grateful for her immense help.
 I'd like to finish with thanking my two bureaus, the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Parks Bureau, for stepping up and accepting the challenge. City bureaus will demonstrate the efficacy of transitioning to electric and battery-operated models, and in the near future, we intend to find a legal and equitable path to eliminate the use of gas-powered leaf blowers in Portland.
 Thank you all for your efforts and a special thank you to Ascenta Lawrence, who has handled this soup to nuts and done a superb job as always. I'm very proud to vote aye.
 Wheeler. I am very happy to support this resolution and I want to thank Commissioner Fish and Ascenta Lawrence and the diligent work of your team. I thought this was a fantastic presentation today. I actually love presentations like this where I feel like I'm walking out with a much deeper and richer understanding of the issue.
 I was prepared to support this to begin with, but also hearing some of the statistics about the carbon output of gas-powered leaf blowers compared to pickup trucks, those are astounding
 statistics and also to hear some of the broader perspectives we heard from the the gentleman who's here supporting the pollinators and we heard about some of the perspectives about the importance of leaves we heard from Mary and others about the physiological and public health impacts of these leaf blowers as well and
 I'm going to go with Bob Salinger on this, who says this really is big. And the reason it's big is because the city has to show the leadership here first. We cannot ask the private sector to take actions that we are not prepared to take ourselves. So I see this as a very important and a very necessary step.
 first step. I also want to acknowledge our partners that Commissioner Fish had identified and asked to testify up front, Jessica Vega-Peterson in Multnomah County for their hard work particularly on the public health aspects of this and Representative Alyssa Kenny-Geyer and her team and the efforts that they've undertaken down in Salem to seek broader support for these types of policies.
 But here around this rostrum, it's our duty to act locally and responsibly and with a sense of urgency. And I thank you again, Commissioner Fish, for bringing us a resolution that does just that. I vote aye to the resolution as adopted. Thank you. Next item is time certain right on time. Item number 1124. Thank you, sir.
 appoint Elliot Young, Amy Anderson, Marcia Perez, Steve Trujillo and Britton Massback to the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing. Colleagues, earlier this year I appointed six new members to the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, sometimes called PSEP. Amy Anderson, Vadim Mazurski,
 Marcia Perez, Steve Trillo, Elliot Young, and Britton Mosbach. Today I'm requesting that you approve. I've lost my quorum. We'll take a recess. Each new member has gone through a rigorous selection process including a written application, two interviews, and various trainings in collaboration with the Mental Health Alliance, the Albina Ministerial Alliance, Coalition for Justice and Police Reform, and the Portland Police Bureau.
 These individuals bring with them their lived experiences members of a marginalized community and their lived experience with mental or physical health issues. They also bring interpersonal skills, experience working within and advocating for marginalized communities, and experience utilizing social services and engaging in government processes.
 Throughout the past year, PSAP has worked to create meaningful recommendations to help bolster community engagement and trust within the Portland Police Bureau. These recommendations have included partnering with researchers to determine effective scheduling practices as part of a holistic approach to officer wellness, establishing a training program aimed at reducing stress and promoting officer resilience,
 PPB and Portland Police Bureau engagement of a wide range of communities regarding wellness practices, including tribal councils in the Portland metro area. Establishing a truth and reconciliation commission working group to research various models and develop a plan to create a commission that's responsive to both the history and the current needs of Portland.
 After a year of working to achieve the desired outcomes of equitable policing, which exceeds constitutional requirements and meaningful community engagement with and trust in Portland Police Bureau, the Portland Police Bureau, the PSAP has functioned independently and as a body guided by the community.
 PSAP has sought to obtain information from a variety of Portland community members and stakeholders to create greater access to information for the community. This is at the core of what PSAP does. They solicit information, create a platform for that information to be disseminated, and allow that information to guide their collective work as an autonomous body.
 With the support of City Council, PSAP will continue to grow their work to help cultivate the growth of trust and equity within the Portland Police Bureau and build the community relationship. The members of the PSAP are Portland community members first and foremost. They're connected to this city and they're invested deeply in increased reciprocity, accountability, and trust through their recommendations.
 Here with us today are Theo Latta, who's the PCEP project director, and Robert King, who's my senior policy advisor on public safety, and they're going to introduce our newest PCEP members. Come on up and welcome. Thank you for being here. Theo, I think you're starting us off. Is that correct? Yes, sir. Very good.
 I have a few prepared comments that I'll read from. Yes, sir. It's an honor to be with you all and share this space with you. My name is Theo Lara. Thank you.
 I'm the PSET project director. Just to introduce myself because I've never met any of you folks before, but I'm a father to a boy named Sage. I'm indigenous. I'm a researcher and I have the pleasure of introducing these fine humans to you all. Although I've only been with the city of Portland for the past four months, which is a very brief time, I've had the pleasure of working with these folks for the majority of those
 You all have their bios in front of you, so I won't read those. But it's important that you know how passionate these people are and how hard these volunteers work toward achieving more equitable policing.
 Aside from what you have in front of you these members give their time and energy to improving the Portland community Vadim for example is a meticulous and thorough as the new secretary of peace up We will continue to rely on his expertise and everything SAP Which is the settlement agreement and policy from the Department of Justice and his expertise Elliot here is a? Constantly aiming to improve peace up and access information as a new chair alternate people look to him as an advocate Britt is
 Here is an impressive human for all he has accomplished in his role as a youth subcommittee chair and as a high school student. He consistently facilitates meetings in a kind and inclusive manner, which I think is a testament to his character. Steve, who isn't here, has been a constant that people depend on.
 He has a hand in many of the subcommittee meetings and speaks with honesty and integrity. Amy, who's seated right beside me, has attended meetings of PCEP since its inception. Amy asks tough questions and works hard at all times. Marcia, who's out of the country and couldn't be here, works personally and professionally to improve the justice system, especially among youth. And I have the pleasure of working with Robert and Nicole all the time. Each of these people are Portland community members first, as Mayor Wheeler stated.
 who serve on PSIP because they believe that like-minded people can change our community for the better. I sincerely thank you all for taking time to meet us, and I invite you and encourage you all to come to our subcommittee meetings or the general body meetings that are open to all. Like I said, I haven't been here for very long, but one of the more striking questions that I've heard throughout my time at the city has been who are we most accountable to. Before this, I worked at Native American nonprofits in education.
 At PSIP, even though we are a city program who often collaborate with an array of interested parties, we are most accountable to our community, and that's the Portland community. And I think I can speak for PSIP in saying that. I thank you all for having us. I know that all the PSIP members and PSIP staff would like very much to work with you all in the future. Thank you. And if you all have questions for me, I'd be happy to answer questions for these wonderful humans. I'm sure they would do the same.
 I mean, I have a question for Ryo. Where did you get that bicycle helmet? I'm embarrassed to say Amazon. Oh, no. That's a really good bicycle helmet. Yeah. Would any of you like to take a moment to say anything? Yeah, usually. Thank you. First of all, I want to say thank you for giving me this opportunity to kind of like put another...
 not to my cap, around the different kinds of committees that I've been on in the 22 years I've been serving our community. This year represents, well, next year will be 23 years with Multnomah County Sheriff's Department and Amanda Fritz, thank you for that opportunity with Pequod all those years ago and WOWDEC. And I'm hoping that my work on this group will be just as enthusiastic as it was then and as it continues to be now
 that I'm actually working for my community. So thank you all for this opportunity, and I will serve you till my time is up. Thank you. I just want to thank you for your ongoing dedication to doing the right thing in our community and for many, many years of dedication and volunteering. So I'm really glad to see that we're finally paying you, or somebody's finally paying you. Yes. But also then a special thanks for stepping up for this additional volunteer opportunity. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I have one question. Yes. When we all went before Judge Simon recently, in the context of the settlement agreement and wanting to come into what's called legally substantial compliance with the settlement agreement, the concern that he expressed, he liked the people on PSAP and he liked the agenda that was being pursued by PSAP.
 I believe, although I didn't specifically ask him, that he was convinced that PSAP has adequate independence. There was a lot of suspicion initially that somehow I was going to pull strings, and I think all you need to do is look at people's Twitter feeds, and you can see the independence is clearly there. But what he wasn't persuaded by was that we have done enough to really encourage broader public participation.
 And so I know that precipitated some conversations amongst PSAP members and the committee as a whole. I'm wondering if you have thought about that, whether you have a sense of how we might further engage the community, how we might improve more participation in the community with the work, the important work that's being done by the members of PSAP.
 Well, if you're asking me directly, I think at this point in time I have enough experience in that world of trying to get people to come to a meeting and participate and belong. And what I've seen over the years is folks have felt...
 that their voice doesn't land anywhere. It comes in, but they can't really see where it becomes real. And so what I learned to do on the Multnomah County Mental Health Committee that I chaired for seven years was explain to folks that all the programs that we operate throughout the county and the city
 the things that people come up with are within those plans. They're within strategic planning, they're within the operations of the programs. It's just not spelled out that this individual gave that input and here it becomes functioning. People need to know that their words matter and that they can see it become something. That's kind of the attachment I've seen that folks really wanna know
 that all this time and energy is going to end up producing better results for them. That's my personal take on getting people. The other thing is advertising. We don't do it early enough and often enough. And then there's childcare, there's transportation, there's commitments that people have, so I
 So, I've, we at the various groups I'm on have decided to go with multiple formats of input like PSAP is doing where you have access to the internet, you have access to writing, you have access to being publicly there. So I don't see many other opportunities if people want to participate we just need to let them know that these are the ways your voice and your thoughts will be taken into
 our consideration for future movement to your office. So this is kind of my personal take, but I'll let the other members chime in. Thank you. Yeah, that all certainly makes sense, Amy. And then like one thing that the youth subcommittee is doing, for example, is not even, and we are sort of thinking about how can we get more youth to the table coming to our subcommittee meetings, but also thinking about how can we go to where this work is actually happening? So we're trying to go to other events that are being led by young people. We're trying to go to other youth groups
 and talk about how we with our platform can help the work that they're already doing. So, to sort of amplify that and to be involved in the work that's already happening so that we're not always trying to just make new work, we're trying to make sure we can, it's the most efficient and that we're spreading the impact of our respective work and the resource that we have. So, that's one thing that we're trying to make an effort of doing as a youth subcommittee, going to these other youth events and youth groups and being part of their work.
 That's great. Yeah, thank you. Real quick, the youth subcommittee is also in the process of designing and disseminating a survey throughout PPS schools, which I think will be incredible in obtaining information and engagement. I think...
 that people coming to meetings isn't necessarily the most powerful parameter of measuring engagement and community buy-in. But I think the survey is going to be really great for more buy-in. And Britt, I'm sure, could talk about that more if you want. Yeah, you're on to something there. And I agree with you that finding ways to reach out to the community when people are busy, they just have a million things to do.
 And having attended the meetings, I think they're really great. There's some smart people around that table and the conversations run deep and people don't seem like they're editing themselves. It seems like people are being really based in truth and experience. And the dialogue is always a healthy one. And so reaching out through other affiliations, other community groups, trying to
 the idea of a survey of youth, I think that's a terrific idea. Any other questions? I would just add that I think a lot of our meetings have been reporting and having information sessions and I think when we move on to actually making recommendations and take more action is when the community could see maybe more of a stake in what we're doing.
 because frankly the people who come are oftentimes the activists who do know and are well aware of the issues. And so we're rehearsing them, we're discussing them for each other, but I think that as we move on to, and it's taken I think PSAP a year of time,
 getting going and finally now I feel like PSAP is ready to take on some recommendations not only about the settlement agreement which is central but you know exceeding beyond the constitutional and and legal parameters moving to issues which we've talked about about discriminatory policing targeting policing about Portland street response which I think many of us are very
 encouraged by the city council approved the pilot project for so um so i'm hopeful that we could move from listening to doing thank you and um i do want to echo what you said mayor wheeler is that
 Our task is twofold. It's not only to receive information from the public, but actually go out and get that information ourselves and to assist the police bureau in formatting their outreach plan. And to that respect, we had a conversation yesterday with the compliance officer as to ways where we can better be more effective in doing that and reaching out to where people gather, whether it be in the neighborhoods and houses of worship,
 in meetings that are held out there and breaking bread and breaking barriers and those sort of organizations to go out there, spread the word, get information and ask them to come and provide testimony themselves in person and that's our long term plan as well. Very good and could I ask one more question and then I'll stop. I shouldn't be asking my own panel questions but I can't miss the opportunity.
 Do you feel that there is adequate opportunity for the police bureau to have their experience and their concerns vetted on PSEP? Do you believe that perspective is getting through? And do you believe that the interaction with the police bureau is sufficient? Or should there be something more that's done there? Sure.
 Well, the police, our representatives, are at all of our meetings, the full body meetings. We've had subcommittee meetings specifically with the GVRT team. So I think that there is...
 a lot of communication with the official police bureau. The one area which I think we could improve upon is that the charge requires the police bureau to provide data to PSAP, and that has not currently happened. I mean, there's publicly available data, but I'm talking about the raw data
 data that the city auditor has asked for in the 2018 report and then followed up. And so that's something that I'm particularly concerned about, that we get this data so that we ourselves could analyze it and have an informed, not anecdotal, but really informed opinion and view on what's going on in the city with policing. That makes sense. Robert, could you and I have a follow-on conversation about that?
 Great, thank you. Great, thank you. Any further questions, thoughts? Very good. Call the roll. Actually I need a motion. It's a report, sorry. So moved. Second. Commissioner Fish moves the report. Commissioner Udalli seconds it. Please call the roll. Udalli. Well thank you everyone for your willingness to give your time to PSUP. I am
 I'm sure it will be worthwhile, but I know it's also going to be very challenging. So I admire your courage and fortitude. I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you very much for putting in a lot of time already and then being willing to be appointed and actually serve officially. Thank you. Aye. Bish. Yes, thank you for your service. I think this is among the most challenging assignments that the city can ask someone to accept.
 We are heading into a contract negotiation period. We are launching a number of experiments. We're trying to do some things differently. It's very important for the success of our work that PeaceF be high functioning and feel that they can, on a regular basis, interact with the Council and propose reforms and ideas. So it makes your service all the more important and thank you for that.
 Wheeler? Yes, I want to just reiterate any time you feel that you need more or different communication with my office, it would be my expectation you would not hesitate to let me know that or to let Robert know that as my liaison.
 I also want to thank you for your service. This is a very, very important committee and it is a challenging subject. It is one that runs deep. There's a lot of history behind it. There's a lot of emotion behind it.
 My observation over the last year plus has been that this committee has dealt with difficult policing issues responsibly and with dignity and with honesty and integrity and I'm really grateful for what you've done in your continued interest in serving for those of you who are continued and I thank those of you who are new for stepping up to the plate and I hope you find it not only a fulfilling experience
 But I also hope you find it's fun. There's a lot of good things that are happening in that room, and I want to continue to encourage it in any way I can. I vote aye. The report's accepted. The appointments are approved. Thank you all. And we're adjourned.