Okay, I think we're ready to start. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the December 2nd meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome everyone. Before we get into our communications items and the rest of our council calendar this morning, I understand we have someone here from PSU, Mark Roundtree, the athletic director for Portland State University is here to talk about a team that seems to be having some success or something. What's going on?
 Mayor Harrells, thank you so much. Good morning. And you're right. I think we can all agree it's going to be a great sports weekend for Portland this weekend, right? All this orange in the room has nothing to do with that other college. No, no, no. That's fine. That's fine. No, I wanted to thank you for the opportunity and thank the council as well. It is going to be a great sports weekend. You know, Portland State is having a great year with football, and they're really a team that represents this city.
 and, you know, Saturday night, we're getting the opportunity to play for a national championship. We're the only school in the state of Oregon this year that is actually going to be playing for a national championship. So I did want to say that. But also with the Timbers playing on Sunday, it's going to be a great weekend, I think, for sports here in Portland. So
 Portland State is the athletic director. We wanted to invite everybody, the city, everybody to come out on Saturday night, 7 o'clock at Providence Park, for our second round game against Northern Iowa. It's going to be a great night. We're going to have a great festivities around the stadium, and we want to invite everybody here. Now, I also know that if you follow Mayor Hales on Twitter, you know that scars are a big deal, so I need to make sure the council's geared up properly this weekend. Okay. So. Hey. All right. Go Bikes. So on Saturday night,
 put on your scarf for Portland State Vikings now on Sunday just turn it around and go for Sunday that's a sustainable scarf that's right we have a great partnership with the Timbers so we want to make sure you guys are geared up properly let me know if you're coming to the game that would be great to have you there thank you very much we'll be happy to represent thank you
 Of course. Let's do this. Come on. Let's take a picture for the team. Thank you so much for coming. Thank you. Thank you.
 So second down team, second round game. And if we win that, we'll either go to North Dakota and play North Dakota State, or we'll host Montana here for the quarterfinals. All right, three, two, one. Great. Very nice. Good luck. Thanks. All right. Thank you. Quite the weekend. Okay.
 Let's proceed. Then we have some council communications items, and then we're going to move into a series of time certain and other ordinances on the calendar. I am going to be leaving at 1030, so we're going to try to take action on some things that require second reading in fairly short order after communications, and I think I'm going to pull up 1251 early so we can address that as well as the time certain items. So first let's hear from item 1225, please. Thank you.
 1225, a request of Evelyn Bross to address council regarding federal law, no smoking or drugs in government housing. Evelyn, are you here? Yes, she's here. Come on up, please. Okay, thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, City Council Members.
 How are you guys doing today? Fine. Thanks for coming. Good. I'm here because I have just moved to a low-income housing, government housing, in September. My rent might be like $700 cheaper a month. The circumstances that goes around it is ridiculous. There is smoking in the property. When you sign the lease, you sign the lease, the lease says that there is no smoking allowed.
 the property or on the patio and you sign the lease it says that people are smoking and doing drugs in the property I am deadly allergic to smoke I gasp for air my respiratory shuts down I can't breathe it comes through the vents people downstairs with smoke marijuana at six o'clock in the morning it comes through my vent and it wakes me up and I can't breathe
 Because it's coming through the vents and everything else and I gave you some flyers to show you that The it the government is getting down packed and it's given the city up to 18 months to get government housing order that no smoking is allowed in government property whatsoever and they're getting really strict on it and It's like yes, so now it's like not only is on the leasing not supposed to smoke but the government is gonna make it a
 that the tenants have to follow the rules because the government's getting down pack that there should be no smoking in government property. I mean, there's no smoking in here,
 No drugs in here. Evelyn, excuse me, is Home Forward your landlord? Yes. And have you followed a complaint with them? Yes, over and over and over and over. The leverage we have is that we appoint the commissioners to Home Forward, but we don't obviously run Home Forward. So did you bring a copy of your complaint with you? No, I haven't. I have a lot of complaints, especially the person that's right next to me. And I made a lot of phone calls to them.
 Complaining? Is it possible, without inconveniencing you, if you furnish us, Dan, with a copy of your complaint? I could fax them to you. Yeah, it gives him something to go to Home Forward because, again, we oversee them through the commissioners, and we can make sure that you get an answer to your complaint. Yeah, if you could get that to Commissioner Saltzman, that's probably the best leverage. To get your fax number after. Yeah, I'll be meeting with Home Forward's leadership, actually, next week. Really? Perfect. Okay.
 Because I live at Shrunky Tower, and it's senior citizens and people with disabilities. And the thing is that why are senior citizens smoking and doing drugs and people with disabilities? And there's children that are living there. So not only is it affecting people like me, it's also affecting children. And like this paper I gave you,
 I gave you this paper, this one here. Did you see the picture of the dog? Yeah. If only pets could speak, they would tell you not to smoke. Absolutely. Well, I think that's the best thing. If you could either drop off at Commissioner Saltzman's or mail to him or otherwise get him a copy of your complaint or one or more of those complaints. I've been like this since I've been a child. I cannot breathe around. My respiratory actually shuts down. I can't breathe.
 We'll be happy to help and just make sure you get that paperwork to his office because he's the contact. They've changed manager, apartment managers. Apartment manager left, so now there's a new one temporarily. So there's no one in effect yet. You're in the high-rise in St. John's? Yeah. Actually, that building could use some updating too. I think that's the – Oh, that's another thing I needed to tell you about is the elevator. Okay.
 I think it's on a list for a preservation update. Yes, the elevator does not work going down to the basement. And animals, they have pets in there, and the dogs will go on the elevator and they'll do a number one on the floor. And then you're stepping on it and you can slip and slide. Well, thanks for letting us know about this. If you could follow up with Commissioner Saltzman's office, that's probably the best leverage we have to help. All right. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you. Take care. Okay.
 Okay, let's see. Maybe we should call 1227 and 1228 together. Would that be helpful? 1227, request of Sarah Kowalewski to address council regarding living wages, benefits, and job protections for city recreation staff. And 1228, request of William Ziegler to address council regarding living wages, benefits, and job protections for city recreation staff. Come on up, please. Good morning. Welcome. Welcome.
 Good morning. Good morning. Whoever would like to start. I'll start. Good morning Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Sarah Kowalewski. I've worked at Multnomah Arts Center for over five years. My work has included booking important life events for my community, processing need-based scholarships, and connecting the public to social services in my multi-purpose building. I've
 I not only connect the public with social services, but I need them myself. I have years of service to the city and years of empty cupboards. But I'm not here today just to talk about my story. I'm here today on behalf of hundreds of rec workers, colleagues who teach classes for our children, ensure pool and water safety, and support elders.
 Many staff have worked as casual workers for 9, 10, even 24 years, often without benefits and a living wage, job security, or basic workplace protections. This time last year, I spoke to city council about the misclassification of work in community centers. Since that time, some progress has been made, but the larger problem remains.
 there are still hundreds of rec workers struggling with poverty wages under this city's employment recently mayor hills you pledged to push the city council to recognize a new classification of rec worker this is a path to living wages benefits and union protections in support of this effort over 350 of my co-workers signed a petition asking for 15 an hour and more opportunity for year-round jobs
 The packet of signatures before you today represents the aspirations of hundreds of my coworkers. From instructors to full-time coordinators who program classes, we stand unified to end this decades-long problem of low wages. And a pathway to better wages couldn't come soon enough. Portland is becoming more and more stratified by race and class. And the city government is no exception.
 As we strive to implement equity in city services and internally, it gives me pause to know that casual workers who face low wages are 20% more likely to be women like myself and 10% more likely to be people of color. In a city with the fastest growing rents in the country, we are also the most prone to displacement. On May 13th, you passed a fair wage policy creating an avenue for living wage work for city contract workers.
 Today, I ask that you extend the same living wages to your own employees. You can do this by creating an ordinance that would voluntarily recognize a new classification of rec worker by December 16th. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is William Zeigler, and I'm a casual recreation employee with the City of Portland.
 I've spent a third of my life working for this wonderful city, and in my eight years working at the community centers and outdoor pools, I've learned quite a lot about our community. I've taught over a thousand people how to swim and watched many children grow up in our centers. Throughout these years, I've also seen the struggles of my coworkers, staff, who, like myself, have helped our community grow. I've seen excellent employees and teachers struggle with low wages and a lack of access to full-time work.
 These staff members kept our community centers running, even if it meant they weren't making enough to live or had to work multiple jobs. Many great employees who had a real future with the city have left due to low wages and a lack of access to full-time work. Speaking of living wages as a long-term employee, I, like so many others, do not make enough to afford my own housing or transportation.
 I also do not receive benefits, an overwhelming expense, especially as a person with a physical disability. I've spent my life in and out of medical debt and have seen the stress it can put on families and households. On October 21st, I personally heard the mayor say he would push city council to voluntarily recognize a new classification of rec workers, an avenue that could change the lives of potentially hundreds of recreation employees, the largest group of low-wage workers employed by the city of Portland.
 By using this democratic process of voluntary recognition, rec staff will have the opportunity to gain access to benefits, living wages, and union protection. Staff will also be more likely to afford rent, something that I have not always been able to do, and they will also be more likely to provide for their families. In early November, rec staff came together to gather signatures for a petition to support fair pay and benefits for everyone at our community centers.
 In a short time, we received over 350 signatures, both from casual staff struggling with a lack of work and low wages and represented staff who are tired of seeing their coworkers struggle. Now, we have the chance to tackle a large problem that has been around longer than most of us can remember. I ask all of you...
 to create a pathway to living wages, benefits, and union protections by creating an ordinance that would voluntarily recognize a new classification of rec workers by December 16th. Thank you all for taking the time to hear us out, and we look forward to working with you for a better future for rec staff. Thank you. Thank you all for coming. Thank you, Senator Dembrow. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Appreciate Senator Dimbrow and Representative Frederick for being here as well. And I think you've got a council here. Only one of us has not yet had the privilege of being Parks Commissioner. So maybe at some point in his career, Commissioner Novick will get that opportunity. But the other four of us have all been Parks Commissioners. And all five of us know what great work the
 the community centers do. In fact, I was just out at East Portland Community Center on Saturday for the Intercultural Basketball Tournament, and it's just one more example of how well you all serve the community. So you and your union are doing a great job of advocacy, including this morning, so we appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right, folks. Thank you.
 Let's move on to our regular calendar. Give people a chance to get back to work or wherever that they're headed. Thank you for being here. And then if the council, if there's no objection, I'd like to bring up 1251. Let's do consent first. We've had two items pulled off of consent, I believe, 1235 and 1241. No others? Okay.
 Okay, so let's take a roll call, please, Carla, on the consent calendar minus those two items. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, and then if there's no objection, let's bring up 1251 for discussion and possible roll call vote. Okay.
 1251, establish a tax on the demolition of certain residential structures in the City of Portland. So this is a continuation of discussion that we started at our public hearing on October 14th and continued last week. There were a couple of requests from council members at the last hearing. Julian Detweiler on my staff has provided information to your offices, but I just want to summarize that. Okay.
 Commissioner Fish asked for more input on whether houses in the floodway should be exempt from the tax, and representatives of both BES and Portland Housing Bureau have said they believe the tax should apply because it will help deter displacement in those areas. Andy Peterson at BDS said the floodway should be exempt because it would make it less expensive to raise houses above the flood level.
 Commissioner Novick asked for more information on the carbon impact of not exempting demolitions that result in increased density. BPS responded, Planning Bureau responded that the impact of houses going to the landfill is very significant and the loss density is small.
 So those were the council requests. We've heard from a lot of people on this issue. We've heard excellent testimony at last week's hearing from United Neighbors for Reform, from Living Cully, from the Welcome Home Coalition. And it's really at a point now where I think I need some guidance from the rest of the council. We have the option of proceeding with this, doing something else, or setting it aside. So I'm open to suggestions before we take a vote. Mayor Hales, thank you.
 First of all, thank you for the process we've had to get to this point. And actually, thank you for posing these questions before the vote. I think this is – I wish we did this more often, had these discussions before we put something to a vote. It also gives the public to get a clearer sense of some of the fault lines on the council and issues of concern. If this goes to a vote today, I will vote no.
 And in part, I will vote no because of the issues outlined by the DRAC and the letter December 1st, the fact that I'm not sure it's fully baked, and I have some concerns about intended and unintended consequences. It is theoretically possible that if it is pulled and we spend some more time working on it, that there could be an acceptable version, and in particular, we're not sure if it's
 if we could find a way to balance the issue of exempting homes below a certain price without running afoul of the legal restrictions. And there's a delicate balancing act there. But if we go to a vote today, I will reluctantly vote no. I would engage the mayor in good faith if this was pulled back to your office with no promises of an outcome. But I appreciate being given that option. That's why I wanted to cue this up, because if there's a chance that there's –
 majority or better yet a consensus of the council to move forward on this I'm certainly willing to take more time on the old measure twice cut one proposition if there's simply not a majority of the council that wants to do this ever then I need to know that and that's that's an acceptable outcome though I think again the question will arise if we're not going to do this and
 and we're not going to do nothing, what are we going to do to deal with the pace of demolitions and the loss of architectural character in our neighborhoods? And what are we going to do to provide funding for affordable housing? Because this is the first actual new revenue for affordable housing that we've come up with so far. So, again, I'm not wedded to this as a solution. I am wedded to finding one, and this one appears useful. So open to other comments from council members before we either proceed or not today. Okay.
 Mayor, if this comes to a vote today, I will vote no. My concern, as I expressed last week, is that this proposal in effect assumes that every demolition is equally bad and that the parties involved in a demolition are equally able to pay a $25,000 tax no matter what the circumstances are.
 I think that it's obvious that since we have policies to promote density, a demolition that results in increased density is not as bad as a demolition that does not. And it also seems clear to me that the parties involved in the demolition of a $200,000 house and its replacement by a $350,000 house are less able to pay a $25,000 tax than where you have a $200,000 house being demolished and replaced by a million-dollar house. So I am not going to vote for anything that doesn't include
 at least one of those two things, a density factor or exemption, and some variation of the tax based on the value of the replacement house. I actually am not fixed on my mind yet as to whether I might support something that had one of those but not both, but I can't support anything that doesn't have either. Okay. That's helpful. Any other comments?
 We have been asked to take more time of this. The first reading has been over the holiday season.
 I'm very concerned. It's very enticing to find a new reliable source of revenue for affordable housing. By just saying that, it's indicative that actually this won't stop that many demolitions and that there will be a sizable chunk of change for affordable housing. It doesn't seem reasonable to me to pay for affordable multifamily housing by making single-family housing even more unaffordable.
 So I'm not sure that I'm going to be able to get to yes, even if you take more time, but I certainly would be no today. Okay. Well, I think that makes it fairly obvious, unless you have any comments, Commissioner Saltzman, that obviously we don't have a majority that wants to proceed today. There are other options that I think the council can consider in addition to or instead of –
 attacks. We've been asked to declare a moratorium on demolitions. There's a process in state law for doing that. I would be open to doing that, but when you declare a moratorium, you have to say, and we're going to do this during the pendency of the moratorium. You can't just stop the world and get off. You have to say, we're going to stop issuing permits for demolitions in order to change our regulations this way.
 And I would be open to doing that. We obviously have the residential infill project working on changing our code with respect to...
 what happens in infill situations after a demolition or on a vacant lot. So those two things have some interaction, as we talked about at the last hearing, and therefore the council could try to merge those two efforts. What's the timeline on the residential? Well, too long, and this is my short answer to that, but there are elements of that work that I'd like to call up for early action by the council early next year. So, Mayor, one thing I think we should acknowledge is,
 We have had a very full council agenda the last couple of months. And holidays couldn't come at a better time. We also have the benefit of a –
 advisory committee composed of neighborhood leaders and developers who have written us with some substantive concerns which on the face of them seem reasonable and thoughtful. And they have not said no under any circumstance. They've said we think we can be part of the solution. So I would respectfully request that we engage the DRAC.
 and other stakeholders in looking at if there is a version of this proposal that could muster the votes in council, and if so, bring it back in January. Okay. Well, then, without objection, I will continue this until January 13th, which is the middle of January. We can change that schedule if we need to, but that's more than a month from now.
 So I'll continue this to January 13th and give us a chance to have those discussions. Okay, thank you. Mayor, I've just been advised that 1241 has no longer been pulled. Okay, 1241 has no longer pulled, so that is a non-emergency ordinance, so it passes the second reading. The puller has de-pulled.
 We already voted on consent. No, no, but that one was pulled. So we'll have to take separate item on 1240, separate action. So we can save that until later in the council calendar if we might, because that will allow the other issues to get resolved while I'm here. Okay, let's move then to 1229, please. Okay.
 1229, improve land use regulations through the accessory structure zoning code update project. Okay, this is the second reading. Comments? Yeah, I would ask for some indulgence on this one to have just a little conversation and perhaps staff input. One of the things that I have noticed in reviewing the proposed code is that the allowance to put a structure of a certain size on the property line does not say that adjustments are prohibited. Okay.
 So the assurance that these will be small and limited to 24 feet by 10 feet is not an assurance because the change in the purpose statement also means that adjustment might be more likely since they're already there.
 So I wonder if that was an unintended part of the code, that you didn't prohibit adjustments to these standards? Can we get staff to respond to that? Or are you intending to actually allow larger structures right on the property line? And this section in question is 33-110-250C2. Morning.
 Good morning. Matt Wickstrom, Bureau of Development Services. And you're correct. The code does not say adjustments are prohibited. So someone could potentially go through an adjustment review to ask for a larger ADU in the setback, larger than would be allowed with the new code, just as they would be able to go through an adjustment review today to ask for a larger accessory dwelling unit in the setback.
 And the approval criteria would relate to the livability and appearance and the purpose statement for the setback regulations, which talks about privacy and the placement of homes and neighborhoods and proximity of dwelling units to other dwelling units. Okay.
 And this is similar to the current process has that same allowance for garages. So if somebody wants to build a 24 by 30 garage, they would go through an adjustment process. So the idea was to have that parallel process with other accessory structures. Okay. So the criteria would apply and, in effect, the design and character of the project is then considered, right?
 then my second question is about runoff if the wall is on the property line uh the eve is going to be over the property line uh that's not allowed um so basically if someone was going to have an eve they need to make sure that eve is pulled in the wall would have to be pulled in so the eve would not extend over the property line so as a practical matter you can't actually put the wall on the property line because there's always going to have to be some provision for the runoff so that is not clear
 I think it is because it happens all the time. Yeah, it's other codes that address that. So environmental services handle stormwater, and I believe if a structure is more than 500 square feet, they have to show what they're going to do with the runoff. So once again, a smaller scale structure may not necessarily have issues, but then a larger one, they'll have to show how they're going to deal with the runoff. Yeah, regardless of runoff, you can't hang your Evo right now. And that's, once again, the same. We don't have anything...
 with garages that say in the zoning code that the garage has to be set back to meet BES requirements. That's just part of the menu of requirements that they have to go through to meet when they're getting a permit. Okay. Other questions for staff? Thank you very much. Okay, this is a second reading. Let's take a vote, please. No vote? Aye. Prince. Since the first reading two weeks ago, I have held two public meetings, one with 70 people and one with – I attended one last night with over 20 –
 And by a 20 to 1 margin, people do not in general support this. I've given both the arguments for and the arguments against as I've read them in my emails and did not state my own preference. And it was quite stunning how many people are quite concerned about this.
 And I believe it's going to have a backlash against accessory dwelling units, which have been so popular since we carefully crafted the regulations 20, 15, 20 years ago to allow them to be compatible and to not infringe on neighbors' rights. Now we are allowing them to be 30% larger than the average garage and taller and on all three sides of the rare property line, right on the property line. And I just,
 I wouldn't like that next to me, and I think there's a lot of people who are going to be very upset when they find out that there's going to be a structure like this on their property line. We allowed Airbnb because we knew we were going to get a lot more tax money from it, and yet –
 Now we have seen an explosion of accessory dwelling units being built as Airbnbs. And so basically people have commercial structures right on their property line. And that's not what residential neighborhoods are for. No. Okay.
 fish hi saltsman hey ales i want to thank the planning bureau and the bureau of the bureau of development services for good work on this and i do think the community has done a good job of coming to us with a responsible proposal i'm sensitive to the concerns you've raised commissioner fritz but i think there's such demand for this kind of housing in the city that we should try to make this work and i think it will work well hi thank you very much
 Okay, let's move then to item 1230. Item 1230, replace code chapter 16.40 pertaining to private for hire transportation in the city of Portland. Any comments or concerns before we vote? There was a question about the wording of Commissioner Saltzman's amendment, which as posted in today's second reading is not the same as what Commissioner Saltzman moved and I seconded.
 Can we get some help on that? Well, there was also a discussion after the amendment was first offered, and we came up with an alternate version of it, which is reflected in what we have today. Commissioner Saltzman, is that correct? I think the version that appeared in the auditor's report is – I'm comfortable with that version. I think that better reflects the discussion than maybe my ill-advised attempt to craft something on the fly. I think the amendment –
 as published reflects my intent so you're satisfied with the language we have in front of us yes okay yes all right other questions okay roll call please novick in this job there are issues you deal with that you're excited to deal with because you ran on those issues they're part of the reasons they're here you're here and there's issues you deal with because they came up on your watch and you have to deal with them this for me falls squarely in the second category
 Speaking purely for myself, I would be very happy if I'd never heard the words Uber or Lyft, because this is a no-win issue. If you don't let Uber operate here, then you're depriving Portlanders of a popular service used throughout the country and the world. If you let them operate here, you are murdering innocent traditional taxi cab drivers in their beds. This is a no-win issue. When the regulation of private for hire was transferred to PBOT, here's the situation we had.
 We had a set of regulations that are somewhat similar to taxicab regulations in other cities, but regulations that are unlike any other kind of regulation that we have in the United States for any industry, as far as I can tell. There are some industries where governments have concluded there are sort of natural monopolies, natural geographic monopolies, like electric utilities and maybe garbage collection.
 I'm not aware of any other industry where any government says, we're going to allow competition, but we're going to limit the number of competitors and limit the amount of service each one of them can provide. It's as if we'd said that only three companies will be allowed to operate coffee shops in Portland, Starbucks, Stumptown, and Pete's, and Starbucks will be allowed to have 11 shops and Pete's 9 and Stumptown 7. We just don't do this in any other industry.
 We also had regulations that didn't work and or were inadequately enforced. We had the requirement that each taxi company have 20% of their fleet be wheelchair accessible vehicles, a requirement which was, to say the least, not always kept, not always played out in practice, and which people in the disability community said did not result in good service for them.
 We also had regulations requiring citywide and 24-7 service for all the taxi cabs, which we didn't really enforce because we didn't monitor it. We didn't have staff to do spot checks to see if that was happening. We also had, when PBOT took over private for hire, Uber knocking on the door. And people might recall that Uber was very upset with Portland for not moving quickly to let them in.
 And at the time, Uber had no provision for any kind of insurance whatsoever in so-called period one when the app is on, but the right hasn't been accepted. And Uber had nowhere in the country, as far as I can tell, committed to wheelchair accessible, to providing wheelchair accessible service. What we have now before us is a set of regulations where we do allow for competition in this industry. Right.
 where in terms of wheelchair accessible vehicles, instead of a fleet requirement that didn't work, we have a performance requirement that says you have to provide service, which we are going to enforce. We've been doing spot checks recently. We've determined that there are carriers that have not been providing consistent wheelchair accessible service, and we are going to impose some penalties.
 But we're not just doing sticks. We're also doing carrots. We are going to come up with a way to reimburse carriers for the actual cost of providing wave rides, which is more than the cost of a regular ride. We also have taken an action that I don't know if it's been taken anywhere else in the country or so, only a few, and I have to credit Commissioner Fish for this.
 When you looked at Uber's terms of service, it basically said if you – it doesn't matter how negligent Uber is, no customer can go after them for anything. And Commissioner Fish looked at that and said that's pretty outrageous. Now, I think, unfortunately, that similar disclaimers of legal liability are rampant throughout industry in America. But we regulate this particular service, so we can do something about it.
 So we insisted that in Uber's disclaimer language, they from here on say, this is not valid in the state of Oregon. Because actually there's a court decision that's saying that kind of disclaimer language in Oregon is not valid. So we insisted they put that in their language. Now, there's one issue that has been the subject of a lot of discussion where I think it's been pretty obvious that I've gone back and forth.
 which is the issue of insurance and particularly the level of insurance in period one, which is when the app is on before it has been accepted. Now, the regulations before us require a higher level of insurance for the TNCs in period one than the state requires for noncommercial drivers. But I have to say that in my view, the level of insurance that we're requiring in period one in these regulations is not as high as it should be.
 I'd like to see it higher. But I'm not going to try to fix that today for three reasons. One, right now there is no insurance product on the market that provides for a higher level of insurance in period one. And we've been told by the insurance industry that they can't turn on a dime and create a new product. That takes time.
 A second reason is I'm still not quite sure what the appropriate level of insurance in period one is. What the taxicabs say is that their experience is that they have more accidents before a ride has been accepted than after it's been accepted. And they provide statistics on that. What Uber says is it's exactly the opposite.
 and it's possible that one or both of them are cooking the books. It's also possible they're both telling the truth, and there's a difference in the business model. Taxi cabs are allowed to take street hails, so if they don't have an active ride, they might drive around looking for another ride. The Ubers and Lyfts are not allowed to take street hails, so it might make sense to them to sit in place and not drive anywhere if they don't have a ride accepted.
 So I am, for that reason, I'm not totally clear on my mind whether we should treat this period for insurance purposes exactly the way we treat it for all other purposes, I mean, have insurance in all other periods, or whether it should be somewhat less. A third reason why I'm not going to take action to fix what I acknowledge is a flaw today is this.
 Uber and Lyft have made it quite clear that if any jurisdiction departs from the, quote, national agreement on insurance, and let's make this clear, this is not only Portland where these insurance rules apply in period one. This is part of a, quote, national agreement that's been adopted in many places throughout the country. But Uber and Lyft have made it clear that if any jurisdiction tries to depart from this, quote, national agreement, they declare war. Now,
 I am not normally a guy who shies away from a fight. In fact, occasionally in the past couple of years I've been told that I'm too eager to fight. But if you're going to have a fight with a $50 billion company, you're probably well advised to first look around for some reinforcements for some allies. So I'm going to do that. Mr. Kofori, you said last week that there's going to be legislation in this next legislature to require a consistent statewide higher level of insurance in period one.
 With the caveat that, again, I'm still not quite sure what the level should be, I will support that concept, and I will come down to Salem to testify for it. Because I think the state of Oregon, which is seven times bigger than the city of Portland, has a better chance of winning a fight with Uber and Lyft than Portland alone.
 I'm also going to look around and see if there's other major cities in America that are in the same situation we are, where Uber and Lyft are operating under the, quote, national model, but a majority of the council would like to raise the insurance levels in period one, and see if we can take action collectively and together agree to jump off the cliff and take on this issue. Because there is strength in numbers, or as our labor friends say, there is power in a union.
 Speaking of unions, Seattle appears poised to do something on December 14th, which is fascinating, which I'm inclined to follow. As you know, I've been concerned about the fact that this industry as a whole, not just the TNCs but the taxi companies, most drivers are classified as independent contractors, which means they don't have the kind of protections that employees normally have, like minimum wage and workers' comp, et cetera.
 Commissioner Avakian has said preliminarily that he thinks that Uber drivers at least are employees, and I think that's great. Now, I don't know, however, if that's going to hold up in court or if he will follow through with his preliminary recommendation. Seattle is taking a somewhat different take on a portion of that issue. They appear poised to pass legislation saying that independent contractor drivers in the private-priority industry have a right to collective bargaining.
 which is not something I thought of before because I think of collective bargaining as being governed by federal law. But I've been reading articles on it and apparently the labor lawyers are going back and forth saying, well, maybe this would work and maybe it wouldn't. But I think it sounds like a hell of an idea. So I'll be looking to see what Seattle does on December 14th and I'd be inclined to propose an ordinance that follows that. Having said all this, I can't tell you that I'm going to spend a bunch of time on either of these issues in the immediate future.
 My priority for the next several months has to be passing a local temporary gas tax to fix our streets and make them safer, which is a huge issue which the city hasn't dealt with in at least 28 years. So that has to be my priority. I'm going to have limited time for anything else. But I will say this to the tax account industry.
 If you can identify those allies in other cities, if you can identify two American cities with populations over 300,000 that are prepared to raise the insurance levels in period one if they have company, then I'd be prepared to move forward quite quickly with a proposal like that hand-in-hand with those other cities. So with that extraordinary long preamble, I vote aye. Great. Thank you.
 Mine's even longer. I never thought that I would see the day that the Portland City Council would operate like the Republican-dominated Congress in Washington, DC. Congress is known for allowing industry to write its own regulations rather than legislators acting on behalf of their constituents in the public interest.
 Sadly, that day has arrived here in Portland today with these regulations being adopted on behalf of the transportation network companies, or TNCs, principally Uber and Lyft. I am greatly troubled by the fact that common sense regulations were not accepted by the council majority simply because Uber and Lyft wouldn't approve. This has been a long public process. It has not been a good public process. None of the workers most affected by this ordinance had a seat at the table at the community task force.
 TNC lobbyists had multiple private meetings with the primary council members supporting the ordinance. Taxi representatives did not. As a consequence of the process, the final ordinance does not represent a balanced approach. And as a result of that lack of balance, it does not act on behalf of the long-term public good of Portlanders. At December 8, 2014, a year ago almost, in the article in the Oregonian, reported Commissioner Novak stated,
 If Uber thinks there should be no maximum price on what they charge Portlanders, they should make their case to the Portland City Council because everyone agrees good regulations make for a safer community. Good regulations do make for a safer community, but this ordinance doesn't follow through on the laudable initial commitment to good regulations. As Commissioner Novick just publicly reiterated, his desire for both Uber drivers and taxi drivers to be treated as employees.
 It's not okay to say that we're going to punt on that and that if two cities join us, we'll go along. Two major cities have already said that insurance needs to be greater in the period one, and Uber and Lyft have decided not to operate there.
 In meetings inside City Hall, Commissioner Novick pledged to me that the new system would be as safe for an aging woman like me as the current taxi system. That is not the outcome with the policy before us. Background checks will no longer be overseen by trusted public servants working for the people of Portland inside city government. They will be contracted out to private third parties with only spot checks to confirm accountability. Thank you.
 There is no requirement for drivers to take a defensive driving course, thus missing a huge opportunity to close the driver error gap as we implement Vision Zero. Taxi drivers are having to work longer hours to eke out a living. All of these factors make me less safe as a lifelong taxicab user as a result of this ordinance. There are other factors in these rules dismantling the reliable, safe taxi service that Portlanders have depended on for decades.
 People choosing to use taxis will no longer be certain of the fare before we hail or book a cab. Customers will need to ask every driver in a taxi waiting zone for their fare in order to get the best price. New taxi companies will no longer be scrutinized by the grueling public vetting and approval by city council in an open public hearing. I feel so sad for my friends in Union Cab, supported by the Communication Workers of America Local 7901. You worked so hard to win approval of your franchise.
 And now the majority of council is telling you you're an expendable casualty in the free market, the free market that is grinding the working class and middle class into the servants of the billionaire corporations. The majority of council is showing the same disregard for the values and services of Radio Cab, predominantly owned and operated by veterans, the same for Green Cab and Eco Cab. Which values and principles does this ordinance purport to serve? The almighty free market is a poor substitute for local businesses, local values, local loyalty.
 More problems with this ordinance. Only taxis will be required to use in-vehicle cameras. This puts both passengers and drivers at risk. This is another inequity created between taxis and TNCs. Why not require that TNCs have the cameras turned on during the ride in those wonderful smartphones? Answer is because Uber and Lyft say no.
 The city will lose revenue with the adoption of this ordinance. Many TNC drivers won't meet the threshold annual income level of $50,000 to be liable for our business income tax, and yet the rides they provide would otherwise have been taxable income for a full-time cab driver. Expanding the driver pool dilutes the tax base.
 The fees charged for TNC company permits are woefully inadequate to cover the cost of enforcement, meaning fees paid by taxi companies will disproportionately pay for transportation staff time attempting to hold TNCs accountable. This will mean fewer spot checks of taxis by the thinning of the soup. I don't understand why people driving for profit are somehow exempt from precautions on using cell phones while driving. Commissioner Salzman has previously been so vigilant on distracted driving.
 Studies show that hands-free operation is just as distracting as handheld phone use. We heard testimony that the sound has to be kept on to alert the driver of a ride opportunity. Does that mean the sound is on for taking a phone call too? Have three of you forgotten so fast the public service announcement we viewed from AT&T just a few months ago, urging us to put our cell phones in the glove compartment while driving? But with all these flaws, the ordinance is most egregious regarding the disparate requirements for insurance between taxis and TNCs.
 Taxis will continue to be required to carry half a million dollars in liability insurance at all times. Uber and Lyft drivers will be covered by a paltry $50,000 when accidents happen when drivers are waiting to pick up fares or on their way home. And they'll get nothing if a crash occurs with a distracted driver tapping their phone to accept a ride, then crashing into a tree or another car. There is no required collision coverage in that scenario.
 Worst of all is the appalling disregard in this ordinance for pedestrians, cyclists, and other motorists injured by TNC drivers during period one, when the driver is cruising waiting for a ride or after a passenger has been dropped off.
 Mayor Hales asked for data on accident incidences. The data gathered laboriously by taxi companies proved that most crashes happen when drivers are waiting for rides or on their way home after a fair. Yet no changes were made to the insurance coverage required in this ordinance in response to that data. As you are all aware, my husband was killed in a traffic crash last year.
 Through this excruciating life event, I learned a lot about insurance requirements in this state. The crash in which my husband was killed was probably initiated by the reckless driving of a commercial tanker truck as it was being driven home after dropping off its cargo. This ordinance sets the value of a person's life taken by a commercial driver returning from a paid fare at $50,000 maximum. Less, perhaps, given the pitiful level of coverage the council is setting of $100,000 per incident.
 Four innocent people were harmed in the crash that killed my husband. Under this ordinance, another grieving spouse like me in a crash with four injuries would receive only $25,000 in compensation for a death caused by a TNC driver, even if the insurance company paid without the fees of 35% or more that are dedicated to the lawyer if the estate has to engage one to collect on damages.
 I am baffled as to why any of you would consider your own life or that of the person you love most in the entire world to max out at $50,000, less than one year of our salaries. I don't understand why you asked for the data on crash incidences before and after picking up a ride and then ignored it.
 The council is opening the city to liability in knowing of a problem and refusing to address it, the same way that ODOT failed to install median crash barriers until we passed the Fritz Fairchild Act, whose names will be on the ordinance amending this code after somebody's family member is killed by a TNC driver in period one. Again, I quote Commissioner Novick early in the process. If Uber thinks taxis should not have to have proper insurance in the case of a crash, they should tell us why we should allow that.
 That has not happened. There is no public purpose in allowing TNCs to have inadequate insurance in the case of a crash. Mayor Hale said, Our main concern is with public health and safety because the state invested in the cities the responsibility to do that. Beyond that, though, is the issue of fairness. Taxicab companies follow rules on health and safety. The rules adopted by the majority of council today do not follow the same rules for public health and safety for TNCs as for taxicab companies.
 There are multiple other problems with the Dunn deal being adopted. Lack of protection for TNC drivers assaulted by passengers compared with taxis. Setting the insurance company rules to favor Uber's insurance, which is not admitted in the state of Oregon and will not provide protection if the James River Corporation fails. While making local taxi companies buy more expensive insurance from big national companies rather than reliable Oregon firms.
 Taxing all rides the same to pay for accessible rides without requiring TNCs to share the load of providing accessible vehicles, which places an unfair burden on taxi companies who recently invested in accessible vehicles to meet the city's fleet requirement. One and done driver safety checks rather than periodic retesting. I could go on and on. I'm beyond disappointed in these regulations, which ought to be so simple, fair, and safety-oriented.
 Aside from the here and now impacts on drivers, passengers and bystanders injured by TNC operations, I am very concerned about the negative climate impacts of putting thousands of TNC drivers on Portland streets. Before the pilot project, there were a mere 750 permits issued to taxis. Now we are told there are about 5,000 new commercial drivers on Portland streets, adding to congestion and making it easier for passengers to choose low-occupancy cars over transit.
 The mayor is heading to Paris to boast about Portland's commitment to reducing vehicle emissions and other critical mechanisms to combat climate disruption. How does this ordinance help in that regard? I am very grateful to the taxi drivers and other citizens who participated in this process, however flawed this process has been, as if their participation might make a difference. I was hopeful that my input might make a difference too. I see no evidence that that is true.
 I thank Director Leotre and the Portland Bureau of Transportation staff. I recognize that you have carried out the direction of your commissioner in charge and your mayor. I expect and receive the same from the bureau directors assigned to my portfolio.
 Thank you to my colleague, Nick Fish, who has stood side by side with me in trying to protect the interests of our constituents rather than ceding to the demands of two powerful out-of-state corporations. Like the many Portlanders who have provided support and encouragement to me over the past 62 weeks, Commissioner Fish, your efforts have been hugely appreciated, even though we can't change the outcome.
 Thank you to Claire Adamsick, Tim Crail, and Tom Brezo on my staff, and Judith Mowry and Dancy James in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, who tried hard to get taxi drivers' voices heard. I recognize there are many Portlanders supplementing their income or driving for Uber and Lyft as their primary income. I appreciate their participation in the process, too. I worry about the TNC drivers putting their families at risk from driving without proper insurance, surveillance, or support from their TNC employer.
 When $50,000 insurance proves too little in period one, the injured party can and will sue you personally to recover damages. I believe we could have set up a system that safeguards both drivers and riders in the new paragraph time, and those in the taxi industry continuing to provide service to women like me who do not feel safe getting into an unmarked car with no camera running. This ordinance does not do this.
 This ordinance denotes caving in to multinational corporations at the expense of Portland businesses and the safety of our community. There is limited public purpose in the regulations being adopted today. This ordinance represents capitulation to the lowest common denominator in the worst way. I am very disappointed that Portland isn't stepping up to set the national standard for a sharing economy with adequate safeguards for both workers and customers.
 This is one of the saddest votes I have cast in almost seven years in office. Portlanders will lose their family wage jobs, fare-paying passengers will not be as safe as when hiring rides in Portland, and victims will receive grossly inadequate compensation when tragedies occur as a result of this action.
 This ordinance does not act on behalf of the long-term public good of Portlanders. In casting my vote, I would like to add an emphatic swear word, but in the interests of decorum, I will simply vote in the name of all those traffic crash victims. No. Ms. I want to begin by acknowledging the countless hours put into this process by key stakeholders, including the taxi companies, drivers, TNCs, the private for hire task force, staff at PBOT, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Novick, and their staff.
 I believe they worked in good faith to attempt to craft policies that strive to balance fairness, safety, and jobs. I also appreciate the progress we've made on a lot of issues I care about, like requiring TNCs to tailor their terms of service to reflect Oregon law, improving service to disabled customers, and clarifying that TNC insurance is primary in all three periods. That said, I cannot support this proposal.
 As I have said before, I am not pro-taxi or anti-Uber. Rather, I have a healthy dose of skepticism to the claims made by a company with a well-established track record of running over its critics, its competitors, and its regulators. I have questioned whether the public interest is served by deregulating this industry.
 and I have expressed concern with the business practices of many of the key players in the so-called sharing economy who simply declare that the rules don't apply to them. Throughout this process, I have supported reasonable policies and regulations that reflect our values, not theirs. But I keep coming back to the same issues. Fairness, a level playing field, consumer protection and safety, and perhaps most important, trust. Time will tell if my concerns are justified.
 but today I cannot support this ordinance, and so I vote no. Well, I want to thank Commissioner Novick, Brian Hockaday, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, for really taking a thankless task and doing Yeoman's work here. I think that
 There's been an effort to level the playing field as much as possible between TNCs and taxicabs, and I think that's the good direction to go in. And I know we like to talk about $50 billion corporations versus small taxicab companies, but I look at this as a new reality. I mean, this is a generational shift. People like me, who are over 60, are committed to taxicabs, and I will always use taxicabs. Take my daughter, who's 25 years old.
 She will use Uber and Lyft. She will not envision anything else. And I've been to many cities in the last year, Austin, San Francisco, New York, and all of those have the same issues going on here, particularly San Francisco. And I see a very healthy taxicab industry in San Francisco, despite the emergence of Uber, Lyft, and whoever else is a TNC. So I think we need to recognize that this is being sought by Portlanders
 As I said, it's kind of a generational thing. Anybody under 30, 35, they want this. And I've heard countless testimonials of young people who say they go to the bars now and they take an Uber or Lyft home. They don't drive. So I think there's a tremendous public safety benefit in that, and it's a reality.
 they're not you know cabs for whatever reason are just not as available when they're needed when the bars are closing and i think that's a tremendous public safety aspect of this that we tend to overlook but it's a reality i do think that enforcement is a key and that's why i'm so happy that we're doing a 50 cent surcharge per ride to be dedicated to enforcing these new regulations and i think that's been a key concern of the taxi cab industry
 I think you were heard, and we will have a robust enforcement program. I am convinced of that. And finally, I would just like to say that we had a robust demonstration period. It's time to move out of our own Phase 1 and get into our own Phase 2. As Commissioner Novick has alluded to, Phase 2 may be robust as well. But it's time to say we've had the trial period.
 It's shown that the pie of people using TNCs and taxis has increased dramatically. True, the taxi cab share of that pie has declined, but not as precipitously as feared. I believe there's people like me and Commissioner Fritz, others who are always going to use taxi cabs, and there's always going to be a place. But there is also a place for transportation network companies, and we need to accept that and get these rules in place and move on. Aye.
 Well, I also want to thank Commissioner Novick and his staff, Brian Hockaday in particular, Jim Owens, who led the task force, facilitated the task force of citizens who helped us try to work our way through these issues. And I won't add a lot to the good comments that have already been made, but I want to add a little bit of context. Remember how we came into this issue.
 These TNCs, as Commissioner Novick pointed out, were something new under the sun. They started operating in the rest of the Portland metropolitan area. And I want to reiterate this point. We are 600,000 people in a region of 2.2 million. In the entirety of the rest of the metropolitan area, there are no regulations whatsoever for
 with respect to transportation network companies not in vancouver not in beaverton not in gresham not in lake oswego and so on so there is an appropriate role for the state to play
 and I hope they do. And I hope the discussion about insurance continues there, as well as the discussion about who is or is not an independent contractor. But what happened in the city of Portland was these transportation network companies began putting pressure on us to allow them to operate here. Then one of them began operating illegally. They were told to
 to stop operating illegally so we could consider changing our regulations to incorporate them into the new reality that we're in. And we have done that. We haven't gone as far as some would like us to go in those regulations, but actually I think we've gone farther than almost any other city in the United States. That's a good start. These are regulations. We can change them, particularly after the state acts.
 But I think it's important to remember that context, that no one asked for this, least of all the Transportation Commissioner or his Bureau. They have some other work to do, and I appreciate your priority very much, Commissioner Noving. But we have made a good effort at regulating a new thing.
 But we've got to remember that there are others who also have to play a role here. The state labor commissioner, the state legislature have a role to play in trying to figure out how this is going to work going forward. And the city of Portland will continue to be involved in that work.
 So I appreciate the good effort that's been made. It's a good start. We have not achieved perfect equity between the traditional taxi cab companies and transportation network companies. I understand that. That wasn't really possible for a city to do.
 But I hope that as this goes forward, the city will continue, this city will continue to be an innovative, effective regulator in a context of a brand new global industry that showed up uninvited on our doorstep. Aye. Thank you. I'm going to pass the gavel and I'll see you next week. All by Ash. Thank you. Thank you. And now for something completely different. Would you please read the title for item 1, 2, 3, 1?
 Approve a revision to Human Resources Administrative Rule 6.05, Family Medical Leave, to allow for six weeks of paid parental leave in a calendar year for eligible employees.
 Thank you. I am very excited to bring forth this change in policy. There is an abundance of research that shows the benefits of paid parental leave. This benefit not only extends to new parents and children with babies, but also has positive impact on job performance.
 Although it is not up to international standards of parental leave, this is a very good start. I want to start by thanking the advocates of Family Forward, Lily Hogue and Andrea Peluso, for their work on this important issue. And then thank you also to Anna Kamwit, who's going to explain what it is we're doing here today, the Director of Human Resources. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 The rest are the commissioners. I'm Anna Canwood. I'm the director of the Bureau of Human Resources, and pleased to be here presenting an important policy change for the city.
 The ordinance proposes adding to Human Resources Administrative Rule 6.05, family medical leave, a provision that would make the first six weeks of parental leave under the Federal Family Medical Leave Act and or the Oregon Family Medical Leave Act paid leave. Eligible events, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, for that leave would be the birth of a child, adoption of a child, or a foster placement of a child.
 This change would cover parental leave taken by all our regular employees, limited duration, temporary employees in budgeted positions, certain at-will employees, including those in elected official offices who have simply worked 180 consecutive calendar days. The city paid parental leave will run concurrently with parental leave under the Federal Family Medical Leave Act and the Oregon Family Leave Act.
 As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, the research is very clear that parental leave has a positive impact on parents bonding with their children. Our goal by providing six weeks of paid parental leave would be to ensure that parents at a minimum are able to take that amount of time off.
 The research shows that fathers who take parental leave are more involved with their children, and this change is in keeping with the city's goal to become an employer of choice. We have instituted many programs and initiatives already,
 under our umbrella of becoming an employer of choice, and paid parental leave is an important component of that. Paid parental leave will assist the city in attracting and retaining new employees. Attracting new employees is becoming increasingly important as our retirements continue to increase over the next few years, so replacing those who leave is critical.
 For some bureaus, paid parental leave will also be a key recruitment tool in recruiting women to jobs traditionally held by men, particularly the police chief has mentioned that this will be key for him in recruiting women to become police officers.
 Under the policy, the paid parental leave may be taken once a year in one continuous six-week period. It does not carry over if it's not used. For any remainder of a parental leave, because state and federal laws do allow up to 12 weeks, employees will be able to access their accrued leave, sick leave and vacation, any other accrued leave they have.
 But by having the first six weeks paid, as I mentioned, we hope that this will assist employees in actually taking that full 12 weeks. We'll make that affordable to them.
 So asking you today to authorize this policy change, to implement the policy. It also has a provision for the Human Resources Bureau Director to make an exception in what we believe is an unlikely event. There could be two events in a calendar year, but that could happen. So the policy as written is one six-week period a year, but also allows –
 myself to make that exception in the event that there are two events in a calendar year. I have discussed... This does cover adoptions also. Yes.
 Adoptions. Yes, adoptions, placement of foster child and birth. Exactly, Commissioner. I have spoken with most of the labor leaders about this policy. All are in favor. And in fact, Rob Wheaton from AFSCME 189 who he and I are in a grievance procedure today that I left to present this ordinance wanted me to specifically let you know, but for that grievance he would be here supporting the ordinance.
 The details are in the policy document. There's also a frequently asked questions that we prepared, which will help employees to understand how the program operates. Finally, there is a cost.
 To the proposal, we looked at it, measuring the difference between unpaid leave hours that parents took versus converting those to paid. So that cost is approximately $217,000. It, of course, is somewhat difficult to provide accurate costing there.
 There is an additional cost for those bureaus where employees have to be replaced, and that, again, is an estimate range between $195,000 and $285,000. Okay.
 The last thing I want to mention, although it is not part of this particular ordinance, as part of our overall proposed revisions to the Human Resources Administrative Rules, which are out for notice and comment now, we have recommended adding a provision that would allow employees to donate up to 40 hours of sick leave to those employees who have a catastrophic illness of their own or are dependent. This particular provision will also assist...
 For example, mothers who are experiencing pregnancy-related disability and are on unpaid time. So it is somewhat related to the paid parental leave provision. So I just wanted to note that and that those provisions will probably be going into effect in January. Okay.
 Thank you. I have no other questions for Anna before she hurries back to grievances. It's okay. Thank you very much. We have two panels just shortly. First, Larry Wallach from Portland State University, Courtney Duke, and Sarah Schooley from the City Mamas Affinity Group. I'll stay in case there's any other questions.
 My name is Lawrence Wallach, and I bring more than 40 years of experience working to advance the public's health to my testimony today. The proposal to provide paid parental leave for city workers is good public policy, and it's good public health policy. I have reviewed a body of U.S. and international research on this topic and found the evidence of positive impact to be strong.
 The proposed parental leave policy is good public policy because research indicates that it produces a number of very positive social outcomes.
 This policy promotes equity because it takes an opportunity that is now enjoyed by relatively few and extends it to others. Some of the specific outcomes established through the research include increased amount of leave that both new mothers and fathers take. This is not taken for granted because oftentimes when policies exist, people don't take the leave even though the policy exists. The paid policy actually shows that there is an increase.
 in the amount of leave that's taken. It increases the amount of time that the father spends caring for the child. It increases the economic and employment security for families, critically important. And when women do return to work, they see an increase in wages and also numbers of hours worked. It promotes gender equality by better sharing workload and roles and responsibilities.
 Very interesting international work on a long-term study in Norway showed that it reduced high school dropout rates by 2 percent in increased wages at age 30. It was a 30-year study by 5 percent. But importantly, it had a greater impact for children whose mother had fewer than 10 years of education. This is a significant equity finding. Finally, increased equity as greater benefits overall accrue to those who are in lower quality jobs,
 unmarried or single mothers, and women of color, and those who suffer disadvantage in general. And this is reported both in the international studies and in the U.S. research that we have.
 It is good public health policy in large part because it's directed to the developmental stage of life that is most critical for future health and well-being, what's known as the first thousand days. Evidence suggests that job-protected paid leave is associated with better mental and physical health for the mother, both short and long term, better health for the baby, and reductions in low birth weight and infant mortality.
 Low birth weight is one of the most significant factors we have in our society for understanding the health of the larger population. The positive benefits are linked to reductions in maternal and family stress through increased social support and financial stability, increased available money to invest in the needs of a new baby, increased time available for well-baby visits and immunizations, and very important, increased duration of breastfeeding.
 A few things to keep in mind. Number one, the availability of job-protected leave likely allows women to use sick or vacation leave, if available, during pregnancy, which might provide benefits to the developing baby that influence birth weight and infant mortality. This is leave that otherwise might have to be saved for the post-delivery period.
 All studies show that longer leaves result in increased positive outcome. The few paid leave programs that do exist in the United States, and the one you are proposing, are far below the average of 18 weeks paid leave provided by our comparator OECD countries.
 A duration of six weeks will likely yield positive benefits, but we'll still be far behind what we should aspire to as a caring community. The California experience, which was implemented in 2004, showed that a paid family leave program for the general population could be implemented in a way that provided support
 positive outcomes for small businesses and none of the adverse consequences predicted by business lobbies when the policy was being debated. Thus, business could be an important ally in expanding this benefit to the non-governmental sector in Portland. In conclusion, this modest but very productive, very important policy would put the city of Portland in the forefront of
 of investing in its workers and caring for the next generation. This is indeed a very important step, but still needs to be considered as part of a much-needed longer journey. Thank you.
 Hi. Thank you, Council and Commissioner Fritz. I'm Courtney Duke. I'm here today in my role as the co-founder, past chair, and current board member of PDX City Mamas. We are the city's working mom affinity group, a group under the auspices of DEEP, which is the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland. We have been one of the most active...
 I've been in a group since we started in 2007, because moms can multitask quite a bit. Our mission is to create a supportive environment to exchange information, ideas, and challenges for City of Portland working parents. Our group partners with the city to advocate on behalf of working parents,
 to help attract, support, and retain working parents, which this ordinance fully supports. Sarah Schooley, another PDX City Mama board member, and I are representing over 100 parents at the City of Portland to force our full support of this ordinance and paid leave. With that, I will turn it over to Sarah. Great. Good morning, Commissioners. This is a very different topic than I usually get to talk with you about, so I'm kind of excited about that this morning. Thank you.
 So I just wanted to set some frame as to the discussion and what's going on around the country. So I'm going to go through a quick list of some different companies and how much paid leave they give to their new parents. So Netflix, probably the gold star, gives unlimited paid leave for one year. Facebook gets 17 weeks. Adobe is 16 weeks. Twitter is 10 weeks. Google is 12 weeks. And Bank of America is 12 weeks.
 As for our fellow governmental counterparts in San Francisco, they have 12 weeks. Multnomah County just put together six weeks, which is pretty exciting that we're trying to get in line with our other commissioners across the river. King County up in the Seattle area is 12 weeks. Kansas City, Missouri is six weeks.
 So seeing these numbers, I think it's really exciting that Portland is stepping up to bat here, and especially seeing the benefits that have been proved in research that we're ready to take the next step. But also, as a personal professional who has worked for this city for five years, I can testify that I've never worked with a government structure that has had such dedicated, smart, and talented employees.
 That said, working for the city isn't necessarily a glamorous position, as many of you know. We are constantly trying to please an unpleasable public. We will probably never make the equivalent of what we could make in the private sector. And in most cases, we have very little negotiation power to balance our work with outside life choices. That said, we still work for the city.
 I think most of us work for the city because we truly love this place and are okay making some professional sacrifices, knowing that we are making Portland a better place for our friends and family to live. It's the non-monetary bonus that keeps us here.
 But as we start thinking about how to keep these fabulous staff here and how to recruit the newest and best minds in the workforce, we must understand that benefits such as paid parental leave are used to decide whether a job and an employer has similar values and is worth spending 40-plus hours a week with.
 Moving the city standard from unpaid to paid would open up this choice not only to people that have the privilege of making this decision, but also to individuals that represent those that are working on a tighter budget to pay for high rents, daycare costs, college education, and the care of their parents. As Commissioner Fritz has also stated, this is also an opportunity for the city to set an example and provide leadership for employers throughout the city.
 Hopefully, this could be the first step in encouraging more family-friendly policies citywide. Lastly, many of us, myself included, are tasked with making the city better in the years to come. There's nothing that guarantees having passion about making a city great in 25 to 30 years as having a child that will be growing up in that world and with the ulterior motive of keeping our children nearby. Although, don't tell them that.
 then they'll move away right away. Making sure that we have a system that supports keeping these parents in the workplace and is attractive to the city's future caregivers ensures that the shared vision and goal of planning for a bright future will become the status quo. Thank you for introducing this amendment, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you very much. Our next panel is the Firefighter Team, Liz Thompson, Travis Powell, and Alan Farshwell.
 Commissioners, thank you very much for allowing us to be here today to visit with you. Also, thank you so much for even entertaining this opportunity that is going to be of great help to your employees. Also, thank you for allowing us to entertain you and enlighten you on what's going on here with this. I'll try to be quick about it, but coming from my heart and the compassion it is, I've never delivered anything in three minutes from my heart, so I'm going to,
 Go at it so respectfully, just hang on as I go point to point. For the record, my name is Travis Powell. I'm a firefighter with Portland Fire and Rescue. More importantly, I'm a new dad. As of three months ago, my wife and I were blessed with a little baby girl. Don't let this 40-something-year-old frame fool you. There's a 20-year-old inside, so we have started young, and we look forward to the days ahead. But with that, I want to share with you, before I was a brand-new daddy, I was a stepdad a whole lot of years ago.
 But at that time, things weren't the same as they are now. Matter of fact, it was on a time where it was priority for me to be a great stepdad and help out with these little ones in my life. I was called away and not able to be there with them. It was called a combat. Unfortunately, I was actually called away on three different deployments. And not your problem, that was something I was proud to do. However, I learned some things I want to share with you today about why this is so good what we have the opportunity of now.
 While I was away, when I got back home, I was tired. I was beat, and I was ready to relax and come back to home and say, it's good to be done. But I wasn't. I missed out a whole bunch.
 I can't recapture what I missed. I can't redo what I missed. And there was only so much bonding I could do on Skype sessions because a baby can only hug that computer so tight. However, when I got back home, there wasn't rest and relaxation because I had to get right to being a daddy. And I was worn out. And I had no break. I didn't get leave from family first. It was come home and go right at it.
 So is that apples and oranges to our job now? Absolutely not. The tour duty we have isn't a year at a time like I had. It's only 24 hours, sometimes 48 that we're called upon. However, when we get home, very tired and very beat up. And the mind and the heart is kind of spent from what may have happened in that last 24 hour session. Yet it's demanded for us to get right at it when we get home. And you're just not there. The heart is all willing, however, the mind and the body is weak and I am not as
 As good a spouse as I can be, I'm not as good a daddy as I can be, and I'm definitely not getting to have that bonding experience that I missed what took place in that last 24 hours. So there being support for my wife, it's not there. That I need to let you know as an employee, though it is my choice and my fault,
 During that time, I came to work and I was not 100%. I definitely was not there. I was beat and tired because that recovery time at home was sometimes even more demanding than what happened on the job. Because you can only deal so much with my little mustard shooter and it just wears you down after a while.
 But you know what? I would do it all over again. But what I want to speak to you today is for the next person behind me. Though this won't do too much for my situation, the ones behind me, it absolutely will. And if you would afford that to your city employees, I want you to imagine this. That employee's time comes about and they're blessed with that little baby. And you tell them, go home and bond with the baby, with your spouse.
 Do well at it. Start this thing here that's going to last the rest of their lives and come back to work ready to go to work. And I'm telling you, it will pay dividends. You have your employee come back rested, ready to serve. And also something not too much that you hear a lot is, I'm excited to come back to work because I'm ready for it.
 And I'm telling you, around different roll calls, and I'm sure in other bureaus, if you think about it, when we receive all that daily literature in the day telling what's going on in the city, when we hear the city does something, one of the few things are, all right, what bolt are they tightening now? What are they taking away from us? What are they doing to us? But for the first time in my little career of 16 years, when this notice came about, you know what I heard around the table about the city? Awesome. Awesome.
 I can't believe it. And then a smile came afterwards. Not a, I can't believe it. You got to be kidding me. A smile afterwards. People just could not believe that this might be something they could take away. So I ask you to please consider it.
 and know that this is a good thing, it's the right thing to do for our parents. Now after me, there's going to be someone else following up, so I ask if you have any questions or you want to debate this, please do so with me because the next firefighter is a mommy, and you are not going to win that one. That's even a higher calling than a dad. So thank you very much.
 Thank you, Travis. My name is Elizabeth Thompson, and I am a firefighter with Portland Fire for 15 years. I also am young at heart, although the frame, like Travis said, might not tell you otherwise. I have an 18-month-old running around at home. It's a challenge to leave. Of course, it pulls at your heartstrings. But...
 The six weeks paid leave is beneficial to the health of families on many accounts. I am speaking as a new mom of a biological child, not as foster or adoptive. That has its own set of challenges also. Okay.
 But the transition into new parenting is challenging. It can easily burn all your accrued vacation and sick leave. I think that we probably carry...
 A lot of leave due to our job, the hazards of it, the things we have to do on the job that account for some other leave. So having a child definitely can burn through that leave. Six weeks of paid leave will allow for the healing and, as Travis stated, bonding in a big way.
 Moms always prepare for a perfect healthy delivery. We read about the ones that can go wrong or sideways, but we don't expect it to happen to us.
 I thought I was as prepared as I could be, but I'm fit, obviously, and healthy. My doctor was very excited for me to have a smooth delivery. We got into the room, heart contractions started, and my baby's heart rate stopped. They don't mess around when that happens. So...
 wheeled on all fours out to an operating room with a struggling husband, bewildered behind with the nurse trying to get gowns on him when it was an unexpected C-section.
 30% of U.S. deliveries are unexpected C-sections. It is a lot, it takes a lot more recovery. It is an abdominal major surgery. It was, even being fit and healthy, it was a lot of challenging mornings just trying to get my head up off the pillow to nurse. Okay.
 you're not supposed to lift more than 8 to 10 pounds in the first six weeks, that's your child. So it takes a considerably longer time to heal. The six weeks paid would definitely have a positive impact in that area. Yeah.
 for one account. Healthy nursing is also a challenging transition, let alone a baby or mom who have any kind of troubles. It is a physically taxing and emotionally taxing event in just a healthy way. Moms and children and babies can both struggle in that area, and that is
 can have a negative impact. It's like a big snowball that you stress about how much can the
 The baby can get, and then it just goes downhill. So that six weeks paid can alleviate some of that. Everybody expects parenting to go well, but it often doesn't, and many parents have to take unpaid sick leave to address child care issues. Going back to work can be...
 challenging for a nursing mother also, but again, the six weeks would help begin to alleviate some of that stress. And so when we do get back to work, like Travis said, we are prepared. And in the U.S., 25% of women either quit their jobs or are terminated when a new child arrives. So I know you know the effects of...
 losing a veteran employee and helping to try and train, it's a big cost. It has impact. We can alleviate some of that with this new ordinance. Those who stay in their careers and come back to work often take unpaid leave and a third of families, working families, often go through their savings just to accommodate that loss. My
 My husband also took his leave. He burned through all of his accrual and took unpaid leave, which is a financial stress. But we felt that that was the balance that we needed was that bonding time because of my unique personality.
 job shift, it's 24 hours. He needs to be able to feel comfortable with a baby, with our daughter for a full 24 hours and to find the solutions that problems often arise. So thank you very much. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. For the record, I'm Alan Firstraw, I'm president of the Portland Fire and Fire Association.
 I wanted to give you some examples of who you are going to help. And I have some insider information because of just working with the union. And we have a special policy. It's a long-term disability policy that we have outside of our benefits package from the city. And over the past 10 years since I've been a part of the union, we've had almost 10 people use that long-term disability for non-paid services.
 non-paid time after they've had a child. And so those are people that we've had where they have no accrual, they have no time, they have no sick leave or vacation, and they move forward and have to get disability because they have no accruals. Those are some of the employees that you are going to help. In the 2010 or 12 contract, I can't remember which one it was,
 We also move forward and ask for a small amount of leave to be held afterwards. So we can hold 120 hours of vacation leave and comp leave, I believe, for after the birth of the child. And then people go on non-paid leave up until then. And so the second thing of trigger that you're going to be able to do is allow those mothers and fathers to be able to have that leave and not have to take that non-paid leave and then just leave a couple hours on the books for when their child's sick
 in those type of events. And so again, it's a great benefit. One of the other examples I'd like to share with you is we have a single mother that did an adoption about five years ago, and she's ready to adopt again. Unfortunately, right now it's a single mother, she's a single household,
 in her income and she doesn't have the accruals to be able to be off for that second adoption so not only is she trying to save up money for $40,000 to be able to do that option but this type of ordinance was six weeks is how can it help her get that cruel leave in sooner to be able to get to that that point so again three very tangible examples of.
 of what this ordinance would do for the firefighters in the bureau. And again, I believe this is an investment. We look at health and wellness and we look at trying to get people to the doctor every year and we say that investment pays off. And this type of investment of having the family at home and bonding, that's an investment in society as a whole, especially for the future. So again, I appreciate you letting us discuss this and testify and would be happy to answer any questions, but I appreciate this ordinance.
 Madam President, if I could just make a comment. And first, I want to thank both of you for sharing personal family stories. Yes, sir. It's actually the most effective testimony is to tell a personal story. And I just want to share a story with you. Seven years ago, I had the honor, briefly, of being the commissioner in charge of the Fire Bureau. And the learning curve was pretty steep.
 And so one of the things that we decided to do as a family was schedule every Sunday night at a different station to meet with rank-and-file firefighters.
 And my then four-year-old son thought that was the coolest thing ever. And, in fact, on a lot of the times we would have dinner, there would be a run or something where he could either go along or watch. And I met a lot of firefighters in a very warm and welcoming setting. The only challenge I had was convincing the then chief not to send a deputy chief to supervise me while I was meeting.
 And occasionally when he still did that, my wife was a secret weapon because she would go sit with my son off and actually get the skinny while I was at a different table. But fast forward seven years later, I was in a grocery store the other day buying some flowers for a couple that invited me for dinner.
 And a young man came up, a relatively young man came up to me and said, I'm missing you for dinner. And he walked out and he walked on. And the checkout person looked at me and I looked at her. And I, you know, at 57, I'm not as quick on the uptake as I used to be. I had absolutely no idea what he was talking about because he wasn't in uniform. And it was just a very nice comment. And then the light went on in my head. He was at the grocery store buying food for a station.
 And he remembers seven years ago the time that my son and I and my wife came and had dinner. And it was a very touching moment, and it reminded me of the connection we have beyond just being city employees and command structures and other things, just the common connections we have as members of a big family. So thank you for your service, and thank you for your testimony today. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Does anybody sign up to testify? We have one more person, Megan Dirks.
 Hi, I'm Megan Dirks. I work for Portland Parks and Recreation, and I just want to thank Commissioner Fritz for bringing this important issue forward. I want to thank the City Council for listening today and for your time. I am a working mother with a five-year-old son and a daughter who will be one years old this Saturday. But I'm not here to talk about the...
 My experience as a working mother, and I'm not here to talk about my experience as a City of Portland employee or the time over this past year. I trust that those experiences have been shared and you've listened. I'm not here to talk about the importance of continuing to receive a paycheck during the sensitive time after the birth of a child.
 And I'm not here to talk about the number of female head of households in Portland, in Oregon, or nationwide. I know that you have done your research. You have policy advisors who are very smart. And I know that you have heard the arguments today. Okay.
 What I would like to talk to you about is the very idea of talking about parental leave as a benefit. One that is very true will make the city of Portland a preferred employer, an employer of choice.
 But we should also be thinking about this as far as leading the city and leading the nation and thinking about parental leave as a right that should be afforded not to just some people in the society, but to all people in the society, all parents. When we talk about public education, we very rarely hear it considered a benefit.
 We think of it more in terms of something that benefits all members of society. Some people look at public education as a means to pay it forward, recognizing that if you read and write, that someone taught you how to read and write. That if you think critically, you had teachers along the way that supported that. Similarly, we were all babies, and...
 If you have done the research, which I trust you have, you know that the best thing for babies is to be able to have that time to bond with their parents, their mother and father. So I would urge you to think about our own experiences as babies, if you haven't
 ever were sick or you fell down and you were able to bury your head into your mother or your father's chest recognizing that as an important value that we should have in our society that we would push forward and be a leader on and so i urge you to um to vote in favor of this policy thank you yeah i'll sign up that's all the ones to testify it's an emergency ordinance please call the role no thank
 colleagues i'm extremely grateful to commissioner prince for bringing this before us
 I agree that we have a responsibility as a major employer to set the standard for the kinds of benefits that should be available for all Portlanders. Parental leave isn't just nice to have. It's a necessity in a civilized society. Both parents need time away from work responsibilities to care for and bond with a new baby or when bringing home a newly adopted child. Providing six weeks of paid parental leave ensures that all employees can take at least those six weeks, regardless of whether they've accrued adequate vacation and sick leave.
 While I'm committed to this policy change, I do want to flag a concern I have at one of my bureaus, and this is a general concern to which this will contribute in a small way. The Bureau of Emergency Communications struggles to maintain adequate staffing, and for some time now we've been forcing a lot of people to take overtime.
 At the Bureau of Emergency Communications, we have to staff the operations floor with a certain number of people, and if an employee is out on parental leave, it means we must replace them with someone, again, who we're paying overtime. In addition to the financial impact, the Bureau increased overtime. This also has the potential to burn out staff because if the Bureau isn't able to find volunteers, they must force staff to work overtime. We looked at data from the past several years, and on average, BOEC has four to five employees out per year on parental leave. So…
 I mean, BOEC will use management decades to ensure we continue to staff the operations floor. Our management team will rise to the challenge. But I have to say that the mayor has asked all general fund bureaus to prepare a 5% budget cut. BOEC cannot take a 5% budget cut.
 We're in trouble now. The parental leave policy will add a small amount to our trouble staffing the floor. So I just wanted to take this opportunity to say to my colleagues that I'm not going to be able to support that 5% cut proposal for this one critical public safety bureau.
 Finally, though, I want to return to the larger point. I believe we should set a standard for other employers and the benefits we offer to employees. I'm glad we're following Kansas City, and we know everything's up to date in Kansas City, but I think I'd rather follow Sweden.
 if we have the capacity. As some people have mentioned, this is a particularly important policy for low-wage workers. People are so often women and people of color. And I hope we as a city can identify strategies for encouraging or requiring other employers to take similar action, not just on parental leave, but on a range of wage and other work policies workers need for sanity and employers need to retain excellent employees. Thanks again to Commissioner Fritz, and I happily vote aye.
 oh we're switching that's right um uh commissioner fritz rn thank you for bringing this forward uh this is uh one of a number of initiatives that you champion during your service which put families first and children i appreciate what dr wallach said in his testimony i've been going through all the footnotes larry just to just to make sure it's all up to date but i i appreciate
 the common sense argument that dr wallach a public health expert made when he said in essence to paraphrase this policy is good for families and kids and it's good for employers and that's that's good for us when we can when we can hit that sweet spot i want to be an employer of choice i want to recruit and retain the best possible people like the people we've heard from today thank you for your testimony and commissioner fritz thank you for your leadership hi
 well i also want to thank commissioner fritz for bringing this important uh policy before us today and i think dr wallach captured the benefits of this very comprehensively and it's fascinating to hear the research that's been done in other countries about how this benefits families and uh you know one of the things i've always been about is is a family-friendly city and this fits squarely into that agenda i do think that one of my hopes is that perhaps
 At any given time, we have 8,000 kids in foster care in our state, and maybe this will make a dent in that. I think it will encourage parents to maybe take a step towards facing, you know, certainly biological births and biological children are their share of blessings and headaches, but the problems associated with adopting foster kids is enormous.
 and the barriers to successful adoptions are also enormous. I hope this will make some dent in that population of foster kids we have sort of floating around the state. Thank you. Bye. Great. Well, thanks to all of my colleagues, including Mayor Hales. When I first broached this topic to him, he said, of course, and he's very supportive, has been very supportive of,
 Sometimes employers do the right thing just because it's the right thing. And I want to note to our esteemed union president that this is a gift. It's not one in bargaining. This is because the employer wants to do the right thing and wants to be an employer of choice. And I really appreciate the support on council for that. To clarify, it starts on January 1st. So the baby cannot be here now. It has to be after January 1st.
 If you have a baby in this time period, then it's a little tax deduction rather than a little parental leave. But we had to have a cutoff at some point, so that's what we chose, and it runs by the calendar year. Let's see here. Okay.
 So I was at the Daily Journal of Commerce lunch a few weeks ago, and there was a panel on supporting women in the workplace, and each was asked, what can you do to support women in the workplace? And one of the women's answers was for men to take all of their parental leave.
 So it has been commented about this being good for women, and it is. It's also good for men, and if men were to take all of their parental leave, then there wouldn't be a discrepancy or a worry that you couldn't hire a woman because she might be off having babies, because we should all be taking our parental leave and spending time with new children, as was so graciously explained by Travis. So thank you for that.
 So I want to, at this point, thank Dr. George Keepers of OHSU, who insisted that my husband take a week off when our first child was born in 1986. That was pretty avant-garde for me back then. And so, yes, we're not anywhere near European countries where my niece is able to take an entire year off to take care of her newborn. And still, it's a start. So just like sick time, Anna Canwitt,
 brought up the issue of now we're going to allow city employees to donate up to 40 hours of protected sick time to each other in addition to being able to donate vacation time which we've always been able to do that's because of the state law on sick time which this council helped push and the state law on sick times
 specifically says if the employer allows it that employees may donate sick time to each other so again thanks to family forward for all your work on that and another great outcome from this the sick leave law that we did I'm hoping that there will be as push for statewide paid parental leave this is not something that we can mandate as it so all employers in the city of Portland and
 In England, at least, it's paid for by taxes. It's not paid by the employer, and it should be something that we as a society want to invest in to take care of children when they most need it, when they join the family. Thank you very much, Anna Canwit, and also to Christina Nieves in my office, both of whom have worked very, very hard on this. I am very, very proud to vote aye. Thank you.
 I don't do the gavel thing, by the way, just so you know. Thank you very much for being here. If you could please read the title for 12-32, and then it's going to be rescheduled, I believe. Proclaim December 2, 2015, to be a day of recognition for Victor Merced in Portland. And that's being rescheduled by Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fish. Let's go to the pulled consent items, please. 12-35.
 Consent to the transfer of DeYoung Sanitary Service Residential Solid Waste Recycling and Composting Collection Franchise to Highburg Garbage and Recycling, LLC. Who pulled this? Mr. Lightning. Lightning, would you like to testify? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Sometimes when I pull the items, I would also like to have somebody possibly speak on behalf of this ordinance.
 but I will present my position on this is that since the company is currently being sold to Young Sanitary Service and the new purchaser is hybrid garbage and recycling is the purchaser upon the sale there also will end up with the franchise transfer from the city on their contract
 Now, this is where I have a problem on this situation is that when you're selling your company and also selling the rights to a city contract, there's a lot of things that take place when you do that, obviously, is the city has to come back and approve it. And there's going to be a lot of administration time put into that. And I think there should be a clause if you sell your company and also transfer the city contract –
 There should be a fee implemented at that time to cover those administration costs. And I don't see anything on this ordinance because, to me, that would be an obvious thing to have in some agreement that states that if you sell the company and you transfer the agreement with the city, there should be a cost to cover administration costs and or
 a franchise transfer fee that's implemented by the city upon the sale. And the reason why I say that is that a certain company could start, try to acquire certain city contracts and just sell that company within about a year based upon the value
 added by having these type of contracts in place. And I want to make sure that doesn't happen. I don't know how long, and that's why I wanted to have a speaker come in and possibly speak on this. I don't know how long this franchise has been held, and I wanted to have a little bit more clarification on this, but I'm surprised there's not some type of administration fee to recoup the time and the effort from the city to
 the transfer of sale and the transfer of this franchise and that kind of surprises me that it's not in this ordinance thank you speak on this questions from Council it passes to second reading and then 1241 please revise legal description of property declared surplus at two four zero zero Northwest Front Avenue
 The person who pulled it no longer wishes to pursue it, so we'll just go to a second reading. Questions, comments from council? Then it will go on to the second reading. Thank you. Does anybody want to speak on this? Thank you. Moves to the second reading. All right, so I think we're back to the regular agenda or on to the regular agenda. Item 1244, please.
 Authorize application to Oregon Department of Environmental Quality for a grant in the amount of $50,000 for funding the existing deconstruction grant program managed by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 This is a Mayor Hale's item, so I'll toss it right to Sarah. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and good morning, commissioners. My name is Elisa Kane. I'm the Green Building Manager with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and we're here to seek your approval to pursue a grant from the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
 to continue the city's work to promote deconstruction as an alternative to traditional demolition. It will also allow us to learn more about the barriers and opportunities of deconstruction, as well as inform the policies that we are considering related to removal of structures. And I'm joined here today with my colleague, Sean Wood, to talk a little bit more, provide some background and detail the grant. Good morning, Commissioners. I'm Sean Wood with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm the construction waste specialist for the Bureau.
 Just to start off with a little background, I've got a slideshow here if we could get
 get that up. Back in February, you all were considering changes to the demolition delay code, and as part of that, recognized that deconstruction was an important issue related to demolitions, and the mayor asked BPS to convene a group of stakeholders and experts to consider ways to increase deconstruction as an alternative to mechanical demolition.
 And so in April of 2015, we had selected our members for the advisory group and began meeting and came back to city council in June of 2015 with recommendations.
 with recommendations on how to advance deconstruction. And that primary recommendation was to start, first off, with a voluntary incentive-based approach and establish a deconstruction grant program. City Council unanimously supported establishing that grant program, as well as $50,000 in funding for it.
 Our deconstruction advisory group consists of salvage and deconstruction experts from both the for-profit and non-profit world, as well as salvage retailers. We have a material recovery facility operator that handles construction debris recycling as
 as well as home builders and commercial developers. We have representatives from Historic Preservation Advocates, so namely Restore Oregon and Historic Landmarks Commission. We have neighborhood representation, including United Neighborhoods for Reform, members from the Development Review Advisory Committee, Bureau of Development Services staff, and Metro staff.
 We spent the summer essentially establishing the grant program and developed a number of primary goals which include learning, so using the projects that we fund to gather data and share that information both here at City Council and then with others that are interested in advancing deconstruction.
 also to grow the industry, the existing industry, to expand that and encourage innovation ways to reduce cost and reduce time associated with deconstruction, and then promote the industry in general as well as the folks that are working on it.
 We established a unique URL or website for the program, exploredecon.com, decon being short for deconstruction and not rat poison. We also had printed some postcards, which are down in the permit center, that advertise the grant program as well as posters and then yard signs, which I'll show you in a minute.
 We began accepting applications in early September and established a maximum award amount of $2,500. We've received 10 applications so far and have allocated $13,000 to date.
 This is an example of one of the yard signs in front of an active deconstruction site. So it's one way to promote deconstruction in general, as well as the contractor that's doing the work. This is usually out front along with one of their signs. And whenever anybody's participating in the program, this is a requirement that we ask them to do.
 So looking forward, our advisory group will continue to meet and develop strategies to increase deconstruction activity. We have scheduled a date in late January to come back to you with any additional updates on the grant program as well as recommendations for next steps. Thank you.
 In the meantime, we've identified an opportunity to further supplement our existing grant program. The Oregon DEQ, or Department of Environmental Quality, has a current grant program where they're funding projects that recover or reuse solid wastes or materials. That's what deconstruction does. Deconstruction recovers those materials from a demolition site and preserves them for salvage and reuse on another project.
 The grants are solely for local governments. We're also one of those. So we see this as an exciting opportunity. And before you today is an ordinance
 asking for the authority to apply for one of these DEQ grants. The funds will supplement our existing program. It could help in a number of ways. We could fund additional projects. We could increase the duration of the grant program, and or we could increase the grant amount. So as I mentioned earlier, we have a max award of $2,500.
 There was some interest in having that award amount be greater, but that would be at the expense of how many projects we could fund and what we could learn through the effort. So having additional funds where you would request $50,000 from DEQ, and that would – it's basically a local match. We have a match of $50,000 that we've already dedicated to the program, and we'd be asking for an additional $50,000 from DEQ –
 And the application is due December 14th, so this would be an emergency ordinance. So that's the update. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Give us one example of a grant you've made. Sure. There's a couple of them that I'm especially proud of, if I can say that. One is a demolition of an older house to make way for affordable housing. And then we...
 One of the things we've tried to encourage, we have different criteria for the applications, and one of them is how are you being innovative? So what are you doing to save time and reduce costs? Because deconstruction does take longer than demolition typically and does typically cost more because there's more labor involved. One of the local deconstruction contractors has put forward a proposal to use it's called a grade-all. It's basically a forklift on a
 telescopic arm
 use it to put materials up on a roof or something like that. They're going to rent one of those and leverage the power and strength of that machinery to help them in disassembling the house. So hopefully that's going to lead to a quicker disassembly of the structure and reduce costs as well. So that's a perfect example of something that we can fund, and they're taking a risk. We're helping offset that risk with the grant program. Thanks. Thanks.
 Thank you very much. Does anybody want to testify on this item? One person had signed up, but I think she left. Ms. Ross. So we will wait for Commissioner Fish to come back in so that we can vote on it and return to this in just a couple of minutes. Thank you very much. There will be a slight pause while we find Commissioner Fish. Great. Thank you very much. Please call the roll. No thank you.
 I have to say I still think of deconstruction primarily as a mode of literary criticism championed by Jacques Derrida, but I'm beginning to realize it's also a very important and laudable way of taking down a building. So I'm very pleased that you're continuing these efforts and asking for this grant. Hi.
 I've always wondered actually how to pronounce that guy's name, so thank you. I can't guarantee I'm doing it right. We'll double-check the videotape on that and review it with Professor Wallach. Thanks for your good work, and I apologize for being absent for most of your presentation, but I enthusiastically support this matter. Hi. Hi. Thank you for the update on what the program has been doing and for going after this grant. Hi. 1245, please. Yes.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement between the City and Multnomah County Department of Human Services to fund a portion of the salary expense for the County Domestic Violence Coordinator.
 Good morning. I'm Wendy Steinbron. I'm currently the acting captain of the Family Services Division for the Portland Police Bureau. Annie Neal would like to be here today, but she's currently at a conference in Washington, DC, so she sends her regrets. This request is an ask for $50,000 over five years. It's a continuation of 37% of Ms. Neal's salary as the family violence coordinator
 Basically, in a nutshell, her job is, in the Portland Police Bureau, the domestic violence and the DVER team are but one community partner in a vast array of partners, and they need some coordinating. And Annie's job is to get with all the different agencies that contribute to the domestic violence units and domestic violence response. And she runs the family violence coordinating team, the fatality review. She supervises the...
 divert coordinator that works in our office that supervises the advocates and that's the request questions thank you does anybody want to testify on this it's an emergency ordinance please call the role novic hi yes hi saltsman uh pleased to support annie neal she's doing a great job hi chris thank you hi next item please
 446, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $80,000 from Oregon Impact for the 2016 Dewey Traffic Safety and High Visibility Enforcement Program for sworn personnel overtime. Good morning. You look like you're ready to present. Morning, Council.
 my name is brett barnum i'm police sergeant in the traffic division i've come before you in years past for the same grant this is just a continuing grant that we've had for probably anywhere between 11 and 12 years this grant is provided by oregon impact which is one of our community partners helping provide education whether it's child safety seat education whether it's share the road safety classes and and so forth throughout the uh multnomah county the city of portland
 as well as they provide funds for overtime DUI enforcement. Last year, in 2014-15 grant year, we arrested 435 DUIs on this overtime grant.
 We were originally, I believe, given an amount of $80,000 with an additional $25,000 extension. Having $115,000, we spent $106,000 of those dollars. And as the grant manager the year before that, we had 350 DUIs on this overtime grant. So there was a 24% increase in arrests solely because of this grant issue.
 Without this grant, we are going to have to pay additional monies from our general fund budget to pay for late overages for officers who arrest somebody, say, at 3 o'clock in the morning when their shift ends, and they have to stay until 4 or 5 in the morning to finish the reports.
 this grant helps augment those costs. So it does certainly help the city with some savings. And as we all know, in this time where we're facing the 5% cuts throughout general fund bureaus, this grant certainly does provide a significant impact to the traffic division to allow us to have those resources available. I know Commissioner Fritz, last year or the year before, you had expressed some concerns about folks working too much.
 I've been the grant manager for this grant for about four years, and I too am concerned about that as well. So we have this grant as kind of an open-ended ability for officers to come in. There are some specific time frames that we do have to work to meet the grant requirements.
 But we allow folks to be able to fit this in a little bit into their schedules. And also, like I say, it helps augment some of those funds that are used at the end of a shift, which otherwise would have been paid for out of the general fund. And that is all a part of the grant, and it's a part of the rules. So we try and use this grant as appropriately as possible, and it does provide a significant impact to community safety in the city of Portland. Thank you.
 Thank you for remembering my concern and giving me an update on the use of the funds. I appreciate that very much. I have just one question. I've noticed an explosion of distracted driving generally in our community, and I think it's largely cell phones and just people not paying attention. What are the prime time hours you're seeing, you're making arrests for DUI?
 Most of the DUI arrests occur anywhere between 10 and 2, 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. in the morning. And really, they don't take on any particular day of the week. The highest DUI day for across the nation, my understanding is, would you say,
 we just had here is the Thanksgiving Day holiday in that timeframe. But certainly I believe that Oregonians alone, we, as a part of this grant, we put out press releases through our, our, our feeds and, and,
 whatnot. But those high drinking holidays like St. Patrick's Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, and some of those other high drinking type and festivity type holidays, folks are getting smart about this. And they're using Uber, they're using Lyft, they're using cabs, and they're finding their designated driver's home. And we're actually finding on those
 Typically, high-drinking holidays, our stats are pretty low. So it's the average folk who just go out in some middle-of-the-week night that end up having a little too much. But as far as the distracted driving part of it, some of these grants that we have in the Traffic Division allow us to augment traffic.
 and use some of these funds to help with distracted driving as more of a secondary type of tool, and we have to keep our primary focus with DUI. We can stop every car on Broadway out of the Peets where I have coffee every morning. A simple test that I use is I just watch at the intersection all the heads that go down
 at the light and this is one of Commissioner Saltzman's pet peeves is because people think there's a safe harbor when they're at us when they're to stoplight so all the heads go down they start you know they start looking at their phone and of course they don't thank you very much thank you anybody want to testify on this it's an emergency please call the roll no thank I
 Anything we can do to discourage people from drinking and driving, we should do, and more. And I wish we had more tools to bring the restaurant and bar industry more dynamically into this conversation, because more often than not, these are people who are being served excessive amounts of alcohol, getting in a car, going out, and harming others. But I appreciate this ordinance. Thank you.
 I appreciate the work you do, Sergeant Barnum, and your other colleagues, and I do appreciate what you just bolstered, a point I made earlier this morning when I voted to support Uber and Lyft permanent regulations, is that I've heard a lot of anecdotal evidence how people coming out of bars now use Uber and Lyft, and as a result, we're all safer. I appreciate your on-the-scene, on-the-street evidence buttressing that point. Thank you. All right.
 Thank you for making sure that our offices are safe by not working too much overtime as well. Aye. A second reading for 1247. Aye.
 Authorize a memorandum of understanding with the partner agencies that constitute the Domestic Violence Enhance Response Team for the stated project goals listed in the Office on Violence Against Women Fiscal Year 2014 grants to encourage arrests, policies, and enforcement of protection orders grant program award. Local, please. Novick? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? This is great. Aye. Fritz? Aye. 1248, please.
 accept bid of stellar J corporation for the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant lagoon reconstruction phase 3 4 project for nine million nine hundred twenty three thousand seven hundred and forty dollars good morning commissioners Christine Moody with procurement services you have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to stellar J corporation
 The engineers' estimate on this project was $11 million. On August 4, 2015, three bids were received, and Stellar J is the low bidder at $9,923,740. The city identified five divisions of work as potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWSB subcontracting participation on this project is at 46% in the areas of trucking and traffic control.
 i will turn this back over to council if you have any questions questions thank you very much does anybody want to testify on this i move the report second please novick hi this uh thanks for your good work christine it's always nice to see um a bid come in below the the estimate and also to see the subcontracting mw esb numbers uh as high as this hi saltzman hi thank you hi uh
 1249, please. Accept bid of Titan Utilities LLC for the Ivernus 30-inch force main repair project for $592,460. Moody. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Titan Utilities. The engineer's estimate on this project was $592,000. Okay.
 On September 29, 2015, four bids were received, and Titan Utilities is the low bidder at $582,000. The city identified eight divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 57%, with overall MWESB participation at 92%, as Titan Utilities is a certified emerging small business.
 i will turn this back over to council if you have any questions christine i have learned at my peril uh not to regularly contradict you but i think you just you got the numbers reversed but it's um uh the estimate was 582 and the bid was 592 but they're still very close that's correct it was a little late when i was putting this together i hear what you meant anybody want to testify on this item except uh motion to move the report second roll call please novic aye
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Appreciate your good work. Aye. Fritz. Thank you. Aye. $1,250, please. Authorize a price agreement with Hitachi Data Systems, Inc. for the purchase of storage area network hardware, software, and services for a contractual total not to exceed $7,500,000. Moody has pulled in reinforcements. Go for it. Yes, on this one, Christine Moody, Procurement Services says,
 City Code 5.33220 allows the city to enter into a direct contract with a manufacturer without competitive solicitation if the cost from the manufacturer is the same or less than the cost the manufacturer charges to its distributors. In the case of this price agreement, Hitachi has offered very aggressive pricing for storage area network hardware, software, and services to the city.
 Taking advantage of this offer is anticipated to save the city hundreds of thousands of dollars over the life of the contract. The action you have before you is to accept the recommendation to enter into a five-year price agreement with Hitachi Data Systems for a not-to-exceed amount of $7.5 million. I will turn this over to Carolyn Glass and Jeff Baer from the Bureau of Technology Services for further comments.
 uh carolyn glass bureau of technology services this is a routine multi-year agreement that allows us to buy products during the five-year time frame up to the not to exceed amount these products are used to meet the city's growing storage needs this contract also helps us prepare and plan for the portland building renovation and the data center move projects i'd be happy to answer any questions you may have um
 Yeah, so you mentioned the Portland model, Portland building renovation, and I flagged when we had an earlier presentation the rather astounding number that was tossed about, about $4 to $5 million to move our data center. Is this part of that large number, or is that on top of that? We're still talking $4 to $5 million to move a data center? Yeah.
 so the data center move numbers would be separate from this amount this is to provide over the next five years for the city's storage growth needs and refresh of that equipment that provides that storage okay so these are two separate items i guess i'm still astounded at that number of four to five million uh so i hope somebody looking at you jeff uh will give me some information on how it costs that much you don't have to tell me now just okay give it to us all i think we're all curious about that we'll do okay
 other questions thank you very much does anybody want to testify on this with an emergency please call the roll novick hi fish hi saltzman hi thank you i am here to 1251 so 1252 please authorized payment to stacy and whitbeck inc under negotiated price for warranty work and betterments on the broadway bridge in the amount of thirty one thousand one hundred and ninety two dollars
 Ms. Janovic. Catherine Levine. Can you explain what we're doing here? Good morning. I'm Catherine Levine from Portland Transportation. The item before you relates to repair work done on the Broadway Bridge decking. As part of the East Side Loop streetcar project that opened in 2012, we replaced the center decking on the Broadway Bridge with FRP. That's the fiber reinforced polymer lightweight decking.
 Multnomah County noted in 2015 that some of the screws were seen rising up, which was indicative of a need for repair. Multnomah County was really terrific as our partner. As you know, they had an issue on Morrison Bridge that was much more severe.
 They recognized that we needed a repair. We were able to contact our original construction team. They came back and together accomplished a repair on the decking. Our original contract, although closed out, had provided that the contractor provide us with a five-year warranty related to the decking. So at least half the work was strictly warranty work. We are not paying for that.
 But in the course of making the repair, we chose to make some betterments, specifically to help Multnomah County's repair work on some adjacent decking on the same bridge. This ordinance is to authorize payment to Stacy and Whitbeck, the original prime contractor, and their subcontractor, Hamilton, who came back and accomplished the repair work. Thank you. Any questions, counsel? Does anybody want to testify? Okay.
 Emergency, please call the roll. Novick? Thank you, Catherine. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Both 53. Amend contract with Skyward Construction Inc. in the amount of $38,874 for additional scope of work on the Portland Tennis Center Air Supported Structure Project.
 This contract amendment will complete the Portland Tennis Center bubble. The bubble will allow year-round indoor play at four additional tennis courts. We opened it recently, and it's lovely. This contract increases the contract amendment to 30%, which is why it's at Council today, and Lauren McGuire will provide the details. Thank you. Can you put up the PowerPoint? No. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you commissioner fruits and members of council my name is lauren mcguire i'm the capital projects team manager for portland parks and recreation and with me is susan meamber the capital project manager for this project and reed blanchard the construction manager for the portland tennis center air supported structure project we're here today to request council authorization to execute a change order to the skyward construction inc contract
 3-0-0-0-4-2-3-2 for an additional sum of $38,874.40 for additional items of work necessary to complete improvements for the Portland Tennis Center. The Portland Tennis Center, located at 324 Northeast 12th Avenue in Portland,
 was acquired by Portland Parks and Recreation in 1973. It's adjacent to Buckman Field and Benson High School in Northeast Portland. The tennis center originally included four indoor courts and eight outdoor courts. There was a demand for additional indoor courts in Portland, so a capital project was funded
 in the amount of $672,672 to enclose four outdoor courts with the air-supported structure in 2012. Also included in the project was an ADA ramp required to provide accessible path to the newly covered court area elevated above street level. The new tennis center bubble now provides more courts for indoor play.
 The construction of the air-supported structure commenced in November of 2014 and was completed in June of 2015 by SkyRoot Construction. During excavation, the project team discovered that an existing in-ground electrical feed was in conflict with the ADA ramp.
 As a result of the conflict, PGE required installation of the new power service to the tennis center. The additional design, engineering permitting, and construction of the new electrical feed extended the project completion date and increased the cost associated with the project. Most of the costs associated with the electrical feed discovery were reconciled in previous change orders.
 This change order, in the amount of $38,874.40, will bring the total amount of all change orders in the project to $205,621.55, or 30% of the original contract amount. The Chief Procurement Officer has the authority to approve change orders only up to 25%. So this change order now exceeds the 25% of the original contract amount and requires Council approval.
 The approval of the ordinance provides the authority to the chief procurement officer. The total value of the contract will be $878,293. The system development charge funding request will cover the cost of the change order, so there's no additional fiscal impact.
 So to conclude, we're asking Council to authorize the Chief Procurement Officer to amend the contract with Skyward Construction in the amount of $38,874.40 for the additional scope of work on the Portland Tennis Center Air Support Instruction Project. And to further, we're asking that Council declare that an emergency exists in order to further avoid delays in the completion and closeout of the project. Thank you. We'll take questions. Yes.
 at this time. Just a comment. I love this project almost as much as I love the work Commissioner Fritz has done to put turf fields and lights in Delta Park. And the common denominator is that we're creating the opportunity for year-round use. And, of course, the problem with the outdoor courts was during the winter there were periods of time they couldn't be used. And so this not only expands the services that we can offer to our customers, but
 But through that expansion gives us an additional revenue stream to help offset the cost. So as a recovering tennis player in my youth, I am hugely supportive of this effort, and thank you for your good work. Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this item? So it's an emergency. Please call the roll. Novick. Thank you for the crisp presentation. Fish? Fish?
 I don't want to date myself, but the last racket that I used competitively was the Arthur Ash head racket. There was a bit of a gap. Thank you for a very nice and succinct presentation as well. Hi. Tom Smith. Hi. Fritz. Hi.
 Commissioner Fish, we've been taking a leaf out of your book and the presentations from Water and Sewer Beer. Thank you very much for this presentation and for all your work. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for initiating this project, which, as you said, is going to not only increase playability but also bring additional revenue. Aye. Second, please.
 1254, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of Colwood Golf Course Phase 2 redevelopment. We also have reinforcements. Please go ahead. Thank you. My name is Travis Shruval. I'm a capital project manager for Portland Parks as well as the project manager for this particular project.
 Today we are here to seek your approval to move forward with competitive solicitation and contracting with the lowest responsible bidder for construction at Colwood Golf Course, Phase 2. The improvements at the golf course include right-of-way frontage improvements. These improvements will remove a curb-tight sidewalk and incorporate a planter strip with street trees, lighting, and will provide for increased public safety.
 We will be decommissioning two existing septic systems on the property and connecting both the clubhouse and maintenance facility to a sanitary sewer, the city sanitary sewer. This will have real environmental benefits to the groundwater along the slough, and it has been widely supported by our colleagues at BES. In addition, we will be redeveloping the existing parking lot in a way that provides increased accessibility as well as updating the parking lot to meet current code requirements.
 Finally, the project incorporates a new outdoor gathering area, driving range facility that we hope will help provide increased revenues that will help parks pay back the acquisition costs for the property. The project budget, the total project budget is $2.8 million, $400,000 of which is being provided through the golf fund.
 The schedule is we'd like to go out to bid immediately. It's a new business that we're trying to foster, and so we want to impact the business as minimally as possible by getting construction done over the winter. And so in summary, I will thank you for allowing me to present the good work we're doing on this property, and we respectfully ask for your approval to move forward with bidding and procurement of construction services to complete these proposed improvements. Questions from Council? No.
 I was just going to ask, what's the new business that we're impacting? So as part of a larger land division that happened approximately a year ago, Parks took over the southern piece of the golf course, as you're aware. And so the business that we're really talking about is the golf course itself. Phase one included the reconfiguration of the golf course from an 18-hole to a 9-hole golf course. And the next phase is to come in and do these infrastructure improvements. Okay, thanks.
 Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this one? Emergency ordinance, please call the roll. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Southsmith? Aye. Pritz? It's very exciting what's happening at Colwood and in Cully in general, so thank you very much for bringing this ordinance. Aye. Thank you. Roll 55, please. Approve sewer overflow agreement with AAT Lloyd District LLC for the property commonly known as Haslow on 8th.
 Commissioner Fish. I'll turn this over to Jonas. Jonas, welcome. Thank you, Commissioners. Jonas Beery, Business Services Manager with the Bureau of Environmental Services. The ordinance before you authorizes an agreement with AAT Lloyd District LLC related to a privately owned on-site wastewater treatment facility at the Haslow and 8th development in the Lloyd District.
 The on-site facility will treat and reuse wastewater generated by building tenants, resulting in reduced wastewater flows to the city's publicly owned treatment system. In early 2013, discussions began between BES and the developer to create a pilot arrangement that adjusted for the expectation of reduced flow to the city's system.
 The agreement and ordinance before you today memorializes the results of that discussion. The agreement authorizes the city to reimburse AAT for a portion of the wastewater system development charges that were paid by AAT to the city in summer of 2014. This will result in approximately $1.5 million being returned to AAT, and that's equivalent to 61% of the wastewater SDC related to that specific development.
 House Line 8 will maintain a connection to the city's wastewater system in a backup capacity. The city will review discharges to the city system and will charge accordingly if the monthly discharge limit is exceeded.
 BES considers this to be a pilot arrangement to assess and identify ways to reduce future system capacity requirements. This adjustment was included in the fiscal 15-16 fall bump, along with a recommendation from the City Budget Office that the City further explore policy considerations to guide decisions for any similar future requests. Questions? Is this similar to what we did on South Waterfront at the...
 Center for Health and Healing? They have a bioreactor also that treats their wastewater. There was, I know, Commissioner, an OHSU arrangement. It was a little bit different because OHSU, I believe, did not pay SDCs or did not request an SDC reimbursement. So a similar concept, but a much different arrangement. So what's pilot about it, I guess, if it's?
 Being done, right? It's pilot in the sense that it's a one-off that we're evaluating, and based on our overall assessment of this project, we could come back to council with some policy recommendations. I guess I'd like at some point an update on how the bioreactor at the OHSU has been working. I expect we can provide that. Happy to. Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this one? Please call the roll. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 Thank you, Jonas. Thanks to our partners on this. And we hope that the developer who has sort of branded this phase of the development as eco-friendly is wildly successful. It will be good for our city, good for the Lloyd District as well. Aye. Councilman? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. 1256, please. Thank you.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation process and contract for the purchase of aggregate services at an estimated cost of $10 million. Commissioner Fish. I'll turn this over. Excuse me. Who are you again? Ty Kovach, Maintenance Construction Board of Water Bureau. I'll turn it over to Ty. You look familiar. I'll turn it over to Ty Kovach for a brief overview. Thank you.
 uh good afternoon i guess it is now commissioners we're here to ask you for your approval to proceed with the competitive solicitation for aggregate services contract which is essentially rock that we bring in and backfill our excavations with and also it's how we um
 dispose of our spoils which is the soil that we take out of the excavations when we're doing the maintenance of the system throughout the city so the request is over five years it's estimated to be approximately 10 million million dollars and seven of that is for the Portland Water Bureau and there's three that's in there that would be for P bot and parks and recreation for their procurement of aggregate
 because they have similar needs as we do and it benefits the city as a whole to go at that more comprehensively because it makes the bid opportunity more attractive to the potential providers which means more of them will be involved and
 the water barrels world it really helps to have more people involved in the competition because we work in different geographic areas throughout the city and um
 Our dump trucks have to travel great distances in some cases to get to where our rock and spoils yards are. And so this is an important piece of what we do. And it is a foundational element of the maintenance of the system because all of our stuff is in the ground. Almost everything we do, we're digging something up. We backfill with rock.
 to make sure that our pipe is bedded in soil that isn't corrosive, and to make sure that when we compact it and put the street back, that it doesn't sink there where it was. So this is re-uppance of an ongoing thing that we have, and if you have questions, I'd be happy to answer any of them. Has there been a partnership between the different bureaus previously? No.
 I think this is something that, in particular, purchasing takes a good eye for when they see one bureau coming forward with something that's a common need among the bureaus. They are pretty good about linking those up. And so I think that's a great service that they provide and a benefit of a centralized service that sometimes we in the city don't necessarily take a moment to celebrate. Yeah, that's terrific. Thank you for bringing that to our attention. Other questions for Ty? Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this? It's a non-emergency move to second reading. Thank you, Judge. 1257, please. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for North Hollow Apartments, located at Southwest 15th Avenue and Southwest Taylor Street. Commissioner Salzman? You can read 1258 and 1259 as well. We're going to do them all at once.
 1258 approve application under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program for vancouver avenue apartments located at north vancouver avenue and north shaver street and 1259 approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for mississippi avenue apartments located at north mississippi avenue north albina avenue and north barthwick avenue between north fremont street and cook street
 Commissioners Hossman. Thank you, Madam President. These three ordinances are the first projects under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemptions Program, which was recently revised by the City Council and the Multnomah County Commission. The changes were intended to maximize the ability of this program to create more affordable units in private market developments, while also providing more accessible units and opportunities for minority women and emerging small business contractors. Thank you.
 uh these three projects reflect the total of 409 units 20 of which will be affordable units 27 will be affordable to households at 60 percent of median family income and 55 will be affordable to households below 80 percent of median family income these projects are also located in amenity rich areas of the city which we just where we desperately need more affordable housing
 Two of the projects are located in the Vancouver Williams Corridor in the Interstate Urban Renewal area, and one is in the Goose Hollow neighborhood. In addition to providing affordability, all of the projects include universal design accessibility features, and 5% of the affordable units will be fully adaptable. Additionally, the developers of all three proposed projects have entered into technical assistance contracts with experts in minority contracting.
 in order to maximize the utilization of minority and women-owned construction firms in the development of these rental projects. I'd like to invite up Dori von Bockel and Andrea Mathiasson from the Portland Housing Bureau, Tony Jones, Executive Director of the Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership, and Jed Jansen from Transition Projects, Inc. You have to grab another chair. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. I'm Dori VanBakkel, Program Coordinator with the Portland Housing Bureau, working on the multi-programs.
 You introduced them very well, so there's not a lot more detail I wanted to give other than the fact that after making the changes to the program, we started taking applications again at the end of September. So we're excited to have three right off the bat taking advantage of the program. And we also have others in line to hopefully fully utilize the cap that we have for the 2015 calendar year. Anything you want to add? No, thank you.
 Andrea Mathiason, Housing Program Manager of the Portland Housing Bureau. We just wanted to provide the opportunity for you to ask questions about the three specific projects. I know that you've got the individual project write-ups attached as exhibits to the ordinances. Just wanted to know if there are any specific questions that you'd like answered. Two questions. One is, it looks like the chart that we've been given, all the units are 16 below. Is that correct? Yes.
 That's not actually correct. A portion of the units are available at 60%, affordable at 60% and below, and some are affordable at 80% and below. How do we make that, when we administer the program, how do we make that distinction between 60% and 80%? It depends on the market of the particular neighborhood that a project comes in, their application, and the rents that are currently being charged in that neighborhood.
 under the revised guidelines, do we have a formal or informal mechanism to extend to seek an extension of an additional 10 years for this program? For any unit that's covered under this ordinance, do we have a formal or informal
 do we have a formal informal process for coming back and considering a 10-year extension we do we have a formal process that process has been utilized previously by several of our non-profit partners and we also are in the process of formalizing something for projects that are private market developments as well and so for example if in 10 years
 we were operating below whatever the then cap was, and there was someone willing to consider an extension, that's an example where we could, with council and county approval, we could extend beyond 10 years and still stay under the $3 million cap. That's correct. The foregone revenue, however, for any project that would have an extension would count against the cap at this point in time. The last question I had is,
 I've read some nonsense from some developers who blamed the old program for why we have such a miserable track record of generating affordable units in private sector development. And one of the things, of course, most of the commentary glossed over was that we used to have a $1 million cap on foregone revenue, so there just weren't that many units that we were going to be able to award in any event.
 But under Commissioner Salzman's leadership, we have revised the program to make it more developer friendly. And I would be curious to hear from you, now that we have this new set of rules in place, what do you think was the most significant change?
 that benefited this program having more people taking advantage of it. Originally we were told that the competitive nature of the old program created timing and certainty problems. Obviously we were operating with a $1 million cap before, which limited overall the number of units. We had a cap on profits and other things. But from your experience in this round, what change or changes is making a difference in developers taking advantage of it? I think you already mentioned the difference
 in how projects can apply for the program. They're able now to come in not just in a defined period of time, but whenever they're ready in a more appropriate development timeline. But I think in addition to that, we're also looking at a scenario where we have taken away the restriction on the rate of return for the projects,
 And I think that that's obviously rather compelling for a number of our development partners. And then I think we did hear from our development partners as well in the private market that the lack of predictability around the cap and the availability of awards that could be made under that $1 million cap was a deterrent from using the program. And so to have a $3 million cap where there's more room and they have more certainty that they're
 there might be room for their projects as well is appealing. The original changes we made four or five years ago had in the underlying ordinance a requirement that the Bureau annually review the program to see if there are further refinements that make it more effective. Is that your intent following one year of experience with these new guidelines to do a review and come back to us with any suggestions you might have for refinement?
 That's correct. I think in this market in particular, it's very critical that we are constantly monitoring the effectiveness of not just the multi-program, but all of our affordable housing programs, and if there's opportunities for revisions or tweaks, that we're aware of those and tracking that possibility. Thank you. Mr. Jones, if you could press the button at the base of the microphone. Good afternoon.
 Excuse me. Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Tony Jones. I'm the executive director of Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership, and we're here in support of the applications for the multi-program. We're working directly with Marathon.com.
 developers on the North Vancouver Avenue and Shaver Street project as well as the Mississippi Avenue and North Albina project and we want to say I know it's very early on that you know the strategy in terms of engaging with organizations like ours we
 we think is helpful, we think it works, because one of the biggest challenges that I think small businesses face is getting information about opportunities in a timely manner where they can plan for that opportunity and maybe have the chance to actively participate. What's great about this is that, you know, Aaron has been very proactive and immediately reached out to us. We're working closely with them. We have a...
 draft memorandum of understanding of our scope of services that we're going to provide to outreach, identify minority women contractors to participate in these two developments. And we have different ways we're going to approach, you know,
 breaking down the work so minority and women contractors can maximize their opportunity to participate. So we think that the program has made some improvements that is really going to provide more opportunities for folks to, for businesses to get to work and actually, in particular, connect to private sector opportunities, which I think is great. Thank you. Mr. Janssen. Okay.
 Jed Jansen. I am a housing case manager for Transition Projects. I worked with Marathon Property Management recently with their development, the Wilmore. I worked with disabled vets, and they reached out to Transition Projects, and I was able to get one of our vets on the waiting list. And...
 He was afforded an opportunity he otherwise wouldn't have been able to get. He's thrilled to be living in a place where the services he needs to access are close. He doesn't have to travel very far to get services. And working with one more, having a place that gives vets priority to
 And just having the access to that affordable housing piece is huge, especially to our organization that works with people who are all under that stress. Thank you. That completes the invited testimony. Questions? Does anybody want to testify on any of these three ordinances? Yes, please come on forward. I have one more person signed up. Stephen Gomez. Are you sure? Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Stephen Gomez. Can you push the button? Yeah. Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Stephen Gomez, resident of the Boise neighborhood and a member of the Board of Directors of the Boise Neighborhood Association. And in that capacity, I chair the Land Use and Transportation Committee. I'm here to speak to the B&A Supportive Marathon Development's multi-unit limited tax exemption grant application for two projects in our neighborhood.
 As you know, the Boise neighborhood, part of the historic Albina community, has seen tremendous change in forms of both displacement and development. In 1990, 68% of Boise's residents were African American. By 2010, that number had fallen to 24%. Contributing to this trend is the fact that only 40% of residents in Boise own their homes. Low-income renters are easily displaced, particularly when vacancies are low and rents rapidly rise.
 The predominant trend in Boise today is development. Currently along Williams, Vancouver, and Mississippi are main streets. We know of 1,200 units of mixed-use apartment units in various stages of planning, permitting, or construction. Thank you.
 Of these 1,200 new units, exactly 15 apartments, or 1%, are classified as affordable by City of Portland Housing Affordability Guidelines. Not coincidentally, and as just recently mentioned, those 15 units are at Marathon's new apartment project, the Wilmore, also funded by a multi-grant.
 In April of this year, the Boise Neighborhood Association, recognizing the dynamics of displacement and development, adopted a housing affordability statement sent to the Housing Bureau and Commissioner Saltzman's office, underscoring our neighborhood's support for a broad range of housing affordability programs to be focused on our neighborhood as well as citywide.
 We believe that lower and moderate income residents deserve to benefit from attributes market rate development brings to our neighborhood, attributes including improved transportation infrastructure, social amenities, enhanced public safety, and improving schools. Programs providing housing options to lower income residents to stay or return to Boise are a high priority for us.
 We've worked closely with Marathon Development over the last two years on their four mixed-use projects, totaling over 300 units of apartments they'll begin building in 2016. They've been responsive to many of our requests, and they will be an asset to our neighborhood. Awarding the multi-grant Marathon has applied for is a concrete action the city can take now, which will provide 57 affordable housing units in Boise.
 We also recognize the need for and support significant investment in a variety of affordable housing types in Boise and citywide, including single-family home ownership, home repair, housing for families, veterans, and seniors, and assistance for first-time moderate-income homebuyers. We urge the Council to vote in support of Marathon Development's multi-grant application. Thank you. Thank you very much for taking the time to be here. You're welcome.
 Would you mind emailing your statement of principles on housing to all the council members? Absolutely. I'd love to. Thank you. These are all non-emergency ordinance, so they move to second reading, which finishes up the morning agenda. Do we need to read the afternoon title since we're going to be rescheduling it? Please read title 1260. 1260, accept report on the City of Portland disabled parking.
 And this is rescheduled, but we don't have the time yet. Is that correct? That's right. I'm asking if you return to my office and we will reschedule it. Great. Madam President, may I ask a question? Okay. In the absence of the mayor, will we have all four members of council tomorrow, too, for the presentation on the Willamette River crossing? Is anybody scheduled to be out, Carla? Correct. Only the mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you. So we have, tomorrow afternoon we have a presentation, and then tomorrow evening at 6 o'clock at the Middleman Jewish Community Center we will be taking testimony on the comprehensive plan proposal. So until tomorrow at 2 we are adjourned.