man is going to be here right yes we're going to go ahead and start i think because we have a lot to do and it is 9 31. good morning everyone welcome to the december 14th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll novick here fritz fish saltzman hails here i expect that we will be joined by commissioner fritz this morning but we're going to go ahead and get started we have a lot of
 Business to do today, so we will work our way through it We have some time certain so that we can try to have your time be not Wasted and waiting for us to get to your item if you're here to speak on a council item this today You can let our clerk know and she'll give you the opportunity to testify. We typically allow three minutes I think we'll be able to do that today But we may have to reduce it to two minutes on some items just again in order for the council To get through a lot of work that we're doing at the end of the year here today and next week and
 Can I ask you a question? Please. I heard from my staff this morning that there is a big snowstorm predicted, and it may hit sometime midday. If we get a sense that that's going to happen, is it your intention to try to get as much stuff done between now and, say, 1 o'clock?
 And move things around just so we get those. Exactly. Though we did just talk to the weather service, and they've moved their estimate of when it's really going to start snowing a little later in the day. So we may get a full day's work in. Or it may need to start in 15 minutes. Yeah, right. It's a forecast, not a guarantee. Certainly some of the actions are very time sensitive. Yeah, so we're going to certainly move as expeditiously as we can.
 So, and obviously we always follow the rules of decorum in this chamber. We want to listen to every point of view. If you agree with someone, give them a positive hand gesture if you feel like it. And if you disagree, you're welcome to give them a negative hand gesture. But we reserve applause and vocal demonstrations for students and visiting dignitaries. So if you're one of those, you may get a round of applause. Otherwise, we like to keep it quiet so that we can hear everyone and so everyone feels respected.
 With that, let's take our folks that have signed up for Council Communications 1382A. Oh, sorry, I'm sorry. Commissioner Novick, we have Commissioner Novick has a pre-GAVL announcement, so we'd like to give him the chance to do that. Is my bike working today? Yes. Okay. Colleagues, on November 28th, Troy Lovell, a PBOT maintenance employee, was working with fellow crew members as part of PBOT's Leaf Day street cleaning.
 During that process, Troy suffered a life-threatening medical event. Four of his coworkers responded quickly and called 911. According to the hospital physician, their training and quick response literally made the difference between life and death. We wanted to take this opportunity to recognize Troy and his coworkers who acted expeditiously to get him to the hospital. Bruce Charter, Billy Spires, Troy Wakefield, and Dana Whitley.
 And I think that is Director Creek here to elaborate? Come on up, please. Leah and amazing employees, welcome. Thank you.
 So I thank you for the opportunity. I really just want to echo what Commissioner Novick said. I am so humbled and proud by our crews at PBOT, and literally they saved one of their coworkers' lives, and that is just so worthy of your recognition and everyone else's. So with my gratitude and thanks for your job, truly appreciate everything that you do.
 So we make exceptions for students visiting dignitaries and hometown heroes. Let's hear it for these guys. So how's he doing? He apparently is going to be returning to work in about a week. Tomorrow, actually. Tomorrow. Tomorrow.
 Well, we appreciate you all every day and the work you do, and we're going to appreciate you a lot this next 24 hours, obviously. We're going to leave here and go get the plows and sanders ready. Thank you so much. As you do. Well done, man. Thank you very much. Let's hear it for these guys.
 I'd like to just mention that this is an added service that the city employees offer to our community, is that we are allowed to take CPR and defibrillation classes that the city pays for, so that it's not unusual for some of our staff who you wouldn't necessarily think of as first responders to be there when needed, and we very much appreciate that. Great work. Great idea to have people be ready to help like that.
 Super work. Thank you, Steve. Thanks very much. Okay. That's a great note to start on. Let's take our first citizen testimony, 1382A. Request of Mike O'Callaghan to address council regarding theft. O'Callaghan, come on up. Thank you for the opportunity to testify again. You guys stole my fourth tent. Okay. Thank you.
 Number four, and I'll give you a little history about this. It's kind of fun. You just remember that there are children watching at home, perhaps.
 Pardon? The children may be watching at home. So if you could keep it polite, I'd very much appreciate it. Yes. Well, actually, I'm going to give a history lesson. The French and the English were at war, battling. And the English were expected to lose. And the French developed a ploy that when they caught all these English, that they would cut off their middle finger. And therefore, they wouldn't be able to use the longbow. So happened the English won.
 So in defiance, they developed this gesture showing that they still had their middle finger so they could still use their longbows. And to this day, it continues. And the term, which I won't say, is a bastardization of a French term instead of the English. But anyway, I have a few other items on my agenda today.
 Anyway, how is it progressing on feeding millions? You know, I made a suggestion that indeed the council could pass a law prohibiting supermarkets from throwing away past-poll date food just like France did. All these people could get fed if you just pass that law. I suggested that about eight months ago. Any progress? Didn't think so. Anyway, another thing that I'd like to suggest to the council is not a tax on butts.
 But, indeed, a deposit on butts. I pick up litter. There are a lot of cigarette butts around. It's kind of offensive. And let's put a penny tax on them, 20 cents a pack. Okay? And they'll be marked so that all you've got to do is save them and turn them back in. There's no cost involved for anybody.
 And if you don't, people can go around and pick them up and turn them back in and get money for them. Okay? No cost. Stop this. People from throwing. And I have a slogan, pick your butt, so I don't have to. Thank you. Okay? Now, I talked about the computerized elections. Okay? And, you know, there never has been an election in this country overturned on the basis of computer fraud.
 Say either A or B, take your choice. Either it's all above the board and everybody's legal and nobody's cheating, or it's a perfect crime. Now, if you recall my last testimony, I mentioned Florida and Bush, and I followed this quite closely since I litigated it in Alaska. There were five computers that had more votes on the computer than ballots in the ballot box. Right.
 And there's only one way that happens. Okay, and then you saw things shift quite rapidly to butterfly ballots, and you saw it shift again to Chad, hanging Chad. Thank you. I appreciate the time. Thank you. Okay, let's hear the next person, 1382B. Open source program. Request of Matt Smith to address council regarding declared support for Portland's Muslim community and censure Donald Trump. Good morning. Morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for giving me time to speak today. I wanted to ask the council to pass the resolution declaring support for Portland's Muslim community and censure Donald Trump. My understanding is last year this was a council agenda item and election rules, state of Oregon election rules,
 did not allow the promotion or opposition of any candidate, so the resolution was passed without the president-elect's name in the text. So I wanted to explain why I supported the resolution then and why I think it's important to pass it now in the manner that it was originally intended to be.
 last year. The resolution does two things. First, to declare support for our Muslim community. Since the election and since last year, December, there have been a number of hateful acts directed towards our Muslim community, and not just towards our Muslim community, towards other faiths as well. The president-elect has promoted to high levels in his administration
 people who have demonstrated intolerance themselves. The National Security Advisor has likened Islam to a cancer. The HUD Secretary has stated publicly that he believes that the religion is incompatible with the Constitution. These are not views that I think exhibit the best values of our country. Secondly, the resolution asked the president-elect to acknowledge
 the divisive, hurtful rhetoric, hateful rhetoric, to acknowledge it, to apologize. It doesn't ask for an apology, but this is a goal of mine. He should acknowledge, apologize, and promise to refrain from further divisive, hateful speech. One of the key ideas, I think, of this last century is that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says dignity and equal rights is the foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the world.
 So beyond creating a moral obligation, it's in our self-interest to uphold and promote the dignity and equality of our fellow citizens if we're interested in justice and peace in the world. So beyond just merely a lofty philosophical statement, it is in our security self-interest to promote dignity and equality. And I ask the council to...
 pass a resolution with the president-elect's name in there, asking him to convey an understanding of the basic human, the way that human nature operates according to the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and to demonstrate an understanding and shared values with our community. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. I appreciate raising these issues. I just came back last night from the West Coast Mayor's Summit, and I think you're going to see a lot of cooperative effort among cities on the West Coast. Mayor Garcetti was there from L.A., and Mayor Lee from San Francisco, and so on. And we actually did sign some joint letters to the new administration about housing and homelessness.
 and about climate. And so I think you're going to see that kind of concerted action among West Coast cities that are tolerant, inclusive places as we are. So thank you. Appreciate you raising these issues. And it's nice, actually, I think it feels good for me. I think it feels good for everyone to know that we in Portland are not alone in having these values, but that we have a lot of solidarity and company with other communities on our side of the country.
 And as you note, we did pass the resolution supporting our Muslim neighbours. I think we've all been thinking about what should we be doing here in Portland, Oregon, with regards to the...
 things that are happening at the national level. One of the things that we're very concerned about is to make sure we do things with the community rather than for the community. And so we were hoping, and we still may be able to get something on the December 21st council session to make some kind of statement
 We're also working with Mayor-elect Wheeler, even if we do something on 21st, we will want to do it again and be more inclusive early in the new year. And I know that Mayor-elect Wheeler is very concerned about that. One piece that I wanted to get on camera and make sure that people in the community are aware is that for people who are here under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, that if you already confirmed, now would be a very good time to apply for a continuation of that benefit.
 If folks haven't yet started the process, it's probably better to wait. So I wanted to make sure I could state that on camera. That also refers to our city employees, some of whom are working legally due to the DACA rules that the dear President Obama has put into place. So we definitely share your concern. Thank you very much for coming to raise it. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Okay. We have a consent form.
 calendar and I don't believe I've had any requests to remove items from the consent calendar is that right anyone want to remove anything okay let's take a vote then on the consent calendar as printed and then we'll move on to our time certain items no thank ah right all right okay time certain item 1383
 adopt the 2017 Portland electric vehicle strategy to accelerate the transition to electric vehicles and increase deployment of public charging infrastructure. MR. Good morning. Pleased to welcome Susan Anderson, Courtney Duke, and Ingrid Fish here to talk about this work. And we also have some invited testimony coming in from the community on this.
 We're here today to consider this 2017 electric vehicle strategy, which is part of what we are trying to do as a community to be responsible about climate and to actually make a difference. And I think you all know I just came back from the C40 summit. I'm proudly wearing my C40 pin today, where Portland was recognized for having the best climate action plan in the world, which we should thank Susan Anderson for. So let's hear it for great staff.
 doing great work for just a few years on this subject since the first version of that was adopted in 1993. And not only are we doing the right thing and making a difference, but our brand around the world is important. The reason we're in the C40 organization is not because Portland's big. Actually, now the 90 cities in the C40 represent over 600 million people.
 So we're not there because of our size. We're there because of this kind of early adoption and policy leadership, and that's why we're here as well today. And our brand is a lot to do with transit and a lot to do with walkability, but also because we have been early and effective adopters of electric vehicles. Okay.
 including in our own fleet where 20% of our city's sedan fleet is now electric and we're poised to increase that goal to 30% by 2020. So these strategies that incrementally keep advancing the agenda and changing how we use energy and how we relate to the climate are both important here because they improve quality of life and air quality and other factors,
 things we enjoy about Portland, but they also continue our commitment to actually work with all these other cities around the world as we are on fossil fuel exports today and on this policy to bend the curve of what happens to our world by what happens here and in other places that follow our leadership. So thank you all for leading this work and queuing us up for an important discussion this morning.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and with me are Ingrid Fish, who is our Policy Lead on Electric Vehicles, among other things, and Courtney Duke from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. As the Mayor mentioned, we have had an aggressive policy and plan looking at carbon emissions for more than 20 years, and the results have been significant. We have reduced carbon emissions by 21% since 1990, even as our population has grown and as
 Jobs have grown significantly, and at the same time, emissions for the entire United States have gone up 7%. So we're going in the right direction. Our current climate action plan includes a goal to reduce carbon emissions by 80% from 1990 levels by 2050. Thank you.
 Transportation accounts for nearly 40% of Portland's local carbon emissions, so reducing vehicle miles is absolutely important. Important we need to create wonderful walkable neighborhoods, ways for people to be able to walk and bicycle and take transit, but also important is switching to low carbon fuels such as electricity. The city's first electric vehicle strategy was adopted in 2010.
 And we did that in anticipation of this new car called the Nissan Leaf at that time, which was crazy new. And we were trying to figure out how we were going to integrate electric vehicles just into our own city fleet. And now seven years later, the EV market landscape has changed dramatically. It's grown. And so we're updating the strategy.
 The new strategy includes 50 actions to be completed or significantly underway by 2020, so we're moving quickly. It includes all sorts of actions that Ingrid will talk about, including more electric vehicles in the city's fleet, but also ways that we can encourage more electric vehicle charging infrastructure in our new commercial buildings and especially in all of the new multifamily and mixed-use buildings that are coming.
 going to be built over the next 20 years. So with that, I'll just turn it over to Ingrid and to Courtney, and they'll walk you through the strategy. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. Thank you for the opportunity to talk about this plan I've been working on for the last two years. So if you look at this slide, it's our transportation hierarchy, and it should look familiar to you. It's in our climate action plan, it's in our comprehensive plan, and it's referenced in the transportation systems plan.
 And it really guides us to create policies and make investments to encourage complete communities that support walking, biking, and transit before accommodating automobiles.
 So when we design programs to incentivize and encourage people to drive EVs, we want to make sure that the EV option is attractive to Portlanders, but not so attractive that it takes people away from doing the really good things that they're already doing, like biking, walking, and taking public transit. So we have many goals and policies in the city that guide us to reduce the amount of –
 people who commute by car And we know that even when we reach these goals there will still be some cars on the road And so this strategy is really focusing on electrifying those cars that will remain on the road and 2030 And also focusing on the transit and even some bikes. So EVs are here now We have we
 have a lot of vehicles on the road right now, and we expect them to grow exponentially over the next 10 years. The state of Oregon has signed on to or they've committed to a goal of having all new cars be electric vehicles or be zero emission by 2050. Right now we have over 10,000 EVs in Oregon, and a majority of those EVs are in the Portland metro region.
 we have um so when people think of evs a lot of people think tesla and they think expensive but in reality there's a large range of options lots of cost options for evs and lots of options for range which means the amount of miles that you can drive on a charge
 There are 28 EV models available on the market right now. You can buy 27 of them here in Oregon. And the trend is really that the cost of these cars is becoming much less expensive, and the range, meaning the miles you can go on a charge, is decreasing. So that's really good news for EVs.
 And even the Tesla is going to have that normal person's version of it. Yes, the Model 3 is coming out soon. So when we're talking about electric vehicles, what we mean is we mean electric buses, we mean electric bikes, scooters, electric freight, electric trucks. So it's really kind of incorporating all sorts of different vehicles, not only cars, for the purposes of the strategy.
 So really, the primary goal of the strategy is to replace gas and diesel vehicles with electric vehicles. And we have kind of four categories of work that we're going to do to achieve that goal. The first is to increase awareness of EVs and access to chargers. This is a big one. It's the biggest barrier to EV uptake.
 We're also going to work to increase affordable access, especially to low-income populations and people of color. We're going to work to electrify our fleets and support EV-related innovation. And I'll just run really quickly through some highlighted actions that help us achieve the work in each one of these categories. So the first one is to increase our EV awareness and access to chargers.
 The city is going to support Drive Oregon's effort. They are building a Northwest EV Showcase, which will be kind of a physical location, which will be an outreach and education campaign. It will be located at the World Trade Center at Second and Salmon, and they'll have electric vehicles on display. They'll have charging infrastructure on display. They'll have people there to kind of talk about the benefits, the financial benefits and environmental benefits of EVs, and they'll have people to answer people's questions about,
 They'll be doing ride-in drives so people can get into the cars and actually get exposed to the vehicles. And they'll have EV ambassadors, so people who own their own EVs and are excited about the cars and want to talk about it.
 talk about how great their cars are. We are also, the city is going to explore options to require new construction, commercial and multifamily buildings to be EV ready. By EV ready, we mean having the conduits and electrical capacity to be able to support chargers. And if we do this, we'll be one of the last cities on the West Coast to make that happen.
 And we will be working on increasing our e-mobility charging pods, so our electric mobility hubs where this is kind of like Electric Avenue, which is on 2nd and Salmon, where we have four fast chargers and two level two chargers. We're going to be working with the utilities and our other community partners to build more of those Electric Avenue type pods and put those all around the city.
 And we're going to be working, PBOT's going to be working on our right-of-way policies to make it really clear as to kind of where we want to put chargers in the right-of-way, publicly accessible chargers in the right-of-way, and where we don't want to put those chargers.
 The second area of work is increasing affordable access to EVs. We are going to be working with partners to develop electric car, car share and e-bike share pilot projects. Gina Scott from Hacienda CDC is here and she'll talk to you a little bit about the project that they're doing, which is a car share project that is focused and targeted towards low-income folks.
 We're also working to seek funding for an e-bike loan project where we'll loan out electric bikes to women and people of color, which are the two demographic groups that have the lowest ridership for bikes.
 We're going to be working with Drive Oregon to do pop-up EV showcases. So like the showcase that I talked about that will be at the World Trade Center, there'll be different outreach and education campaigns similar to that all around the city, including East Portland, to kind of go beyond downtown Portland.
 The Housing Bureau is working on an affordable housing green building policy, and a provision of that policy will be that the city investments for affordable housing, those projects will be EV-ready. Again, it means having the conduit and electrical capacity to be able to support charters. We're working with partners to –
 provide used EV bulk buy programs where people can access used EVs, in which there's a big inventory of right now, and be able to get those cars at a discount. We're also working with Opel and Drive Oregon to do a mobility needs assessment, so talking to low-income people and people of color to actually really figure out what their mobility needs are and what their issues are, and try to figure out whether or not EVs are a solution for those issues.
 We're going to be working to electrify fleets, working to electrify delivery vehicles. UPS has a e-
 that they are piloting in southwest Portland. And we are the first city in the country to have this pilot, and they're using an e-cargo bike to deliver packages. They expect to expand to the Pearl District, and we would like to encourage more companies to do this, follow their lead. As the mayor and Susan mentioned, we are electrifying our own fleet. Right now we have 20% of our sedan fleet is electric vehicle, and we want to up that to 30%.
 We're working with TriMet on a long-term electrification plan. They received a $3.4 million grant to have four e-buses, and we are encouraging them to locate those e-buses in areas of town that have high air quality issues so that everyone can benefit from the electric buses.
 The last area of work that I'd like to talk about is supporting EV-related innovation. We are kind of working to support electric shared mobility and trying to figure out what the city can do to incentivize car shares to be electric. Right now, we have one car share company that's electric reach now, and we'd like to encourage more companies to follow their lead.
 We would like to continue working on our Smart Cities work. We developed a great proposal for the DOT grant opportunity, and we really want to kind of leverage that work and continue the momentum for that work. We're looking to seek funding to partially electrify Biketown, which would expand the boundaries of Biketown and expose more Portlanders to e-bikes.
 And, um, PDC is doing a great job, uh, working with, uh, to support EV businesses, um, connecting local EV manufacturers to national, um, EV companies and regional EV companies. They're also working to, uh, connect, uh, underemployed and unemployed Portlanders to, um, jobs in the EV industry. And lastly, um...
 We will be working on an autonomous vehicle or self-driving vehicle policy and trying to encourage those cars to also be electric. And this is a picture of my family and our electric vehicle. It's my primary mode of transportation. And I really believe that if a mom and two kids can get around Portland on an electric bike, that that might also be an option for a lot of other Portlanders.
 I'd really like to thank PBOT, PDC, the Portland Housing Bureau, Drive Oregon, PGE, Pacific Power, Trimat, Hacienda CDC, DEQ, PSU, and the Oregon Environmental Council for their help and input with the development of this plan.
 Now, Courtney Duke from PBOT is going to give you some comments. Thank you. Thanks, Ingrid. Good morning. Good morning. Courtney Duke from PBOT. I do work on other things other than the comp plan. It's exciting. Life after. Right, right, life after the comp plan. So we're excited to be working with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the other bureaus, as Ingrid mentioned, such as PDC, BDS, the Bureau of Housing, and City Fleet.
 to ensure that we can meet the goals of the Climate Action Plan and this new strategy. PBOT's mission, as you know, aligns well with the underlying principles of the EV strategy and the city's transportation hierarchy, also known as the Transportation Strategy Goal 9.6 in the comp plan.
 We want to make sure that as we work to reduce vehicle miles traveled and encourage active transportation options, that the cars do remain on the road, as Ingrid mentioned, are the cleanest as possible. So a couple things that we're doing is we're working closely with the city and external partners to ensure that there's sufficient access to all Portland residents for public charging, with a special focus on communities that may be underserved with limited transportation options available.
 We're working to ensure that the elements of the EV strategy are incorporated into our capital project considerations and consistent with our other transportation goals. And we are working on the next phase of the transportation system plan, both with autonomous vehicle policies as well as these, and we'll see if we need additional objectives or policies to help integrate this.
 We're working to develop consistent and streamlined processes for EV in our parking facilities and in the right-of-way. I'll talk about that in a second. And specifically, we're also looking at broader deployment of not just EV passenger vehicles, but also e-bikes, as Ingrid mentioned, along with the bike town, as well as e-scooters, and looking to support with our partners for transit and freight deployment. Okay.
 So, of the about 50 actions, I think, that are in the strategy, over half of them are either a PBOT lead or a PBOT partnership, especially ones that relate to the infrastructure of those charging stations, especially in the public right-of-way or also in public parking facilities.
 So some of the highlights that we're working on, and we have actually hired a consultant to help us with this implementation. He's James Mast, who had worked on the original plan in 2010 to help us move forward with this strategy, especially working with our right-of-way and parking partners at the Bureau and planning section to make sure we're all working together to be able to implement these strategies together.
 So especially that's again is related to the right-of-way work because not only do we have parking in the right-of-way But we have special permits. There's special things We have to do at the state level and the local level but what we're allowed to do or not do in the right-of-way So we're working on that We're increasing awareness and use of existing chargers and city garages via improved signage and other education outreach we want to integrate a bike charging into the city's bike parking and the title 33 code and we already have a some staff and a committee working on the bike parking code
 We're seeking funding for partial electrification of Bike Town, again, something that Ingrid already mentioned. And then I think, as I mentioned, we're seeking opportunities to pilot electric autonomous vehicles in Portland and also looking at autonomous vehicle policies and objectives. That was given us direction by the Portland Sustainability Commission as a part of the comprehensive plan and TSP update. So, again, we're excited to be working with Ingrid and with our consultant to be implementing this through both processes and policies at the high level as well as internal.
 Thank you all. Questions? I have a couple. Are we working with the Oregon Department of Transportation to put charges at the rest stops on the highways? I do not know the answer to that. I know that there has been an effort to put charging infrastructure along the I-5 corridor, and that's definitely continuing. They have someone that's lead. He works on shared vehicles, and he's working on that.
 He works on EVs and car share, Andrew Dick. And so I'm in really close communication with him. And I know that they're trying to expand the charging infrastructure. And this might be a direction just to the Bureau, to the department, rather than necessitating any legislative changes? Yes.
 Or should we put the – what I'm going for is should we put this in our legislative priority package to make sure that, yes, you can get it around Portland, but you can also get to Eugene and Ashland if you want to? We can check in with them and find out also if it's in theirs, and so we can coordinate with that, and we'll get back to you. Thank you. My second question is, is there a charge for charging an electric vehicle in a public spot?
 It depends on where. Mostly, yes. Right now, Electric Avenue, there's no charge to charge, but that's just because they're trying to get a franchise agreement with us. And once that happens, we will, they'll be charging the charge.
 That's good because obviously I'm appreciative of Commissioner Novick having got the gas tax passed. One of the reasons we know that we have not enough money for infrastructure is that we're going to be losing the gas tax. So although we want to encourage electric vehicles for climate change reasons, we also need to maintain the roads and they will be making the same kind of damage on the road surface. So I'd like to see something added to the proposal to specifically address that.
 Mayor? Yes, please. This is really outstanding work. I want to offer a friendly amendment, but it's not really directed to you. It's directed to City Fleet. In the text, it says that the long-term goal is replacing 10,000 gas or diesel-powered vehicles with electric vehicles. And then in terms of our piece, it's add 60 electric vehicles to our fleet and then move forward to a bigger percentage.
 So what that means is there's going to be a lot of money spent somewhere on these vehicles. To me, it would be ironic if we went well outside of Portland to buy vehicles that were then subject to a warranty and we had to drive a long way to have them updated and serviced. So here's the friendly amendment.
 Can we develop the most legally aggressive buy local program that's allowable so that we ensure that to the extent possible we buy these vehicles from local vendors? Local vendors, after all, pay the business license fee. They are closer to our place of business. And if we're going to make this kind of investment and if we're going to try to essentially shift the whole landscape,
 I would ask, Mayor, that we research the most aggressive bi-local program that the law allows so that we spend as much of this money here in Portland. That's a great suggestion. Thank you. Sounds like it's accepted as a friendly amendment, so thank you.
 I have a question and a similar suggestion for how you make some of these general, the 49 strategies specific, as Commissioner Fish just did. The question is about number one, which is the policy.
 commercial and multifamily buildings. Do we need the state building codes division or the legislature to open the door for the city to do this, or does the city council have the authority to do this on its own? We're going to propose that as part of the central city plan, and actually it's –
 part of the mixed use already. Okay. So we have the ability to do this as we did with bike parking. We don't have to ask the state to communicate. We believe we do until challenged. Okay. I like that attitude. Okay. And then number 15, just a suggestion. It's a pretty broad provision about providing more opportunities for charging on private property. I usually take the red line to the airport for obvious reasons, but I don't think it's
 did drive one of our EVs to the airport and noticed they've done a great job of providing charging stations in the short-term parking garage, but I don't believe they have them in the long-term parking garage. They have... I'm not sure about the long-term parking garage, but I know that they have it at the...
 that you have to park and then get a shuttle in. So there's places like that where other public agencies, if we can fill in some of the gaps like that. Yeah, absolutely. Because obviously if you're there in the long-term parking garage, you'll have enough time to recharge. If you're there short-term to pick someone up, you might not.
 So those other agencies that have parking lots or parking garages, you've got the charge to go do that here under number 15, but I just noticed that particular one. So I'm sure they've already started to do the right thing. I'm sure they'd like to do more. Yep.
 do you want to on any of these do you want to make official amendments or can we just put this in as part of because this is a resolution yeah since it's a resolution i think you've got a sense of the council in terms of how you carry this out i don't think we have to change the words on the page but at the certainly the bi-local uh direction and find more agencies whether it's odot or the port to implement or certainly what we want to see you do so what are we doing to encourage uh gas electric vehicles hybrids hybrids
 We like hybrids. I think in a lot of ways they make sense, depending on kind of what your use is for the car. So in terms of our goals for city fleet, we do include hybrid electric in that goal. And, you know, we're definitely...
 We understand that it makes sense in some instances. I think that the trend is going to kind of go towards more all-electric, but yeah. It's included in our definition of what an electric vehicle is. I would suggest that it's got a built-in incentive because of the gas. You have to occasionally fill up with gas, so the fact that you're not doing it as often or having to put as much gas in, I think for our family it's very much a financial incentive. Right.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Great work. We've got a panel to follow your presentation here. Jeff Allen from Drive Oregon, Charlie Alcock from Portland General Electric, Corey Scott from Pacific Power, and Gina Scott from Hacienda Community Development Corporation. If you're all here, come on up, pull up another chair if you need a fourth chair. If there's one free there, there might be. Carly, would you just grab one of those loose chairs in the front row there? Thank you so much. Thank you.
 I put you to work. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning. So I guess we can go in the order you called us. Whatever order you'd like. That works, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Jeff Allen with Drive Oregon. For your...
 Don't recall, we've been in front of you a couple of times, but we're a nonprofit working to grow the electric vehicle industry and promote transportation electrification. We're now up to over 100 members, ranging from most of the major automakers all the way down to local entrepreneurs and folks who are tinkering in their garages, a number of advocacy groups and local governments. I don't want to repeat too much of what has already been said, but we are very supportive of this electric vehicle strategy. I did want to just highlight a couple of points.
 So first of all, as stated, there's a misperception that electric vehicles are expensive and Tesla has been in some ways the best and the worst thing that's happened to us in that regard. But we just wanted to highlight that there's a half dozen models you can go out and lease today brand new for less than $200 a month.
 And when you consider that you're driving on the equivalent of about $20 a month in electricity, typically it makes a lot of economic sense for a lot of families. You can also buy now a three-year-old Nissan Leaf like the one I have parked outside for $8,000 or $9,000. Then again, you're paying $20 a month for electricity to run it and virtually nothing for maintenance. By the way, on that point, I took an eco-cab recently to the airport.
 And it was the same cost as, you know, a competitor that was gas-fueled. So at least in that industry, it seems like there's parity. That's exactly right. And, you know, their business model is based on the fact that it's cheaper to – much cheaper to operate an electric vehicle. It's the equivalent of running on dollar-a-gallon gasoline. And even though gas prices have dropped, we're not down to a dollar yet.
 I also want to emphasize the economic value. You were talking about buying local. And one of the things I want to emphasize is that not only are electric vehicles good for the environment, but we don't have gasoline refineries or oil wells in the state of Oregon, thank goodness. And so every dollar that you spend on electricity and on other products instead of oil circulates in the local economy and creates a study in California found every dollar you shifted out of oil created 16 times as many jobs.
 And they actually do have some oil refineries down there. So in Oregon, the number is probably higher.
 And then I think the broader overarching message that I wanted to send is this is really the logical next step in mobility and sustainable mobility for the city. As a lifelong bike commuter as well, I can tell you that the early adopters will ride bikes, even if you have to lock your bike up to a dumpster somewhere. But as we've added bike racks and we've added lockers and showers, it encourages more people to ride as we've added bike lanes.
 and better signage for cyclists. It encourages more people to ride. And that's, if you even look further back, my neighborhood in northeast Portland still has rings for the horses to tether. My office neighborhood in northwest Portland has train tracks, old and new, as I've learned the hard way on my bike a few times. So we've always accommodated new transportation modes. And this is the next step.
 And just as it's great to have a bike rack that's in the basement of your office building in the parking garage, you really want the bike rack out in front of the building as well to send that message to people that says, hey, I could have ridden my bike here today. That's what we're looking at with charging. We have some chargers in city garages. That was a great early step. But we also need to see those chargers visibly on the street like we do at Electric Avenue where people say, oh, look at all those electric cars charging up there.
 there are places to charge that's a viable option for me and the same applies in workplaces one of the actions we're really happy to see in the strategy is having the city take a harder look at workplace charging same thing as with bikes if you can park your bike at work if you have a safe place to put it in a locker in a shower you're more likely to drive your bike if you have a place to charge at work you're up to 20 times more likely to drive an electric vehicle rather than a gas vehicle
 So we'd like to see the city join the hundreds of businesses and employers around the country that have embraced providing workplace charging and also encourage other businesses in the region to do that as well. I think I'll stop there except to note on the question about corridors. Just wanted to highlight that's another place where the state has been a real leader.
 So actually, we have the entire length of I-5 electrified and all the coasts. We are the first not only public beaches, but electrified beaches in the country. So weather permitting, I'm actually scheduled to hop in my Leaf and drive down to Salem immediately after this hearing. And there are chargers all the way down and back that will allow me to do that, even in cold weather. That's great. Thanks.
 Jeff, I have a question. It's my understanding that the VW diesel cheating settlement that the federal government concluded with VW says that they're going to have to make a substantial amount of money available. I think it might have been a couple billion dollars for electric vehicle infrastructure. And I was also told that it's going to be sort of a competitive basis.
 So now, of course, it's quite possible that the Trump administration will tear up that settlement and give VW a prize for cheating on diesel emissions. But are the big electric vehicle brains in Oregon thinking about how the state or local governments might go about applying for some of that money?
 Yes, absolutely. Folks at this table and others have been talking with each other and with Volkswagen and with our neighbors up to the north about just that. And it is it's about two billion dollars over 10 years. Eight hundred million of that goes straight to California, which leaves one point two billion over 10 years. So it's about one hundred and twenty million a year.
 in 30-month tranches, so the first pot is only about 300 million only. Our understanding is they're going to focus that in a few key corridors and a few key metro markets, and you can be certain that we are making the case that Portland needs to be one of those metro markets. And I think having things like this plan in place –
 So things like the showcase that we're working to open in the next few months downtown are going to position us to be in a better competitive position for some of those funds. Thank you very much. I'd like to go next. Charlie, good morning. So Mayor Hales and members of the council, on behalf of PGE, I'm Charlie Alcock with PGE, I want to commend the city for this electric vehicle strategy that's calling up
 upon many city bureaus to work together with community counterparts and stakeholders to make this vision come to reality. There are many benefits of transportation electrification. It's been mentioned here before by many folks, but again, the low cost of operating these vehicles, the lower carbon emissions. One of the things that has not been mentioned is that these vehicles are much quieter.
 So as we move into garbage trucks and other vehicles like that that operate in more dense neighborhoods, there is the noise emission reduction as well. They use energy sources here that are produced locally.
 electric vehicle driver for the last six years, I can attest that these are also very fun vehicles to drive. We haven't talked about the fun factor, but that's a lot of what drives purchase decisions here in our country around vehicles. So if you have to drive, having a fun one is also a key consideration.
 So I think the idea is we want to bring all these benefits and make them available to as many of our citizens as possible so that everybody can enjoy them. And that's really the strategic priority for PGE. As you know, in March of this year, Governor Kate Brown signed the Oregon Clean Electricity Plan, which includes a mandate for Oregon utilities to advance electric transportation in our state.
 And later this month, PGE will be submitting, along with Pacific Power, a plan to the Oregon Public Utility Commission to comply with this new law. And many of the initiatives that we will be including in our plan will support the goals in the city's strategy for electric vehicles that is before you today.
 So this is the collaboration that we have been doing. There have been many, many conversations that have been going on with your team and with your staff and other stakeholders. So this is really a team sport and a team approach that we are using to move this forward. We'd like to work together with the city and TriMet to clear the way for public charging stations and electric buses running on our streets today.
 We want to collaborate with businesses, with employers, and home builders to make sure that people have access to charging either at work or at their homes. We want to work with community groups to make sure that these resources and access to these resources and this technology is available and the benefits of electric transportation and clean air is something that everybody can do.
 We have been a leader in Portland and in Oregon on electric transportation. And along with this leadership, we need to continue to embrace innovation. We're not going to get this all right every time. I think the secret here is that we try new ideas, we learn from our experiences, and quickly iterate forward.
 and get better as we go along and implement the strategy that we have in front of you. And working together across the many stakeholders, and the Portland region is a bi-state region. It involves a much broader group than just the city. So working together collectively to make a system work, I think is really what this vision is really all about as we look forward to the future. So thank you very much for the opportunity to speak this morning. Thank you. Appreciate you as a partner. Thank you.
 Scott, welcome. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Corey Scott. I'm the Director of Customer Solutions at Pacific Power. Part of my responsibilities there include Pacific Power's initial efforts to help enable and accelerate transportation electrification. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to speak today in support of the transportation electrification efforts here at the city.
 We're without trying to repeat a lot of what's already been said. Where this makes sense, there's a lower cost to operate, fewer emissions than traditional fuel vehicles, and Pacific Power and the city are well aligned in our joint commitment to increase transportation electrification as part of a clean energy future.
 I do want to thank the city and Ingrid Fish in particular for a very thoughtful and robust process around this city's EV strategy, and we look forward to being a part of the policy and implementation process. Following up on comments from our colleagues at PGE, we're also preparing plans to file our initial vehicle electrification programs in the state, which will be filed by the end of the year. We think they align well with...
 the policy we're talking about today, or the EV strategy we're talking about today. Three points in particular I would make in that regard. The first is building awareness and educational resources. We heard it over and over through our stakeholder process that that's a place that utility can play an important role and certainly a place we hope to do so. Forming partnerships that enable innovative and community-driven projects. And I would say...
 The balance there is there's a lot of players in this market, including money that will come in from Volkswagen and our partnerships with the folks at this table. And so offering some flexibility through our program to make sure that we can enable thoughtful projects that coordinate across all of these various movers in the market. And finally, helping to increase access to a robust network of publicly available charging equipment.
 We'd also like to express support for the city's focus on equity and increasing access in underserved communities. We've recently announced a partnership with the city, Hacienda CDC, who you'll hear from, and Drive Oregon to test an electric vehicle sharing program for affordable housing. We look forward to the opportunity for these continued partnerships in this area and an overall focus on making electric transportation available to all.
 We're pleased to express our support for the city's EV strategy. It synergies with the programs we plan to file and look forward to working with the city and other communities we serve across Oregon to continue to work.
 on EV programs as part of that approach in a cleaner energy future. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ms. Scott, good morning. Hi there. My name is Gina Scott. I'm the asset manager at Hacienda CDC. Pull your microphone over. Sorry. Hang on. We'll close it. Hang on. In our portfolio, we have nine low-income multifamily properties, which comes out to 381 units.
 Seven of these properties are in northeast Portland. One is in north Portland, and another one is in Malala. Five of our properties and our new green office building are all centrally located in the Coley neighborhood. And so that's kind of our main campus. Recently, we partnered with Drive Oregon to provide five Hondas to our staff and residents.
 Right now we're working on getting the charging stations going. Three of the charging stations will be on our main campus. Two others will be in nearby properties. The next phase, we will roll it out to our staff, Hacienda CDC staff. Our staff will be able to use the vehicles free of charge,
 And we're hoping that that will create exposure to our residents. We have a lot of program staff who actually go out to site and visit families. So they'll be able to take these vehicles to our properties, expose them to our low-income folks, and then we'll be able to take them to our families.
 and get them excited about the project. A couple months later, we will be allowing residents, Hacienda CDC residents, to use those vehicles. And then there's also talk about later on providing those vehicles to the community. We're hoping that our community members will use the electric vehicles to take trips to grocery stores, doctor visits, anything that they would normally drive, you know, the 20-year-old vehicle to go to. Okay.
 After the project is over, right now, we're leasing them from Honda. Our driver organ is leasing the vehicles from Honda for one year. After that, unfortunately, we have to relinquish the vehicles, but we will be able to keep the charging stations, and we're excited about seeing how this project performs and then taking that to the next level and seeing what other projects we can implement using this infrastructure that we've already created. Thank you.
 So I'm very excited about the project, and I can't wait to see how things turn out. Thank you for having me. Thank you very much. Questions for anyone on this panel? Thank you all. Appreciate your partnership. Thank you. Thanks for coming this morning. Thank you. We have other folks that are signed up to testify. Yes, we have eight people signed up. The first three, please come on up.
 are Mia Reback, Catherine Stevens, and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. I'm not sure if the extremely well-behaved young ladies in the – are your folks ready to testify on this one? Are you on this item? Are you – oh, okay. All right. Okay. And very well done. You're doing very well. We appreciate it. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Mia Reback, and I'm the staff organizer with 350 PDX. Really excited to be here today for a morning of climate action, and want to start by thanking the City Council as well as city staff with BPS and PBOT for putting together their electric vehicle strategy. We think this is really, really important that we ramp up our alternatives to fossil fuels, especially as the city is taking steps to move away from fossil fuel infrastructure. Thank you.
 As climate change gets worse and worse and the prognosis of what work we have to do increases, we're also facing a federal government where action is likely to stop, if not becoming a pro-fossil fuel, pro-extraction agenda. So our local work has to increase along with this. We have to do more and we have to do it faster. Thank you.
 And part of that is ensuring that when we charge our EVs, we're charging them with renewable energy. And so in addition to supporting this policy, we really want to encourage our city council, as well as our utilities, to adopt a renewables first agenda,
 where we're ensuring that we're not building new fossil fuel power plants, such as those that are being proposed out in eastern Oregon by PGE to power the Portland metro area. And so we really, really need to ensure that we are building the renewable energy capacity to power these charging stations so we're not just switching from one fossil fuel type power.
 to another, especially with natural gas taking into account life cycle emissions, is just as bad as coal. So we really need to be looking towards these bold, visionary solutions to support all of our climate action. And we're so lucky here in the City of Portland that we have a city council, as well as the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, that is internationally recognized as leading on this initiative.
 And we're just so excited to be here this morning as an organization and want to thank you all and support you in adopting the electric vehicle update as well as home energy scoring and the fossil fuel terminal zoning code amendments later today. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Catherine Stevens. First, plus one, everything she just said. That was great. Two, I just bought an electric car two months ago. It's fantastic and I love it. It's been fun to drive. I feel really good being in my car using renewable energy. But it's kind of like a video game in that...
 you get sick or you get an injury, you have to look for an antidote or something. And so you're constantly watching your life drain out and you're panicking because you don't know if you're going to be able to find that before you lose your game or get to the post office before it closes. So I really want to encourage there to be more charging stations because that's been hard to deal with. And this is a fantastic route our city is going. So thank you for considering making more EV infrastructure. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And, you know, these are – it's easy to overlook the importance of this in the light of the fact that the leading nominee for Energy Secretary is Rick Perry and Rex Tillerson. Now the national foreign policy of the United States is going to become oil baron expansion and zones of influence for oil companies.
 So if we're not going to kill off our children or the upcoming generations with catastrophic climate change, as the mayor pointed out, we need to have resilient cities moving away from fossil fuels. And there's an important tie in here that really hasn't been discussed enough, and that's air quality. And so just beyond the long-term general ethics of –
 all people in the city and state pressuring PGE and Pacific Power to move to renewable generation for the sake of children and grandchildren, we need to do it right now to keep ourselves alive by breathing less toxic air. And the city also needs to be mindful of how it's going to firmly commit to and work with the state to build
 powerful and effective local air quality unit systems so that when we're here next year celebrating the funeral of the Environmental Protection Agency, we'll still have regional things like California's air quality system that will not have average income and poor people breathing toxic air and not being able to get health care because we might not have that either. So it's...
 a very challenging time. I'm glad that the power companies sent their representatives and are here to remember that if they give us a system that has 10% higher per kilowatt cost or one cent increase in what they might get using natural gas and having a bunch of methane going into the system,
 That's actually a good investment. To tell us that we have to pay more for cleaner, safer electricity is the moral position. Putting Rex Tillerson and Rick Perry in the cabinet is not a moral position. It means that we all really need to not just be scared of Hitler, but learn how he staffed the Reich's chancellery. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you very much.
 Next three are Adrian Russell-Falla, Janice Thompson, and Matthias Quackenbush. Good morning. I would like to go first. There's a little button on the base of your microphone there. Just push that, and it will light up. There you go. Thank you very much. Adrian Russell-Falla, I appreciate the opportunity to talk with you today. Having done a relatively hasty review of the plan in question, I'd like to commend the direction and intent of the plan.
 Very much, very enthusiastically. But I will say as an opening, I think that the degree of change that it envisions may be rather insufficient, ironically from an excess of caution. I'll tell you very briefly about my background to cast any criticism whatsoever. A serial high technology entrepreneur has founded a series of companies here in Portland.
 I've been in the software business for a couple of decades, and I'm now interested in stuff that's more tangible and directly climate-related. My company's generated, by my estimate, 500. It just does that. Sorry. Go ahead. My company's. It's all right. Sometimes it's a little bit further away from it. You know, what you can do is slide that whole box a little closer to you and dispense with that mic. Is this one live? There you go. Okay. Sorry about that. All right.
 So my companies have generated by a rough back of the envelope estimate about 500 employee years so far of good jobs and good taxes. I'm an entrepreneur at heart.
 And I cycled to work in all of my companies. I had options in all of those companies to move the companies out of the city to more tax-efficient places for either the company or myself in the event of a happy outcome. And I've declined to do those because I believe very strongly in the commitment that one has to the community that makes it possible to do these things. So we've cheerfully paid the taxes and will continue to do so.
 I signed up for the Nissan Leaf rollout in 2011. We had already purchased a solar array for the roof of our house in northeast Portland in anticipation of the combination being really compelling. And I noticed that that didn't come up in the discussion thus far. We have done that, and I can talk to that. I won't. I can talk to it if the cows come home. Okay.
 We didn't qualify, however. We didn't get a leave in 2011 because, like many, many households in Portland, we have to use on-street parking. And there's no reference to that that I picked up in the plan. The focus is understandably on the new fleet, the new fleet of vehicles as vehicles change, and the new fleet of buildings as buildings are upgraded or knocked down and rebuilt again.
 and we do infill. And that's great. That makes compelling sense. In fact, I'd say it's effectively the low-hanging fruit in this picture. But there's an enormous fleet of buildings, households, and vehicles today that we also need to find a way to transition. I'm aware that there are some challenges with that because you get into issues between a number of different departments of the city, as I found when I tried to get permission to set up
 curbside in the public right-of-way charging for an electric vehicle, anyone's. We need to work on that. The President Let me ask you to wrap up soon, just because of time. Mr. Yeah. There are a bunch of subtleties in this whole picture that people have referred to. This one I wanted to address, Commissioner Fritz. Your concern about the tax base and relative to road wear and tear is very understandable.
 i would observe that the majority of the wear on road surfaces and the road surfaces that i drive on for lift in my leaf are not good it's mostly due to heavy vehicles if you talk to a road engineer they'll explain that
 Individual private cars make very little difference at all. It's all the heavy trucks. We have a perverse... I'm going to interrupt you, though, because your time's over. I really appreciate it. I think the further issue, maybe I didn't explain myself properly, was that we do rely on gas taxes for doing just basic resurfacing and such. Yes. So whether...
 Yes, we all know that the heavier vehicles cause more damage, but we're all wanting to drive on nice roads. My specific point is that we have a reverse incentive there. Excuse me. The wear that a heavy vehicle produces is inversely related to the number of axles it has spreading the load. And the state's fee-based system perversely...
 penalizes truck operators for having more axles. Good point. And I see trucks even for the USPS coming through town here which have retractable extra axles lifted up
 It would not be difficult for me to imagine anyway from my side of the table that the city could actually do something which systematically incentive truck operators to put those extra axles down when they're in the city. We'd save money from that. I see our staff writing all this down, so thank you very much for looking to it. Thanks so much. Appreciate it. Good morning. Hi. Hi.
 My name is Matthias. I'm a resident of the Hossford-Abernethy neighborhood. I don't drive. I ride my bike and take public transit. But I, like all Portlanders, definitely have a really strong stake in this. Air quality is a huge issue, for one thing. Asthma, for example, disproportionately affects low-income communities, communities of color. In my work as an intern with Multnomah County last year, I learned a lot about how asthma is one of the huge contributors to chronic absenteeism among children of color, especially
 which just drastically increases the already preexisting performance disparities in school as a function of those factors. As we all know, recent federal-level developments have made it all the more essential that we as a city take leadership in the transition away from our nations and our species, short-sighted and ultimately suicidal, reliance on fossil fuels. Our achievements today are impressive.
 but we can't rest on our laurels. As a Portland resident, I support you all in voting to support this strategy in conjunction with a broader statewide transition to an exclusive reliance on renewable energy sources to power these vehicles. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, Janice. Janice Thompson with...
 Our energy testimony in Portland is usually given by my colleague Samuel Pestrick, but we work as a team. He's unavailable, so I'm here this morning. The backdrop for this discussion is that greenhouse gas emissions from plants generating electricity are, this is a good thing, are going down, and they're actually now less than greenhouse emissions from the transportation sector. So CUB has long supported EVs, but this trend of
 the greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation sector being the major growing concern, just bolsters our advocacy efforts
 for EVs, particularly within the utility regulation world. That work has garnered national attention. For example, this fall, our executive director spoke at a national meeting of public utility commissioners. In Oregon, CUB was a key player in the coal transition legislation, and
 In large part because we kind of oftentimes serve as a bridge. We understand the world of utilities as well as the climate change policy strategies and
 And I mention that because one element of that cold transition bill is for utilities to file transportation electrification plans with the state public utility commission, or PUC. And we've been involved this year in rulemaking, governing the development and evaluation of those plans.
 I have no doubt that BPS staff are also tracking that PUC activity, but I want to highlight it because that's a venue that provides CUB an opportunity to push utilities to integrate the use of EVs in ways that support the electric grid as well as reduce costs for all customers. I mean, obviously there's cost advantages for those individual customers who buy EVs, but I think there are system-wide benefits, so it's really kind of benefiting all of us.
 One example is how recharging cars at night might balance with wind energy patterns. And the City of Portland's EV efforts could well help meet these support the grid, reduce costs for all customers' goals that CUB has. And we anticipate following up to explore ways in which Portland's efforts could be synergistic with CUB's work
 on transportation electrification in the PUC arena. And I urge a yes vote. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Do we have a couple more? The last two signed up are Patrick Corrigan and Joe Walsh. Come on up, please. Go ahead, Mr. Walsh. I don't know if Mr. Corrigan is still here, but go ahead. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. This is a really good program, and congratulations on this. And I don't often say that to any of you.
 But I'm going to say it as a group. Congratulations on this because I'm almost sure you're going to vote for this. Maybe wrong. I was wrong on Trump. That's the reason that I wanted to talk to you today, Trump. One of the things that I'm very concerned about is that we continue as normal. And it's not normal. Come January and February, I don't want this council, do not want this state,
 Do not want this county to be taken by surprise. This guy is a lunatic, and he's going after you. If you call yourselves progressives, he's going after you. He's already asking for a list from the Department of Energy of people that attended climate control or climate...
 ...courses that were put out by the UN. You know how scary that is? My concern... ...are two things. Number one, just as an old boiler maker... ...I always see the source of the energy. Where's the source of your charging for your electric cars? Is it going to be oil? Is it going to be coal? Is it going to be gas? Because you must have a source...
 And as you increase one end, you're going to increase the other. That's my fear. With this administration coming in, they think and they're going to convince a large majority of Americans about a thing called clean coal. There's no such thing. If you hold coal in your hand, it'll kill you eventually. It'll just eat you alive.
 A hunk of coal will kill you eventually. There's no such thing as clean coal. But this guy is saying it. The President of the United States on January 20th will say it. My God, I urge you, the three of you that remain on this council, and the two that are coming, you have to prepare for this guy. You have to put monitors out.
 And you have to say, what is the air quality? We need to know division. We need to know burn site. We need to know Gleason. You have to start spending money to send the alarm because our air quality is not going to improve. So that's my concern. Again, let me say this very clearly, just like Richard Nixon. Thank you.
 Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. All right, Lightning. That's a hard act to follow, Lightning. Go ahead, please. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. First of all, it's interesting why this is taking you so long to finally end up doing something like this. And one of the things, you know, watching Elon Musk and what I think is one of the best innovative entrepreneurs in our lifetime
 is that he's pushed this along, in my opinion, at a very rapid pace. And these other companies now are really seeing the benefits, and they're jumping in right now and trying to step in front of him in the direction he's going. In my opinion, we should invest more money in his companies, solar, electric vehicles, space exploration companies,
 Everything that he's doing, he's in the lead, and they're jumping in following him. And we need to show him respect by investing in his companies because he is truly the innovator, in my opinion, on these electric vehicles. He has truly stepped in as the smaller entrepreneur going up against these large companies that were not going in this direction before and now are all jumping in.
 We need to invest more money in his companies and understand that he deserves the respect and
 He deserves the financing in his new developments. He deserves more money put into his companies as the true innovator, entrepreneur of electric vehicles, the solar system. And what he's been talking about on clean energy, he has blazed the trail for these followers trying to capitalize off of his ideas. Issue number two on autonomous vehicles is,
 I think we need more discussions on this. I think we need to have an understanding what's going to happen within the central city itself.
 I think we need to talk to some of these larger companies, either Google, Uber, some of these larger people that can come in and buy the exclusive rights to the central city for autonomous vehicles and to have them put a number down on the table for that right. We need to also balance, like you were saying, on the gas tax itself, knowing that this will begin to decrease at a rapid pace. And again, like I've stated before,
 I want to see more investment, more dollars going into a company such as Tesla. And as far as on President Trump...
 I agree with Bill Gates. Let's give it some time. Let's see what direction he's going to go. Give him a chance. And remember, a lot of this stuff up to this point was rhetoric. Now it's time when he gets in the White House to get down to business and make some serious positive changes for the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I think you wanted staff to come back up, Commissioner Fish. Yeah. Come on up, please, Courtney and Ingrid and Susan. I have a question for Commissioner Fish I wanted to respond to.
 So on the bi-local piece...
 I'm happy for this to be in the record, and therefore we don't need an amendment. But what I'd like to request is that before we expand our electric vehicle fleet, that you or the fleet team provide us some documentation of how far we can take the buy local values of the city with respect to this program. Thank you.
 And include in that, if you would, any guidance if we have to strengthen our existing program to give a preference for local dealers. So that would be my request. I think I have the mayor's support on that, and I don't need an amendment to codify that.
 Yeah, that's very helpful, Commissioner Fritz. That's fine. I just wanted to make sure. We know that in the comprehensive plan on the infill project, we've already directed the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to look at parking and see whether it should be increased or decreased off-street. I think it was a very valid point to be raising about on-street parking and charges, so I'm sure you'll look into that. Thank you. And then my last question is,
 Should we add, I appreciate that we are adopting rather than just accepting this, which does give it more oomph. Should we add to the last further be it resolved that bureaus are directed to implement the actions identified in the 2017 Portland electric vehicle strategy as binding city policy?
 So I believe that then it gets into the binding city policy records. Or maybe the city attorney has some advice for us on that. If we add the words as binding city policy to the direction to bureaus, that increases the heft of this. You see any legal obstacle to us doing that? Okay. So Commissioner Fritz moves that addition to that resolve, and I'll second that. Further discussion on that amendment? Roll call, please, on that amendment.
 Kovic? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. The only thing I'd add before we take our vote is, again, in terms of the sense of the council, I heard some things in testimony today at this point about making it feasible to have more charging stations in the right-of-way for people that park on the street. Very helpful suggestion. An emphasis on renewable power as a source, which we as a community believe in and doesn't
 It doesn't just bear on our electric vehicle strategy, but it certainly makes it more valid. And then the third is, it was also mentioned in testimony, just looking at, in the future, whatever ties we could make between incenting people to install solar panels in their homes or on their buildings and to have that connected to the EV strategy so that,
 People will tend to do just that, have the panels and the EV. So those aren't new concepts, I know, to the three of you, but to the extent that those could be follow-on actions, I think that would be helpful. Okay, further discussion. Let's take a vote then, please, on the resolution as amended. Novick? I really appreciate the hard work everybody's done in this. I appreciate our partners coming here today. I appreciate Ingrid and Courtney and Susan. Thank you very much. I especially, Ingrid, appreciated your comment that,
 we still prefer that people bike and walk because electric vehicles have less carbon emissions than gas vehicles, but as long as fossil fuels are responsible for a chunk of our electrical production, electric vehicles do produce carbon. And of course, we hope that our electricity will produce more and more by renewable energy, but it'll be a heavy lift to get our current energy use all done by renewable energy, let alone if we're increasing energy use by doing electric vehicles.
 So what we really want is a society where, to paraphrase, there's that most interesting man in the world ad that Dos Equis does. I don't always drink beer, but when I do, I drink Dos Equis. And what we want is a society where people say, I don't always drive cars, but when I do, I drive electric. Hi. Thanks.
 This is another great example of how a Commission form of government can work very, very well when bureaus and elected leaders work together for common good. So thank you so much. It's an excellent report. Thank you, Mayor Hales, for your leadership on this and Commissioner Novick for your partnership. I wish. Susan, thank you to you and your team for your leadership here. I'm very proud to live in a city that is leading in the area of moving to a clean energy future.
 And this is just another example. And Charlie, thank you for the passion you brought to this whole cluster of issues. We have a lot of them coming today, and they're important. You know, I was in Cully over the weekend at a celebration of five families that got their first keys to a home. And that's because Habitat for Humanity was building homes just down the street from Hacienda.
 and it occurs to me that when that partnership gets it right in terms of car sharing with hacienda it will also benefit habitat families that are just down the street and the whole community so i'm really excited about that i uh i now rent an apartment that's within walking distance of the city of this of my office here and my wife and i walk to work and we walk home and and that's uh our little part uh that we're contributing and frankly uh last night i made the mistake of driving to the spirit of portland awards
 and I should have taken the max because it took 45 minutes to get from here to the Lloyd District. And so if more of us get out of our cars and use public transportation, we'll all be better off. Thank you for your good work on this. Today I'm very proud to support it. Aye. Saltzman? Thank you for a good policy. Aye. Hales? The leadership on climate and sustainability rests with cities.
 It did before and now it really does. And this is important work that our staff and our community have been leading for a long time. I've used that phrase a couple times, I'll use it again, classic Susan Anderson, where we're moving forward in a very collaborative way to be a leader here for the people we serve and a leader far beyond here. So this is great work and it's really important. The C40 cities, the 90 C40 cities.
 If we do what's in our plans, these kinds of actions, small in some cases, but they add up.
 Those 90 cities will account for 40% of the change that needs to be made to hold us below a degree and a half rise in global temperatures. That's a big deal. That means that how people walk or drive to work matters. If they walk more and drive less, it will add up. If they have panels on the roof of their house or their garage, it will add up. If we have more EVs and less gasoline-consuming vehicles, it will add up. And, in fact, the C40 group says now –
 We not only have to keep making these small steps, but we need to make more of them faster. And that's a challenge to us all. But the leadership is here in our city and in cities around the world that believe, as we do, that this science is real and this mandate is ours. So I want to thank all of you for being great leaders in this work. I know the work will continue after I'm a private citizen of a city that does it right. Aye. Thank you very much. Well done.
 Okay, let's move on to our next item, which is 1384. Accept the 2016 Annual Fire Prevention Report. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Today we will be receiving a fire prevention annual report from Portland Fire and Rescue, and we'll be recognizing the amazing fire prevention artwork from local students. And we will also highlight two new policy changes today.
 that we are announcing today and several other prevention-related projects. Last week, our country witnessed a terrible tragedy in Oakland, California, when an old warehouse caught fire, resulting in the death of 36 people. The Ghost Ship, as the warehouse was known in the community, was a popular place for the arts community. And I was especially saddened to hear that so many of the 36 were young artists. So it's very sad. We regret the loss.
 And the image that was later revealed at the scene of the ghost ship warehouse was chilling. Fire hazards, circuitous exiting, makeshift wood structures, unpermitted electrical work, and no working sprinkler systems. And unfortunately, when people have to search for housing solutions outside of typical multifamily buildings, they may be out of the purview of city officials tasked with ensuring the building's habitability and their safety becomes at risk.
 As a city, this is why we prioritize fire prevention. It's a critical component to our city's public safety agenda. And while I am very confident that our fire and building code officials are doing the most to prevent these tragedies from occurring, we remain committed to reviewing our current practices to close any potential loopholes, work with vulnerable communities to understand the challenges they face, and to ensure that our policies are doing the most to protect life and property in our city.
 In 2014, shortly after I became the fire commissioner, one of my first actions was to bring an ordinance to council, which we passed, that required sprinklers in all nightclubs. It's an issue I remain deeply passionate about. Today, we are announcing a new policy change that will fix what we believe is a loophole in the original ordinance, and we will begin requiring that special event permits in large occupancy venues, such as warehouses, be made.
 must be held, must have working sprinkler systems. This is an effort to reduce larger events in old warehouse-type buildings that are potential fire hazards. And the second policy change will create more consistency in who is responsible for maintaining smoke alarms or fire alarms and testing and specifically ensuring that landlords are doing their due diligence in testing and maintaining these alarms. In the city last year, two of the three fire deaths that you'll hear more about
 were a result of malfunctioning smoke alarms. So beginning in January, Portland Fire and Rescue will set the precedent with landlords in our city that they are responsible for keeping and maintaining records indicating when smoke alarms are tested, and it really is the landlord's responsibility to make sure that those smoke alarms and fire alarms are in good working order, not the tenant's responsibility. I believe this is an important and much-needed change to the way we conduct inspections.
 and is a responsibility we should expect from property owners in our city. So, as I said, we'll be recognizing some artwork, but I want, before we do that, turn it over to Chief Myers, Fire Marshal Nate Takara, and Senior Fire Prevention Specialist Kim Cosmas for more information. Good morning. Welcome.
 Good morning, Mayor. Commissioner, thank you for the excellent introduction. And Commissioners, Mayor, for the record, Mike Myers, Fire Chief for the City of Portland. I just want to take a couple of moments, set the tone for some of the discussions today for the prevention report. Thank you.
 I've been the fire chief now since July 1st of this year, so almost six months' time. And during that six months' time, there's been a couple of things that have come to my attention as I've just reviewed the department structure, some of the strategic planning objectives that we have as a department. During that time and that review, I found a couple of areas where I think we have opportunities for improvement.
 And over the last 60 days or so, we've done 90 station visits, over 100 independent site visits, gathered over 400 items of information, dozens of performance metrics and performance measures, as we've discussed opportunities to increase the potential of this organization and really drive home a new, more aggressive strategic plan. So we were taking the current strategic plan that was adopted just a few months before my arrival,
 We're going to keep all of that information that we've gleaned off of that. It's good stuff. It's about a 30,000-foot view of an organization. It gives us a good north star look at where we need to go. But in my estimation, we can be stronger. We have more potential to give. There's more opportunity for achievement within this organization, and we need to push harder and farther than what we have before. So many of those efforts –
 are lined all over the organization, but many of them reside right in the prevention line of business. And I'll give an opportunity for Chief Takar to talk in just a minute about that report and some of the things that they're going to be doing. But I want to set the tone for a couple of world-class goals that we have going forward. The goal of the new strategic plan that we're developing today, that I hope to present to you in the next couple of months.
 It's going to take us from January of 2017 to January of 2020, a three-year strategic plan that will push us from where we're at today, a snapshot in time, to world class. Our goal is to be world class. Portland Fire Rescue will be a world class fire department by January 2020. It's aggressive. It's bold. But I believe it can be done.
 Prevention is broad. It has a lot of prevention effort detailed right to the public health threat and the social health determinants that affect our communities every day. We can't forget, however, there's always a consistent fire danger.
 And regarding fire prevention and the goals for fire-related deaths, we're going to make a very bold statement here today, one that will reside on that strategic plan. And that is a commitment by January 2020 that Portland Fire and Rescue has zero civilian fire deaths every year, zero civilian fire deaths. It is an extremely bold goal. Never been done here in the city of Portland before.
 We've always had on average five, six, seven, eight average civilian fire deaths every year. But I've been in an organization this large where you can get to zero citizen fire deaths, and it can be done. There's just a way you have to do it. So we're going to push hard. It is a bold goal. Why wouldn't you have a zero civilian fire death goal? So that's going to be our goal. Our next one that's very bold is zero firefighter fire ground injuries.
 Now, I'm also a realist. I realize we have over 600 firefighters. We fight a lot of fire in the city of Portland. So we will have minor fire ground injuries. I'm not talking about those. I would love to keep those limited and reduce those. We're talking about those firefighter fire ground injuries that yield an emergency room visit and an overnight hospital stay. I want those to be zero. And there's opportunities to get it to zero. And that should be our goal over the next three years.
 So, yes, it will be bold. It will take strong action. It will take bold action. It will take a lot of community involvement and a lot of commitment from this organization to drive to those goals. But I believe they're achievable. So with that, I set the bold tone for the day. I want to turn over the opportunity to talk about the fire prevention report to Fire Marshal Division Chief Nate Takara.
 Thank you, Chief Myers. Mayor, Commissioner, especially Commissioner Salzman, thank you very much for allowing me to be here this morning to talk about a fire prevention report and two opportunities for change that I believe can help us reach Chief Myers' goal of zero fire deaths in three years. So basically when we look back in 2015, it was a terrible year as far as fire deaths. We had 11 deaths.
 Looking back the past 10 years, as Chief Meyer stated, we averaged 5.6 fire deaths per year. In 2016, we're down to three, which is below the average. However, three is still too many. So when you look at National Fire Protection Association's report, they claim that 60% of home fire deaths results from homes without any working smoke alarms. Okay.
 And so when we did a look back, two out of our three fire deaths in 2016 had no work in small coal arms. In addition, this past summer, we had an apartment fire in northeast Portland where two young children were severely injured in an apartment fire. And upon investigation, again, there were no work in small coal arms. So one of the steps, the opportunities that we have here is to take the next step forward. State law requires in every apartment residential unit,
 The smoke alarm is tested. The responsibility is made upon the tenants. So we're taking a step forward. Just like any sprinkler system, fire alarm system, any type of fire protection equipment in a building, we require documentation that's been properly maintained. So what we're doing is we're going to include the fire alarm system on the smoke alarm systems. So moving forward, beginning January 1, 2017,
 We'll implement that when we do our periodic inspections, we'll require documentation that every smoke alarm in every unit has been tested. Working on this policy, I've worked with five of probably the major rental association management groups, and I'm very optimistic that
 Of those five, the majority of them are doing it. They have a periodic check where they go in and they do an inspection at least once a year. So really what this policy does, it brings everybody, it encourages all the landlords, all the management companies involved,
 really operate at the same bar, which is at least testing it, documenting that it's being tested at least once a year. And really, this is about mandating state. It's a state law that small columns are tested. So that's all we're doing. We're reinforcing. We're getting everybody to be doing the same test on an annual basis. Okay.
 So besides that, we have numerous other programs which we're doing, which we continue to do, and that has been managed by Senior Fire Inspector Kim Kosmos in the Public Education Office. So she'll be introducing some of the programs that we have. Mr. Farm Marshall, can I just ask you a question on your presentation? And I'm encouraged that you're working with responsible landlord groups and property management groups to implement this vision.
 Over 80% of the short-term rentals that we know of in this city are currently illegal, and we have wholesale noncompliance with city code that requires basic life safety issues to be addressed before a guest is allowed in someone's home or apartment. What additional steps are you contemplating to make sure that the short-term rental industry is part of this compliance effort? Right. So –
 As far as our authority, we have authority for any multifamily complexes with three or more units. Some of the short-term rentals are individual family homes, which lies within the responsibility of the building department. In creating this policy, we've been working with the building department. And in doing so, it'll take a title change, and I believe the building department to –
 start enforcing this law. But we've been in communications with the building department regarding our change. And so it's your hope that you're going to pick up the folks that are actually renting out their units in multifamily by getting the entire building and the property manager to be in compliance? Exactly. If the rental units are in a multifamily building, then we would take jurisdiction over that. And during our inspection process, we would require that. Thank you.
 Good morning.
 thank you for having me here council and mayor so my name is uh kim cozmas and i'm senior fire inspector with uh portland fire of course and uh so i just would like to start out by sharing some information with you today about our public education team which i manage we offer targeted community outreach programs that are developed and implemented through our local schools businesses community organizations
 and events throughout the city, and this is also implemented through our fire stations. Our public education team, we also partner with the Bureau of Development Services for landlord training classes that occur in the spring and the fall, and they educate property owners and managers. Some of the other programs that we offer our community include free smoke alarm programs, which also includes the specialized smoke alarms for the deaf and hard of hearing,
 Also for free home safety checks, which has been very successful. Mentoring and educational activities with the Sun School programs. And Fire Prevention Week coloring contest for the youth. The coloring contest teaches the students about the importance of topics like not playing with matches, having working smoke alarms in their homes, and then also planning an emergency exit plan with their family.
 So the students submitted their artwork this year in October, and the majority of them expressed the importance of having smoke alarms and an emergency exit plan. So today we have our two top winners from the contest this year in attendance. Our runner-up for first place is Avery Smith, and we have her artwork here. And then our grand prize winner is Indra Fox, and so I'd like to call them up. Please come up.
 I'll hold up their artwork so you guys can see them. It would be my honor to hold it up. This is Avery, the runner-up. Avery? Yeah. And we gave them certificates that basically thank them for participating and creating their beautiful pieces of art for us this year for the contest. Wow. Good work. Good work. Good work. Yeah. Good work. I'd be all done. Future fire chiefs. Yes. Ready? One.
 Thank you guys so much. Outstanding. One last note, Commissioner. We have copies for you, too, that are in your office. Oh, great. Thank you. Very good job. Very good job. I'm going to order one of those from my office if I can. Yeah. Well done. Thank you very much. One more. So thank you very much, Inspector Cosmas. It's a tough act to follow, but I have one more point that I wanted to talk about. It was the change of our second policy. Okay.
 After the Oakland tragedy, we did a reflection as far as the type of programs we have to ensure that something like this doesn't happen in our city. So what I've done is I looked at it, and I looked at it from a fire life safety perspective, the Oakland tragedy, and really I broke it down into two parts. The first part is the illegal occupancy where they were actually living in a warehouse. So I looked at that, and I looked at how we would manage
 potentially eliminate something like this from occurring. And so basically we looked at, we do periodic fire inspections. So every couple of years our fire inspectors are in buildings inspecting, and they do a great job of enforcing and really maintaining what the building and the uses was permitted for. And a second program we have is what we call company referrals.
 So our crews respond to over 70,000 to 80,000 calls a year. And so they're in all these buildings, residential places. So anytime they see something that's just not quite right, we have a mechanism where they can report it. And the fire marshal's office will do a follow-up and follow up on the cases and making sure that whether there's a problem, we can correct the issue or work with the building owners to resolve the issues.
 And the third, I think one of the most important things is we have a really good working relationship with the building department. Our partnership with them when we do have problems and we do have issues, we can work together with the landowner and the business owners to resolve these issues. So there's not something that a problem gets stuck between two different agencies. We work together as partners to resolve these issues. Thank you.
 So looking at the unpermitted event that occurred that night, we also have a night assembly and public assembly team that on weekends they're out there, they're inspecting different businesses, looking for overcrowded situations, blocked exits, etc. But the other thing that they're doing is they're looking for underground special events that occur without proper permits.
 So part of our permit process, whenever we have a business or an event promoter wants to have an event that attracts more than 50 people, but they don't have the appropriate assembly place, they will come to our office and ask for a permit. And we permit these activities and we go out there, we inspect these buildings to make sure that we have proper exiting and the event can occur in a really safe manner.
 So things like trade shows, art shows, et cetera, occur frequently, especially this time of year. We have holiday festivals, et cetera, in non-assembly type spaces. So we go out there before the event occurs. We inspect it. We try to make sure that, you know, the exits are appropriate and, you know,
 occurring in a safe condition. But one thing that Commissioner Slossman alluded to is I think I noticed that there's a loophole. And really, this is in total alignment of our fire sprinkler ordinance that you passed three years ago that talks about when we have these types of events which they turn these warehouses into a nightclub. Really, so you have an event which mimics a nightclub, attracts hundreds of folks into some of these warehouses that are not protected with fire sprinklers.
 So beginning January 1st, 2018, I'm going to change our policy so that if you want to have that type of event in a warehouse, it will need to be protected with sprinklers. By implementing it a year from now, it gives me time to work with the business owners, the entertainment community, arts community, to really enforce the change and see what we can do to help them along so that this change can be implemented.
 At the end of the day, this is really striving for what Chief Myers is saying about having the goal of zero fire deaths in the city. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Questions for our leadership on the Fire Bureau. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item? We have two people, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and Joe Walsh. Come on up, please. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, Reverend Individuals for Justice. We got a report today.
 that the fire over in forgotten realms it took the fire department 20 minutes to get there we also got a report that the people that were involved in the fire were banned from the park we also got a report that the fire department decided it was an accident that was caused by a connection and it was a brand new connection so there was no negligence involved in this since we have the brass here
 Would they answer those three questions for us? I cannot believe these are accurate. I really can't. I've had the unfortunate experience with the fire department and the ambulance coming to my house twice, once I was unconscious and the other time I was conscious. They got there within five minutes. What's the difference? I would like to know that. That fire was in a homeless camp.
 which is really vulnerable. We all know that. If the fire department can't get there in 20 minutes, they should just bring the hot dogs, you know? It's over in 20 minutes. The first three minutes, and I'm not a fireman, but they could say, you know, he's pretty close. First three minutes of a fire is really important. The next 10 minutes, it's over. 20 minutes, you're dead. So what happened?
 So if they have information on that, I would really appreciate it because we need to know that kind of stuff. I also would like to know from you, Mayor, somehow why these people were banned. I don't understand. If the fire department says there was an accident and there were no negligence involved in it, then why were they banned? Would you ban me from my house if I have a fire? I mean, I'm not a very good cook, so I have to watch it a little bit.
 So would you ban me? Good questions. We'll try to get answers for those. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and hopefully I'll never have to incorporate any fire equipment into my middle name. I want to thank Fire Commissioner Dan Saltzman for taking a moment to recognize the interesting and tragic climate we're in following the 30-plus deaths in Oakland, which really just makes it all the more –
 disappointing that there's only a three-page PDF attached to this. In Portland, we don't really have a comprehensive... I've seen overview of public safety. The Fire Bureau and the Police Bureau have separate commissioners. And then, of course, we still, among metropolitan counties, remain bifurcated where we don't have a unified government between city and county. But
 We also have just three pages. What we really need to do if we want to be a city with a good heart and a progressive state is look. It needs to say who died. I know it's called a fire prevention report, so it's arguably forward-looking and presenting future deaths. But Dan has been good about lowering the flag in the city when average people died.
 some who sometimes are indicative of a societal concern, have died. And when we talk about fire prevention, we need to be very open and transparent about fires generally kill poor people. Some of those poor people are victims of slumlords or poor property managers. And in the coming four years, those people are going to be increasingly marginalized and put at higher risk
 It was unfortunate that the losing candidate used the word deplorables because God knows this past year has opened up a season of insulting and unfortunate language. But the problem with – it didn't get touched on as much. I would like to hear the fire people say. When we talk about trying to keep poor people, people with lesser quality or predatory landlords safe –
 For example, in the situation of Oakland, it was a situation of if you shut the whole thing down, people on the streets were, oh, well, in this case, they would have lived and not died from something on the streets. But that's not always the case. People who live in unsafe situations need to know that the city has their back, that the city is going to develop a mechanism for watching the landlords, whether it's done within the fire bureau or coordinating through the courts, to make sure that...
 Nobody, because of their inability to generate a high income, is at increased risk of death in the city. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. One of the concerns, I guess, when we were setting up Airbnb to actually operate in the city is that I wanted to have an emphasis on having a fire extinguisher in every room
 And it's very important to do that because I know people in this room have been, maybe had a small fire. They were able to put it out immediately if they had access to a fire extinguisher. When you watch a lot of these nightclubs, the warehouses, different things like that, they need to have the backup battery lights in certain areas marked, clearly marked, and fire extinguishers alongside.
 They need to make sure those are inspected on a regular basis. And it's amazing when they have access to those type of the extinguisher or just to hit up a backup light with a battery, the difference that can make in a short time frame on putting out a fire.
 that could potentially take the whole building down, but it was stopped immediately. Again, the focus needs to be on those fire extinguishers in these properties, especially on the short-term rentals
 where they might not have any access to any water in the room, to where they can put the fire out, but they need to have those extinguishers in there. It's a public safety issue. They need to be inspected on a regular basis. We need to talk to fire extinguisher companies that have the products and make sure that a list is provided on any of these short-term rentals to them to have discussions on this issue.
 We can't leave it by chance that the fire department is going to be able to get to your property in a reasonable timeframe.
 There are ways to put these fires out and prevent them from causing damage to the whole property, such as at this homeless camp. What would have happened if they had some good fire extinguishers in that camp that they were provided from the city, and they would have had those in the tents or on that property? I can assure you this fire wouldn't have gotten out of control the way it did.
 We can prevent it by understanding we have to have the right things in place to prevent these properties from burning to the ground. And again, I have pushed for fire extinguishers. I understand the importance of having them. I was on a property...
 while back where we had to have ten of them and have inspectors come out and inspect on a regular basis that was required from the fire department into past inspections we need to focus on that to prevent these fires from getting out of control especially in warehouses or nightclubs and of course any type of homeless camps thank you thank you very much all right I believe we're ready for a motion to accept the report so move
 Second. Then let's take a vote, please. I don't think we will. I really appreciate the presentation, really appreciate all the work the Bureau is doing, and really appreciate the commitment to getting to zero fire deaths. And I was delighted to hear Chief Myers say that he's seen that happen, that it is possible. So thank you very, very much. Friends.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for particularly the new policies. Obviously, we all want to have no accidental deaths in Portland. Aye. Dan, this past year you hired Chief Myers, and he's been a great addition to the city family and to the Fire Bureau. So congratulations and thank you for this report. Saltzman.
 Once again, I want to thank Fire Chief, our Fire Marshal, Nate Takara, our Chief Mike Myers, and Senior Fire Inspector Kim Kosmos for all the great work they're doing, and our artwork winners, Avery Smith and Indra Fox, for doing some outstanding art. Hi.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fultzman, for this report and for this very timely and thoughtful change in our policy to deal with these large assemblies. I think that's an extremely appropriate and important change.
 tuning of our rules because that's what this work is about. It's about public education. Obviously, we saw how well that can work here today with the winners of that art contest. It's about public engagement and equipping people to be able to deal with risks on their own, but it's also about what the rules are. And I think it's totally appropriate and much needed that we do that
 as it happens yesterday i was with oakland mayor libby schaff and she told me with tears in her eyes that no mayor no fire commissioner no fire chief no community should ever have to go through what oakland has gone through and you are doing the right thing to make sure that it doesn't happen here and i completely support and appreciate that aye thank you very much okay let's move on to our next uh time certain item 1385.
 Restrict bulk fossil fuel terminals. The council has done great work on this issue, and so has the community, and I believe, unless there are any further discussion, we're ready to vote. Roll call. Novick? No.
 Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this issue. I'm really proud that Portland's adopting this policy. I do want to add a word of caution, which is that I think we've learned from the war on drugs that interrupting the supply of an addictive substance is a strategy of limited usefulness.
 So although this is an important step, we also still very much need to focus on strategies to reduce the demand for fossil fuels, like land use policies and transportation policies and investments that create a community where it's easier for people to bike and walk and take transit. So, again, I'm proud of this move, but we can't forget the demand side either. Hi.
 I'm very grateful for staff and community work on this and Mayor Hales for your leadership in going for the most restrictive and careful policy possible. So it's really a great honour. Some people may think I'm in festive clothing today. In fact, I've got red for fossil fuels and green for the cannabis this afternoon. Hi. Thanks.
 I really appreciate all the public forums we've had and the testimony and the work that's gone on to get to this day. There actually was a lot of drama that preceded this vote. And today it's drama-free because we are united in taking this step, and I think we got it right. Aye. Saltzman? Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this, and I think this is a good policy, and I'm pleased to support it. Aye.
 I want to thank the activists in our community that have called us to our conscience on this issue. And some of you are here today. You've worked long and hard to make us a leader. And I'm proud that we're a leader. And I'm wearing my C40 pin, as I mentioned earlier, because I was at the C40 conference to accept an award for having the best climate action plan in the world, which was pretty cool, and
 and I didn't expect to deliver the applause line of the conference, and my ego didn't require that I do that. But as it happened, I did. And that's because as I was accepting that award, I looked out over the crowd, and I pointed out my colleagues at Rahm Emanuel from Harvard
 Chicago was there, and Eric Garcetti from Los Angeles, and Ed Murray from Seattle, and Greg Stanton from Phoenix, and Steve Adler from Austin. Not all from the Northwest were there. And I said to this group of worried cities around the world who are our partners in this work that regardless of what you're reading or hearing about the United States, that the cities of our country, that our climate action cities are still in this work, and we're still committed.
 Well, what you're doing here by pushing our city to keep adopting the kind of policies, three of which we're taking action on today, is making those words real and showing that we are climate leaders. But best of all, and most of all, this is how we're expressing our values about the place that we live in. We live here together, and we want this to be a sustainable, responsible community. And you've helped us be just that. I am very proud of this day. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you all for coming to share this moment with us. I really appreciate that. You follow through every time. Really appreciate it. Thank you. Okay. Inclusion or housing? Both. Next. Did I miss something? This one and that one.
 Sorry, Dan. We're voting on the amendments from yesterday. Oh, but don't we have to do... Let's do energy performance first and then come back to that. I want to make sure that everyone knows that this is a victory for the people and not for Charlie Hales or city council. The state and the capitalist system is always going to be on the side. Come on. Okay, come on. Let's move on. And while people were evicted from city halls... Charlie. Hey, sir, I'm sorry. Could you please let us continue? Okay.
 to make sure that we're taking a stand against this. I'm going to have to recess for a minute. Recess. Recess, sorry. I'm going to have to recess for that. Way to think about it. There's an expression. No, we're going to come back to work here. So let's go back to work, please. Let's return to order. Okay, I think we should. We want to say thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much for good work. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 So if we could hear else. I wanted to just comment that just because we care about one thing doesn't mean we don't care about other things. We just do each one as we get to it. So thank you so much for being here again. There are some who are intent on snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. And I thought that was unfortunate and unwarranted. And, again, thank you for the dignified way you've conducted this conversation. Thanks very much. It's good work. So let's take action if we can on 1396 because that's the second reading. And then we'll return to the rest of the agenda.
 1396, which is our first regular item, and it's home energy scores. It's the second reading. Require a disclosure of energy performance ratings for residential single-family buildings when listed for sale to promote transparency in housing costs and reduction in local carbon emissions. So this is the third of our trifecta of responsible environmental actions here today. Unless there's further discussion, we'll take a vote. Novick? No.
 This is a great policy. People all want to reduce their energy costs, and most people want to reduce their carbon emissions, and having a mechanism where people are aware when they're buying a property of what its energy consumption is and gives them an opportunity to think about reducing the energy consumption of their home is a fantastic idea, which I think will bear significant fruit, and it is another significant step.
 in making Portland a climate leader. So thank you very, very much, Mayor Hales. This is terrific. Aye. Well, thank you to Director Susan Anderson and all your team. It's amazing how much work you've done on multiple things this year, which does indeed show that we pay attention to a lot of things. And just because we pay attention to one doesn't mean we're not paying attention to others. Thank you, Mayor Hales. This is continuing to finish things up that you've started, and I appreciate it. Aye.
 Mayor, could we ask people just for regular order here? Sure. Folks, please be quiet enough so we can hear. Thank you. Mayor, I thought the forums and the hearings we had on this were really interesting, and I appreciate that the council drilled down on a number of the key issues that came to us from the community, and that included protecting low-income homeowners and protecting the privacy of certain classes of people,
 And I also appreciate that we look very closely at a question raised by our friends, the homebuilders, about whether we should exempt new construction. And I think at first blush, a number of us thought that warranted a closer look. But I also appreciate that when we got the follow-up information from the Bureau, it became clear that the current law just doesn't go far enough.
 and that over half of the new homes fall below 8 out of 10 on the U.S. Department of Energy scores. And also, when we looked at sister cities, Austin was not really the best example. I think Berkeley is the better example. For me, this is about right to know. And I'm actually going to bring some proposals forward next year which build on this, because there are toxins in people's homes that a lot of homebuyers don't know about.
 And frankly, one of the things that's frustrating to all of us about federal and state regulations that we enforce is they are generally around mitigating risk, not eliminating risk.
 And the way you eliminate risk is you actually get the bad stuff out of homes, not just notify people that there is bad stuff in their home. And so I think there's some additional notices that we have to consider which will give buyers more valuable information in the future. But I think this strikes the right balance, and I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank, once again, Mayor Hales for your leadership on this. I do think that...
 Home energy performance ratings, I think maybe Susan Anderson said this a few weeks ago, that home energy efficiency is really the biggest frontier in terms of both reducing energy consumption and reducing carbon emissions. And we need to make sure that people who are buying or selling homes have this information and on a consistent scoring approach so it's easy for people to understand that.
 And I do think this is probably far from the top criteria under which people decide to buy a home, but it's an important criteria and one that people are paying more attention to. And I think it's important that we make sure that this information is there and done by qualified professionals with a consistent, easy-to-follow scoring format. So I think it's a great policy. Pleased to support it. Bye. Nails.
 I have some background in construction. I put myself through college with summer construction jobs, and I worked for the Home Builders Association for a while, so I'm accustomed to when a new mandate comes along from government. And although we've had a principled disagreement with some of our friends in the construction and real estate industry,
 I do believe that this is what will happen, and that is, Jane, with your members' cooperation, this will become part of the discussion for every home purchase, and it's the most important purchase that we all make, and that we will rely on the construction and real estate industry to make this work
 as we implement it across the city. I also believe that it's exactly what the public wants to learn when they make this the most important purchase that they make. As I mentioned last time we talked about it, one of these days we'll sell the house that we live in today, and this will motivate us to make the last energy conservation improvements to that house that we should have made before then.
 And so it will have a positive effect on the quality of homes that are available to people, the quality of information they get, and the quality of life in a good place. Thank you, Susan, and all on your team for, again, great work from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and for us being a leader. Aye. Thank you all very much. Okay. Dan, did you want to return to this? Yeah. Mayor, yesterday we –
 Set over the hearing on the inclusionary housing so we could vote on the amendments today. Good. And so we have one, two, three, seven amendments, I believe, that were moved and seconded yesterday. We need to read the titles. Oh, yeah. 1381 and 1382.
 1381, provide affordable housing through an inclusionary housing program. And 1382, provide affordable housing through an inclusionary program and update the multiple unit limited tax exemption program. Okay. So, Commissioner, you want to walk us through this? You want me to walk you through? Okay. So the First Amendment was a substitute ordinance for Item 1379 containing a number of technical fixes to Title 30 and Title III council documents.
 Okay, so Commissioner Saltzman moves amendment number one. Yeah, they were moving the second yesterday. Oh, they were. Okay, they're all on the table. We just need to vote. Yeah, we just need to vote on them. So any further discussion about amendment number one? Let's take a vote on that then, please. Novick? Ritz? I wasn't able to attend the hearing yesterday. I do appreciate all of the testimony that's come in, which my staff and I have reviewed. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Likewise. I've reviewed the record and the testimony. I appreciate the good work. Aye. Okay. Is there an amendment? The second amendment was to Title 33 containing technical fixes also. Okay. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Number three. The third was an amendment to Title 33 adding the initial phased-in inclusion rate.
 in Title 33, and this was incorporated in the housing documents, but needed to be reflected in the zoning code as well, and that's what this amendment does. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Commissioner Novick had an amendment relating to how we measure our apartment units based on family size criteria.
 All right. Further discussion on that item? Dan, just as we get into this list, I think it would be helpful if you just state your position and the Housing Bureau's position just so we don't get lost. I support this amendment. Thank you. Okay. Let's take a vote then, please, on number four. Is that the order you had? I have number four as the fish amendment. Yes. The amendment to the parking was what we were calling amendment for yesterday.
 Yeah, sorry. We'll be numbering that. But if you want to do... So I think I have it as number six. Was the family class? So it's number six. We understand it's substance. Is that what you have...
 That could be. All I have is a Novick amendment on 5, 6, and 7. I also think we wind up with two family size amendments, one relating to Title 30 and one relating to Title 33. Can I make a suggestion? Since Dan has his script and we're going on his order, if it does an inconvenience, let's stay on the order that Dan has. Yeah, let's do that. I can do that. That's fine. This is the family friendly unit proposal. Okay. Roll call, please. Novick. Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. Aye.
 Good amendments. Aye. Thanks, Steve. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Next. The next one I had in order was the historic transfer amendment that Commissioner Novick also brought forward and was seconded yesterday. Okay. And your position? Further discussion. I support it. Okay. Let's take action then on that one, please. Novick?
 Really appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's concurrence with this amendment. I do think it will be important as we adopt rules requiring retrofits of unreinforced masonry buildings for there to be able to offer some initial incentives to help people make those upgrades. Aye. Aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick, for briefing me and my staff earlier about this. I'm certainly looking forward to seeing the details of how this would work out, and I appreciate the amendment. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hayles? I appreciate, once again, tuning a little bit in favor of historic preservation. Aye. Thank you.
 Okay, the next The next amendment was on parking Commissioner Fish Are we doing Novick's third? Oh, Novick's third amendment, I'm sorry It was to collapse the mixed use zones into one zone In the central city And I do not support that amendment So Commissioner, we If staff could come up on this And just by way of context Pick the microphone, talk to us Just by way of context Use the other one there Before you go, can I just If I may
 And this was pitched to us yesterday, and in order for it to be before us, I agreed to second the amendment to put it on the table. And the understanding was we'd have a brief staff presentation and then get a recommendation. And just to remind everybody.
 besides this amendment there are two others you need to deal with so there is that parking amendment from Commissioner fish and also Commissioner Novak had to amend the code in two different places for the family size so both in title 30 and in title 33 so I want you to know you're gonna have to do that one again just so we don't lose sight of that so
 Thank you. Kirk Krieger, Housing Bureau Director. We circulated a memorandum late yesterday, which I hope you had a chance to look at. But we basically concluded by merging the districts for purposes of FAR that we're
 properties would be unduly enriched. The developers would actually be receiving more offset than they actually need to to afford the cost of the lower density typologies. And we have some background evidence to support that claim. So here's my question because this...
 this is so complicated and I'm loathe to make a judgment on the fly. Was there something in that recommendation that you think we should take a look at down the road? Is there a kernel of good idea there that you want us to consider beyond this hearing? Well, we always want to monitor residual land values, and we've benchmarked.
 residual land values for the purposes of all of our typologies to market rate housing and then tested
 as we added the various offsets, whether or not people were being enriched over and above what they would be provided for market-rate housing. And in this instance, we found that the merger would cause that to happen. But going forward, we want to always look at residual land values because we know that the tectonics of real estate economics is going to change over time, that the cost of money, interest, the cost of labor and materials will also change. So we want to look at this probably in year three.
 to make sure that the calibration is correct. You recommend a no vote on this? Correct. Thank you. Further discussion? Roll call then.
 Novick. I appreciate Commissioner Fish seconding the motion. This is a concept that was brought to us by the Locust Group, and I just thought that on its face it was plausible enough that it deserved attention. Obviously, I don't want to give people a windfall by giving them more subsidy than they're having cost imposed on them. So given that the commissioner in charge is opposed to this and given that I expect Commissioner Fish to follow up and make sure that you monitor the impact, I vote no. Prince. Fish. No. No.
 saltzman no no okay next uh so we did an historic transfer yep oh we did the family size we need to do it in title 30 and title 33. so now maybe you could do it in title 33 on the the um commissioner novak's family side and thank you for keeping us on track yes thank you okay that's that's the amendment before us then further discussion roll call please no thanks to lauren king for noting we had to change it in both title 33 and title 30. hi
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And the last amendment was related to parking from Commissioner Fish. Okay. Further discussion on that one? Could you just remind me what this one is, please? Yes.
 This is the amendment that codifies on the IZ side what the council adopted in terms of linking the elimination of parking minimums in certain circumstances to inclusionary housing. And since it's already been adopted in our previous discussion, this is the amendment that folds it into the inclusionary housing proposal.
 It's been reviewed and approved by the Bureau. Commissioner. If I remember correctly, it also included a directive to Planning Sustainability to continue to monitor this and come back to us with more advice on increasing or decreasing parking requirements in the mixed use zones. Yes, and it doesn't add or subtract from what the Council has already approved. Thank you for clarifying. Commissioner, it's my understanding that it does because what this amendment says is that if you...
 take the fee-in-lieu option, then you're still subject to the minimum parking requirements, and I don't think that that's something that we addressed when we looked at this issue previously. Well, that's a question I think we should put to staff. What I asked is for planning and housing to prepare an amendment which incorporated what we'd already agreed to. I think that's what it is now.
 And what you said, Commissioner, is what we agreed to. It's not my intent to add or subtract. And again, we're not wanting to give a windfall to certain developers. We're wanting to keep consistency. Yeah.
 Look at the crowd that's cheering this amendment. I mean, I've never had such support for any amendment before. All right. So, I mean, the current structure of the amendment is that if the units are provided either through on-site in the development itself or one of the two off-site options, either the dedication of existing units or the construction of new units,
 that the parking requirements, the parking minimums would be exempt for the entire building. But if the fee and lieu were paid, they would not be as an additional incentive to develop units, either on-site or off-site.
 And the way I – what I thought we were saying when we said, actually over my objection, that the minimum parking requirements are waived if you're in the inclusionary housing range was that they would be waived if you're participating in an inclusionary housing program either by building units or by paying a fee in lieu. So I do think this is a new thing that we'd be doing here today. Okay. Let's take a vote then, please, on that amendment. No thank you.
 I strongly disagree with this amendment. Minimum parking requirements drive up the cost of housing, as President Obama noted in a report a couple of months ago. We have a housing affordability crisis in the city, not just for people below 80% MFI, but for people at 90% and 100%, for that matter, 125% MFI.
 So adopting this requirement that if you pay the fee in lieu, you're subject to minimum parking requirements will drive up the cost of housing for the people who live in that new development. Also, minimum parking requirements encourage people to continue to drive and emit carbon.
 And I think that it would make a mockery of the votes we've cast today on home energy scores and a bulk fossil fuel terminals to adopt a policy which encourages carbon emissions. No. I appreciate this amendment clarifying, and this was my understanding when I supported Commissioner Fish's motion during the other planning process. Okay.
 particularly since the previous process directs the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to go back, look at parking requirements, and either increase or decrease them as seems appropriate in a full public process. So, again, thank you. I appreciate the spirit of disagreement on this amendment, but as the sponsor, I want to just make sure we're clear what we're doing and what we're not doing.
 We anticipate that in a broad number of instances that the parking minimum is going to be waived under this amendment.
 The question is, is it to become an entitlement where you just get the benefit and you get the savings, or are we going to use it as a credit towards the – or an incentive, if you will, towards people exercising inclusionary housing and getting to a deeper level of affordability? And frankly, this was not my idea. It came from someone smarter than me.
 But the first cousin is the struggles we've had in the past when we've talked about putting new transportation lines in different parts of the city, and how do we create incentives for affordable housing? And one of the tools that we don't have available to us is downzoning in anticipation of then upzoning to give someone the benefit. And it struck me here that if we are going to be, in effect, waiving a parking minimum requirement,
 we ought to get something for it. And because inclusionary housing was on the horizon, it seemed like a perfect linkage. And let's be clear, what my goal is is to avoid a developer windfall while also moving towards waiving the parking minimums more broadly. And I think that's what this does. And in terms of the fee in lieu, let me just be very clear.
 I appreciate that we have a fee-in-lieu provision in all that we're doing here. I'm strongly opposed to the fee-in-lieu system because the whole purpose of inclusionary housing is to get housing built as quickly as possible in high-opportunity areas. And the fee-in-lieu allows people to effectively opt out of both.
 And it's wonderful to get the money, which we can then park over here, and it's wonderful then to go find the land sometime in the future. But the whole point of this is to get the affordable units in the development and the pipeline in high-opportunity areas. So I'm not a huge fan of fee and lieu, although I realize that I understand why it's in the proposal. So for all those reasons, I think this is a good amendment, and that's why I put it forward. Hi. Saltzman? Hi.
 Just to finish Commissioner Fish's thought, the fee in lieu, I'd also agree with Commissioner Fish that we want all other things being equal. We'd prefer that the units be built in the development and not a fee in lieu paid. But we are required by Senate Bill 1533 of the state law to offer a fee in lieu option. Aye. Thank you.
 Aye. Okay, further amendments? That completes the amendments and it moves to the second reading next Wednesday. I just have a question. And actually, Commissioner Novick, I realize that you didn't support the last amendment. And Commissioner Salzman, could we possibly add an emergency clause to this so that we stop the clock or no? Because a fee is involved in the ordinance, the inclusionary housing program, you can't pass it to a number. Okay, thank you for clarifying. We'll come back next week. Okay, thanks. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, so now we're returning to regular agenda item 1397. Apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $15,000 and appropriate $10,000 for fiscal year 2016-17 from the Oregon Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Division fiscal year 2017 Speed Enforcement Grant Program for sworn personnel overtime reimbursement.
 So this is a grant which we accept many times before from ODOT for special speed enforcement programs. So I urge adoption. Oh, I'm sorry. Anybody wish to testify? Good morning, Sergeant Ty Engstrom. Oh, Sergeant Engstrom. If you have questions, I'm here to answer them, but otherwise. Anybody have any questions for Sergeant Engstrom? I think we're pretty familiar with these grants by now, so thanks. Thanks for being here. Anybody else wish to testify? Okay.
 Okay. Is this an emergency? Yes, it is an emergency. So if you could please call the roll, Carla. No, thank you. Aye. Great. I just want to mention, colleagues, that my brother is a county councillor in England, and they have a system in his borough where citizens are equipped with speed guns and cameras and such, and they then send...
 the photographs to the county council, who then sends a very kind letter saying, you've been observed by one of your fellow community members. They're speeding, please don't. And using text that might be able to get around, I know, your long-time frustration that there aren't enough people within the Bureau. Obviously, this grant helps, and I appreciate it. But I did talk with Mary Electuila about this, and he's quite interested, so I think we should move forward. Yeah, that is interesting. Hi. Yes? Hi. Hi.
 Seltzman. That's a very interesting idea. I like it. Aye. Okay, let's move to item 1398. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Washington County for sharing tactical team resources in mutual aid. Oh, okay. Not Captain Grutter. Aye. Last minute switch, I apologize. Okay. Yes.
 Why don't you introduce yourself and give us a brief introduction or overview of this? Members of the Council, good morning. My name is Brian Parman. I'm the Captain of the Tactical Operations Division in the Portland Police Bureau. We're here today asking for you to approve an ordinance which would allow the Portland Police Bureau and the Washington County Sheriff's Office to formalize
 an agreement providing mutual aid to each other, sharing tactical resources in the events when our respective teams are unavailable, or they've been given missions that exceed the capacity of the team in general. This is a relationship that the Portland Police Bureau has had with Washington County for over 20 years. We've worked very closely with their team. We believe that their team is similarly structured and equipped and the right team to provide support to us in the event that our team is unavailable.
 Great. Any questions? Okay. Thank you. Let's see if anybody wants to testify on this. Do we have anybody? Okay. Seeing none, it's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 1399. Authorized contract with the World Council on City Data for joining a global network of cities that are improving city services and quality of life with open data
 Okay, give us an overview of this, please. Sure. Good morning. Andrew Scott. I'm the City Budget Director, and with me is Susan Anderson from Planning and Sustainability and Alexis Estevez from the City Budget Office as well. And I just want to give a little bit of an overview of this. This is a little bit of a technical ordinance, but also sort of exciting, and so we wanted to give you a sense of what we're entering into here.
 What the proposed ordinance does is it authorizes a contract between the City of Portland and the World Council on City Data. You may be familiar with the WCCD, but if you're not, they are an international nonprofit located up in Canada, and they've really been engaged in this effort to create an international standard that would allow cities to compare data between one another for benchmarking and other performance purposes.
 And somewhat recently, they have actually gotten an official ISO. It's an International Standards Organization certification. And Alexis is going to talk a little bit more about that. But an ISO standard that actually develops 100 – there's 100 different metrics that allow cities to compare themselves to one another.
 And so there's been some work on this before in the Planning Bureau and some interest from Portland State University. And I was actually at a conference last year where they sought me out because they knew I was from Portland and really wanted Portland to participate in this. The agreement is $5,000, so it's very low cost. And it's really exciting because what it's going to allow us to do is really, I think, up our performance management game even further than what we've been doing.
 We've been including performance measures in our city budget since 1977, and we've been increasing over the last few years the release of those performance metrics and analytics through some online dashboards and key performance measures developed by the bureaus, et cetera. And what this engagement with the World Council on City Data is going to allow us to do is really improve that performance even further.
 It's going to make sure that we're – the City of Portland receives the specialized certification that the standards we're using do meet these international standards. It's going to allow us to incorporate some of the applicable measures from this ISO standard into our own performance measurement system.
 And then I think most importantly, it's going to allow Portland to collectively learn and compare ourselves to peers from throughout the world. This includes Boston, San Diego, Los Angeles, soon the United States, and then Amsterdam, Toronto, Buenos Aires, and Melbourne as some international examples as well.
 Susan's going to discuss the connection to the Portland Plan and the Comprehensive Plan, but first I just wanted to give Alexis Estevez a chance to talk a little bit more about the standard. He is a Hatfield Fellow that we've had with us from Portland State University. He's also a Fulbright Scholar, so we've been fortunate enough to keep him after his Hatfield Fellowship finishes in February. We're going to keep him until the end of his Fulbright Scholarship later on in the summer before he returns to Argentina to take all of the great knowledge he has here back there.
 Thank you very much, Andrew. Alexis Estovitz, City Budget Office. ISO 37120 is a global standard on sustainable development of communities that provides indicators that are applicable to any local government that undertakes to measure its performance in a comparable and verifiable manner, irrespective of size and location.
 The World Council on City Data will certify Portland's progress on these 100 indicators and include the city in its Global Cities Registry, an interactive tool that provides visualizations and trend analysis for everyone from students to city leaders to explore, compare, benchmark, and forecast, utilizing the data that is provided by cities.
 Portland, as a city that is deliberate in its systematic acquisition of knowledge, develops mechanisms to store, disseminate, and, with this engagement, verify its acquired knowledge and apply it to solve local problems.
 With this engagement, the city will support the exchange of ideas about policies and practices in order to validate present performance, benchmark against others, and shape a long-term strategic change. I'd like to especially thank John Fink, Senior Advisor to the President at Portland State University, for his collaboration in having this engagement take place,
 as well as his contribution with data collection, especially in state-level metrics. And also Shannon Carney, performance management analyst at the City Budget Office, for her leadership in this project. Director Anderson will discuss the connections of this initiative with the vision instructed by the Portland Plan and the Comprehensive Plan. Thank you. Thank you.
 Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I figured I only had five or six items on here today, so I should join this one, too, to make it seven. I'm really excited to join Andrew and also Portland State University to promote sustainability.
 The use and collection of quality data and to learn from other cities and more importantly really to take action because of the things we learned from all of the other cities. As you know, one of the components of the Portland Plan is that there are a dozen measures of success in these metrics.
 related to everything from environmental health to economic prosperity and housing. The 12 measures of success are a snapshot of how we were in 2012 when we adopted the plan, and they highlight the challenges that stand between where we were then and where we want to go. We are currently completing a report of the success and status of the Portland Plan, and the 142 action items and the 12 key measures of success.
 That report will show how we're doing and it'll show where we've improved and in areas where we've actually gotten worse In January, Andrew and I will be back with a report on the Portland plan and those measures of success and the 142 action items and let you know where we are and what we propose doing next
 One of the great things I think about this project is that the metrics from the World Council on City Data provide a really nice match with the Portland Plans data. They really overlap. We already collect a lot of this information, but it also gives us a way to sort of benchmark ourselves against other cities, which is really important. I think the comparison will show us –
 where we have opportunities not just to learn from other cities, but also where we are doing well and where we should feature ourselves and be able to tell the rest of the world about how we are doing well in a lot of areas.
 Finally, I think this project will help set the stage for offering more access to open data so that the community at large can have a better opportunity to understand just how Portland is doing and the trends that are affecting people in Portland throughout the city. So I'm really pleased to support this project. It's a great partnership. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you. Questions? Okay. Thank you all. Good presentation.
 Anybody wish to testify on this item? Okay, come on up. Welcome. If you could just give us your name, and you have three minutes, and there's a clock right in front of you. Okay. I'm John Fink. I'm Senior Advisor to the President of Portland State University, and I just wanted to echo what my colleagues here from the city have said about this opportunity that the World Council on City Data has.
 offers. In addition to all the things that they mentioned, it also opens the opportunity for us to get some additional federal funding through doing research that can be quantified and calibrated using these data sets and comparing what Portland is doing with other cities. And we have a really good track record of Portland State working with the city to get these kinds of grants, both in transportation and in BPS. And so this is another opportunity to do that. So very enthusiastic.
 Thank you. Thank you, Portland State. I just have to note that in nearly eight years on the council, I can't think of another body other than the World Council on City Data that would be more likely to be appreciated by nerds and wonks like us. So thank you very much. Okay, this is an emergency ordinance, but we don't have... It's a non-emergency. Oh, it's non-emergency? Yeah.
 Okay, so it moves to us. I'm sorry, it has an emergency clause. Yeah, it's confusing. The agenda shows it as a non-emergency, but the item has an emergency. Yeah, sorry about that. And it does say an emergency exists. It does have a clause, correct. Okay, but we lack the requisite number of – We'll wait until somebody comes back to vote on this. And let's move to item 1400. Okay.
 Accept bid of Streamer Sheet Metal Works, Inc. for the Mount Scott Community Center Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Replacement and Direct Digital Control Upgrade Project for $828,585. Let's do the presentation. Yeah. Go ahead, sir. Okay.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award with Streamer Sheet Metal Works Inc. for the Mount Scott Community Center HVAC heating, ventilation, air conditioning replacement digital control upgrade for $828,585. The engineer's estimate on this project was $581,525, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate.
 On September 28, 2016, Council approved the Ordinance No. 188012 for Procurement Service to competitively solicit the Mount Scott Community Center HVAC replacement. The project was advertised in the City's Electronic Procurement System and bids were opened on November 1, 2016. Three bids were received in response to the solicitation and Streamer Sheet Metal Works is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $828,585.
 which is 29.85% over the engineer's estimate. However, the original budget was developed keeping current control equipment in place. It was determined that replacing the current equipment with new but significantly more efficient controls would provide the city with both energy and maintenance savings well beyond the current additional cost. Sufficient funding is available in PPNR's budget, Owner Cost Center 00713.
 Portland Parks and Recreation, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction cost for the project,
 There is a total of $294,325, or 36.5%, of the DMWESB participation on this project, including certified subcontractors portioned as follows. For DBE Disadvantaged Business Enterprise, $187,537 performing abatement, piping, and providing select equipment.
 ESB is Emerging Small Business for $106,788, which is miscellaneous contracting and balancing. Streamer Sheet Metal Works is located in Portland, Oregon. They are not a state-certified disadvantaged minority women or emerging small business contractor. They do have a current city of Portland business tax registration, EEO certification, and are in full compliance with the Equal Benefits Program. Do you have any questions relative? Questions?
 Okay, this is... I move the report. Second. Oh, wait a second. We have to see if we have testimony. Yeah, let's see if anybody wishes to testify on this. Don't see anybody. Okay. Okay, so in order to... It's been moved to... So moved. Top the report. Moved and seconded. Please call the roll. Okay. Thank you. Aye.
 Thank you for your work. As always, I'm very proud of the level of participation and disadvantage of the small businesses. I also want to thank Geri Verhoef of the Portland Parks and Recreation. She spent a long time at our picnic during the summer explaining to me about the advantages of this improvement. And because it's an improved system, we're going to be able to allocate a certain amount of system development charges to offset the increased costs. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Okay, the report's adopted, and let's return to... Thank you. Item 1399 for a vote. Aye. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Okay, 1401. Authorize an amendment of the fiscal year 2016-17 appropriation schedule in the amount of $19,255,033 for the Portland Building Reconstruction Project.
 Are you going to give us an explanation of this? Okay. Hello. My name is Aaron Beck, and I'm with the Office of Management and Finance Business Operations Division. And my role is to provide financial support to the project team, the Portland Building Reconstruction Project Team. And this morning I'm going to discuss with you the ordinance before you to increase the project's FY16-17 budget appropriation.
 First of all, the council approved the reconstruction project in a resolution back in October 2015, specifying that the project shall be completed no later than 2020 and for an amount not to exceed $195 million. Okay.
 So one year ago, we developed the 2016-17 requested budget for OMF, and that included this project. But at that time, we did not yet have the design, build, relocate contractor on board. They would not come on board until July 2016.
 So we didn't have specific information on the project's approach, the schedule, and costs over time to really have a good, solid budget projection to base our costs to put into the budget.
 We didn't start getting these cost projections from our contractor until the summer, as the team worked to get a better understanding of the project's approach, schedule, and cost over time. And now, based on the current projection, we see that we could run out of appropriation in 2016, 2017, around about February or March.
 that's coming February or March. And the primary reason for that is costs that we thought primarily for the temporary space that were going to be incurred in 17-18 are now going to be incurred in 16-17. Plus there's some other costs that were incurring earlier than we had anticipated. And so we would anticipate that we could run out of budget appropriation in February or March.
 So through this ordinance, we're just shifting budget appropriation that had originally been planned for 17-18 into 16-17. And normally we would do a budget adjustment like this in, say, the spring bump, but that's not going to be approved until April. So that's why we need to come before you with this special ordinance. Do you want to add anything or just here to answer questions? I'll answer questions if you have any.
 So we're still keeping within the $195 million total budget? Yeah. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you. Does anybody wish to testify on 1401? Okay, seeing nobody. This is an emergency ordinance, so please call the roll.
 Novic? Thank you so much for your work. Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, the ordinance is adopted and let's move to… Mr. President? Yeah. I've got a special request. I wonder if it would be okay to move 1407 up because this is Pivot's change to its SDC methodology. We have a consultant here from Seattle who's worried about getting on the road given the weather.
 That seems like a very good reason, so let's move to item 1407. 1407, authorize the Portland Bureau of Transportation to develop a transportation system development charge methodology based upon the person trip model to more accurately reflect Portland's transportation system. System, sorry.
 Okay. Are you going to explain this to us? I am. Good morning. I'm Christine Leon from the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and with me today is Dr. Kelly Clifton from Portland State University, as well as Farron Pierce, consultant from Seattle, Kendra Breland. So thank you very much for moving this up to the morning agenda. She's got to get back before the snow. So this is a very exciting time for us. We're going to be updating our transportation system development charge and returning to council in 2017 to do that update. Okay.
 In the process of looking at our SDC, we realized that there are some things we want to advance on. And so we asked for a critique of our current system and hired Kelly to do that. One of the things that we want to advance on is how we quantify the trips made that are the basis for our transportation system development charge.
 We were one of the first in the country in 1997 when we put in place our SDC that actually have a person-trip methodology, but it's through a series of gyrations starting with vehicular trips. Okay.
 So what this resolution is today is to open the door for the public comments on moving towards a pure person-trip methodology as the basis for our system development charge. So we have a...
 Fairly quick presentation that Kelly, who is really one of the leading experts in the country with her work at TREC, is going to run through. And then Kendra Breeland from Fair and Peers will wrap us up. So thank you. Great. Kelly, take it away. Thank you.
 So I've spent my 20-year academic career looking at the links between the transportation impacts of land development. And historically, the way that we have typically done this is focused on vehicular traffic impacts on adjacent facilities to new development.
 And the kinds of performance measures that we use have to do with vehicle delay or volume to capacity at the facility or intersection. And they focus on the peak hour of traffic. But as our cities are evolving, they're interested in more sustainable options or interested in multimodal options. We want more out of our transportation system. We want to plan for all modes, right?
 As mentioned earlier, we're looking at new performance measures. So California, for example, has moved to a vehicle miles travel reduction performance measure. We have a number of climate and air quality performance measures, health and safety, and so on. And these traditional methods aren't capable of examining these kinds of performance. We're starting to collect new data, not just here in Portland, but around the country.
 And this historic practice, we're just starting to realize how limited it is to serve our needs. And then there's research by my team at Portland State, but also, again, around the country. Thank you.
 So Portland is renowned for its planning, as also the region and the state are also well-known for its transportation planning tools and models. But one of the issues here is that we don't have consistency often across scales. So the plans may be consistent, but the various tools and methodology could be improved to speak to one another and inform one another in ways that they haven't done historically. Thank you.
 One of the goals here, of course, is to put people first. So our traditional methodology is start looking at vehicle trips. We want to start looking at people, putting people at the center of our analysis. So people generate trips, not land uses. People make trips, not necessarily just cars. We have about 30 years of research looking at the impacts of the built environment on people's travel choices.
 And none of this academic research has made its way into the current methods for looking at transportation impact. Again, we want to consider all modes. So the current methodologies were set aside or were developed some years ago, again, to think about cars in a more suburban context.
 But those methods have contributed to the marginalization of other modes over time. When we're just planning for cars, then we only have a system that accommodates cars. As you know, Portland has been progressive in thinking about its multimodal transportation system, and we need to have our methods be commensurate with our plans and goals.
 I was here earlier for some of the EV discussions and talking about new modes coming on deck, so electric vehicles, autonomous vehicles. We don't know exactly what the future holds, but there's going to be new options that we haven't seen before, and we need to have methods that give us the flexibility to account for and plan for them. We need to be able to evaluate these performance goals, and we also need to be able to fund our infrastructure. Thank you.
 So one way that we can think about changing practice is shifting from this model that looks at just vehicle trips to starting with person trips. It's a good starting point, one, because we can start to think about then how all those person trips or how people travel get distributed then across new modes in different places in our city. And we can make adjustments to those person trips as we collect new data.
 From these person-trip perspective, we can start to think about developing new tools. Our regional travel models start with person trips, so it would make sense then if we look at local site development impacts, we also start with person trips. So again, that gives us the option to start thinking about how we go from the site to the neighborhood, to the city, to the region, and back down again. Okay.
 So, many cities, universities, states are starting to think along these lines, so it's not just me at Portland State. San Francisco, New York, Washington, D.C. are making concerted efforts to collect new data and develop these new methodologies. California, because of their strong climate agenda, is also thinking about person trips and has invested in a number of studies, some of which
 I'm involved in around affordable housing and transportation impacts and also relates to some of the discussions that you all have entertained earlier today. And then our research here at Portland State. So the National Institute for Transportation and Communities has funded a number of studies, some of which the work that I've done here in Portland, but also in other places looking at these issues. Okay.
 The Institute of Transportation Engineers, which hasn't historically been a fast actor in this area, is now starting to respond. So thanks again to the efforts at Portland State and others. We're poking them in the ribs and getting them to start thinking this way. So person trips is going to be included in their next edition of recommended practice in their trip generation handbook, finally. Thank you.
 So we have a number of opportunities here in Portland. We can, again, continue our trajectory of being a leader in this area, transforming the way we have assessed, are assessing our impacts of new development. We can start to then start to think about differential impacts on different modes and how we can encourage different modal distribution. Instead of following a historic trend, we have a better ability to plan for what we would like.
 Well, thank you, Kelly. So, again, I'm here from Farron Piers, and we are assisting the city to update its transportation SDC program. And, you know, something that we're really excited about with Portland is that Portland has had a person trip program, actually, since 1997. However, since the last time that the SDC program was updated, Dr. Tate,
 Clifton's team and lots of academics and lots of cities around the country have really started improving the methodologies and how we structure these programs. So we see a real opportunity here to update the SDC program's methodologies to be more in line with person trips and to kind of work through the methodologies to set up the program so that it's really, truly embodying Portland's values. So what we're recommending here...
 is that we are, instead of, you know, where possible we're incorporating the new person trip survey data that's available. Where that's not available, we have some approaches which we've used for a long time using existing vehicle trip data and ITE data to kind of get into person trips.
 But as a part of this program, it's a commitment to start developing more person-trip data collection in Portland such that we can update and improve the program over time.
 Why do this? So person trips, I think the one thing that we risk with the personal trip program that is a risk is thinking that all person trips have the same impact. And as you can see on the screen here, no they don't. This is an image of the same number of people being carried in SOVs versus the same number of people in a bus. So we definitely, as we structure this program, we want to make sure that we're being fair and we're recognizing that not all person trips have the same impact.
 We have an approach moving forward for this. We're very fortunate here in this region that the Oregon Household Travel Survey provides a really good data set around person trips that are occurring. And so as we're structuring this program, something that we're going to be looking at is,
 How does the mode share of person trips vary in different parts of the city? Certainly in downtown where you've got a lot of transit availability, you've got a lot of padded bike infrastructure, the mode share is going to be a little different than other parts of the city. So we're currently looking into Oregon Household Travel Survey data
 to understand what is the mode share and how is it different maybe in downtown versus your centers and quarters and some of those unique geographies that you've recognized within your comprehensive plan. Thank you.
 And so, you know, just kind of where we are in this process, and I'm going to pass it back over to Christine, but there's a lot of other things going on with this project. First and foremost, outreach, really important, really critical to the city. We've got an online open house, and there are other outreach mechanisms going on to talk about what types of projects do we want to fund as a part of this? How does this, you know, change in SDC methodologies impact?
 impact different groups, and that's something the city is really, really interested in. We are looking, of course, at projects. What types of projects do we want to fund moving forward? How does that align with Portland's values? And then, again, the commitment to improving methodologies to make sure we have the optimal outcomes in terms of recognizing impacts appropriately and making sure that the system is truly kind of forwarding your values. So, Matt? Yeah.
 Thank you. So next steps, we have gotten some public input from the experts that deal with these transportation impacts. Kittleson, David Evans' associate, actually I'll name them all, DKS, McKenzie, Lancaster, and Global Transportation Engineering. So they have been giving us some advice on this shift.
 We will continue to work on this. The resolution asks that we return to council next year to give an update on the person-trip methodology. But this is a pretty exciting shift for the country and for Portland to be leaders in this. And I think there's low risk there.
 to us to get this methodology in place as the foundation. And again, we can tie this all back to the different planning methods that we do here in Portland and the different targets that the city council as well as Metro have adopted for climate change and growth and reducing the vehicle miles traveled in SOV. So this is pretty exciting. So thank you for your time this morning.
 Thank you all. Questions? We hope for your expertise. Yeah, great expertise. Thank you very much.
 Anything else for the team? And then... I just wanted to say, thank you, Dr. Clifton. Thank you, Ms. Breland. Thank you, Christine. I just wanted to note that another advantage of this, if I may say if I have this right, Christine, is that right now sometimes developers challenge our SDC assessments if they're in transit-rich areas saying that the IT manual doesn't really properly calculate their impact. And if they can afford to do traffic studies, they almost always are successful in their
 If we have a methodology that's fair and based on the best science to begin with, then we can avoid those debates and avoid losing. Yes. Yes, indeed. Okay. Thank you all very much. Do we have anyone sign up to speak on this item? I do not have a sign-up sheet with you. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? Then let's take action, please, on the resolution. No, thank you. Thank you very much. Aye. Aye.
 I'm glad to be a leader in this as well as on the park system development charge with these. In both cases, they're much more sensible and cognitively understandable than the current methodology. So thank you. Hi. Fish. Hi. Eltzman. Hi. Hales. Well, this is great work. And there was such a polite reference to the slow pace of change in the national manuals. Yeah.
 I'm brilliantly done. But it's the glacial. Actually, glaciers are moving faster now, unfortunately. So that's good work that we're actually influencing the national technical practice here in ways that Portland has done before. So thank you for great work. I also had the chance in my private sector career to work with Ferran Piers as a partner, and they've been great.
 real progressive and effective consultants for Portland and other places where I work, like Salt Lake. So thank you for great work between the professional community and our own professionals in the city. This is the right way to go. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay. The 1402. Yes. Vote only. So 1402 we're sending back, right? Is that correct?
 Yeah, it has to be read, and we're taking it back to my... Let's read 1402 and do that. Approved findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contracting method of
 construction manager general contractor all in connection with the try on Creek wastewater treatment plant head works project for an essay estimated amount of fifty four million dollars okay without objection that's going back to being referred back to Commissioner fish's office now we ought to take a break at about one o'clock perhaps but let's let's take a pause here for
 process and make sure we know what we're going to try to cover. I know you want to address 1412. Second reading. Second reading. We can do that quickly. And then we're going to also try to do 1409 and 1410 before we break. So, Mayor, I'm normally...
 in favor of a break, but given the weather, I'd be willing to push through to get the morning agenda done, because I think we may lose a part of the afternoon agenda. Well, I think we could probably do that by 1.30 if everybody's blood sugar can manage it, so let's do that.
 And then we'll go desperate. We'll get some – somebody can hand out candy bars if we start to fade. All right. So then let's stay in order then. Mayor, could you just – can we take 14-12? Let's take that one order because you've got somebody here. Let's take 14-12, which is the second. Vote only. Yep. 14-12.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Greenleaf Pump Station project at an estimated cost of $1,275,000. Okay. Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Thank you, Teresa, Elliott, and team. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Now, let's go back to 1403. Okay.
 clarify definitions, administrative authority, and make house seasonal changes. This is the long way. Is this really going to take 30 minutes? No. To the transit lodgings tax code. Thomas promises much less than that. Much, much less. I'm Thomas Lanham with the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. I think we initially anticipated there might be some testimony, but I don't think that will be the case today.
 So there are two items before you today. The first is a transient lodging tax code amendment, and the second is a conforming amendment to the Tourism Improvement District Code. I'll speak to the TL code first, and then we'll talk about the Tourism Improvement District. The amendments before you today really accomplish four things.
 First, a recent ruling by the U.S. District Court in the City of Portland v. HomeAway highlighted that clarifications are needed to a number of definitions in the code to better hold short-term rental websites accountable for tax and regulatory provisions in the code. The key definitions being clarified are booking agent, host, hotel, operator, rent, and room.
 These changes are consistent with the prior intent of the City Council in hearings related to short-term rental platforms and merely are clarifications. Second, a number of housekeeping items are cleaned up related to modernizing language and using gender-neutral phrasing. Third, some hotel operators are confused by the current mid-month due dates on their tax returns, and so these amendments would move the due date to the end of the month, and that's a very industry-friendly amendment.
 Fourth and last, we're clarifying the division's authority to levy presumptive taxes in instances where taxpayers refuse to file a tax return. Presumptive taxes are based on the best information available to the division absent in actual tax filing. This is authority we currently have. We just want to make it express. Thank you.
 And turning to the Tourism Improvement District Code amendments, the changes being proposed to the TID simply mirror those that are in the TL tax code. Those changes are for conformity and ease of administration. I would specifically note that the changes being proposed to the TID do not involve tax collection obligations for short-term rental websites. And I will stop there. Okay. Thank you.
 Good enough. Thomas, thank you. Any questions for Thomas? Thomas, I've been reading in the last week or two about some settlements that other cities have entered into with the short-term rental industry. You're tracking those closely? Very closely. And getting all the help you need from the city attorney's office? Absolutely. And if there are standards being set elsewhere, you'll come back to us with recommendations? I certainly will. Thank you. Thank you very much. Did anyone sign up to speak on these items, Carl?
 Either one? Charles Johnson. Okay. And we'll see. Did you read 14.04 yet? Could you read that one as well? 14.04, amend Tourism Improvement District Code to update definitions and change the due dates and delinquency dates to match those in the transient lodging tax code. Okay. Mr. Johnson, are you here? I don't believe he is. He was upstairs. Anyone else want to speak on these items? If not, then 14.03 and 14.04 pass the second reading next week.
 Okay, 1405. Let's actually, that needs four of us. Let's move. We have four of us. 1405.
 authorize a lease extension with Oregon Pacific Investment and Development Company for the Bureau of Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Office space at 1800 Southwest 1st Avenue, Suite 450, commonly known as the Harrison Square Building, through October 31, 2020, for approximately $205,000 annually. Okay, Sam, I know you've waited a while for us to get to this item. Have the questions about this all been resolved? No.
 As far as we know, I don't think there were too many. Yeah, I had no follow-up questions. Just a real quick recap. This is an extension of the lease for the FPDR offices on 1800 Southwest First. The lease will extend us through to about October 2020, about the time Portland Building will be ready to occupy, and at that point we will have a decision made whether FPDR moves into the building or not. Okay. Makes sense. Thank you very much. Any questions for Sam? Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Thank you, Sam. Aye. Okay, 1406. Why don't we wait for Commissioner Saltzman to return? Are we going to take 1406 and 1413 together? Yeah, but I think we should wait for Commissioner Saltzman to come back. So let's move on to 1408.
 1408, accept findings of the South Portal Partnership Plan Project pertaining to proposed changes to roadway alignments of Southwest Bond Avenue, Southwest Moody Avenue, Southwest Hamilton Street, Southwest Hamilton Court, Southwest Lowell Street, and Southwest Thomas Street, and direct implementation of a plan to fund, design, and construct remaining South Waterfront Street connections. Okay. Mr. Abbey.
 good morning mayor hales uh andrew abby south portal project manager um i have some amendments that i'm going to pass out here okay so as you know we had the first reading of this resolution on november 16th and we had a council work session earlier in the month last week we had a very productive meeting
 with the South Portland Neighborhood Association, Len Michon, who will be speaking momentarily, and Sally Adalpe from the Johns Landing neighborhood and Michael Harrison from OHSU.
 That was a productive meeting, and we have written up some amendments here. The changes that we would make to the resolution before you would be to, for now, retain Bond Avenue, southwest Bancroft Street to southwest Hamilton Street, and also retain southwest Hamilton Street from southwest Moody Avenue to southwest Bond Avenue. There's a directive to do further analysis of retaining those two streets,
 and then to bring back a final decision for the future council before June 30, 2017. And then in response to some of the concerns raised by John's landing, we also have –
 We have a lot on our plate today. Could you state that again? You said that we're going to retain and there's a change. Could you flip it and just tell us what's different here than what we had before us last time? Sure. So we're still going to make all the other changes, for example, the Lowell extension, the Moody extension down to Hamilton Court. Hamilton Court still becomes a public street. So that's still embedded in here.
 So like I said, the two changes are is to at least for now retain Bond Avenue south of Bancroft Street and also retain Hamilton Street.
 And then the other change that I was just getting to was also to address concerns from John's landing would be to just acknowledge that when we do do the Moody extension, have a funded project, we will evaluate the boundary and macadam intersection. We don't believe that there will be any issues with that, but we're more than happy to take a look at that once the project is actually funded. Thank you. Thank you.
 And then there's also the addition of an exhibit F, which is attached to the memo, and that shows the streets to be retained pending a final council decision next year. So we're hoping this amount adds an additional level of clarity. And finally, before you vote on the amendments and the underlying resolution, I wanted to particularly thank Len Michon from South Portland. He provided some very good input on the amendment, and I appreciate that input. Thank you.
 and i assume that the landing drive condominium owners were also involved in this process absolutely thank you other questions for andrew so do we have a motion then to adopt the amendments second further discussion then let's take a vote please on the amendments doesn't mean to testify oh sorry i didn't ask for that so anyone want to speak on this item come on up please good morning
 Actually, it's good afternoon. It is good afternoon. I just couldn't see the clock there for a second. Welcome. Afternoon, Mr. Mayor and council members. Len Michon, South Portland Neighborhood Association president. I just wanted to make one comment with regard to the future studies that will be done with regard to a bond in Hamilton Street.
 And that being that I want to ensure that, and we've had discussions with Andrew, to ensure that the South Portland Neighborhood Association has a place at the table whenever there is further discussion with the land owners where those properties could be impacted with the maintenance of those two streets. So that's basically it. Okay, great. Thanks for your help on this. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Then this is a resolution. Sorry. So we can act on this, right? This is accepting the findings. So this is not a – this doesn't have to come back for a second reading. So we can vote now, having amended it on the findings as amended. The amendment. Novick?
 This is just the amendment. No, this is, we did the amendment. We didn't vote on the amendment. I'm sorry, we didn't vote on the amendment because I hadn't taken testimony. Okay, who's got low blood sugar? Not me. Let's vote on the amendment, please. No, thank you. Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much for the process in getting it. I think this is a much better plan. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, and now on the findings as amended. No, thank you.
 Really appreciate all the work everybody has done in the past couple of weeks on this, especially Len Michon, Sally Aldape, Michael Harrison, Dan Bauer, Andrew Abbey, Kurt Kruger, and Eric Anibal. And it's a good thing we're passing this today because if we didn't get this done this month, we'd lose $250,000. Whoa. Aye. Great.
 You could have mentioned that earlier. I was holding it in reserve. That's a powerful incentive. Thank you very much to the community folks, and thank you to Andrew Abbey. Once again, you exemplify the kind of customer involvement and community involvement that we really want to see. Aye. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Andrew. Aye.
 well appreciate the good work on this appreciate exhibit F formalizing and institutionalizing the street plan as amended I'm a little fussy on that subject I was starting to organize things in my office only my end of term and found a photograph of roads standing in front of a streetcar and so in fix honor this is a better plan than we drew on a bar napkin but it was what we had in mind I thank you
 Okay. Let's go back to 1406 and its companion, since Commissioner Saltzman is here. 1406 and 1413, right? Yes. Could you read those two together?
 1406, authorize financing not expected to exceed $51 million for an affordable housing project known as the Ellington Apartments. And 1413, authorize the purchase of certain real property located at 1610 Northeast 66th Avenue at a price not to exceed $47 million for affordable rental housing.
 Commissioner Salsman, anything further before we vote on these? No, I think we discussed these last week and ready to vote. Okay, let's do please. Novick? Aye. Well, it was very helpful to have the extra week to get our questions answered. As Commissioner Fish noted at the hearing that since we are performing the functions of the Oversight Committee, I appreciate the extra diligence of all of my colleagues as well as your staff in Housing Bureau. This is a phenomenal purchase and I'm very proud to support it. Aye. Ms. Smith?
 Yes, I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz just said. We had a chance last week to have a hearing. Thank you, Dan and Kurt, for the follow-up briefing that I got and all the questions that were answered. And I think it's important to note that, in fact, none of the bond proceeds are being authorized currently or will be invested currently in this purchase agreement, that, in fact,
 Other funds are being used, and the bond proceeds will be presumably applied next summer, which does give us another bite of the apple where the oversight committee can review and bless this transaction. But this is an example of being opportunistic and striking when there is something in front of us. And I'm persuaded that if we didn't seize this opportunity, a lot of people would be hurt.
 So thank you, Dan, for leading this effort. Thank you, Director Krieger and your team, for explaining it. And I feel that I have sufficient information to enthusiastically support this acquisition. Hi. Well, I'm also very excited about this acquisition. It is – I think it's fitting. Maybe we should have had more time, but the real estate market doesn't allow us more time. We have to be opportunistic and act to acquire more.
 These 263 units of affordable housing on 11 acres of property in relatively inner northeast Portland, it will prevent displacement of the residents, and it will also assure for the long term we have affordable apartments in this particular parcel, and I think it's a great buy. Thank you.
 And, as Commissioner Fish said, we won't actually expend bond money until much later, so there is time to get the oversight committee up and running, the bond oversight committee up and running, and to get their input on this decision. But it's an outstanding purchase, in my opinion. Aye.
 What else? Well, you know, when we declared a state of housing emergency 14 months ago, this is the kind of thing we hoped for. And thanks to your leadership, Commissioner Saltzman, here we are in one week having been recognized for accomplishing the goal of being the first West Coast city to end veterans' homelessness on a numerical basis. Of course, there are more homeless veterans all the time, but we're housing them faster than they're becoming unhoused. And we've housed...
 1,294 of them and now we've acted on inclusionary zoning something that was simply a hope at that point And put serious money into housing preservation all in a good week's work. Thank you very much for your leadership Hi, okay. Let's put on the companion item then I can't support this One thing I did want to add is that I
 we hear from our critics sometimes about the relative benefits of new construction and preservation. This is an example, a very big example, of the benefits of preserving existing housing, and it is a unique parcel of land. Aye. Helpsman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Let's see. We now are at 1409, correct? Yes, we are.
 Adopt the open and accountable elections policy by adding City Code Chapter 2.16. Mr. Fritz, anything before we take a vote on this idea of yours? No, thanks. Roll call, please. Novick?
 I'm very pleased to support this as part of our agenda, progressive agenda to remember for December. I think that restoring and opening the count of elections policy will encourage people to run for office who might have been deterred in the past because they don't happen to personally know lots of people who can afford to make $500 or $1,000 contributions. I also think it will be beneficial even for people who have been successful in our existing system because –
 One of the problems with having to raise a lot of money is that raising money takes time.
 And in order to raise enough money to run a citywide race in the allowable amount of time, the most efficient thing to do is to only talk to people who can give $500 or $1,000, which means that you hear the concerns of people who can afford to write $500 or $1,000 checks. And it's not that they're bad people. It's just that we're better off if our political leaders are talking to a wider range of people.
 With this proposal, with the six-to-one match, if you're calling somebody who can afford to give a $50 contribution, that really turns into $350, so you can afford to spend some time talking with people who can only afford to give a $50 contribution and hear their perspective. So I think this is a wonderful way for Commissioner Fritz to round out this year, and I'm pleased to be a part of it. Aye.
 Well, thank you to all of my colleagues for being part of the discussions on this for lo these many months. And thank you for our community partners who are here today to celebrate this occasion. I won't go through the whole list because then I'll forget somebody, but Kate and Daniel and everybody. See, I just started on the list and that wasn't good to go down there.
 It's been a community-driven process, and it's been a partnership, and the product we have here is informed by the discussions I've had with each of my colleagues. So I thank you so much for that. Let's be very clear, this is not votes around elections. This is open and accountable elections. It's a system that has been tried and true in New York City for many years. Thank you.
 Some people say that we should be referring this to the voters since the previous system failed at the ballot at 2010 by 1,600 votes out of 210,000 at the time when the fire bond only passed by about 1,600 votes out of 110.
 210,000 and that would usually get a 70 to 80% approval rating. But more recently, Measure 26184 was just on the ballot in November and it's the county election reform measure. It got 90%. I got it wrong when I discussed it last time because I thought that 87 couldn't possibly be right. 90% support. So why we would spend hundreds of thousands of dollars of city taxpayers money to put it on the ballot, I
 It just doesn't make any sense. We voted on many other things on this council every year. We allocate over $400 million of general fund money to things that we believe are important and which we know the citizens want. And so this is really no different from that because it's coming from the existing general fund. It's not like the construction excise tax, which we passed as a council without referring it, and that cost is extra for some of our community.
 So I'm very, very grateful, particularly to those who've made suggestions to make it better, and then to all our community partners. Thank you to Cristina Nieves, my policy advisor, who's currently in Chile with her family. But...
 We rejoiced greatly last week. Thank you also to Tim Creagh, my chief of staff, who's been working on this since he first was my treasurer in 2005 of the voter-owned election system, and did the same in 2008, and has been working with me ever since.
 I do want to thank also Molly Aliconda Morris when we were trying to figure out where this program could be housed if it since the auditor declined to have it as part of the elections that process that she manages I asked our director of neighborhood involvement could we do this and
 And she said, yes, let's figure out how to get it done. And that's what we do in this community. We think about how can we get this done, and this is what this process has done. It's going to open it up to more kinds of people. Commissioner Novick said that if you can afford to give $50, that you can have such a great return. If you can afford to loan $50, you can get this done.
 you can support the candidate and claim that $50 back as your Oregon tax credit. So we already have a system of public campaign financing at the state level. I believe we really need to be able to do it here so that more people get talked to, more people get listened to, more people really feel and know that they've made a huge difference, whether they live in a mansion or are selling street roots on the street.
 And so thank you to all of my colleagues. You're part of something which I believe is really great today. Thank you. I want to start by thanking my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, for her hard work developing this proposal. And I appreciate that for you, Amanda, this is the issue. And I want to thank all the public interest groups that helped to shape this proposal. If I were king for a day, I would overturn Citizens United, shine a light on all the dark money in our elections, and
 and amend the Constitution, state and federal, to limit campaign contributions. But none of these issues will be resolved anytime soon. Today, I cannot support this proposal for one fundamental reason. In 2010, we asked voters for permission to continue the voter-owned elections program. The yes campaign outspent the no campaign five to one and still lost. The public was asked, the public spoke, and the program was repealed.
 Under these circumstances, I'm just not comfortable taking taxpayer money to fund my own campaign without their permission. I offered an amendment to refer this to the voters. Actually, Dan offered it in my stead, and it failed. Referring big questions like this to the voters is routine, not the exception. During my eight years on the council, we've referred the arts tax, the gas tax, the parks bond, the housing bond, the marijuana tax. I think we've even referred the children's levy twice. Thank you.
 In each of these instances, I think we strengthened the cause by referring it. I strongly believe in the concept of reform, but I fear, respectfully, that by bypassing the voters, a well-intentioned proposal to strengthen public trust could instead end up undermining it. Without a referral, I cannot support this proposal. I vote no. Holtzman. No. Niels.
 Mr. Pritz, you know, you started talking about this with your colleagues in thoughtful, earnest discussion before the national election, well before it, of course. And we just talked earlier today about ways in which Portland is proving itself to be a good place and different at a time where we wonder about our country.
 And now that's especially true with respect to this piece of work. Is it perfect? No. We'll find out. It's good, and it's much better than the previous mechanism, I believe. So thank you for good craftsmanship. But more importantly, thank you for reinforcing a value here in Portland that our politics should be legitimate and open at a time when our national politics have been manipulated by a foreign power
 and where the majority didn't rule, people might wonder, why bother to participate?
 And I hope we all don't have that instinct, but instead to say, no, let's participate even more. And here in Portland, let new people come forward and run for office. Let everyone have the opportunity to compete on a fair playing field to lead the city, and let's keep it clean and open and available for everybody to be a good citizen of our city. Thank you. This is a good day and a good piece of work. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you.
 You're here. You're here. Thank you, Amanda. Okay, 1410. Create a local improvement district to construct park improvements in the Portland Open Space Sequence Local Improvement District in partnership with the Halpern Landscape Conservancy. All right. I understand we have some amendments, and we have our team here to explain where we are. Thank you. Good morning. Maybe it's good afternoon now. Good morning.
 Mayor Hales, I'm Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Joining me is Sandra Bertso from Portland Park and Recreation. I have some amendments to offer up to you that I just passed out. So, sorry, go ahead, please. No worries. Thank you.
 So I just passed out some amendments. So Portland State University asked that their LID obligation be changed to a different property. So the amendments before you would change that. We also – Andrew, does it change the amount of their obligation? No, it does not change the amount of their obligation. It's a technical substitution. Correct. And then the other change is I think you all know we've made a real hard push to get this –
 project funded and the additional week was very, very helpful. I'm pleased to report that we've closed the gap by 80%. We are a little bit short of our goal, and so the other amendment just reflects that we are a little bit short of what our $2,150,000 goal is for the LID. And the new amount of the LID is, so we're $119,900 short of the goal. So...
 So the new amount is $2,030,100 for the LID. Andrew and Mayor Hales, what are our options today for closing that gap? I would just note, Commissioner, that there is language in the ordinance that allows us to continue negotiations with property owners and to increase pending lien amounts or get new property owners to join the LID. So I'll turn it over to Sandra and see if she wants to add anything to that.
 Yeah, we were just going to reduce the budget by that bit, or as well, the Halpern Conservancy is kicking off their separate private fundraising campaign here in January, February, so I think it's very possible they may sort of close up that additional gap that way. I'd hate to reduce the budget, Mayor. That almost sounds like lowering the river rather than raising the bridge, and this is
 The Conservancy has taken on a traditional government role in raising private funds to support the work of restoring what is considered the great masterwork of urban design in America. And it is a space that will be
 enjoyed by people who live in every corner of our city. It is, in my view, I think it will become, in time, one of the signature destinations of our city. And I just... I know that the mayor's been on the phone jawboning. I know that the Conservancy folks have been working hard. I just...
 It would grieve me, Mayor, if today we conceded that the budget would be reduced rather than find a way to plug the debt. Commissioner, I appreciate that sentiment. I was very clear at the last hearing that that was the expectation, and I don't want community groups to think that they certainly make a great effort and then we're –
 going to plug the gap. My understanding is we're going to continue to do the private fundraising and that we're hoping, even with value engineering, that we may be able to do the entire project. And I really do appreciate the partnership and also we're allocating scarce system development charges, which we've already put a bunch of into this project in various other parts of the city.
 Well, I have a suggestion, which is we might want to call Ms. Williams or Mr. Gregg forward because we certainly don't want to –
 put any sort of a chill on the effort to secure funds from additional property owners. But I also want to make sure, I think there's an expectation on the council here, that failure is not an option and that we don't want to thin the soup in what needs to be a fully funded project. So I would certainly be interested in a contingency agreement
 in a request to contingency from the city to fill a remaining gap, if there is one, after the fundraising efforts now underway are carried to their conclusion. Hopefully you get to yes with...
 those remaining property owners but if you don't I believe that it enough funds have been raised from private property owners here for a public purpose that a contingency request from the City Council to our contingency funds appropriate doesn't have to be the whole hundred and nineteen thousand but maybe it'd be a portion of that so
 So, again, we don't want to put a damper on your efforts or send a signal that no one else needs to help. So I'm not sure quite how to articulate that other than, again, I think it's a shared belief here that we shouldn't fail, that we shouldn't tap SDCs, but that we should also back your play. Okay.
 Mayor, if I may, you know, on the Vancouver and Cockrell ID that we brought forward about two years ago, we had a few loose ends that we needed to tie down, and we just went ahead and formed the ordinance, and then we were able to bring back some amendments to the ordinance.
 I just want to take you back to our original concern that we've been having these discussions for three or four years now. There's a lot of property ownership turnover, so it's really important to sort of lock down these pending liens. It would be very easy to come back in a couple weeks or a couple months or whatever, do an amendment to the all-ID formation ordinance. That would be a relatively simple exercise, and then we could amend it to the council's satisfaction. I...
 I appreciate that at various times in our discussions, all my colleagues declare what is an issue that's near and dear to their heart, and we have a great tradition of keeping track of that. I will just say, as the prior parks commissioner that was involved in some of the early discussions, this issue is very near and dear to my heart, and if the record is now sufficiently clear that we're going to all work together to try to close the gap,
 I think we should go ahead and approve the LID and keep our options open. But at a time where partnership is so vital to the success of so many things we care about, I am just enormously grateful for the folks who have stepped up on this project. And I want to do everything in our collective power to get to the finish line.
 So could we call on Ms. Williams or Mr. Gregg or Mr. Nadeau to maybe come comment on where we are in this process to make sure that the other side of the partnership is clear and empowered? And, Mayor, I just have a couple of very brief housekeeping items before you vote. Okay. So how are we doing here, gentlemen? We have currently 30 properties in the LID, 16 property owners. Okay.
 At least seven of those property owners have actually raised the amount from their original commitments.
 All of those were local, and our only holdout has been a union that is an equity partner or equity owner in the Cyan that's based in San Francisco. And so that, of the large-scale contributions, that's the only holdout, as we've outlined to you, Mayor. Thank you.
 and you've made the heroic effort to try to reach them, but they are not interested in playing, apparently. We're still working some other angles to try to put some pressure on them from above, but we'll see. We'll transfer the property back to Gertie Needlin and have them do the Constitution, and then be done, hold it in abeyance.
 Yeah, it's really one of those questions, you know, what they asked us was how do we justify this to our shareholders, and apparently we didn't make a successful argument. In a normal local improvement district, even if people, if some of the property owners are unhappy about it, if there's a certain amount of agreement, it becomes a lien, right?
 I know that you've wanted to keep this as a completely voluntary program, but I'll be asking Mr. Abbey later when he comes back, is that even an option in this part? Because in addition to my concern about other dollars being needed for elsewhere, if I was a property owner who had paid up, it would be a jolly myth that somebody else didn't and then got bailed out by the city. Do you want to take that? I'm with you. Honestly. Yeah, I mean, it's...
 It's the great problem of the free rider. And when you're a free rider in economics, when they're an asset manager, basically a bureaucrat in San Francisco, and they're planning on selling this thing in two or three or four years at a profit to take the profits for a perfectly legitimate pension fund cause. But they don't – even the mayor can't persuade them that here's this –
 project that is going to add value to the property and help them realize the profit that they want in three or four years. So I have no problem with it because I don't know what else we can do other than, I mean, it's really going to be time consuming if we have to start going after every project.
 small property on that list, I mean, I just don't think we've got the horsepower in our little group to do it. So you said it's a union that owns the share in the Cyan. So I would certainly be willing, as a current union member myself, to see if we could enlist some of the – I'd like to talk to you about which one, because one of the principles that we have in Oregon is that there are no freeloaders and that you have to pay fair share in the Cyan.
 even if you don't want to actually be in the union. So I think that we should maybe approach it from a labor standpoint, that this is their fair share. So perhaps making this mandatory for the remaining property owners would be the appropriate amendment for the council to consider? That's your step. I mean, we would... You can give us a recommendation. Okay.
 Well, let me put it this way. They sit on Petty Grove Park. You know, they have absolute benefit from this project. So I would be in favor of doing that. Thank you very much. I think that's what we need. Thank you. So it sounds to me like we have an interest, at least among many of us on the council, of making this requirement mandatory on the remaining property owners.
 What does that mean, Andrew, if we wanted to go that route? So Mayor Hales, you know, we certainly have the ability to come back and amend the ordinance after the fact. You know, we certainly have provided the means of notification as required by city code that this hearing would be held. We did not do a mail notification because we didn't contemplate a pending lien for Cyan.
 but if it meets with the pleasure of the council and you want to direct an additional amendment to the amendment that I put forth to you, we can certainly, we can certainly,
 do that and direct that there be an amendment. May I ask you a question? If we make such an amendment and we set this over for a final vote next week, would that satisfy any procedural issues we have to worry about? My main recommendation, Commissioner, is I don't like doing LIDs on emergency clause basis. So if you're going to set this over to the 21st, that's fine. I just would want to make... We'd adopt the amendment today. Adopt the amendment and take the vote next week. Okay.
 You could do that. Does that ensure...
 Good process. Yeah, you just want to make sure you have a week between making the amendment and doing the final vote. Or we could just pass it today, and then with the direction, please explore this, and we can come back and amend it. You would pass the amendment today, but then you would take the vote one week from today. Okay. Mayor, why don't you make an amendment? I move that we make that amendment imposing the LID obligation on the remaining property owner or owners as needed to close the gap.
 And then I need Karen or Bob to remind me what the property address is in question. Property address. We'll get that. I'll second the amendment. Get that and add it to the record. Okay. So I understand everybody's clear on the intent here that we will add that remaining property owner to the LID by this action.
 Correct, and we're doing that today, right, and taking a vote? We'll adopt the amendment today, and it will come back for final action next week. Okay, so I want to just walk through my memo so everything is clear here. So we're going to do the Cyan Amendment. We are going to keep on, I'm looking at page 2 of my staff memo dated December 13th. We're going to keep item number 1.
 We're not going to keep item number two. Right, because it's going to go up. Right. And then we are going to keep item number three. We're not going to keep item number four. Number five is the map, and so we're going to further update the map to reflect the cyan property being shown in Exhibit B. So Exhibit B, rather than being replaced with what's attached here, will be replaced by another updated map that will include the cyan property.
 And then Exhibit C, the item number six will no longer apply because the budget will still be $2,150,000. Item number seven on my memo, we are going to keep the first part that talks about 310 Southwest Lincoln Street going away and being replaced with 1600 Southwest 4th Avenue for PSU. The second sentence says,
 It is amended to say that we will strike the additional petition support, and I will provide a new Exhibit E reflecting these amendments. And then Exhibit F, item number 8, stays. And then we are going to keep item number 9 in my memo. So I didn't mean to take up so much of your time, but I wanted the record to be clear. That was a tour de force. So Commissioner Fish moves, and I second that package of technical amendments that are necessary to make this true. Okay.
 Okay, so let's vote, please, on the amendments as just reviewed, and then we'll see if anyone wants to testify on this item. Aye. Aye.
 Commissioner Fritz, thank you for suggesting a very artful compromise here. Aye. Ayes. Aye. Okay. So anything further that we need to do? Yeah, so really quick. I know you've had a really long day, but I promised Wells Fargo I would do this. So this is not reflected in the ordinance, but Wells Fargo wanted to make it really clear that their intent was to satisfy their obligation in such a way that it wasn't passed through their tenants. Okay.
 So there will be a follow-up where the city attorney will approve as to form an agreement that I've drafted with Wells Fargo. I won't get into all the technical details, but they're going to provide the funding for the LID in such a way that doesn't get passed on to the tenants. What I really want to point out is the incredible generosity of Wells Fargo, because what Wells Fargo said in their letter, and you have a copy of this dated December 6th, is,
 that even if council for some reason were not to pass this LID, that the City of Portland could keep their $175,700 contribution and use it for another purpose, to be mutually negotiated between the City of Portland and Wells Fargo.
 That certainly appears to be a moot item right now, but I just really wanted to point out how collaborative Wells Fargo has been. And then last but not least, and this concludes my remarks, I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge that we have two council members here for whom this will be their last LID vote. And I just simply wanted to point out that assuming that Southwest 47th Avenue LID gets approved in January,
 that this will be the 10th local improvement district that we have moved forward in the past four years. And I particularly wanted to recognize Mayor Hales and Commissioner Salsman, who redesigned the LID process prior to my tenure. I just don't think we could have contemplated that someday we'd be using an LID to fund park improvements. So I really wanted to acknowledge that.
 as well as Commissioner Fish for nominating me for this LID, and Commissioner Fritz for your confidence in moving this forward, and Commissioner Novick for your steadfast support for LIDs over the past four years. So if you have any other questions, I'm happy to answer them, but otherwise I think you're ready to take a vote next week on the ordinances amended. Okay. Anyone want to testify today before we do?
 Mr. Johnson, Charles Johnson. I don't believe he's here. Andrew, thank you very much. Back at you. You know, the good policymaking that gets done here is supported by professionals that make that possible. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 I just have a question for the add the remaining property. Was that updated in the memo too, or is that a separate amendment? Carla, I'm going to send you an updated memo. Was it updated in the memo? Yeah, I will send you an updated memo that will reflect it. The attorney has a question. Okay, so there were two. It was a separate motion, though, so it will be in the future memo, so they don't need to vote again?
 I guess I heard two motions, one to adopt the technical memo and one to add the remaining project. Let's make that clear. I think we have adopted the technical memo but not the actual addition, so let's vote on the addition. Thank you. And that's the same motion by the Mayor and second by Fish. Correct. Okay. Novick? Aye. Fritz? The virtuous unions that I know would be very supportive of this LRD. Thank you. Aye. Okay.
 aye maybe a case where we're making someone wealthier over their objections but it's the right thing to do thank you all for good work this comes back on second reading for simply a roll call vote next week it's done thank you all right one more item this afternoon and that's 1411 authorize an application to Oregon Office of Emergency Management for a hazard mitigation grant program
 grant in the amount of up to $2,500,000 for Johnson Creek floodplain acquisition. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, the hour is late. We have Janet Anderson with us today. I'm going to just read the introductory remarks. I think this is all that you're going to need, and we'll take questions. The December 2015 storm resulted in presidential disaster declaration for approximately 12 Oregon counties, including Multnomah County.
 Because of the disaster declaration, grant funds are available for projects that will reduce impacts from future floods. The Bureau of Environmental Services is seeking grant funds to purchase property in flood-prone areas that can be converted to restoration sites. The State Office of Oregon Office of Emergency Management is facilitating the grant application process. Approximately $8 million is available statewide.
 Properties that meet the criteria can be acquired with 75% of the cost covered by FEMA. BES has identified and reached out to approximately 20 property owners in our Johnson Creek Willing Seller Target Area that might be candidates for the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program funding. Ten property owners have signed a voluntary participation form to pursue sale of their properties.
 Our grant request is approximately $2.5 million with a proposed city contribution of approximately $750,000 from Johnson Creek Willing Seller Program funds. VES first purchased flood-prone properties in Johnson Creek in 1996 under the same grant program. Since then, the city has restored 150 acres of natural area and created 250 acres of, excuse me, acre feet of flood storage.
 Foster Road, which once flooded an average of once every year, is now susceptible of flooding only about once every six to eight years, reducing damage and inconvenience to businesses, residents, and commuters. That's the ask. You said it all. Good afternoon. Questions? Anything else you need to add to that fine presentation? No, thanks for pushing through the agenda. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote.
 Hi. Thank you for your good work. I was at a resiliency discussion among West Coast mayors yesterday, and this is an example of how we've done it well here in Portland and other places might do well to emulate. Hi. Okay. We're recessed for 40 minutes until 2 p.m. Wow. Good morning. Congratulations. Council will come back to work here for the afternoon session of the December 14th City Council meeting. Would you please call the roll callers?
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Hales. Here. And before we get into our agenda, we just need to take a moment and re-celebrate the long overdue and understated recognition for the great job that Carla Moore Love does as our council clerk. Let's hear it for Carla. Thank you.
 She was a recipient of a Spirit of Portland Award last night, and you are indeed the Spirit of Portland, so thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. All right. Let's take up this afternoon's work and accept the work in front of us. Do we do these together? 14-14, 14-15? 14-14. 14-14 one at a time. Okay, 14-14, please.
 amend the official city zoning map planning and zoning code and transportation system plan to carry out Portland's 2035 comprehensive plan establish a new community involvement program and committee amend related codes the 2035 comprehensive plan and plan map to coordinate policies and programs Mr. Inkstrom. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I
 As we get started, I want to just remind you what we're adopting, because we've been here more than once in the last few years. This is the ordinance which would adopt zoning code and zoning map amendments to implement the new comprehensive plan that you adopted in June. It also includes Phase 2 of the TSP update, including updated bicycle classifications. As Carla mentioned, a new community involvement program, also intended to implement the policies in the new comp plan.
 You're also accepting a report from the Community Involvement Committee, which has been our watchdog to oversee process during this work. And several other directions are included in the ordinance per some of your earlier amendments. Where we are in the process is you, Matt, are—
 on the 22nd of November to consider amendments to the package after having a hearing on those amendments on the 17th. And you have before you now a substitute ordinance with exhibits that correspond to the adopted amendments.
 The next step beyond today, assuming this goes to second reading, would be staff is going to be submitting the package to DLCD for their review and acknowledgement. There will be several follow-up projects that are following up per the directions you've given us in the ordinance, and then we'll gear up for staff training to implement this on January 1, 2018, working with PBOT and BDS in particular.
 And I think in terms of process, as I mentioned, this is the first reading of the substitute ordinance. We brought the record with the testimony from that time. This is not a hearing about new amendments. So I believe today, although you're going to want to ask if anyone has comments, the nature of that is focused on just the ordinance and the findings that are new.
 Okay, thank you. So the action before us this afternoon is to make a motion and take action on adoption of the substitute. The substitute captures all of the amendments that we brought forward, considered, and adopted that retuned the plan in many cases on many particular sites and in a number of policy issues.
 We have a couple of clarification items that we need to act on, right? Correct. On the exhibits. Yeah, and I can walk you through. There's two clarifications that we just want to be sure that you understood. One is that we've brought a revised Exhibit H for you today, which should have been passed out earlier.
 During the amendment process, Commissioner Fritz made some amendments to Title III language, which is related to the Community Involvement Committee appointment process. And we realized after the fact that the verbal description of the amendment that was discussed and the written description didn't exactly match. And I believe it was the Commissioner's intent that the council confirm the appointees to that committee. And that was not how it was written on the amendment, so we want to just discuss that.
 double, have you re-accept that motion to adopt that amendment with that language, which is reflected in the revised Exhibit H? Would you like us to do that now? Sure. Go ahead then, Commissioner. So moved. I'll second that. Any further discussion on accepting the updated Exhibit H? No.
 And I don't believe we need to take testimony on that, since that's simply a clarification. We'll take testimony on the adoption of the substitute if there is any. OK, let's take a vote, please, on that. Clarification? No, thank you.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. And then Exhibit O. This is essentially a typo, but since it was written incorrectly when you actually voted, we want to just be sure you understood. There was an Exhibit O, which is the list of sites you'd like us to reconsider and do further research on and come back later. One of the addresses was off by one number, and it should have been 506-
 Thompson rather than 505, and we just want to correct the record there, so we've substituted that. You don't have a new version of that because we caught it before we distributed the larger package. Can we just do that as a stenographer's mistake, or...?
 We just want you to be aware that we corrected it, so I don't think it requires a – I'm glad I'm not the only one who does that. Note it as a correction. Since it involved an address. I've moved, and I still use my old zip code. Okay, so then I will move the substitute ordinance as further amended by our revision to these exhibits. Is there a second for that? And then is there anyone that wants to testify before the council takes action on accepting the substitute?
 If not, then roll call vote on accepting the substitute, please. Novick? Aye. Fritt? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? We'll have a few more things to say next week, Mr. Engstrom, about you and the rest of this team and your good work on this. But this is a mammoth undertaking.
 paper stack indicates, but only a little bit is really revealed by the size of the stack of paper, the thousands of people that participated and a significant revision of the direction that we're taking as a city to accommodate growth. So I'll have more to say then, but I really appreciate the good work as always from this Bureau, and this is the map for our city to be a city of 850,000 people, so the weight of that number has been on
 our minds and our shoulders the whole time, and I think we got it right. All right. Thank you very much, and we'll see you next week for second reading at 2 p.m. on the 21st. Thank you. Thank you. Well done. Unfortunately, we didn't schedule these items without a break, and so we have to adopt 1415, but then…
 Maybe that's gonna take us a little while, but we'll probably have to take a break before 3, so let's take 1415 Time off what are we doing? 1415 1415 adopt a connectivity strategy for comprehensive plan centers in eastern neighborhoods Yes
 Well, I was told that since this was the mayor's idea, he would have some comments, but I've got comments for both of us. Okay, go right ahead. I'll read mine first, and then maybe I'll pan you yours. Earlier this year, we adopted a new cop plan policy calling for the creation of new connections through blocks to improve access to community destinations in the eastern neighborhood pattern area. Okay.
 This ordinance builds on an already existing city code requirement and requires no changes to Title 17 or Title 33. The ordinance provides further guidance on the application of existing street connectivity requirements when redevelopment occurs in designated centers in eastern neighborhoods. In addition, this council action would direct PBOT to consider whether developers who create new street or pathway connections should receive transportation system development charge credit as part of the TSDC update currently underway.
 Yeah, the only thing I'd add is that this is technical stuff, and some –
 people's eyes glaze over when we work on this kind of thing, but ours don't because I think we understand how important this is. And from my view, the hardest thing in urban planning today is very different than the hardest thing was 20 years ago. Maybe the hardest thing 20 years ago is how do we build urban buildings and does anybody want to live in them? Well, we've answered those two questions. But now the question is how do you take formerly suburban places and carefully, incrementally, inclusively actually make them urban? And
 and that challenge is really in front of you and all the other planners working on these issues now in this cop plan and going forward is we've got a lot of the city that was built
 around the car and the car only and And really not even with good circulation for cars in some cases So this is this effort to try to carefully knit those pieces of the city together is really important. So never. Thank you It's a major challenge. Yes. Good afternoon mayor and commissioners. My name is Denver Agarda I'm a senior transportation planner with the Portland Bureau of Transportation so following up on your action on the the
 Comprehensive Plan Early Implementation Package. Three weeks ago, you adopted, you approved one amendment, number 50, which directed PBOT to prepare the ordinance that's here before you today.
 This ordinance advances new policy direction that was adopted in June with the comprehensive plan. Specifically, it calls for new connections in eastern neighborhoods and also for future street connection plans and centers, the areas that are targeted for the most growth and change over the next 20 years.
 Historically, Portland has placed requirements on development to meet street spacing standards. This has produced the gridded street networks that you're familiar with in inner neighborhoods. Our existing street spacing standards per our comprehensive plan policies, TSP objectives, and the city code are 530 feet between full street connections and 330 feet between pedestrian and bicycle connections.
 We also adopt street plans in some areas to define where we anticipate new streets to be located. In some areas where there's not...
 the spacing standard that's required we adopt these street plans to guide the alignment and function of those new connections gateway regional center is one example it's had a conceptual street plan since 2000 it was last updated in 2009 so that's one example but there are several of these city-wide
 As one step towards advancing those policies, I mentioned a moment ago, PBOT obtained funding for the current fiscal year, 16-17, to carry out a connected center street plan, which is a more comprehensive planning effort to assess connectivity and needs, opportunities for new connections in the Jade District and the Rosewood Neighborhood Center.
 The outcome will be a tailored plan for connectivity specific to those areas, and that plan will also create a model that we can use in other centers citywide for achieving connectivity. That will be completed next year.
 Another step to advance the connectivity policies is the ordinance that's before you today, the Connectivity Strategy for Centers in Eastern Neighborhoods. This would adopt a strategy to achieve connectivity in these centers. As you can see in the map, they're shown in dark gray.
 the strategy offers further guidance on the already existing city code in essence it would strengthen our commitment and resolve to improving accessibility and connectivity in these centers the aim is to avoid missing connections and opportunities for new connections as development occurs with the newly adopted zoning zoning code um
 um most importantly where the connections are needed the most which is in these centers in eastern neighborhoods where we lack basic connectivity and level of service from our street network um this the parcels that are furthest away from a parallel street and the parcels that are larger in size so that's essentially what the ordinance directs pbot to do
 At the same time, it also directs PBOT to look at the potential for credit to developers who create new street connections as part of the transportation system development charge update that's underway. Again, this ordinance would not change existing city code.
 The final slide I wanted to show is from the comp plan investment strategy. The circles that are shown on this chart are centers citywide. The ones that are further to the right are the centers that are targeted to accommodate the most more growth. The ones that are at the top are the centers that are most efficient in infrastructure growth.
 The dark red circles are centers with higher than average concentrations of vulnerable residents. And the centers in the eastern neighborhoods that are shown on the map that's being adopted with this ordinance are the ones shown in yellow.
 So as you can see, these are primarily the ones that are most efficient of the centers and also the ones that are in those areas with higher vulnerable residents. The size of the circle, again, represents? It represents the type of center. So we have Central City, which is the largest, and then the regional centers, Gateway, and then the town centers are the next one down. The neighborhood centers are the newly adopted centers that we adopted in June. Thank you.
 I have a question. The blocks downtown are 200 by 200, so I'm wondering why...
 we would want more connectivity for pedestrians and setting it at 165. Well, the way that that works is it's, the connectivity standard is actually 330 between pedestrian connections. But what this strategy says is the parcels that are 165 feet from the nearest connection. So if you have two connections that are spaced 300 feet
 330 feet apart. The furthest any parcel would be would be the 165. So it's the same as our standard. So it actually is 330 feet
 feet between pedestrian connections. Rather than downtown, we have 200 feet block frontages, so it's 200 feet between full street connections. So it actually is further apart than the downtown grid. I'm not following that. The specific strategy is talking about the parcel. So if you have a property...
 and it's on a block that has the standard spacing, which is 330 feet between a pedestrian connection. The furthest that parcel can be from the closest connection is 165 feet. So that's where the 165 feet comes from. And then to clarify, downtown with the 200-foot blocks, the furthest you can be from a connection is 100 feet. Exactly. That's the relative. So we require pedestrian connections through city blocks downtown?
 No, because it's already a parcel would be no more than 100 feet away. So it wouldn't need – it would already meet the standard. But wherever you are downtown, you're no more than 100 feet from –
 from a connection because they're 200-foot blocks. If you're smack in the middle, you're 100 feet away. That's correct. So the idea here is to make sure that in these centers, you're no more than 165 feet away, which would be midway through a 330-foot block. That's correct. And what's about the 265? So that's our standard street spacing, which is 530 feet between full street connections.
 So that's where motor vehicles have access, essentially, is the distinction. Which is 10 per mile, right? Yeah, that's right. 10 per mile, exactly. That's where that standard comes from. Well, again, in some of the outer neighborhoods, the block is 200 by 450, and we wouldn't. So this seems like half of that would be 225, and now we're saying 265. That's right.
 So, yeah, it's our standard street spacing. The 330-ped connection and the 530 feet between full street connections is a regional, metro-regional transportation plan standard that we have adopted. So is this intended to be...
 The same as other neighborhoods? The same as downtown? What is the comparison? Why did you choose those numbers? It's because that's what our existing code is. It's not a change to the existing code.
 Our existing code has, on the earlier slide I showed, the spacing for pedestrian connections is 330 and the street connections is 530. So there's no change to what's already in the code. This is just specifying where the parcel would be in relationship to the next parallel street. So there's not a change.
 What's your underlying concern? Well, just are we making it connected enough, or are we being more restrictive here and requiring more streets here than we do downtown? No.
 And how does it reflect the lot pattern in East Portland with more of the junior acre type places? Yeah, so that's part of what we're doing is with this, we're emphasizing the centers as, you know, the areas where we anticipate the most growth, the areas where we anticipate and affect the most pedestrian activity. So we're trying to achieve the connectivity that we have as a standard citywide. That's partly why I was explaining the connected centers.
 plan project because for Jade and Rosewood, what we're trying to do is come up with a more tailored approach strategy for eastern neighborhoods. And so as a part of that process, we'll have a tailored street plan for that center. And our hope is that we can use that as a model to do more tailored street plans in the other centers that don't have street plans. I'm sorry to be dense on this. It's been quite a day.
 You're in the middle of a block, and you're 265 feet from either parallel street. That's more than in my neighborhood, where it's 450 for the long axis of the block. Our current standard would require that a new street connection be improved if it's triggered by the development. So that's our current standard. Let me maybe probe into it from a different angle, because I think I understand your –
 conundrum with the math but it's not about the math it's about are we being reasonable and equitable across neighborhoods and are we now i think this is a concern i want to make sure are we acknowledging are we working with the pattern that's there yeah
 uh is the way i would put it you know the pattern is there it can get better through more connectivity but because of how it was platted the first time there's some limitations to how good it's ever going to get from a pure planning standpoint so is that 265 foot rhythm the right one to take advantage of whatever the lotting pattern already is and you support one or in the areas that that would be opposed and now that i understand where you're standing in the middle
 In a not town centre neighbourhood like mine, you would require a street that's closer together than what we're requiring here. So this, yeah, this would be in those centres that are shown on the map and not in the neighbourhood? The block length would be 200 by...
 550, right, under this? The block spacing would be for full streets, 530 feet between full street connections. And in my neighborhood, it's 450. So why is it greater in a town center than it would be in a neighborhood like mine that doesn't have any semblance of a town center? Yeah, it's just the current standard that we have in place.
 but maybe that should change too i see what's happening yeah no i think i think that's true it's part of again why we are are doing this connected centers street plan is to do some more detailed analysis to identify the opportunities and see um realistically how we can produce the connectivity that we will need in these areas
 So as you, because you're not codifying this now. No. So as you go into codifying this, I think that's a good question. It is a good question, yes. Yeah. We shouldn't be bound by either old policy or metro policy. Yeah. But we're going to exceed the intent of metro policy, obviously, with what we're doing.
 but it ought to be reflective of both the reality of how that district got laid out in the first place, how that part of the city got laid out in the first place. So what's our best scenario in the future, and what's the street spacing for that? And then are we getting it right in terms of increasing that frequency of connection in centers, which is what the map appears to be doing? Yeah, we are –
 recognize that citywide standards have not been as successful and that we need to tailor our approaches to the pattern areas for the direction of the comp plan. But leaving aside measuring from the middle, here the blocks are going to be 350 by 550, right?
 Here are the blocks for full street connections would be 530 feet. Yeah. So I guess I'm asking for you to go back and look at is a very kind of, well, not rural, but certainly outer neighborhood pattern of streets the right thing in our town centers and particularly in these business areas that we really want more connectivity than would be standard in a residential area? That's a good question.
 Yeah, I guess, again, one of the philosophical – I'm agreeing with you. One of the philosophical drivers behind this is, look, the real estate market is really good. A lot of stuff is going to get redeveloped over the next 20 years. Got a second chance to get it right, albeit with some constraints on what's actually possible at 122nd and Division. But –
 we should go as far down that direction towards real connectivity as is feasible in that environment and not worry, you know, we just were talking about the south waterfront, very different situation. But come on, the developers there can afford to build some streets as that redevelopment occurs. And I don't think that's going to not be true five years from now. So do you feel a need to amend what we have, Amanda, or do you think? Yeah, I don't think it's intense enough for a town center.
 Particularly under B2, which is where it says about the halfway being 165 and 265, that is fewer street connections than in an outer neighborhood. Do I understand that would be changing the current standard? No. This doesn't change the standard. It doesn't. What I'm saying is that we should be. Yeah. So with the direction we had, we recognized that we were –
 We were not having the time to propose a code change before the adoption, and so we were working within the existing code, which gives us the authority to make the required connections at the spacing standard we currently have. And does this go into effect right now?
 Does it go into effect in 2018? It does, yes. Right now or later? Right now. So I'm comfortable with making this because at least we want this, right? Yeah. Then could we add, Commissioner, Part D that directs you to go back and look at actually what kinds of connectivity do we want in each of these areas? I offer a second to that amendment. Okay.
 Good direction. Denver, does that make sense? That's a good direction. That's . I also just wanted to note that this was prepared pursuant to an amendment we approved on November 22nd. So there's been a rather short turnaround time on that. Right. And I really appreciate you getting it and also the explanation that helps me to understand it. So yes, I think we should definitely adopt these as an absolute minimum, but probably we're going to want to have at least 200 by 450, if not 200 by 200 in some of these areas.
 Why don't we treat that as an amendment with a second? Yeah. So the sense of the amendment is PBOT's going to report back with recommendations for revised spacing standards. Yes. And it might be different in each of the areas, depending on what we – Yeah, for each of the areas. – community envisions. The only thing I want to say in support of the amendment is, given the warning we had, I am astonished that Amanda is able to focus on this level of detail. My brain is already frazzled, but I –
 I'll have some Halloween candy under my desk. I would move the amendment. Okay, so make sure I've got the sense of the amendment. It says PBOT is going to report back with recommended revised basic standards for each center. Thank you. Further discussion on that amendment, which is going to be a new item D under the council directs. Anyone want to speak on that amendment? Roll call. Roll call.
 music thank you commissioner hi i really really hope you uh appreciate you helping me puzzle it through because usually i think of these things 10 minutes too late so thank you hi chris hi too late at all okay um anyone else want to speak on this strategy overall here i have a comment yes please it's it's not directly related would you give me the indulgence of course um
 We went long today, and therefore we missed a very important event, which was the groundbreaking on the new county health building. Congratulations to Chair Khafre for moving that forward. But you said something a few minutes ago that stuck in my head, which is you talked about moving from a suburban style to an urban style form. And if I may, just very quickly, about seven or eight years ago, or just after Amanda and I got on the council,
 We had a plan for what was called a resource access center, and it was on Block U. And I think you all remember there was a lot of history about where it would be located, a lot of controversy, but it ended up in Block U. And as the new housing commissioner, I was presented with a diagram that showed a two- and three-story building on Block U that was going to be this fantastic new resource access center designed by Pulse Architecture, one of our great firms. And it was a big community win.
 And I was having breakfast with our friend Al Solheim, who knows something about development. And I was describing this project in the pipeline, and he looked at me kind of crooked, and he said, why on earth would you put a three-story building in the middle of downtown on a block like that? And so he took the napkin at the diner, and he redesigned it. And he just said, what if instead of taking the whole block, you stack the building?
 And he said, by the way, you'd want to put it on Broadway because you want to have the nicest building adjacent to the street to have the streetscape. So I took his napkin, which I think I have somewhere. It's good to keep those napkins. Yeah. And I went back to, you know, the team. And in those days, it was Margaret Van Vliet. It was Steve Rudman. It was –
 PDC, the architect, I mean, the certified, and Doreen Binder. And I said, Al Solheim said, why are we doing a three-story building? Why isn't it urban-formed? Well, Hulse, being the geniuses they are, came back with a new concept where they just stacked the building. And since the whole block was going to be designed and divided into three quadrants, they just stacked the quadrants and created an urban-formed building.
 Well, that would be a great story if that was the end of the story. But what it did is it opened up the second half of Block U, and that was now found space. City, I think on your – or either the – just before you came in or just after you came in, the city finalized a transfer where we donated the space to the county.
 And then under a previous deal around urban renewal money that I think Jeff Kogan negotiated, where the county got some money in exchange for agreeing to new boundaries in the River District, the county then came in and said, we want to put a county health building there. And if we had not, and today the groundbreaking on a beautiful building that Debra is leading, designed by ZRZ, but to your point, if we had gone with a suburban style two or three story structure there,
 we would not have the county health building there. Now we have two distinguished buildings, which will be side by side, because we observe the urban form. And I want to just do a shout-out to Al Solheim, because I wasn't smart enough to catch that. You're smart enough to pick up on it, though. And now it's going to be, in effect, overshadowed by the scale of what happens on the post office site, so it would have looked even more absurd to have a suburban-scale development there where the Bud Clark Commons could be. Well, what an irony, because...
 The post office site wasn't even a twinkle in our eye. And the county had to actually go back to the neighborhood and get permission for a taller building. Right, I remember that. Because we weren't sure whether it was out of scale. Now it's actually one of the more modest buildings. Yeah, and that's why this stuff is so important because that's a concrete building. It'll be there for 200 years. Nobody is going to move Broadway. Right.
 I mean, Broadway is going to be where it is forever. And so that's why this work, you know, we get one second chance on these areas that have the wrong street spacing. Because the first time around it was cheap cinder block buildings that are going to last less than 50 years and they're going to go away. But when somebody builds a four-story concrete building on that site, that street's never moving. So that's why the work they're doing now on this is really important. We can't get it right the second time because we won't get a third chance.
 So good stuff. Okay, anyone else to be heard on this item? So it's going to pass to second reading as amended, right, next week with the comp plan, correct? Got that right? Good work. Thank you. We're going to take a 20-minute recess and come back at 3 o'clock for our final item today. We'll see you about tomorrow.
 Okay. Good afternoon. We'll return to our business with item 1416, please.
 I'm in cities marijuana business regulations. Thank you, Mayor. As we all know, we've been continuing to work on the cannabis program within the Office of Neighborhood Involvement with all of your input. We had the council work session on November 8th. And today's hearing is the next step on what's likely to be a series of discussions and improvements to our marijuana regulatory program.
 I want to very much commend the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement staff who have taken steps to rename the programme the Cannabis Policy Programme as advised by community representatives. But since the city only regulates marijuana and marijuana products, we can't make a blanket change from marijuana to cannabis in city code and we'll be approaching that issue a little more delicately and surgically. We are shifting our programme terminology to cannabis wherever we can.
 Also, another point of concern I've heard from some local owners who own existing medical dispensaries but are not yet fully licensed to sell recreational cannabis. Those dispensaries that have been selling recreational cannabis during the grace period that sunsets on December 31st of this year,
 will be able to continue to operate. We want to be very clear that the city and the cannabis policy program will not be taking enforcement measures against any legally operating marijuana business that is currently waiting in line for its recreational license to be issued. If you're in the line for a license, we will not shut you down and we'll continue to work with you as we have been over the past year.
 I do realize that there's a backlog on the Oregon Liquid Control Commission side as well, and I know that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement staff are working closely with their OLCC counterparts to help businesses transact.
 transition to the recreational market. And of course, council will remember last year we had a series of several hearings in which industry representatives and community folks helped us to set up the program with its thousand foot buffers from different kinds of establishments and a number of other safeguards. So this is another, and we said at the time that since the state rules keep
 evolving and ours should as well that we would be coming back multiple times and so today we're considering a set of technical and a few more substantial code fixes to provide parity with the state rules as well as to introduce a new license type. Commissioner Saltzman and his staff from the Bureau of Development Services have proposed some additional amendments that Matt Grum was going to come and present on behalf of Commissioner Saltzman because Commissioner had to go home.
 And I would stress that I believe we've come to consensus within the City Bureau about today's package of amendments, including this one. Yes, thank you. Matt Grum with Commissioner Dan Saltzman. You have before you the substitute Exhibit A that hopefully we can move and put on the table. And...
 Basically, it's very straightforward and simple. We definitely wanted to undo some of the backlog that we've heard about. Bureau of Development Services, we know, has a lot of people trying to get permits right now in our city. And what we've basically done, really its key is page six, and there are copies on both sides for the public if they'd like to take a look at them. What we basically said is that while you're going through that permitting process, as
 done the applicable permits, you can show that you're working with them, then ONI will be allowed to give the license to operate the retail or wholesale establishment. This does not deal with producers or processors, and therefore people can start their business and then get through the normal process, as like any business would do in Portland.
 Yes, and I said earlier that since Commissioner Saltzman is in charge of development services and fire, obviously it's his call on whether the businesses should receive their marijuana license before or after that process is completed. In some business cases, they would have to complete that process before getting their certificates of occupancy. But in this case, except for producers and processors, that's the direction that Commissioner Saltzman advises that we take, and we support that.
 Commissioner Fritz, if you'll offer just to put this amendment on the table, I'll second it in Dan's absence. Thank you. So we propose the substitute, which contains what Matt Graham just described. Thank you. And I'd be pleased to second it. Thank you. So should we take the action to accept this amendment yet? No, what I'd like to do is put them all on the table, take testimony, and then vote on each one at a time. The second amendment is mine. What is the second amendment? Okay.
 I know, I was just testing um
 We could call Liam Frost out from my office since he just became a citizen. He is an expert on the Constitution. I know, me too. The question is, do you have a personal right to carry marijuana or only for part of a well-organized militia? Well, as you remember, a couple of weeks ago, we did give people the right to possess cannabis in city parks, and that was an amendment. Of course, you still can't use it in public as alcohol, but it's okay to have it in your pocket.
 This second amendment is to the minimum standards in 14B130.040. And this is to make sure that... I'll just read it. It currently says, no medical dispensary, marijuana retailer...
 may operate or conduct business within 1,000 feet of a school and various other things. We want to amend that to add marijuana retail courier, which may locate its licensed premises for business operations. In other words, if you happen to live near a park, you may still be the beneficiary of a delivery service when one is set up, and this amendment makes that clear.
 So would somebody like to second that one, please? I'll second that. So the courier can operate in public right away and deliver to customers, but can't set up the business? Right. Their main place cannot be, but they can deliver once both the state and we allow that kind of business to be licensed. All right. And then Victor Salinas from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement will walk us through the other proposed changes. Okay.
 Thank you. Do you want to start with? Yes, and before we start, I'm Teresa Marchetti. I'm the Livability Programs Manager. It came to my attention that in the ordinance document under number 6, the third sentence has a Scribner's error, and so I'd like to just quickly propose a change to that sentence
 The sentence currently reads, this license category would allow marijuana retailers who want to make marijuana and marijuana items available for purchase solely through delivery to establish delivery businesses in the city. I'm sorry, Chase, I've got to interrupt you. Has everybody else found it? Page six of the substitute. Page six of the original. So the ordinance document. It's in our book. What section? Page one, page six. Number six. Oh. Okay.
 Of the ordinance. No, but what's the section, code section? Section, it's not the code. It's just the ordinance document, section one. Oh, all right. Hang on a minute. Number six. I'm confused. Under the findings, the sixth finding. Lighten the day. That begins with if the application is for? That begins with the regulated marijuana industry. On the first page of the ordinance. On the first page of the ordinance. Yes, the first page of the ordinance. Got it. Yes.
 We all got all on it? Yep. Sorry, go ahead, Teresa. Just start from that again, please. Absolutely. The third sentence of the sixth paragraph should read, this license category would allow marijuana retailers who want to make marijuana and marijuana items available for purchase solely through delivery from established businesses in the city. So instead of to, it's from? Correct. We just insert that because it's also to establish businesses.
 delivery businesses going through delivery from established businesses in the city all right so adding changing two to from getting rid of the word delivery yes sir okay that's a housekeeping change thank you thank you and now i'll turn it over to victor okay for the substance good afternoon uh mayor hell's commissioner fritz commissioner novick and commissioner fish um
 I'd like to offer a presentation on the proposed court amendments this afternoon. So just as a reminder for the community in the room and those listening online, the
 City Council, you adopted and enacted the marijuana or the cannabis policy program to develop local regulations to meet the needs of the community, of our landscape, our geographical area, differently than the regulations that were established by the state that cover a broad range of environments from the coastal region to the southern and eastern regions.
 So the regulatory framework is grounded in collaborative enforcement to provide clear guidelines and expectations for marijuana businesses to mitigate harmful impacts. So the purpose of establishing the Cannabis Policy Program was to inform and develop recommendations on cannabis policy for the responsible integration of the industry into the business community of Portland to address potential environmental impacts related to livability, public safety...
 and to address security of the industry, community expectations, and unlicensed locations who are currently not addressed through both OHA or the OLCC. They can only address licensed locations. Yes.
 So the first point that I want to speak on are proposed code amendment to allow recreational delivery within the city of Portland. So this would effectively lift the restriction for delivery for all marijuana retailers, including marijuana retail couriers, which I'll speak to in just a moment.
 This would allow us to increase accessibility, especially for recreational consumers that don't want to leave their house and want to be able to receive deliveries at their home. For economic development, to be able to allow market entry to a broader range of entrepreneurs and reduce the possibility for DUIs.
 The other proposed changes that we are making are the microentrepreneurship change. This would effectively add four new license categories, the first one being the marijuana retail courier. This would not be for a delivery service, but rather a marijuana retailer that only makes marijuana and marijuana items available for purchase through delivery and not on-site sales.
 The other two next to are the micro producer tier one, which is an opportunity for micro entrepreneurs to be able to enter the market with lower capital investments. Micro producer tier two is...
 The same thing. Tier 1 is for canopy sizes, so that's the size of a plant canopy under 649 square feet and under. The microproducer tier 2 is for 1,249 square feet or lower. And then the last one is the micro wholesaler.
 So in terms of the retail courier, it allows market entry, like I said, with a lower capital investment. It still requires an OLCC marijuana retailer license with endorsements for delivery to operate. They can only make marijuana available through delivery and no on-site sales. They're exempt from the 1,000-foot requirement for marijuana retails. However, they still need to be at least 1,000 feet away from schools.
 So to be clear, the way this is written, you couldn't sort of qualify here and then like a good humor truck, park on the street and open for business. This is just a courier. Yeah, so they need to follow the regulations established through the ORA, Oregon Administrative Rules Act.
 that the OLCC has established. So you have to have a physical location and they have to be received, they have to use bona fide orders, so they have to be received ahead of time to be able to make the delivery. So, for example, somebody wouldn't be able to call a car that's driving around and have them deliver marijuana or marijuana items.
 So, again, they would need a physical location to operate within the city of Portland. They're not allowed to conduct on-site sales. They must abide with the OLCC administrative rules on recreational marijuana delivery. So some of the things are that they can't deliver after 9 p.m. The orders have to be received between...
 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. And the licensing fee for a would be $2,000, similar to a medical dispensary. Marijuana retailers will also be allowed to deliver, again, recreational marijuana, not just the couriers.
 So as far as the Tier 1, it's an indoor canopy of 649 square feet or less, and they require OLCC microproducer Tier 1 license. The Tier 2 is 1,249 square feet or less, and again, they require microproducer Tier 2 license through the OLCC.
 And lastly, we have micro-wholesalers. So this, again, would allow market entry with a lower capital investment, and they would only be allowed to purchase from micro-producers Tier 1, Tier 2, licensed through the OOCC as well as the city. Okay.
 Additional code changes is a requirement to remove the final inspections and approval building permit requirement for wholesalers, retailers, and dispensaries, as introduced by Commissioner Fritz. This would maintain the requirement for producers and processors to mitigate potential harmful impacts to the community.
 and life safety incidents, but it would remove it as a requirement for licensure for wholesalers, retailers, and dispensaries. Okay.
 I haven't had the opportunity to discuss this with Commissioner Saltzman. He was putting this forward. I would assume there would be some kind of evaluation period to see how it goes. We had that discussion this morning about unsafe electrical systems and various other things that can sometimes be corrected or have to be corrected when the occupancy permit is issued. Commissioner Saltzman, feel free.
 comfortable allowing this to happen and for the obvious enabled involvement to give the okay to go ahead and start selling in advance of those issues being checked off for those particular retailers. Absolutely. And you know when staff are conducting the final inspections for licensure if there's anything that is overtly obvious to them
 not a trained professional in that field. If there's anything overly obvious, they can always connect with applicant and with Bureau of Development Services to address that. Yeah, but the onus is definitely on Bureau of Development Services and FIRE Bureau and people who trust their expertise. Absolutely.
 So in terms of the technical fixes that we're proposing, they modify the hours of operation to match state hours of operation between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. It strikes the requirement that video data be stored off-site. It clarifies process requirements for air filtration, compliance with zoning codes, and minimum distance requirements for medical dispensaries, marijuana retailers, and retail couriers.
 And also, it allows for a five-day grace period for medical dispensaries transitioning to the retail market. So that way, when they go to WALCC, they have to turn over their medical dispensary license right away or registration. So that would allow a buffer so that they're not operating out of compliance with the city.
 So, for example, if they get their OLCC state license on a Friday or on a Saturday, for example, we're not open, but they'd be able to come in Monday to get then their city license and transition over. Did we say five business days or just five days? I believe the code says five business days. Good. But if it doesn't, let's make sure it does. Yeah, five business days.
 And then standardized response times of 10 days for businesses to submit missing documentation, to submit an appeal. And basically this allows for less confusion on part of the business as to when they're supposed to respond to a letter or submit missing documentation. And then there's other technical fixes for grammar and clarity.
 I also wanted to offer some information on the percentage of total applications. So we received a total of 534 applications, and we've issued approximately 100 licenses of the various license types combined. And the majority of the concentration tends to be in...
 South East Uplift neighborhood coalition area and the East Portland neighborhood coalition area. Do we have any sense of how many additional licenses will be approved by ONI with the amendments that we're proposing, ones that are currently stuck in the permit center? No.
 Yeah, so there's about 320 applications under review. Of those, 80 of them are waiting on us. So this could be that they might have, depending on a final inspection, initial review, or yeah, so I'm sorry, final inspection or initial review or final application review.
 With that, there's also 240 applications that have missing information, approximately. They could be based on...
 They have missing or outstanding requirements for deadline extensions. So there's about 115 that have requested extensions to submit missing documentation, and there's about 125 that have not requested extensions. So that group is missing information in their application? That's right. Sorry. That group was missing information in their application in some cases, but
 They're aware that it's missing, or in all cases they're aware that it's missing? In all the cases they're aware that it's missing, and most of the time 115 that are on deadline extensions are because of building code permits. Can I just take those numbers for a sec? And I appreciate this chart very much.
 So it sounds to me like we have 100 that are approved, 80 in the pipeline that are close to being approved, and then about 100 where there's some other ministerial things. That would get us to 50 percent of the applications approved.
 Can I provide just a little bit of clarity there? Please. So there are actually about 107 that have been approved. There's an additional 52, or I'm sorry, 62 that are in conditionally approved status that aren't reflected on this chart, which means that they are waiting for state licensure. So they've done everything that we need them to do, but that's a pretty significant number. Yeah.
 The 115 we know that have already requested a deadline extension, the vast majority of them are waiting on building permits. So we expect that to turn around fairly quickly with the change if approved by council today. In addition to that, there have been...
 50 that we are pretty sure have been abandoned after us reaching out multiple times. We still haven't received any responses from them, but they are technically still in process. And then there's an additional 30 that have either been denied or were withdrawn. So that kind of paints a little bit, I think, more robust picture of what the licensing – we're really –
 I mean, initially, for sure, we were in a backlog type of situation. At this point, we're at about a six- to eight-week turnaround from the time that we receive an application to the time it can be issued, pending, of course, that the state has licensed the location, because, again, they handle financials, product safety, those sort of overarching umbrella requirements for the whole state. So that's enormously helpful. And so if you take...
 The applications that have been approved, add the conditional approvals, and then the ones where there's a request for an extension and they're in the game. Can you hazard a guess as to when those – I'm innumerate, and I don't know how Amanda did this earlier, but that sounds to me like about 200 in –
 over 250. Can you give us a sense of, in a perfect world, when will those 250 clear so that we'll be left with the applications that are incomplete?
 Well, we anticipate that the medical dispensary, of which we have 82 currently, that there's going to be a certain percentage of them, conservatively I'm saying about 30, that will almost initially make the switch to recreational in January. So that will account for about 30 recreational licenses, and we've considered that. It's...
 A little bit more unclear when we're getting at producers and processors, both of which we have 75 licenses pending currently for each category. But it's kind of unclear as to where they are in meeting the permitting requirements with BDS. I'm assuming we're going to pass these –
 well-crafted amendments today or next week, whatever. Would it be burdensome for the next six months to ask for a monthly update, just an email that has...
 a chart that shows applications by category, where we are. I would prefer just to have gross data, aggregate data. My team polls them weekly, and they're amazing. They are their own biggest critics, so they're constantly looking at how they can improve process. That's one indicator. That's one way we can measure whether these amendments that we're going to be voting on have had an impact.
 We'll continue to monitor it. There was some concern in the media about lots of businesses being found out of compliance and shut down on January 1st. Let me say again, as long as there's good faith efforts that they're in the process, that is not going to happen. Even if we wanted to, we don't have the staff to do that anyway. So we appreciate that most of the businesses are working their way through the process. And as Teresa said, I think with Commissioner Stoltzman's amendments, that there is a clear path forward for most of them.
 Thank you. I think one of the numbers that helps paint the picture, too, is that we have approximately or actually we have 208 unique locations total out of the 534 applications. So as Teresa was mentioning, many of these are going to be transitioning over right away on January 1st. So...
 So I wanted to share some of the information on the licensing requirements. So all licenses must not allow on-site consumption on premises. They must have security systems in place. Previously, they were not able to have delivery, so that's one of the things that we're...
 Proposing today and they must display their license. All marijuana retailers and medical dispensaries must have someone designated at entry to check IDs. Hours of operation must be no earlier than 7 a.m. now and no later than 10 p.m. And must provide secure environment or security plan.
 So all marijuana producers and wholesalers must not be open to the public and must install air filtration systems in the building, as well as ventilation to mitigate odor impacts. And all marijuana processors must not be open to the general public, must adhere to state and local regulations regarding equipment, and commercial equipment must be in line with the regulations with the Department of Agriculture. Thank you.
 So that's what we have for you. Any questions? Questions. Now that we've seen the content of this. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay, do we have folks signed up to speak on this, Carla? Yes, we have seven people. The first three, please come on up, are Perry Salzhauer, Amy Margolis, and Megan Wallstatter. Come on up, please. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to be heard today. My name is Perry Salzaur. I'm a partner at Greenlight Law Group. We are a law firm. We do focus on the cannabis industry. We do not exclusively work in the cannabis industry. But we do have approximately 100 clients, I guess nationwide, that are planning to do or intending to do business in Portland and the surrounding area today.
 To the extent that the general theme of the amendments in the packages today is inclusiveness and lowering barriers to entry, my firm has a proposed amendment that I believe you have received that did not make it accessible.
 to the previous work session. Do I need to read that? We would like to propose it for a formal reading and potentially action at the next meeting. Do I need to read that into the record, or is that? No, we've got it. Okay, great. We've got it, thank you. So as you can see, the general theme here, again, is lowering barriers to entry to the industry and inclusiveness. And a few notes, the OLCC regulations,
 OER 845-025-1115 and 1230, they only prohibit extraction, cannabinoid extraction, in exclusively residential zones, which represents a carefully reasoned decision that the OOCC had made during their year-long rulemaking process. In essence, they've already determined that they don't believe that there is a danger in processing non-extracts in residential zones.
 Moreover, many of these types of processors, they make truly medicinal products, lotions, tinctures, capsules, edibles that utilize very safe, sometimes stovetop manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to plenty of other activities that the city already allows to proceed as cottage industries. Simply heating things up, blending. It's very similar to making jam.
 This would significantly lower the barriers to entry in the marijuana industry for a significant portion of historically disadvantaged communities who lack the ability to enter commercial leases due to lack of access to capital or other financial markets, and would also free up what is becoming a very tight market for commercial space for other non-cannabis-related uses –
 given that these businesses don't necessarily need commercial space if not for the ONI regulation. Again, you know, anything that lowers barriers to entry will necessarily increase competition by allowing additional participants, and that would also have a corresponding increase in tax revenue for both the city and the state. MR. So I want to make sure I'm not completely unsympathetic to the idea of the amendment, but I think
 just to make sure I understand. So one, I'm just struggling a little bit with context that as I recall, we've got a lot of jurisdictions around us that aren't allowing anything.
 So we're allowing marijuana businesses to locate in our commercial zones. Sure. But you're suggesting that under these conditions they should be allowed to locate in residential zones, right? Yeah, effectively to work out of their own home. Given they would have to comply, as it says, with all other OCC regulations, including security and all BDS regulations, as well as any DOA if they're making it. That's what I was – that's my next –
 thought here. Stick with us. We have had a long day, so we're doing a little thinking out loud. Some of us are better at it than others. But we have a home occupation provision in our zoning code already. So I guess I'm wondering how that would apply, regardless of your amendment.
 Or maybe with your amendment. Commissioner Saltzman, staff and mine had some discussion about that very issue about home occupations. Tell me what you concluded because I haven't thought about that. We concluded we don't have the information to make a change at this time. We can certainly add this to the proposals for the next time around. But...
 I was even ready to take it out of the cannabis regulations because there are building code regulations, but in discussion with Commissioner Saltzman and his staff, we're not ready to do that at this time. Can I follow up on the mayor's question? So I think I understand the gist of this. We have had a very long day, so bear with us. Would your amendment...
 What's the impact of your amendment on our current anti-concentration rules about dispersing these businesses?
 Well, I think that would be determined based on how many folks want to operate in this fashion. I mean, if at some point we were persuaded this is a good idea, are we still assuming that it's one every couple blocks, or are you envisioning that you could have a multifamily property and on each floor someone running a home-based business?
 Well, I tried to limit it to the single dwelling zones. So since you're the author, I'm just asking you, is it your intention that the anti-concentration rules would otherwise apply? No. No.
 It should be determined. Yeah, well, yeah. I guess the purpose of introducing this now is to get it and enter it into the conversation for the next round. Yeah, it's really appropriate. I'm surprised more people don't pitch amendments on that table. Right. I think since you're hearing from the sponsor today –
 in a conversation involving Commissioner Saltzman that this may not be ready for prime time. If you have additional thoughts you want to share by email to each of us, including any examples where this might currently be working in other jurisdictions and some specific examples of what you think this is like, the analogies of similar home-based businesses and why you think it doesn't raise concerns
 life safety concerns or other kinds of concerns, I'd like to know more. I would be more than happy to work with Council and staff. And it would be worth, obviously, staff talking with BPS and BDS about this. I mean, I'm just thinking about another example. I stumbled on a properly permitted, legally operating home-based business where someone had converted their garage into a winery.
 and then they had the enterprising spirit of when Sunday Parkways happened to be going by their house, they had a wine tasting. So even more people discovered them. But from everything I could tell, there had not been any significant friction with their neighbors because they'd followed the rules for, you know, fencing and screening and hours of operation and noise and all the rest. So, you know, upon its face, the idea of this amendment
 at least scrolling in with that and saying, well, if it's okay for somebody, not a distillery, because they can blow up, but a winery or, you know, this kind of marijuana business, could it be a home-based business? I think your question about what about the thousand-foot
 separation is also legitimate because I wouldn't want a whole block full. I seem to recall, Mayor, that we had the Widmer brothers once sitting where you're sitting. Yeah, right. And they talked about starting their business in a bathtub. Yeah, bathtub brewery. So I think the thing I guess I would be concerned about is creating this exception and then having someone who doesn't have your ethics. Right.
 using it as a loophole to do a different kind of business. So we want to know how it works and how we make sure that it's limited in scale. And we'd be happy to seek advice from the marijuana policy oversight team. It's worth looking into, so we appreciate you putting it on the table. Thank you very much, and I appreciate the time. Okay, please. Good afternoon. I'm Sally Allworth. I'm the co-founder of Luminous Botanicals. We make cannabis concentrates for the medical market.
 I'm here today to speak in support of the ordinance change that would remove the requirement for all cannabis businesses to file for a change of use permit in the city of Portland. We'd like to use our business as an example. In August this year, my business partner and I purchased a 1,200-square-foot commercial building.
 zone general commercial with an F1 manufacturing existing occupancy on the building. Before buying it, we spent approximately 12 hours at BDS visiting every department to see whether there were any issues that might keep us from being licensed or would require the kind of renovation that we couldn't afford. We are a two-person operation, a micro-business operation,
 All signs look good, we purchased the building and then we applied for our change of use. Our first check sheet came back from the water department and they are requesting that we install, I have to look at this,
 A premise isolation backflow prevention device at the property line. This has to be installed above grade in a heated enclosure. In case you're not familiar with these, because I wasn't, they are normally required where hazardous chemicals are being used or where equipment is directly plumbed into the water supply.
 In our process, we take cannabis leaves, we steep them in a blend of organic almond and coconut oil over low heat. We filter out the plant material, and we're done.
 All of the cannabinoids are naturally oil-soluble, so we don't need to use any harsh chemicals in the process. And other than our three-basin sink, nothing is plumbed into the water system. Can I just comment on that for a second? Because I know the commissioner in charge of the Water Bureau. Very well. I'm just guessing. I know nothing about, and I'll obviously take a look at your circumstances, but
 I'm guessing this is probably under the category of people struggling in good faith.
 to fit a new enterprise and a new use under an existing code. And this is what we get a lot of feedback from the public on when there's something new, is that when it doesn't quite fit and then someone is being asked to reconcile maybe a conflicting code or make their best judgment, that's where sometimes the delay and the confusion comes in. It doesn't mean that people aren't operating it in good faith. It just may mean that our code needs to be updated or something.
 someone needs to be given some guidance that this actually doesn't fall into that category. So I think as part of the continuing recap work, with respect to all of our bureaus, if there are regulatory issues that come up where just you think that the city code doesn't quite get it, I would not be shy about going directly to the commissioners in charge or directors with your list so that those can be reviewed.
 We have been told so far that there is no review process or appeals process. Yeah, not necessarily, but there's certainly a commissioner in charge that has some oversight of how to do it. We have an informal review process in this building, which is we all text or call Mac Grum. But it may also require a change in the code. Right, right.
 I'll just give you the second example that we've run into so far, and that was Department of Transportation. The building we purchased was vacant for a year, and so transportation has ruled that we will be increasing the foot traffic at the building. Again, two-person operation.
 To the extent that they are requiring that we tear out all of the existing sidewalks, expand the parking strips, expand the sidewalks, which would cause us to have to tear out the existing ADA ramp on the building. We need to remove a curb cut and then reconfigure the parking lot in the building.
 in the back of the building. There is at least an appeals process there, and we're slowly and expensively working our way through that. But if we were operating any other type of small manufacturing business, none of this would have come into play. It's exclusively because of the requirement in the current...
 policy or marijuana policy ordinance that we go through a change of use process so we strongly support removing that requirement
 Is that in the amendments before us, to change that change of use requirement? Yes, that's the Commissioner's amendment, and it does point out the challenges. It also points out that perhaps the businesses before didn't necessarily change, because it was just a commercial business, they didn't file for a change of occupancy. And so you inherited previous problems. And when we had the last work session, somebody told me about something that went back to 1976,
 which was the main point of where it should have been fixed. And we have had similar things for different businesses. The pizza place on Belmont is one that comes to mind where they would charge $45,000 for moving across the street. So although...
 I think what I'm hearing is that cannabis businesses have said treat us just like any other business, but in fact other businesses may not have done the right thing in the first place, and so we therefore need to, finding out about them, have some kind of exceptions or appeal process. Thank you. That's very helpful. I'm glad we're getting rid of the change of use. You're in an industrial zone? We're in general commercial, which allows for a small amount of manufacturing footprint. Yeah, okay. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Megan Wallstatter. I am the owner of Pure Green Dispensary on Sandy 37th and Sandy Boulevard. We've been open for three years, almost three years, and also part of the Oregon Cannabis Association. I am also a member of the city's MPOT, and I have a couple different things that I'd like to talk about today.
 I value all of the staff's time that they have invested, and I realize that we're all just trying to do the best job possible at the city level and at the industry level. And there's a catch-up that we have to play. Challenges with the MPOCs.
 is that there is a divide between industry and non-industry people, and there's a lot of education that needs to go into those meetings. In fact, some of the members there are trying to reinstate or relook at things that the city council has already voted against doing. So it's hard on that level with the lack of education between the non-industry and industry people. So I would encourage you guys to look at that.
 The application process has a lot of duplications at the state level. Personally, when I submitted my medical application at the city for my retail license, I was handed back my medical application that they photocopied for me at Oney and told me, here is your recreational license.
 at the tune of a $950 application review process for both applications. And the only difference between medical and recreational retailer licenses being able to obtain the locks. So it's literally the same application. I know they've made some improvements since I applied, but it's definitely worth noting.
 I do believe there is a huge disconnect with BDS and ONI. I have a master's in urban regional planning. I understand BDS. I have navigated BDS myself for my own business. What I'm observing happening is that there is a disconnect between BDS, who is very proficient at being able to make sure code works for buildings and for people.
 We are growing plants, and we are also processing and manufacturing, and there's a disconnect as far as how those work.
 Fields come together. I would encourage the city to look at OSHA regulations there are two issues that I'm seeing happen one is the co2 mitigation within process producers licenses and Depending on the inspector or the day you're getting different information in the middle of November the provisions change So everyone who was able to get their license before the middle of November did not have to comply with these very strict co2 rules and
 So there's measurements about PPMs that are about worker safety, but that do not coincide with plant productivity and health, and there's a disconnect there. So I would encourage you to look at those issues. There's a closed-loop system that people use in the industry.
 CO2, you can't do closed loop which means that Roundup and parking lots will get into these rooms they will fail pesticides and testing which means crops are taken out of the system altogether. So I would encourage you to look at that.
 The solution that I have, I know I'm going over, is that there's a cannabis code or there's some way that we can put this out. If you're an electrician and going through a building process, you can look up with the city's electrical code and you can follow things. There's no roadmap for cannabis people. I think what we need is a BDS cannabis industry and only kind of task force or stakeholders meeting where we can all sit down and start to educate each other on the different things rather than having the inspectors change things day to day.
 And I know that Mika Keenan in the Bureau of Development Services is looking to have some kind of step-by-step, and I appreciate your input on that. Thank you for your service on MPOT. The CO2 rules, are they within ONI's code or development services? Media. So I have some specifics that have come up. So design and build a system to purge the CO2 if the levels are greater than 5,000 ppm. According to OSHA, a worker is safe in a workplace with CO2 levels at 5,000 ppm for eight hours.
 What the city is asking is a very much lower rate at about 1,100 ppm, which is not productive for the plant. And some of the things that I've actually been hearing that the city is asking for is emergency buttons on the floor. But if anyone who is used to a CO2...
 toxification level, the worst thing you can do is go on the floor because CO2 lowers. It doesn't rise. So to put emergency buttons on the floor, you're assuming that your workers are army crawling out. If they're army crawling out, they're going to be more susceptible to that CO2 level. It's safer for them to stay higher up.
 So it's just it's these little disconnects and then having someone have to put emergency buttons on their floor of their Grow room where there's water going down potentially if they're not on tables depending on the grow philosophy or the growing practices by that particular business and
 then that is a huge issue, on top of the fact that they're also requiring it to be hardwired into your alarm system. So if the CO2 levels go over a certain amount, you have your alarms go off. You have to go down to the facility to turn off the alarm so that you don't get a false alarm with the Portland Police Department and the Fire Department, all these things. So you've already lost me. I mean, obviously, it's very complicated. It's very complicated. I would love to be able to provide you more information
 Well, no, actually, what I'm going to suggest is to work with Commissioner Saltzman at least for the next few weeks and maybe thereafter. He's got the Bureau of Development Services under his purview, and it could well be that there could be, well, I don't know about this, I'm guessing. Right, it's about, yeah. Obviously, we have to comply with state law as well. Totally. And I really appreciate that.
 There needs to be some attention to the things that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and MPOC can do. And also in the other, as we all figure out how this new industry can flourish. And it's about merging agricultural plants and buildings and people. Thank you.
 Thanks very much. Again, I think our bureaus probably have learned a little bit from dealing with the explosion of breweries and distilleries, although they're obviously different industrial processes, but they've been through a lot on those fronts. Well, especially for processes. I think we've all seen the videos of things blowing up, and that's very concerning in any zone. Yep. Yep. Okay, good. Others that want to speak, please.
 have the next three as abe holderman adrian wayman and robert roberta robles okay come on up please welcome good afternoon who's going whoever would like to go first well i'm abe holderman okay um yeah so uh i'm speaking on behalf of many uh craft growers here in the portland area uh micro growers and mostly based on myself because i'm the really one who's being affected that i know of um
 I'm just going to go ahead and read an email that I sent to Claire on behalf of Amanda here. So, yeah, I'm just going to read it off to you. So, yeah, hurdles that I'm faced with the recreational medical cannabis market changes –
 that have recently occurred are to start, you know, I've been producing medical cannabis for 10 plus years. I've been complying with OHA rules from the beginning. I produce a product in a residential home that I own in the city of Portland. The market reached a milestone by passing the dispensary law on March 1st, 2013. I was able to take my business to the next level by supplying, you know, medicine to the dispensaries rather than just the patients I was working with. And
 through the dispensaries, we give it to patients and stuff that couldn't grow their own medicine, you know, so on. Recently, the OCC has made a lot of changes that have influenced the medical and the OHA market, as everyone knows. Some of these changes were like lower plant limits within city limits.
 causing OHA to start a grandfathering program for nonconforming business, you know, medical growers to go down to plant limits, you know, to keep it in the residence for those that can continue to do what they were doing. The OHA offered a grandfathering petition for residential medical growers that had been registered with OHA before January 1st, 2015, that would let them have, you know, certain plant limits and so on. Okay.
 They also put into play monthly reporting requirements to track sales and plant limits, counts, all that. The OCC has currently, with legislation, created a retail license that can sell to the recreational market with a tax and then also sell to the medical market without a tax. So now the medical patients can go into a recreational store and buy a product tax-free if they have their medical marijuana card.
 This is also causing most of the medical marijuana dispensaries to get the OHA license. I mean, I'm sorry, excuse me, the OLCC license. So it's kind of pushing OHA, even as a business, but also the OHA dispensaries, pushing them to just be recreational dispensaries.
 So that for growers that are under the OHA, it kind of limits the amount of product that they can move to dispensaries that help build this whole recreational market to begin with. So we're faced with possibly a lot of local businesses going out of business and small craft growers going out of business because they can't afford to go get a huge building and jump through a lot of the hoops that it takes in order to be in compliance with OCC on that magnitude.
 So, you know, my idea is, you know, to maybe for the next work session is to...
 let the grandfather growers who have been a huge part of this movement, you know, the grandfather growers under that March or January 1, 2015 license with their grandfather petition, that they're able to get that first micro tier one license of the 649 square feet or less in a residential home. Because zoning section 33203 states in certain residential zonings, you're able to have an agricultural business as a home occupation, right?
 And so, you know, this Tier 1 and Tier 2 license was created after you guys put in your first set of rules. And so, you know, that's why I'm here is to kind of speak on behalf of those people that are affected by this. I think, you know, I think it would be a very easy process. You know, Office of Neighborhood Involvement and, you know, City of Portland can request that petition. That's grandfathered through OHA and be that part of the requirements and also, you know,
 have those residential businesses stay under that plant limit as well and then have that lower in the small canopy. Thank you very much. I think that is something we'll want to look at in the next set of things. Okay. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. You've sent the rest of that to her office? This email was sent to Claire Adamsick, and she has forwarded it to you. I'm not sure. Yeah, we can forward it to all the offices. Thank you. We've all got copies of that. Thank you. Thank you very much. We really are all working this out together. Thank you. All right. Yep.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Who wants to be next? Hi. My name is Adrian Wayman. I'd like to thank you all for giving me the opportunity to speak here today. I'm one of the co-founders of Greenbox, a startup based in the Portland area. Greenbox is a curated cannabis subscription box service discreetly delivered to your home. We sell subscriptions to potential members, and we like to...
 Excuse me, I'm getting a little nervous here. Okay. With every subscription that we sell, we donate 10% that goes right back to our community, with one of our first beneficiaries being Rockville House of Portland, a domestic violence agency in the Portland area.
 I'm here today to show my support for a proposed amendment from Commissioner Fritz and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, particularly the additional retail carrier license and also the exemption for those particular businesses of being a thousand feet away from another retailer. Thank you.
 Came up with the idea of Green Box about a year ago. My original goal was to provide cannabis products to our senior community. Working as a bud tender, I quickly realized there was a gap between senior accessibility of cannabis, so I wanted to solve that problem.
 being a young gay black male in Portland, I'm very excited to enter this industry and also be an example and a role model for others, other minorities that are younger. As you know, entering the cannabis industry is quite expensive. The traditional dispensary environment can cost you anywhere from $500K on up to three-quarters of a million dollars. I...
 So my plan was to create a delivery-based business that will give me the opportunity to enter in the market at a much lower cost. Getting financing and access to capital can be quite difficult. So I came up with the idea of Greenbox. I feel like creating a small business should be easily attainable and done here in the Portland area.
 Particularly, Greenbox appeals to those that enjoy cannabis and also those that may not have the courage to walk into the dispensary. It could be intimidating, risky. A lot of individuals may not necessarily want to see their car parked outside. Local celebrities, city officials, you name it.
 I didn't think about that the last time I went into a discussion. Can I ask – but I was accompanied by an industry lobbyist. You have cameras right behind you. Can I ask you a question about your business? Yes. So a few years ago, my wife signed up for something where every month we got a box of vegetables that were organic, and they were –
 curate in the sense of someone put them together and we pay the fee. Is that the model? CSA kind of a model, yeah. It's a similar business model. You simply pay a monthly fee and a box full of cannabis products is delivered directly to you discreetly. That's a great idea. I need to give honor. I'm sorry, go ahead. I was just going to say, give honor where honor is due. Mr. Wayman came to my office several months ago, and I had a whole bunch of questions thinking that it was not even feasible. He had thought of all the questions, and he had several more –
 reasons why this would be a really good thing. So you personally have furthered the business, and I really appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. So you think these rules are definitely a step in the right direction? Absolutely. Okay, good. They give me a chance to step in the market and my family to make a difference in the community. Okay.
 That's great. Thank you very much. If the mayor offered you a grant, would you agree to have an all-electric fleet? We were talking about that earlier today, about delivery vehicles being electric, because that's part of our strategy, so it could happen. Remember, we did say that the proceeds of the marijuana tax could be used for supporting individuals and small businesses, and there's also Portland Development Commission small business grants for all kinds of things, and so I certainly...
 Hope that that is in your future. I hope so. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks for your time. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. Councilor Amanda Fritz and members of the Portland City Council. My name is Roberta Robles, and I'm a resident in the Elliott neighborhood. I am a small business owner. I have also been a home health care worker who has assisted my father with cannabis to treat PTSD and my late grandmother who loved cannabis-infused candies to relieve heart and lung conditions.
 I have been an OMMP caregiver and patient in the past, and I currently hold a marijuana worker permit. I support the proposed code amendments to remove the restriction on and provide clarity to recreational marijuana delivery regulations. These changes match the OLCC requirements with a new license category for retail courier business, and this will certainly make it easier for small business owners to enter the legal market.
 However, a minor clarification is needed. It is suggested that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and GIS support staff develop a comprehensive list of zones and delineated school buffers where cannabis-related businesses are generally permitted. There is an existing map of school boundary buffers that should be analyzed to describe allowable zones and areas in the city in which these businesses are allowed. The city of Gresham has developed this type of analysis.
 it is recommended that this data be added to the city's open source civic apps open data overall i support the proposed changes in pcc 14b.130 i wish to thank the staff involved for listening to community input and creating new tiers of licenses to support locally owned small businesses thank you very much for your constructive feedback we'll certainly take a look at that thank you all there's
 That's all I show who signed up. Anyone else that wants to speak this afternoon? I have a question. It's a procedural question. What we've learned in the last couple weeks is that we don't control Mother Nature, and we've also had a very crowded agenda, and things keep getting moved around. Is
 Is there any reason why we shouldn't slap an emergency clause on this today, just so that we at least have this knocked out ahead of further uncertainty? Commissioner Fisher, it's getting kind of scary the number of times you read my mind. I did actually have Claire Adamsick, my senior staff person, working on a check with Matt Grum, and we thought that if we signal our intent to maybe add an emergency clause next week, that would allow Commissioner Saltzman to make sure that development services and other bureaus that he's in charge of would be ready for it.
 Carla, do we have council next Wednesday and we've kept Thursday free in case? Is that right? That's correct. So we have a fighting chance that we'll actually have one day of council. Yes. And we're also, at this point, not having council until the 28th or 29th.
 Yeah, so we could get it done this year, and I think the businesses would certainly appreciate that, and Office of Neighborhood Involvement is certainly happy to see these changes. We'll go to our second reading tomorrow. We have to act on the amendments first, but yes. Yeah, and next week, and probably next week, we'll add an emergency clause so that the businesses that are currently being held up through the permit process in other bureaus will be moving forward more quickly with the January 1 deadline. Okay.
 So then we should take a vote, please, on the motion to accept the substitute amendments. So moved. I'll second that. Let's vote on that, please. No vote. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Commissioner Fritz and ONI team, thank you very much for your good work in bringing these forward.
 thanks to Commissioner Saltzman for his amendment. This is a quick turnaround from our work session, and I think these amendments are well considered, thoughtful in terms of responsive to concerns we've heard, and I think this is a good first step. I have some bigger questions I hope we can address next year, but I think this is a very appropriate action, and I appreciate the fact that there was a quick turnaround and such a clear presentation. Bye.
 yeah i appreciate the substance of this and also the spirit of cooperation that you and the only staff have worked in with the industry it just it's great to see small businesses starting in the community trying to do this the right way and working with us to figure out the regulatory issues as we go along obviously when it comes to building codes and those things there are details that matter a lot and can cost a lot if we do it the
 the wrong way so or even we do it the right way sometimes it costs a lot so it's important we figure that stuff out but I just like the way this is developing and thank you Commissioner Fritz for that as well hi now then we have a second amendment here that the courier courier piece that's a separate amendment correct yes so Commissioner Fritz moves that amendment I'll second that and that's the 114 B 1 3 0 0 4 0 e
 Further discussion? Roll call on that amendment, please. Nobody? Aye. Well, again, thanks to Mr. Wayman. You may be a new entrepreneurial businessman, but you certainly pay attention to details and you figured out how city code works as well. So that in itself is remarkable. And we very much appreciate your partnership on this issue.
 This is our last vote on this until next week, right? So since you're all here, I do want to say thank you to everybody who's been working on this in that spirit of let's see what we can make it work as well as possible for everybody. Other than the snow being coming in, I was expecting there should be some neighbours coming in today with some concerns.
 So I appreciate the council's willingness to set aside that issue about what can happen in residential zones and what cannot. And looking at the whole buffer thing, thank you for bringing that up. Another consideration is if we are encouraging more commercial enterprises in residential zones, does that further put pressure on affordable housing that some units might be able to pay more than others? So a lot more things to think about, and we certainly will look at them in future.
 helping them. I'm still in charge of the program in the new year. Thank you to everybody for your good work. Hi. Just to put a note on that point, I sort of remember how the home occupation portion of the planning code works, but you do have to live there.
 So it's, and that might be a good thing in both cases. So that is, again, something where more good work can be done. Aye. Okay, so this passes to second reading next week and a possible addition of the emergency clause. And we're recessed until tomorrow, weather permitting. Okay, thank you for the bodily info. Take care. Going home. Okay. Okay. Leah says it's going to be bad out there. Is it? All right.
 congratulate myself on our great choice of location and go ride the orange line home and we hadn't moved i could do that too yeah we love it it's a great station too it's beautiful
 I do. You and Carla are the many visionaries of all my life. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body. I'm a body.
 I think I think
 is i think this freedom
 All right, Carla. See you tomorrow.