ready to get started are we good morning everyone welcome to the december 16th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll novick
 Here. Prince. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Hales. Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We have some communications items up front and then our regular calendar. It doesn't look like we have a large group here, so we shouldn't have any trouble accommodating testimony. So let's move, please, into our communications items, number 1297. Okay.
 Request of Crystal Alinsky to address counsel regarding hypocrisies in the state of emergency. Crystal, are you here? Okay, I guess we'll have to move on, please. 1298, request of Carlton Bone to address counsel regarding racism at Lewis and Clark College in the city of Portland and the nation. Carlton, are you here? Over to you. All right, 1299, please.
 Request of Michael O'Callaghan to address counsel regarding shelterlessness and hollow point bullets. Michael, come on up. Thank you. Thank you very much. A quick thing on hollow point bullets. They were banned internationally after World War I. The police used them on us. That's why people get shot, die, killed.
 Anyway, on to another thing that's a lot more fun. I call it a DIGB, because I like an acronym. It's Accessory Dwelling Unit, Garage or Basement. It's in your package there. Float a $40 million bond. Give loans to anybody that wants to create an accessory living unit in their garage, basement, or create an accessory dwelling unit. You give them a loan for $30,000. Okay?
 payable back over a 10-year period, 2% over what the bond costs you,
 Now, you can do a few nice things with this. You can put a rent cap on these units. You can prohibit Airbnb. And you can, in conjunction with the county, prohibit any tax increase for the life of the loan, making it a great deal for the property owner. Create, through the life of the bond, 30 years, about 3,900 living units, local jobs, larger tax base, money stays in the community, and the homeowner gains equity, okay?
 Okay? Pretty simple solution. Well, of course, not simple in politics, but then again, pretty straightforward solution and pretty doable, okay? Update on homelessness. Okay, Department of Justice said in a Boise litigation that they entered that if your shelters are full, it's cruel and unusual punishment to give people citations for camping. Interagency Council on Homelessness reaffirmed that.
 The city of Eugene, just two weeks ago, passed an ordinance allowing camping on public lands, on park lands. The British Columbia Supreme Court declared that homeless have a right on public land. And what authority do you have to confiscate my property? Okay.
 There's none. And you do these sweeps, stealing people's property with no authority of law. Another point, I put in a few things in there. There are 10,000 homeless in Seattle.
 So let's throw this idea away that Portland's a mecca for the homeless and people come here. That's pretty humorous. And the solution is before you. You've seen Right to Dream. You've seen how that operates. Dignity Village, how that operates. And the new one, Hazelnut Grove over here. That's a solution. Come on. Get on board. 25 or smaller. Got to be fenced. Got to be in different areas of the community. Let the communities pick where they go.
 Okay, because this homelessness is in every community, and I understand communities don't like it. You know, I don't like it either. Okay, but hey, let's move forward with the solution. Give us public places where we can put these in your community. Okay, and another thing, if I may for a moment. Quickly, and then we've got to move on. Okay, thank you. Anybody here want to feed 2 million people a year on a zero cost to the city? Okay.
 Yes. Sure. Thank you. I wasn't expecting that. Okay. France passed a law prohibiting supermarkets from throwing away past-poll date food. Good idea. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Let's hear from Christina Albo, 1300. Request of Christina Albo to address council regarding restorative justice in schools. Good morning. Come on up. Got supporters and helpers. Yes. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. I would actually like to request to give my time to two youth leaders from Boise Elliott Humboldt School. That's a fine idea. Thank you. Great. So just in brief, Resolutions Northwest has been working to implement restorative justice in schools around the city of Portland, and we've worked with Boise Elliott Humboldt for the past couple of years.
 And these two youth leaders, Aaliyah Stone here on my left is an eighth grader, and Aries Brock is an eighth grader as well. And they participated in the youth mediation training and are going to talk about youth voice and peer mediation. Great. Good morning. Good morning. You'd like to start. Hello. My name is Aaliyah Stone, and I'm the eighth grade class president of Boise Elliott Humboldt.
 Today I will be talking to you about why it is important for students to have a voice in school and how students are given a voice at Boise Elliott Humble. Personally, I believe that students need and should have a voice in schools to make school and learning more enjoyable and more engaging. If we are able to have some say in how we are being taught and sometimes what we are being taught and in what type of environment we are being taught in,
 it tends to make it a lot easier for students to retain and actually remember what we are being taught. Some ways that students are given a voice at Boise Elliott Humboldt are ways through restorative justice, such as the opportunity to run for student government as a member of student council, or just generally requesting to be in the leadership class.
 In the class or as a student government member, you have the opportunity to change just about anything you disagree with in the school. Another way we imply restorative justice in our school is sending out a student voice survey, which is a survey that leadership sends out for every student in the middle school, wait, that every middle school student takes part in. And it is a chance for the students who aren't in leadership to have a say what leadership works on. Okay.
 One of the ways this has affected our school is by taking the student voice climate survey, the student climate survey that is sent out by Mr. Jeffrey Waters. Can I say Jeffrey? Jeffrey Waters, the school climate coach, who the student voice, the student climate survey is a way for teachers and staff to see how the students feel about certain subjects and other topics around the school.
 When we sent out the first student voice survey of this year, there was different categories. One of the categories on there, because our school wears uniform, is Free Dress Friday, allowing all of our middle school students to have Free Dress Friday. And that was the most voted category. That's what the students who weren't in leadership wanted us to work on. And so we had to put that into play because they wanted us to work on it.
 And so the first step was getting out a petition to show the principal that we actually wanted this. And we had 107 signatures. That's from students and staff members. And, oh, I'm running out of time. And we had a referendum that we had to send out for students to vote on, such as like how we vote on measures in the real world.
 and the results were 94 out of 95. And yesterday we had a meeting with Mr. Bacon, our principal, and he passed the Free Dress Friday. And I think having a voice in middle school will help me in the real world because if I feel something's not right in the real world, I will be able to speak up for myself and say my needs as a person aren't being met. If I need that. I'm done. Thank you very much.
 Good morning. Welcome. Hello. My name is Aries Brock, and I'm in the reinforcement squad for Boise LA Humboldt Middle School. The reinforcement squad is a group of students who help make sure that our rules and policies are fair and represent our student body. Aaliyah talked to you about how important it is for students to have a voice, and I'm going to talk to you about how important it is for students to learn how to solve their own problems. At our school, we call this peer mediation. Thank you.
 Peer mediation is when your peers help you with situations instead of adults. Most of our leadership class went to a place called Resolutions Northwest, where we learned how to peer mediate with other students. If someone is requesting peer mediation, the peer mediators are notified a time and place to go and mediate. Everything that is talked about in the room with the students cannot be shared with anyone. Students should peer mediate because...
 Everyone in middle school are all close to being in the same age group. I think that speaking with a peer mediator the same age will make a student feel comfortable with speaking their mind. Peer mediation helps our school by making students feel safe while among each other. When students feel safe, it is easier to learn, and peer mediation is helping create the sort of positive environment that makes our students feel safer.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. We really appreciate hearing from you, and we really love the fact that we have students who are learning how to be leaders. So please continue. We'll need you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's break our rules and hear it for students. Thank you so much.
 Okay, we're going to move on into our regular calendar this morning. We have one item removed from the consent calendar. Wait a minute. One, two, three items removed from the consent calendar for discussion. They are 1306, 1307, and 1312. Any other requests? Okay, so let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar minus those three items. Novick?
 aye fritz hi fish hi peltzman hi hales all right okay item 1301 amend bond avenue roadway realignments in the south waterfront district street plan criteria and standards document commissioner novick mr browning take it away good morning
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Rick Browning, an architect and project manager for PBOT on the Southwest Bond Avenue extension through the South Waterfront North District area. And I'm here today to ask for three amendments to the adopted 2009 street plan for the South Waterfront District that relate to the Southwest Bond extension. Okay.
 We have a few slides prepared to show you. Let's see. Aha, let me get over to the laptop. Excuse me. So apologies, I haven't been up here before. There's some way to launch this on the screen. Okay, there we go. Great. So what you see before you is a page from the 2009 adopted street plan for the South Waterfront with the North District area listed.
 encapsulated with a dashed line. So the three amendments I'm here to talk to you about are denoted by the festive holiday stars there. We've got to the north and left on this image the OHSU realignment through the Schnitzer campus area,
 In the middle, there is a proposed ZRZ realty realignment for property just north of the Ross Island Bridge. And then finally, there's a proposed amendment on streetcar routing currently as adopted in the 2009 plan. The streetcar would go up to Woods, the street just before the Tillicum crossing.
 which incidentally in this image is not shown as a finished bridge but as a dashed line there where it says light rail connection as we know it's now finished so i would typify two of these requested amendments as technical and fairly straightforward that's the zrz realty uh realignment and the streetcar and one of somewhat more impact and that is the um ohsu realignment
 The reason we're asking for these amendments at this time is that we are in the early stages of designing the Southwest Bond extension. And let me just pause briefly for context, say that Southwest Bond is shown with a sort of light menthol green here, north of the aerial tram, which is that area.
 large pinkish bar in the middle of the image. South of the aerial tram, as you know, Bond is a finished street. North, there's nothing. It's currently Zydel property and the open area that will evolve into the Schnitzer campus. The image shows the completed network of streets, of course. Bond will function as a...
 half of a one-way couplet. Bond will, when completed, be one way in the northbound direction, and Moody, its sister street, will be one way in a southbound direction. The streetcar, I might mention, on Moody will remain as it's configured with a two-way streetcar despite one-way vehicular traffic. So that is not going to change in the future. Okay.
 As far as the streetcar goes, the current plan is to run the streetcar further up Bond and turn it and bring it back to Moody where it can use that two-way track. We're proposing to have it turn further towards the Moody.
 aerial tram, and I have an image to show you on that. So we need these amendments at this time. We're in early design. In order to continue to prudently commit engineering and urban design resource to Southwest Bond, the amendments need to be approved so we have certainty on alignment and we can move ahead with the project. Let's see, I think I've got a little better image for you of –
 the zoom in on the alignment. So now we're looking at the portion of the project we're trying to design, currently about, let's say, 15% completed. To your right is the aerial tram, and to the left is the Markham Bridge, where the roadway will come in and connect to River Parkway. So you see the OHSU realignment,
 noted there with an arrow, and the broken line is the currently adopted alignment. The pink solid is the proposed realignment. The ZRZ realignment is in the solid gold with a broken line being the currently adopted alignment. Okay.
 The ZRZ realignment is about a 65-foot offset to the west, and it will allow a more developable parcel of land to the east of Bond once it's constructed. The OHSU realignment is about a
 85-foot offset to the east. And you can see that graphically in the image.
 excuse me for going back, but I'm going to note one other thing on this 2009 plan. You note there are several pink areas. One of those is where the star is through the Schnitzer campus. There's two others in the image as well. Those pink areas are a new thing for the City of Portland. They're called special design areas, and they were put into the 2009 Street Master Plan
 to the best of my knowledge and the design commission's knowledge, for the first time in Portland history, as a way to promote design excellence above and beyond what we would normally do in those areas. And they specifically call for the 2009 master plan, specifically calls for a collaborative effort in those areas shown in pink,
 between all city agencies as well as outside private sector parties, adjacent landowners and so on, the intent being for above average open space, access to transit and creative ecological approaches.
 By coincidence, it so happens that the star on the left, the north side, the OHSU realignment is one of those special design areas. So we have this layered on top of the realignment as an issue in this area. The other two special design areas are roadways that will be designed and built in future years. So I wanted to address that. It is an unusual aspect of this project.
 All right, moving on. So I mentioned the two technical amendments. I'd like to get those out of the way first. So I've discussed the ZRC realignment and the reason for that. The streetcar change, this image shows you the streetcar where it currently turns in the vicinity of the aerial tram, and that's indicated by the solid green arrow.
 As I think you know, that's a rather uncomfortable turn. There are some pedestrian issues. It limits the ability for the aerial tram to be loaded and unloaded from two sides. And OHSU is anxious to have that addressed. As I understand, aerial tram volumes have increased considerably recently. Okay.
 The dashed green arrow is a suggested turn for a future streetcar. However, the reason we are asking for the streetcar turn to be revised is not because we have a definite landing place for it today. Rather, it's because we have a definite landing place for it today.
 Our traffic engineers have determined it's technically infeasible and, in fact, unsafe for the public to have the streetcar turn on woods as it is currently adopted. The geometry of the intersection there simply does not allow for the sweeping turn the streetcar would have to make. We would have to set a stop bar very far back on that street, and it simply operationally is not something –
 we want to happen. So we would like to remove the designation for the streetcar turn on Woods and come back at a later date with a definite proposal on where it will turn in
 so this proposal is just asking us to get rid of it all together is no we definitely need the turn no i understand that i'm just saying you're you're asking us to take off the designation and not put another desk that's correct for now i'm really concerned in the proposed area here that would take out a lot of bicycle parking well we have many details to work through i think that uh given the time and uh
 goodwill from groups such as zrc realty we're going to be able to come up with a a proposal that's will be acceptable to council and uh an enhancement for this area but i have none of those details to show you today and it but it will come back to council absolutely and do you have an estimate for when that might happen i don't have a specific date uh i would think uh just given the schedule for the whole project it could be six months
 but that six months rather than six years absolutely yes we should have it built in six years all right so moving on then um the third uh amendment is of greater impact and this is the ohsu property uh where the schnitzer campus will evolve you're looking at just the street layout here but you also see
 both the adopted alignment and the proposed alignment. So the adopted alignment is in light blue, and it's further away from the Greenway setback. The proposed alignment is what says Southwest Bond and is shown in gray.
 The reason for the request is because, as you can see, the adopted alignment leaves a relatively narrow swath of land between the east side of Bond and the Greenway. And those are developable parcels, but only marginally. They're about 90 feet deep. So the types of buildings that could be put in those parcels are not ones that are
 lend themselves to academic research, which is, of course, the Schnitzer campus sort of reason for being. And OHSU has requested PBOT shift the alignment to give them greater flexibility and capacity in the main part of the campus. And I believe we have some invited testimony from OHSU to address a little more how the campus might develop.
 PBOT engineers do not feel this is unsafe or harmful to capacity. And on balance, considering certain amenities that might come along with this, such as a significant open area on the campus, OHSU is referring to as the commons, which would directly abut the roadway, PBOT and other agencies feel that,
 It's a reasonable proposal, and we're suggesting that there be a resolution to approve it today. So we took this to design commission on late September, and design commission, who reviewed it because of the special design area designation, had certain concerns.
 We then convened a workshop with the agencies you see listed there, PBOT, BDS, BPS, PARCS, as well as OHSU and ZRZ properties to try and address those concerns. We returned to Design Commission recently in early December, and on balance, they gave us a thumbs up on the realignment, and so here I am requesting that. You have a letter from Design Commission, and it
 It says we need to do some more work on this. We're perfectly well aware of that. And we do want to work to make this a great street, the whole thing, but especially the special design area. I want to show you schedule for a moment.
 to close. So this complex looking schedule is greatly abridged and simplified from an unbelievably complex schedule put together by PDC, but it does give you some idea of the complexity of this project and the North District.
 I've simplified it by showing you just the Greenway, Bond Avenue, and building portions in blocks. There have been some changes recently that make this slightly less than fully up-to-date. Things change very fast on this project. However, big picture is correct. The Greenway design process, there's an early schematic that goes through the fall of –
 2016, and that star at the top denotes when parks tells me they may be in front of design commission with their Greenway schematic design.
 to address design commission concerns about excellence of the design in the special design area. I'm going to propose today that after we reach 30% for our overall alignment on bond, which is soon, within, say, a month,
 We would like to slow the process down a little bit for the OHSU area in order to let parks catch up with us in the design process. Together, we can then collaborate and do what design commission is asking, which is to get a truly integrated product that leverages the potential of having bond up against the Greenway area. Okay.
 I believe we can do this and still meet OHSU's schedule for the Knight Cancer Center, which is a concern. And if you look at the building area, the Knight Cancer Center schedule is shown in orange, going off the page there past spring of 2018.
 Their plan is to finish mid-year 2018. I believe we can finish their segment of bond in the same time frame despite waiting for parks. We have some early construction activity that we can continue with despite our wait and catch-up maneuver.
 In conclusion, I think this segment has a lot of potential, both its greenway adjacency for public access, its synergy with the commons area that OHSU is offering to provide, and I might also add it has an unusual sort of ADA access potential in that it's
 With the road so close to the Greenway and multiple connections planned to the pathways, it should be more accessible than many areas of the city for ADA. So...
 With that, I'd like to request a resolution to approve these three amendments. I'm happy to take questions or, again, I understand there may be testimony from OHSU. If you'd prefer to wait and hear what they have to say, I'll be here. Male Speaker 1 Let's start with some questions, and thank you for your presentation. In the accompanying materials that we have, it says that there's no additional cost in connection with this realignment. Could you address that?
 It's the same linear feat of roadway. So big picture, I don't see additional costs. What I'm not fully able to address is the design specifics as we move forward with this and partner with parks. But I would like to point out that irrespective of the realignment that OHSU has requested for,
 the area would be a special design area in any case. So let me say if there are costs associated with the special design area, whatever those may prove to be, those costs would be there irrespective of the realignment. Does this realignment have any significant impact on the operation of the streetcar?
 No, the streetcar was never, well, I shouldn't say never, but the streetcar has not for many years been planned to operate north of the Tillicum Crossing. There was an earlier iteration of the waterfront plan with a streetcar in this area, but the 2009 document, which is the current document adopted by council, has the streetcar turning south of Tillicum Crossing north.
 So there's no impact on the streetcar. And finally, sir, I imagine we're going to hear from both the Zydel, ZRZ Realty, and OHSU that they support this change. Have we received any negative feedback from any of the stakeholders? No.
 To my knowledge, no. And I might also add our sister agencies who've participated in this workshop and so on also, as far as I know and have heard, do not oppose the change. Thank you. Go ahead, Dan. No, go ahead. Do we have the amendments that you're proposing in front of us? I don't think I have them either. Well, you have an exhibit of A and B.
 So I have kind of a – These are different – these are amendments to the amendments. All right, so let's take those up in a minute. But a more global question, if you could put Exhibit A back up, maybe with Carla's help. I think I have a slide that's very similar to Exhibit A here. That's it, yeah. That's fine. So this is a much broader question than the –
 small changes in front of us, but I'm just struck when I look at this that this has evolved, you know, to put it a little harshly, to kind of a strange place, and that is we achieved a street grid south of the Ross Island Bridge that reflects the typical Portland street grid and the neighborhood streets that it echoes. Right.
 we've evolved to a point now north of the Ross Island Bridge where it's fairly suburban, frankly, to my eye. But even more strangely than that, I just can't figure this out just looking at this, and I guess I need an explanation. But as it's currently drawn, Bond Street has six curves in it between Meade and Gibbs. Where else do we have an urban street
 that you would want to imitate that turns 15 or 20 degrees six times in six blocks. I think people will walk down this street and wonder what happened rather than simply having a boulevard that takes off from Grover and runs straight to Meade and then turns as it must in order to parallel the Greenway. So why are we doing this chicane thing?
 in this one and only place in the Portland street grid? That's a big question. Let me first address...
 the easier part, which is if you look at this slide, you will see more street grid in the North District area, which is bounded by the box, than you see in this one, which emits that. So there are proposed streets, such as what we call River Parkway towards the river in the vicinity of the Ross Island Bridge, that do start to create a little bit more of a grid in the ZRZ Realty area.
 But you're right, in the OHSU area, we have this rather large block of land. Now, first, I believe if our OHSU –
 representative comes up and shows you a master plan of the Schnitzer campus, you will see more of a grid-like structure that is private development by OHSU, such as the thing they're calling the promenade, which is not open to motor vehicles, but is a de facto street for bikes and pedestrians on their campus. The Chican-like feature of Bond is
 Well, obviously we need to go from a fixed point to a fixed point, which is from under the Markham Bridge to the Telecom. And to do that, some type of curve is going to need to be introduced. One.
 Pardon me? One at each end. Yes. But why the four in between? Again, I mean, I want to ask this question just to put you on the spot, but the whole team. There are streets in Portland that curve, like Willamette Boulevard, because it's on the top of a bluff. And as you walk or ride a bicycle or drive down that street, it makes sense that it curves, right? Terwilliger curves because it's matching the contours of the hill that it's built on.
 But here we have a flat piece of ground and a completely blank slate redevelopment effort. And someone has drawn a street that, frankly, has this sort of drunken aspect to it, to put it more harshly, where it's just sort of weaving left and weaving right. And I can't make any sense of it from looking at this diagram. And somebody needs to tell me, at least, and maybe others who are interested, why. Why?
 Well, I do believe the realignment straightens it out some. You can see that, correct? Oh, that doesn't look straight to me. You can see there's a reverse curve. It looks to me like there's six curves between me and you.
 The actual genesis of the street layout is candidly something I started with, and I was not privy to the original layout. Not just trying to put you on the spot, but whoever can stand and deliver from Peabot particularly and say this is going to be our street, we're going to own it, and a whole bunch of development is going to happen along it, which obviously there are people here interested in, and we are too. But, you know, the streets last for hundreds of years, so you have to get them right the first time.
 And frankly, I'm worried that we haven't. Well, there are representatives from PDC and PBOT in the room that might be able to address this with more background than I have. I don't know if any of those people want to jump up here. I've made it so inviting to come talk about this. The drunken street, I like that. I'm Dan Layden. I manage the Capital Projects Group for PBOT. To answer your question,
 I think Brian Newman actually from OHSU can probably do a better job with the OHSU portion and talk about what the master plan looks like. In terms of the Zydel section, the challenge we have is getting from underneath the Ross Island Bridge, which has constraints because of where the piers are located, and matching the intersection of Porter that goes across the Tillicum Bridge,
 So that's really the challenge point is trying to get those two aligned. If you see the old alignment actually had a little bit more of a curve. What we've done is straighten up that first block. Almost. Not quite. We can't quite straighten it out because we have to be able to get from underneath the Ross Island Bridge up to
 um the telecom alignment so we kind of straightened that out as much as we can and then put in a bit of a curve to be able to get up to porter and be able to make the connection with woods and then on the other side it's fairly straight it's not there isn't as much of a curve as it may look like on the map so i think what we're trying to do is match those two points both in terms of
 horizontally and vertically in space, and that's the way it's kind of worked out. The other thing I'd point out is this is the alignment that is in the master plan. This isn't the engineered alignment. There is more work going on with actually making the alignment work, and there may be a little stronger curves in this plan that you see that is sort of shrunken down than you'll actually see in the reality of the street. Okay.
 so we are very cognizant to trying to not make it be a curvy street but there are just because of the nature of the properties and the current context of the street is it is it possible and i think it is to take off from the last column underneath the ross island bridge and proceed in a tangent section all the way to me it's not
 i can't no at no angle there's no place where you can get through i can't answer for certain right now maybe you can but i can't answer for you carol dean moyle with the portland development commission um the fixed point is at porter with the telecom bridge right how wide is that opening that opening at bond at the tilikum bridge is the width of bond currently so that's 70 feet but
 There's a fixed point at Gibbs, there's a fixed point at the Markham Bridge, and then there's this center fixed point at Porter with the TriMet Light Rail Project. We actually built that intersection. So it was always assumed that Bond would land where it's currently constructed at Porter. So if you were to shift Bond south of Porter...
 To connect to Meade, you would actually miss the pre-constructed intersection at Porter that was put in with light rail. Okay, so why the curve at Woods instead of a straight section from the Ross Island Bridge to that point?
 See why words kind of sags down a little bit. It appears to curve at the intersection of Bond and Woods. I mean, it's hard to see in this little diagram. I think that's the proposed realignment, and that is, I think, to sort of give a little bit more room on the other side to the east for the ZRZ properties. Well, it's already a huge block. Okay.
 So, again, I'm just mystified as to why I understand the property owners, including including ZRZ and OHS, you want to maximize the footprint of their blocks. But you're also talking about designing buildings are going to have a five or 10 degree angle on their face because the street is curving five or 10 degrees or else you're just going to have, you know, not a very good.
 between the building and the sidewalk. So, you know, again, this is sort of city design 101, but I can't think of any place in the world, any street that I've walked down, that this one resembles. And for people that will be visiting this place 100 years from now,
 How is this going to make sense? Like NATO Parkway makes sense or the park blocks make sense. How is this going to make sense? So you've been around city design a bit. Tell me what you think. Let me help out. Dennis Allen, ZRZ Realty. I'll give you a little color on our portion as well as all of it. So as Geraldine said, we're under some constraints because you have to get from one point on bond where it starts over there at Gibbs.
 And you have to get over to through the Ross Island Bridge into through a certain set of piers across the light rail bridge at Porter in a definitive fixed place that even has a little bit of an angle to it. And then you've got to get over underneath the Markham Bridge at the top because you've got buildings that are in the way.
 So as it relates to our property, there's a couple reasons for the tweaks. You can see the old bond alignment, which is the line up there. We actually thought that that was worse because it didn't have as much of a straight shot. So when you look at trying to make it more of a straight shot, we wanted to move it down through another set of piers to get it closer to being a straight shot from Porter to Gibbs. So that is somewhat of a straight shot. Now, it has a few tweaks in it. The tweak over there...
 South of the Ross Island Bridge is I don't I don't love it but one of the reasons is to get that parcel to be big enough to fit a grocery store in the building and that was a you know a desire of us and everybody in the neighborhood is to get a grocery store down there and grocery stores have a Certain size you got to get the building to be a certain size And so that was an accommodation to get it to wrap around a building that could work and still make it Get by the barge business so that little tweak in there is because of that then you go along you have to get over to
 Porter and then as it relates to get down to oh issues you're getting out to get which They can come up and talk about but you need to get a larger parcel in there to make that work a little more So I think that you've got some unfortunate circumstances that don't allow you to have a straight street I'll also point out that I don't necessarily think a straight street is the best thing and I'll tell you I'll tell you the reason For that there's a lot of current thinking in the urban planning circles that to do things like traffic calming and
 you want to have some bends in the street so that you don't have people traveling at higher rates of speed. And I think that this is the type of district that warrants something like that. You don't need to go. I've said it before. You don't need to go at a high rate of speed down here because you're coming in and out of the portals anyway. So better to have some traffic calming features and measures that mellow the traffic a little bit and create a better pedestrian-friendly experience. And I think it's proven that some of these things,
 slight tweaks like this where you don't have a straight shot in the automobile will do some of that. Yeah, well, again, we're in an urban environment. We're sitting in the middle of one with lots of straight streets and frequent interruptions, and traffic speed is not our issue here. I suspect it won't be in this neighborhood either after it's built out because it's going to be pretty congested with all modes.
 So I'm just trying to make sense of this from a long-term perspective. And I think the spot that you really want the straight streets, because you want a straight street a lot of times, but you want it for consistency so you know where you're going in an urban environment. You also want it to see sort of what's at the end. So the east-west streets in some ways become a more important straight street because you can see down to the water. So anywhere you're at, you can say, okay, there's the river. I know how to get to the river, and there's the river. I get that. And I like what has been done between Meade and Sheridan. That makes a lot more sense.
 you know you got a street that's fronting the river for as long as it can until it turns yeah that that to me you know in terms of just readability as a pedestrian or anything else makes sense but i'm still struggling with um why it's necessary to make i understand that porter can the porter intersection is already built
 And I understand the interest in a grocery store, but, boy, that's pretty short term. I mean, maybe it won't be. Yeah. Well, we'll see. We're still looking for one, so, you know, we'll see. But that's the reason for some of the bends that are in it. Other questions? Oh, please. Well, the design commission's letter that they sent to us had a number of questions.
 desirable conditions so those will be addressed in the next phase I was proposing and gonna propose an amendment on that okay well I'll retract that question and I just curious we're talking about curves and I guess the thought that crosses my mind is streetcar travel time we know that's an issue do these curves slow down the streetcar at all oh the street cars on your car still on okay
 Yeah, and our proposal to turn the streetcar would put it very close to where it currently turns, although I emphasize that's not a definite. It's just a thought at this point. So when Moody becomes one way...
 What happens to streetcars? You say streetcars are going to remain there, right? Yes. It will remain as a two-way operating streetcar on a one-way Moody. So it will be curved off or something? Yeah, there will be a dedicated lane for the wrong-way streetcars, my understanding. It will probably move faster because of that. No conflicts with traffic. Okay. We hope not.
 other questions thank you anything else Rick that you want to test Ryan sorry go ahead well you tell me when the right time is for testimony but I came prepared to speak on me I think it would be helpful if you did that also there's
 I asked Pivot would it be possible to push this issue back while we answer further questions, and Mr. Layton has said that we could maybe, without too much angst, maybe push it back for two or three weeks, and I just wonder if possibly. I would appreciate that. Yeah, I'm still not persuaded that this is the best solution. So I would like to feel confident in this, given how long this decision will last.
 in getting it right the first time. So I appreciate that. And I'm sorry I didn't look at this more carefully before. I had a little bit to do with this street grid a while ago, but it's changed. Yeah, well, let's let Mr. Newman testify, and then we'll take up amendments. Yes, I'll draw it for you. Okay, thanks. Mayor Hales, members of the commission, Brian Newman with Oregon Health and Science University.
 Thanks for your attention to this specific request, which we obviously support. I also want to thank the staff from Parks, from PBOT, from Portland Development Commission Planning and BDS, who have been working with us in a locked room in some cases, trying to get to consensus and support an outcome that works for all the city, all the stakeholders, and, of course, the community.
 of the property owners. And particularly, I want to thank, we had two members of the design commission actually spend an entire afternoon with us in a workshop. And then, of course, the design commission supported the recommendation that's in front of you with those conditions. And I'll get to those in a second.
 Real quick, the first slide, the OHSU Schnitzer campus is supposed to be a new research and academic campus, and the vision was for an urban, connected, green, and welcoming campus. We want this to be an extension of downtown Portland. We want it to be at least a 16-hour district.
 um so it doesn't feel like like the hill does frankly it was in response to the condition on the hill where there's no sense of place that we wanted to correct and create on the schnitzer campus yes and we wanted active ground floor uses in a rich public realm and i'll get to the rich public realm and a couple of elements that ohsu is intending to complete and fund to achieve that
 This shows you our master plan that's been revised with the bond realignment. And real quick to your question, Mayor Hales, originally River Parkway went along the river. That was the original alignment of River Parkway. It shifted over time because when the light rail alignment was chosen, which came later,
 That intersection where River Parkway crossed Porter in order to meet the grades, because at that point the bridge is climbing to get over the river, it pushed that at-grade intersection west, actually split one of our development parcels into two triangles. And so it left a few parcels on the east side of Bond open.
 But what we're essentially going to is back to the original River Parkway proposal, where at least on our campus, where the special design area is, it's right along the Greenway. Okay.
 There's two major design features to our campus master plan. One is the Promenade, which is essentially a public street with no vehicles. It's bicycles, pedestrians. It's a rich public realm, as I mentioned earlier. We built phase one of it with the Collaborative Life Sciences building, and we'll continue it obviously with our future buildings, including the Knight Cancer building, which
 which divides the campus into smaller blocks, getting to your point. It's hard to see on the street plan, but you can see it on our master plan. The second element is the OHSU Commons, and that is essentially the heart of the campus.
 And there's two features of that. One is that it's really the heart of the campus. It's the gathering space. But we canted it towards the Greenway very consciously. When you go down to South Waterfront now, if you were from out of town and just plopped into Carruthers Park, you wouldn't even know there's a river two blocks or three blocks to the east. We canted our commons, which is a green space, east-west so it's unobstructed.
 unmistakable. It connects the campus to the Greenway, to the river, with those great views of the bridge, and hopefully great views back from the bridge towards our buildings as well. So it's really to create that axial relationship with the Greenway and open up the Greenway to the campus. Now the final slide is really... Before you switch slides, in the time that we'll have for a couple weeks, I would like to look at how...
 this design scheme is rectified with this street plan because I like yours better.
 So I'd like to see how they match up and why the wiggliness of both River Parkway and Bond Avenue makes any sense, because your urban design scheme here makes a lot more sense than what I'm seeing in front of me in the ordinance. And they are intended to be straight and not have wiggles to them, so maybe it's just part of the way they are rendered or represented. It may just be a drawing problem.
 Finally, I want to show you these sections that are really before and after. I mentioned that the alignment of Bond, after it was changed with the Tilikum Crossing, kind of pushed it further west. We ended up with these two development parcels north of Meade Street that are 80 feet deep, and you could build 125 feet or more high. They're strange in the sense that they really, if they're developed out, would create almost a wall between Bond Street and the Greenway and Westfield.
 probably out of character in my mind based on just the size of those parcels. We also realized they were not really developable, or at least easily developable, through
 There's no curb cuts allowed on bond, and so you couldn't park them. You can't serve them with logistics and supplies. And so they create these parcels that if they're left, they will be developed someday, but hard to do so. And this made sense not only from an urban design perspective to open up the Greenway, but, of course, respect the Greenway. And the new alignment stays out of the Greenway and lowers the grade significantly.
 as you get closer to the river. So hopefully it will be cheaper to execute from the perspective of PBOT. But it also trades that development footprint, if you will, onto the west side of Bond, where it's easier for us to deliver. And it works, honestly, better from our campus development perspective based on the kind of program that we have.
 So that's the reason we were supportive of it and spent a lot of time, obviously, with staff and the Design Commission working through the details. We had another series of presentations of kind of design themes that we shared with the Design Commission. We have those if you'd like to see them, but happy to take questions on kind of how we arrived here and why OHSU supports this. Thank you.
 I am concerned about what you mentioned, the building height towering over the Greenway. And by moving Bond right smack dab as far as close to the Greenway as you can, that's going to also move the building to the west. And my understanding is that that building can have 250 feet with FAR barnaces.
 That's correct. It's 125 feet, as I understand, base height, but then with bonuses, 250. Yeah, so that's of concern to me, to have 250 feet just across the street from the edge of the Greenway. Is there a way that we could get a commitment for that building to step down at all?
 Well, two points, Commissioner. One is by aligning bond, I think you made this point, it makes sure that any development is further from the Greenway by the width of that roadway. So instead of, because there is a parcel on the east side of bond under the current plan, which could be 125 to 250 feet high, only 80 feet wide, so it would be a little weird, honestly, from a building perspective. But it moves any of that impact, if you will, from the built environment further west.
 But second, from our perspective, when it comes to height,
 There's two limiting factors that impact us much more so than the height limit that's allowed under code. One is the project budget, frankly, but the second is because of our uses, and this is the case with every single building we've built in the South Waterfront to date, we don't exceed the height that's allowed under code because we hit the FAR much sooner, FAR limit of nine to one, even with bonuses, which is kind of the limit, because we tend to have larger floor plates than residential. Residential, because of the small floor plates,
 can go much higher, but because of research, clinical uses, academic uses, our
 Our buildings tend to be smaller, and the Knight Cancer Research Building is a good example. That's only seven stories tall. And so I don't believe, and everything we've rendered shows our buildings stepping down to the river along the lines that you just described. So I think we're aligned as far as vision, but I don't think it's really a function of the height limit. It's more the fact that our uses tend to have those larger footprints, and the FAR is more of an issue before we even get that high. Okay.
 Thank you. That's helpful. So is it the Knight Cancer Institute that's going to be right on bond? Can you go back to kind of that 3D right there? So I can't see it myself. The one with the pink...
 The arrow? Yeah. No, that's not. So, the Knight Cancer Research Building, if you can just highlight that. Well, let's see. Right here. That's right. Yeah. Is there. That's seven stories. So, how big is the one that's got the arrows? We don't know, to your point. I mean, that's so far in the future as far as phases. We haven't programmed it or designed it. But we render it because, going back up, most of our intensive uses, we've done it
 are on Moody Avenue, where the height limit is higher than closer to the river, because there are larger footprints, if you will. The softer uses, which are more campus amenities, are closer to that commons, if you will. For example, that triangular parcel that's just east of the Collaborative Life Sciences building, we've envisioned a three-story, maybe four stories, school of public health, joint school with PSU.
 All of those buildings closer to Bond are closer in that range from three to five stories than the 12 or 14 stories that are closer to Moody. But you're right. Your point is well taken. It's not a function of code. It's because of the way we've envisioned the master plan and laying out our program on campus. Thank you. That's helpful. So you'd be willing to commit in that way?
 long rectangle that you don't know what's going on it, you'd be willing to commit to a step down from the ones that are on Moody? Well, I think when you say commit, you mean like a development agreement? Or you're going to be going back and doing some more design. So there's comments from the design commission that I'm going to incorporate in a minute. But
 So my understanding is there's supposed to be a collaborative process with a lot of different bureaus to discuss the development plan and the street alignments. Final. Okay.
 We certainly intend to step down towards the river along the lines that has been set in the vision of South Waterfront and Code. Whether or not we trade away entitlement, I can't answer that question, Commissioner. I'd have to review that with my colleagues at OHSU. Okay. If you would do that while we're still discussing this, that would be great. Okay. Let me make sure I understand. The general intention of your master plan is to have those –
 towers that I assume are the three rectangulars. Yeah, there we go. So you intend for those to be as tall or taller than the Collaborative Life Sciences Center, right? On the west side of the promenade. Yeah. And to my eye, that's completely appropriate, both because the Collaborative Life Sciences Center is already there and the tallest structure in the neighborhoods of Markham Bridge. So, you know, yeah.
 I have no reservations, Amanda, about them being vertical back there. I understand you're concerned about the greenway, but saying as far as the frontage on Moody, where you're getting closer and closer to the Markham Bridge itself –
 Frankly, I'd love to have something taller and more compelling to look at than the marker bridge in that neck of the woods. I'm concerned about the ones on bond. So if it develops like this, that would address my concern. That's certainly our vision, Commissioner. And we've rendered it every single way. And it's not slight of hand. It's not because we're trying to sell something we don't intend to execute. It's because we actually agree with you. Stepping down towards the river and having more intense development between the Moody and Promenade makes sense from our perspective as well. Thank you.
 Mr. Newman, the design commission letter mentioned an additional 10 feet on the bond alignment that could be available if the city would need it. In the absence of a more detailed design, memorializing that offer of an additional 10 feet would be helpful in order to accommodate the needs of the street and greenway. Is OHSU still comfortable making that offer, should the city be able to?
 We are. So we've already agreed to a street right-of-way for Bond that goes from 70 to 73 feet at the request of PBOT. So we've supported that, which is different from the original street plan. And then the flexibility that was kind of described as part of this process as it unfolds of 10 feet, we're fine with that as well. There's nothing magical or nothing –
 that we're trying to accomplish here. And as part of the process of designing bond in the Greenway, particularly if those schedules come together, as described by Rick, if they need that flexibility, we're happy to provide that and support that. So you also wouldn't mind committing to the area of land that you own east of bond remaining vacant?
 If it's realigned and we're talking, you know, 10, 15 feet, absolutely. One of the things we talked about with the design commission is making sure that that's designed such a well, that there's public gathering areas, there's maybe kiosks for our seasonal activity, there's all kinds of things that accomplish the Greenway vision, and we'd be supportive of that. Thank you.
 so i haven't had a chance to talk to david wark uh or the other members of the design commission but i've seen their letter but maybe tell us in your words how do you think this um this special design area
 is going to work in practice as you start working on specific projects in there? How's that going to be different from design review otherwise? I'll give you one example, and then Rick probably has some thoughts as well. We had a great conversation with the Commission. It was a difficult conversation because, frankly, they, like you, were asked to kind of weigh in on the alignment in the absence of details on how Bond was going to be designed at the Greenway.
 But one of the things we described to them was, for example, where that commons comes down to Bond, having a raised section of the street. So actually the priority visually to users instead of going north-south along Bond is really that pedestrians crossing the street have priority. So it's a special area really between Meade and Arthur that signals that commons essentially continues across the street to the Greenway.
 And then we have identified opportunities that are consistent with code but may go beyond code of activating our ground floors right at those adjacent corners as well. So how would that – how does that get played out between you and the design commission? Sure.
 So they even put us on notice that they're going to hold us to a very high standard when we come in with our buildings along that special design area for activization of the ground floor, for furnishing zones, if you will, and just the quality and the design of those buildings. And so they were very clear, and I don't think we would shy away from that. We expect that and welcome it.
 Yeah, okay. So I think it's important for us to get this discussion into the record because –
 everything ohsu has built so far has been excellent projects that you've just taken through the design commission are excellent but back to my earlier diatribe about the street grid I mean essentially what we're doing with this street plan overall Wiggles nonwithstanding is saying it's okay to have a campus here in the middle of the city
 We would normally say build out a 200-foot grid or thereabouts, but we're acknowledging that this area is going to be a college, a university campus. And so I think that's...
 appropriate that we allow much larger block sizes in what will be a campus-style development, but it has to be an urban campus-style development. And so what I would hope and expect is that the design commission and you will collaborate on a very high level of performance in terms of how those buildings meet the public realm, because they're going to be really big. And just like the Collaborative Life Science Center is a good-sized building, some of these will be even larger potentially.
 So that's really important that we get that right because we rely on the design standards, our design guidelines, and the 200-foot grid to both get it right and limit the damage. When somebody doesn't do a particularly good job of getting it right, it's only 200 feet long. So this is a big deal in terms of having that block's got to be, what, 500 feet long, the one rectangular block there.
 No, the east-west, it's between 280 and 300. I can't remember the exact number. On Arthur and I'm talking about the really long blocks. Oh, you're talking about without the promenade included? Yeah. Oh, you're right. Yeah. So, okay, the promenade will interrupt the buildings. So there will still be a grid there. Created by the promenade, that's right. Okay. Thank you.
 Mayor and colleagues, I have a suggestion. Commissioner Prince has an amendment. I have an amendment. But given that we've got a packed agenda today and I think that we've agreed to take a further look at this over the next couple of weeks, I would suggest that we stop now and hope we can reschedule another discussion in a couple of weeks. Anyone else that would like to get testimony on the record today? Otherwise, we can do that.
 Okay. That sounds fine to me. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Appreciate your presentation and the council discussion and your patience with mine. So we'll continue this until early January. You want to wait and set a date later? That would be nice if one's available. It would be 11 o'clock. On what day? Yeah, on January 6th.
 i'm pretty cool we're already going to have is there already a time certain there's three already that morning um so we were limiting to 19 minutes yeah the 13th is a better date we would uh have probably 10 30. all right wait that long 13th 13th of january is that all right all right okay 13 is okay all right let's do that then thank you okay so let's continue to the 13th thank you very much uh look forward to scheduling a meeting with my my office in the meantime
 All right. Then let us move on, and we have amendments for later on that item, so we'll have a chance to take those up then. Let's move on, please, to item 1302.
 Authorize agreement regarding outstanding Phase 1 matters related to the July 17, 2015 Partial Compliance Agreement between the City on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation and Laborers Local 483, Laborers International Union of North America.
 Good morning, John. Good morning, John Uto, Human Resources. This ordinance is just to provide two technical adjustments to the Phase 1 compliance agreement related to the recreation arbitration. One is related to pay, allowing HR and parks to pay for preschool teachers above entry rate, and the other is related to implementation or withholding implementation of civil service recruitment until more stable funding sources are identified. Okay.
 Okay. Questions? Thank you. The most succinct presentation. That's a new record for clarity and simplicity. Thank you, John. Good work on this. Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then let's take a vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. No vote? Thank you. Aye.
 Prince. This does represent the city's continued willingness to work with Laborers 483 who are also continuing to work with us. It resolves an issue from Phase 1 that there were four preschool teachers who had a reduction in their hourly rate, even though their total compensation increased when they became members of the bargaining unit. And we are not committing that this may happen again, but in this particular case it was an unintended consequence, and we want to make it right for those four employees. Aida.
 yes i'm pleased to support this and commissioner fritz um during your services commissioner in charge of the parks bureau you've brought a particular zeal to raising the working conditions and standards of the people who report to you and i applaud you for your work hi saltzman this is good progress in a constructive partnership so thank you all very much aye okay
 Let's move to – do you want to take up the items that were pulled? Can we do those after the regular agenda? We sure can. We can this time. That's fine. Let's move on to 1320 then. 1320, direct the City Budget Office to create an ongoing general fund transfer to the Housing Investment Fund starting July 1, 2016. That's 1321. Yeah, that's –
 a rare i don't think i've ever heard you read the wrong thing before in seven years that's right even steph curry misses an occasional free throw sorry about that 1320 accept the bureau of development services business continuity plan commissioner salzman commissioner
 did you want to make some opening remarks sure thank you commissioner salzman i really appreciate that since i initiated it so i'm very pleased to see this initiative coming to fruition under your leadership of the bureau of development services the business continuity plan began during the budget process earlier this year when the bureau of development services was part of my portfolio
 And the plan came out of a need for clearer direction and guidelines for the Bureau during times of financial downturn, allowing BDS to respond quickly and flexibly with necessary expenditure reductions.
 The Bureau of Development Services financial staff developed the plan in collaboration with the leadership team, the Development Review Advisory Committee, the Budget Advisory Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Labor Management Committee. We know how to due process.
 and I attended several of the first meetings. It was frankly really hard for employees and for management and for myself to remember the hard times of the recession and the drastic cuts that were necessary because we didn't have a business continuity plan in place before. And so because business is now booming, it's a really good time to have this plan so that future commissioners in charge of the Bureau of Development Services...
 are clear with the council's direction on this is how you know when something is coming and this is what you need to do to avert the absolute cliff that happened in 2008. So very much appreciate all of the staff in development services, and thank you, Commissioner Salzman, for your partnership in this. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your leadership on this. And without further ado, I'll turn it over to Director Paul Scarlett and our BDS Finance Manager, Elshad Hajib.
 to walk us through this plan.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I appreciate the introduction. Commissioner Fritz, you stole a lot of my talking points, but I would say I echo them because truly this is a report that's intended to provide the Bureau of guidance for when there are major downturns in the economy. And I do want to share with those listening and watching that we don't have any immediate such plans.
 The economy is strong. We're operating at cost recovery, in fact, exceeding cost recovery in a lot of programs. Our reserves are strong. The economy and the workload, staffing level, we're really heading in a...
 the right and strong direction so I want to share that just provide some context however the the past experience as Commissioner Fritz alluded to did provide us some experiences better or not that has helped us to shape this report to provide guidance and predictability for what actions are going to be taken how and when the report
 provides the commissioner in charge and the bureau director the authority to activate the plan and triggers such as not recovering costs or there's been downturn in Slow down in workload activities for over several months Those are good good triggers for us to review and monitor closely. We certainly won't be reacting in
 what I would say, in ways that aren't feasible or practical. However, we do have solid data from economic matrixes and so forth that we will monitor closely and bring to the attention of the commissioner in charge. The workforce, and partly because we have mandates that are state funded,
 and while they're state regulated in terms of timelines, both on the land use review side and the building code side, we are required to comply and meet those timelines even when we're not operating at cost recovery. So there's some priorities that sometimes have to be set along with adjusting staffing levels.
 like which ones do we do, which ones don't we do. And so the report really goes into detail and spells out a lot of the necessary information. So I do want to thank Elshad and the finance team who's helped develop and Commissioner Fritz said this was a very collaborative process to include because the industry also wants to know what are you going to do if there's a downturn? Employees want to know what are we going to do? What are the criteria? And so this really has
 I believe we've developed it, and it's also aimed at, it's also developed as an evolving report. So from time to time, we will submit the report, we'll provide updates, we'll evaluate it, we'll make changes as necessary. But I do want to thank staff who's worked on it, and I'll turn it over to Elshad to go through some of the more specific details of the plan. Thank you. Thank you, Paul.
 Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor. Elshad Hachieh, Finance Manager for the Bureau of Development Services. Before I delve into the plan, I just want to remind you that the Bureau is supported mostly by the fees, permit fees, license fees. Ninety-six percent of our funding is coming from those. Only four percent is coming from the general fund.
 So there is a huge need for our bureau to be self-supporting because there is no reliance on the general fund. On the other hand, we have construction industry that is extremely cyclical in nature. So it goes through ebbs and flows, and we have to be prepared to weather all those ups and downs. The plan itself is developed over time.
 nine to 12 months. And again, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, it includes input from our major stakeholders and also from our employees. It's divided into basically three parts. The first part is the leading indicators. We selected eight of them. Those are indicators that some of our divisions are reporting on a regular basis. And then we have the leading indicators
 Those include pre-application conferences, our early assistant appointments, evaluation of our received building permit applications, even measures like the traffic at our development services center. We count number of people that come in every day. So those eight are designed to basically help us identify early signs when the trends are changing.
 So there are eight of them, and they're reporting them on a monthly basis. The plan triggers is the next set of the indicators. Those are five. And if any four out of those five are triggered or activated, that's when the plan itself and the measures outlined in the plan will be activated. And Director Scarlett and the commissioner in charge have the authority to activate that plan.
 The measures, the plan triggers include, for example, if the cumulative cost recovery is below 100 percent, or if our reserves dip below our minimum level, or if the number of applications that are coming to us over the six-month period has been 6%.
 consequently dropping or the valuation of our permits. So if any four out of those five are activated or triggered, that's when the plan itself and the measures outlined in the plan will be triggered. Unfortunately, we as a bureau or any economist believe
 do not know the exact timing and the severity and the duration of any economic downturn. We can make our best forecast. However, as far as the when and how long it will last and how severe it will be, it's very difficult to predict those things. So that's why this plan is very important and the measures outlined in this plan.
 are very important to follow when any of those triggers are activated, any four of them are activated. The measures range from basically first looking at our workloads, looking at our staffing levels, assess our programs, assess our workforce, and then make adjustments to it. There are
 Seven measures outlined there, and those could be implemented in any – basically in any combination or in any order, again, depending on the severity and duration of the economic downturn. Again, we're talking about something that is big. We're not talking about our revenues dropped by 5 percent and now we're going to go through those measures and implement them. We're talking about something really big happening. Okay.
 We also will actually already started preparing the dashboard that is being sent to bureau management and to the commissioner in charge. It shows all of the triggers and all of the leading indicators. It also identifies managers responsible for reporting on them. We color-coded it. It's actually pretty simple. If it's green, we're good. If it's red, we have to pay attention. Okay.
 And again, as Paul mentioned, we will be evaluating this plan and the measures outlined and the leading indicators on an annual basis and make adjustments. For example, let's say the traffic at the DSC is the measure that we're using now. However, with the usage of technology, we may need to tweak it a little bit to include also online traffic.
 So we will be monitoring all of them on an annual basis and make adjustments. And this plan will become part of our budget submission. Every year we will make, if necessary, we will make adjustments and submit it for your review during the budget process. Thank you.
 I'll say that the Budget Office is pleased with the development of this plan, and it's indicated that it could be a model. I don't know for which bureau, but certainly we'll be utilizing it in our bureau and as part of the budget process. And so before I forget, we respectfully ask that the Council accepts this report. Thank you.
 I just have a clarifying question. When I was Commissioner in Charge of Development Services, you would give me a report every month on all of these kinds of indicators. And I know that Commissioner Saltzman is similarly data-driven in his work style. Supposing we had a different director or a different commissioner in charge, what is the position within the Bureau who is responsible for tracking all this data and bringing any kind of changes to the director's attention who then brings it to the commissioner's attention?
 That would be me. It's the finance manager who is responsible for doing that tracking and raising the red flag if necessary. Correct. Great. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both. Thanks very much. Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? We have two people signed up, Jay Veronica Bernier and Crystal Alinsky. Okay. Come on up. You're ahead, Sister. I can sit in any chair. Hi, Crystal.
 How do you do? Good to see you. Good to see you, too. Here, put that closer so you can hear me. Okay. Good. You can see we're friends, but I don't know where or when. Let's go. Same place as we met all these people. Oh, good. The same table. Do you want to go first? Go ahead. No, who's first? You want me to go first? Okay, good. Good morning, everyone in the City of Portland. Welcome to Wednesday's City Council, and it's good to see you, Mayor Charles Hales. It's always good to see you because we like you.
 And good morning, Amanda. You always look so nice. Good morning, Commissioner Novick. You're doing quite well and you always look nice. They're all handsome. Good morning, Commissioner Dan Salzman. You're looking well. Good. And good morning, Nick Fish. He always looks well.
 Anyway, it's good to see you. We're supposed to be speaking to this issue, and I do support what they just said. I think that it's important to support gentlemen who come to the city at their own expense and testify. Generally speaking, we do support issues in the city that are germane to all the people. And I like both of those guys. I think that I...
 would generally support everything that they said except for one one or two things let me look at that it's 1320 isn't it oh good oh
 General plan. Good. Along the lifespan of the city, I'm happy to report that things are continuing. I just want to amend one little thing. My former professor, Dr. Seymour Adler, said, never hesitate to add to the built environment systems and constructs for life in the future. So I generally support it. I just wanted to echo that. And you'll notice that I'm clueless about what most of it goes in that plan, but I just trust that.
 Those of us who are out here, trust in the Lord and hallelujah. Thank you. Your turn. Morning. Hello. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Crystal Elinsky, and I represent 10,000. I'm very privileged to be here, and I'm terribly sorry I was late this morning for communications. It's taken me a lot longer to get anywhere in the city the further I move out, and so
 When I first met you all, of course, I came here as a newly homeless person many years ago. And the news now is simply that I'm still trying to function within the subsidized housing market and dealing with apparently a condom minium association that I didn't know about.
 and as well as the subsidized housing now want us all to pay 50% instead of 30% of our income. So speaking to the agenda item and many agenda items, speaking about the economy as if it's working is really funny to me. Whether or not it's a friend who's lived in the same house for 20 years or somebody who just got on the Central City Concern where you recommended me to this time, Commissioner Saltzman,
 everybody is suddenly paying 50% or more, or they're getting a 25% increase on their rent. As soon as the landlords found out about the emergency of planning for homelessness, that there would be a 90-day requirement for a 5% increase. No one's getting a 5% increase on their rents. They're getting huge, unbelievable increases. So
 I'm glad that we are working on a budget clarity that will work for the future of this city. I hope that as a citizen, I can follow it more closely. I can't attend meetings like I used to. It's really hard as a citizen to...
 and most people tell me now that i live way out of the town and on the bus that they can't attend these meetings and these hearings and they really want their voices heard so having a really clear business plan i think would would color-coded or whatnot would be very helpful um i'd also like to point out with the last agenda item that
 the Parks and Recreation hiring the rangers part-time was really upsetting for them and for a lot of us that we're trying to push through the 15 now, which I always say is 50. I would like our city workers in any range to get paid as much as our commissioners. And whether they're working for Labor 583, yeah, or whatnot and also getting their benefits paid.
 So that's part of a really strong business plan where we can get over any humps, over any future economic crises. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay. Anyone else? Can I move the report? Second. Let's take a roll call vote, please, on adoption. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Aye. Great. Thank you.
 I'm really proud of this, and I'm just very blessed and honored to have worked with all the great folks in the Bureau of Development Services. I want to thank Director Paul Scarlett, Finance Manager, El-Sajjadji. I have also Deborah Seabrook-Morris, who's here, Dora Perry, who's the Equity and Policy Manager, Rachel Whiteside, the Co-Chair of the Labor Management Committee. It's a wonderful group of folks who have done a lot of really great work to set out a framework that will hopefully –
 give early warning of future downsurns, and then give direction to the commissioner in charge to take early action so that we don't have the precipitous drop that we saw in 2009. So thank you very much for all of your good work. Thank you for the city budget office and the chief financial officer for looking it over and giving it their thumbs up. And again, I appreciate your partnership very much, Commissioner Seltzman. Thank you for bringing it home. Aye. Aye. Seltzman?
 Well, again, I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her initiating this report and the staff at BDS and the leadership for bringing this report forward to us. As Elshad said, we are a very – potentially a very volatile bureau in terms of the funding sources, 96 percent reliant on funding.
 how well the construction, remodeling, development economy is doing. So it's very important to have these indicators and to try to avoid some of the dire situations this Bureau has confronted in the past. And at least we may not be able to avoid the dire funding scenarios, but at least we'll have...
 some early warnings and the ability to try to respond to those warnings and make sure that our we are as even keeled as we can possibly be as a bureau so thank you hi nails work hi okay 1321 direct the city budget office to create an ongoing general fund transfer to the housing investment fund starting july 1 2016.
 Thank you, Mayor. I don't have to tell any of you up here that one of our most vexing and urgent problems in the city is not having enough affordable housing. By our own estimates, we lack 24,000 units of affordable housing to meet the needs of our current residents in our city. We are working on many tracks to tackle this affordable housing crisis. We are accelerating our commitments to new affordable housing developments through our largest ever funding release.
 we are revamping our bonus program to prioritize affordable housing development we have taken the first steps to institute the development impact fee for affordable housing and we continue to advocate aggressively for new tools like inclusionary housing today we are poised to take the first step to providing the first ongoing source of funds for our housing investment fund through the dedication of our short-term rental revenues there is no one silver bullet to our housing crisis
 no one legislative tool or revenue source to solve our affordable housing crisis we need a myriad of tools and sources of funds today we add one important piece to the tapestry of resources we require so i'd like to now turn it over to my two co-sponsors mayor hills and commissioner fish before we bring up the panel thank you i'll just add this these thoughts to that good introduction
 This is an extraordinary situation, and it requires extraordinary means. And one of the reasons why I supported this change is that, although in general I don't like dedicating general fund revenues, this situation that we're facing in housing is so significant, and it's going to last a while, that it requires that we use different means.
 metrics to decide how we operate. So to me, this is the right thing to do. The exception, if you will, that proves the rule. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner Saltzman. Dan, I'm very proud to co-sponsor this resolution. You made it very clear early in your tenure as Commissioner in Charge of the Housing Bureau that you wanted to build up a housing investment fund
 so that it could become another important tool in our kit to give us flexibility in addressing this housing crisis. In my view, there's a clear nexus between the legalization of short-term rentals, which has taken thousands of units off the market, disproportionately impacting low-income renters,
 Therefore, I think once that nexus was established, it is entirely appropriate for us to take the revenue from short-term rentals and to put them into a fund which effectively mitigates the negative consequences of short-term rentals. The Housing Investment Fund is that source, and I'm also pleased that the Council has given you the broadest possible latitude to spend that money so that you can – it is truly a flexible and innovative tool to address this crisis.
 I'm proud that you've stuck to this. Second time, I think, is the charm, and I'm honored to join you in this effort. Thank you. Any comments before we go? Actually, I have a question, and I see Mr. Andrews in the room.
 What will the impact of this be on the next year's budget? We just got a revenue forecast saying that we will have no additional ongoing revenue. All right, well, let's let Kurt make the presentation. We'll put this in the hall. We'll answer that. I believe there's also a panel. Yeah, I want to call up. I think we have three chairs up there? Yeah, we do. Okay. John Miller, Executive Director of Oregon Opportunity Network, Israel Baer of Street Roots, and Jess Larson,
 representative of the Welcome Home Coalition. If you can bring up a fourth chair. While they get settled in, I'll get started with at least framing the issue. It's my great honor to be here today. My name is Kurt Krieger, director of the Portland Housing Bureau. And this is something that we've been working on for the last several months, since I started August 10th.
 First, I'd like to recognize the Housing Investment Fund is an important building block in our kit of tools to provide affordable housing in the City of Portland. The reason it's important, even though it's small, is that the money can be used anywhere in the City of Portland, whereas most of our revenue is dedicated to specific urban renewal areas. So this is jet fuel that can be used to underwrite projects, to help make projects affordable, and as per the resolution, it's –
 limited to projects that benefit households with incomes less than 60 percent of the median income.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, the legal nexus, the connection between the source and the uses of funds is very compelling. In this instance, we know that market affordable units are being taken out of service in this community and put into play as short-term rentals. We've been doing, for the last several months, web scraping of listings of Airbnb, and we've done some preliminary analysis. There will be more to come in the new year.
 But it's important to note that there's about 2,500 active listings of short-term rentals just in the Airbnb platform in the city of Portland. Of course, there are other platforms available. Of those, 59% are for the entire home or apartment unit. And 84% of those have high availability, which means that they are available at a minimum of 95 days per year.
 So those are stock that essentially is not available to the general public on month-to-month or least-term availability. And, of course, they wouldn't all have been market affordable. We need to drill into the data a little bit more to have really reliable information available.
 It's important also that you know that the Housing Investment Fund currently receives dedicated loan income from our portfolio of affordable housing units. These are performing loans, some 13,600 units financed by the Bureau citywide. We get about $600,000 a year in revenue. And the fund itself has a current loan balance of about $1 million. So this would be tripling the available revenue currently coming in annually to the Housing Investment Fund.
 And as mentioned by Commissioner Salzman in his framing of the issue with the Oregonian Editorial Board, perhaps more importantly, is that this provides a reliable stream of revenue that can be used as security for revenue bonds.
 And the modeling that we've done in consultation with Ken Rust, Chief Financial Officer, is that we could raise between about $12 and $30 million next year, depending on the financial assumptions made in such a bond.
 So, I want to underscore that Portland is distinguished as a leader in this area. My colleagues in Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles have not yet implemented this measure. So I think you're on the leading edge. And having done this work for a long time, I'm very proud to be part of helping you achieve your goals. MR. Kirk, can I just get a clarification? I believe I read somewhere that the mayor of Los Angeles indicated his desire to do this. So is it just a question that they haven't actually implemented it?
 Neither has Seattle nor Los Angeles actually implemented it yet. But the mayor of Los Angeles, at least, is on record as saying that he wants to dedicate the revenue. Indeed. As Mayor Murray in Seattle has received a recommendation from their housing affordability and livability agenda, which is a broad-based citizen's effort, they're strongly recommending a similar move in Seattle. Yeah. Thank you.
 How much additional ongoing funding did the Housing Bureau get in the current year's budget?
 Well, we're working with about $30 million of additional revenue. Some of it is one-time revenue. Some of it is ongoing. And I must say that as the council has indicated their interest in helping to resolve the homeless problem, some of that money can be used for operating because it's general fund revenue. This housing investment dollars can only be used for capital. So this might be used in construction.
 consolidation or in unity with those funds? In the last budget, the 2014-2015 budget,
 How much additional ongoing money did the council allocate to the Housing Bureau? I think we got an additional increase of $30 million in total. Our total budget is about $100 million. And the ongoing amount that we allocated last year, does anybody remember? Going versus one time. Andrew's here. He might be able to. Andrew's available, yeah. I don't recall how that was divided. He can dig it up while the panelists are discussing. The fall bump had another $400 million. Yeah, right, yeah.
 Right. Okay. Thank you very much, Kurt. Absolutely. Who would like to be next? Good morning. My name is Jess Larson. I'm the director of the Welcome Home Coalition, which represents about 115 organizations in the region dedicated to this very issue, the need for ongoing
 ongoing dedicated funding to build back our affordable housing infrastructure. Many of the comments I prepared for you today have already been said, so I'll try to be brief and just add some additional comments. We've studied at length what other cities across the United States are doing to address the need for local and dedicated revenue. There are hundreds of other housing investment funds, or they call them housing trust funds, and they go by many different names.
 with ongoing dedicated revenue sources that, you know, from about a million dollars to tens of millions of dollars. And so there are cities who are using as this additional tool $20 million from capital
 In the case of Seattle, a property tax levy. In the case of Boston, developer impact fees. In the case of Austin, dedicated funds through general obligation bonds. In the case of Miami, a restaurant tax. So there are many different kinds of tools we can look to, but what all these cities agree is that it's necessary in order to combat the housing crisis across the country with these local dedicated fund sources. Okay.
 because we're here in this housing crisis due to 40 years of divestment in affordable housing infrastructure, and we need to commit to building back this lost housing inventory. And as many people say, we can't just build our way out of that. We know it's going to take a lot and probably more than we have to build 24,000 homes
 But by increasing minimum wages, we can lift families out of poverty. And the need for affordable housing with inclusionary zoning, we can have our developer and community contribute to this solution. But bottom line, for the families living with fixed incomes, for grandparents on Social Security, for veterans with disability pensions, there's no market opportunity.
 housing available anymore. And the only way for us to ensure that these families have homes is with dedicated local funding. So thank you for your leadership in creating this first dedicated revenue tool to the Housing Investment Fund. By our estimations, we need $50 million annually dedicated in this fund. So we hope, as you say, this is one of many future steps in this direction.
 Israel Baer. My name is Israel Baer. I'm the director of Street Roots. I live in North Portland. I'll be very brief. Street Roots has supported this idea from the get-go of short-term rentals coming on the market and been very vocal in that effort, so we very much thank you for your leadership to put this forward. I just want to say I kind of want to go off script just a little bit and say that I communicate with advocates all over the country.
 on a fairly regular basis. And the work that's being done in Portland right now is something that other communities are looking to that's having a ripple effect in how people are shaping their decisions, both locally and having an effect at a federal level. And so as we look to the future and how we are going to move forward on these issues, I just want to
 say thank you to everyone, whether there's consensus today on this specific model. I know Amanda, I know Steve, you're both at heart advocates for the poor. You care about this issue very deeply, and I know that everybody on the council cares for this issue very deeply. So we very much support this specific model. We very much support the work that you're doing moving forward. I think this is a historic moment, understanding that we're putting the first time in –
 people have fought for 30 years to have a dedicated stream of revenue for affordable housing. And this is a historic moment, even though it's not up to scale that it needs to be. And I just want to say thank you for everyone for taking the time to do the work and look at this very complex issue. Hi, I'm John Miller, Executive Director of Oregon Opportunity Network. Like Jess, many of my comments were already said by commissioners here. So thank you.
 But I actually sat on the committee that sort of devised some of the Airbnb and short-term rental rules a year ago. And also about a year and a half ago, I was here testifying that those funds should be dedicated to affordable housing. And it's great to be back today and to see that we've come to that conclusion today.
 There certainly is a nexus, and at least we presume there's a nexus. I would say, and this is related to some of the comments I said a year ago, it's unfortunate that Airbnb and other short-term rental groups aren't necessarily cooperating to provide who has registered and who has not registered and so forth. It's a little bit frustrating to hear that...
 Kurt Krieger and his staff are having to do their own combing of the data rather than asking Airbnb to provide that for us. One of the things we don't really know is what kind of impact does this activity actually have? So, I think that's just a good thing looking forward that we ought to get a better handle on. But today, it's great that we've got a $1.2 million floor going forward annually into the Housing Investment Fund. That's huge.
 My organization works around the state, and we know firsthand in working with Oregon Housing and Community Services that a lot of the funds are not necessarily being targeted in the Portland area and a lot of the state funds. And so we really need to fill that gap, and this is an opportunity for us to help fill that gap.
 but it's a small piece. And we know the elephant in the room is the affordable housing crisis that we're all trying to solve. And they always say, how do you eat an elephant? One bite at a time. And this is one bite. And we do need a lot more bites in order to overcome this problem. So that's about, I think that's what I...
 That summarizes my points. I definitely applaud Commissioner Salzman for bringing this forward. I'm glad, you know, it's a year later, but it's great that it's here now. So thank you so much for your work on this. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. I do have a question for all of you, although this might put Mr. Krieger in another spot, so maybe it's for the other three. When we voted to allow short-term rentals last year, or wherever it was, I said at the time that I was concerned about the potential impact on housing affordability, and it turned out the evidence showed that it undermines housing affordability. I would recommend that we revisit the issue and outlaw the short-term rentals again.
 My question for you is, if you had to choose, what would you pick, having this additional money from the Housing Investment Fund or outlawing short-term rentals? There's a third option. You can respectfully decline to answer the question. But I'd really appreciate an answer. Well, Street Roots can afford to lose the political capital, so we would say outlaw short-term rentals. But given the circumstances, we feel like this is the best measure forward. Mr. Larson?
 Well, I guess I will only add that we need the data to understand what is the impact, and we need either the city to step up and find a way to gather that data or to require Airbnb to provide it.
 And I guess I would add that, sort of echoing Jess' comments, we don't know actually what the impact is. There would be different ways to mitigate it. Do we just outlaw short-term rentals, or do we ask the beneficiaries, the companies that run these, to actually give much more significant money to fund additional affordable housing in Portland? That could be one way to do it.
 I don't know that every single short-term rental is taking a unit off the market. Some folks convert their basements if they wouldn't have done that had it not been for this program. So it's not a one-to-one necessarily. So I would think that we'd need a lot more information before we could make a decision on that. A related question is I did not pay when we authorized short-term rentals enough attention
 in part authorizing people to build ADUs that they would then solely use for short-term rental purposes. Do you think that it would be appropriate to restrict ADUs to uses that are for permanent housing rather than for short-term rentals?
 Well, I would just – one comment to that is that right now the taxation system within the county is actually stopping the ADU production overall. So that problem is solved. Thank you.
 You know, that's a tough one because I think that some folks will build an ADU or convert a garage into an ADU in order to generate additional income so that they can actually remain in their home. And so to say that ADUs can only be used for personal use or for a grandmother flat or something like that, I don't think that that is – I don't think that will get us to where we want to get to. Okay.
 I'd like to add something to the good of the order. While it may be the sharing economy, I think, is a fact on the ground, and it may be working against some fairly strong economic forces to deny it, I think it is important to note that...
 And just in the last week, an important study was published by Harvard Law School, which documented racial discrimination within the sharing economy and has specifically drilled down into the use of short-term rentals. And it found that when in markets, I must underscore, outside of Portland, since Portland was not a test city, that when names that were used,
 typically identified with a minority subgroup and typically identified with a majority group were shopped to hosts that about 16% of the people that would identify as minorities were actually excluded from the marketplace.
 We are responsible for fair housing planning enforcement in the city of Portland, and we take that very seriously. So if it does continue to exist, and that's certainly within your purview, they need to be held much more to account to the current civil rights statutes that you've put into place and the laws of the state of Oregon. Director Krieger, since you are canvassing those national studies, would you just remind us –
 I seem to recall that San Francisco has done some good work, at least the advocacy community has, about documenting the number of affordable units that have been taken off the market and how that has impacted the overall housing affordability crisis. Would you have a comment on that? Yes. We're actually doing a deep dive into the data, working with the Bureau of Technology Services.
 because we need their authority to use some of these tools that are specialized so that we conform to the city's data platform. But we will be doing our own fair housing investigation in 2016 to correlate racial discrimination as part of our analysis to impediments to fair housing, because we think the short-term rental market itself and the nature of the sharing economy may itself be an impediment to fair housing.
 We'll also be mapping this much more specifically on a neighborhood basis so that you have a much better idea. Of course, there are some in the public domain, there are some generic maps available, but they are not at all precise. So we want to be doing some testing as to, you know, exactly how much of these units are taken out of supply. One particular question I'm interested in is,
 Of course, many of these are managed by hosts, but we need to drill down to find the address of the taxpayer to determine whether or not these are investor-owned by corporations and LLCs or whether or not they, as Commissioner Novick mentioned, perhaps individual units owned by a particular household. And I think that would be really valuable information for the council to have. Well, I just want to comment that the concern that I had when we took this up in the context of multifamily housing...
 was that first and foremost, in almost every context, we were told by industry that this kind of arrangement, that is renting out your apartment with one of these Internet sites, would be a violation of the existing lease. So we were, in a sense, giving a green light to something that was, in the main, illegal under the terms of existing leases. I was concerned about the impact of withdrawing otherwise affordable units from the market
 And there were also some safety issues. And one of the things that does concern me generally is that we have not gotten the kind of cooperation from industry in addressing the health and safety issues. And it concerns me. It's sort of like we – I mean, this is not a perfect analogy, but, you know, we do get revenues from lottery activities that go to good purposes. This is a revenue from an activity that is largely illegal, in fact, that goes to a good purpose. I do have an underlying qualm about the activity.
 And let's be clear, this council in authorizing short-term rentals in a multifamily, in an apartment building context, did also establish rather modest health and safety standards. I mean, this is not at the heavy hand of government. This is a smoke detector and making sure that if there's a fire, someone can get out of an apartment safely. And it does appear, Mayor, that up to over 90% of the hosts are still not in compliance with our law. And that means that
 Companies that make the money by putting those units on their websites, which is what, in effect, these short-term rental companies are. They're apps that advertise these units and are matchmakers. They're making a profit knowingly.
 advertising units that we don't know are safe. So that does give me a qualm. As to Commissioner Novick's point, though, because Steve has been very consistent about this, and it's one of the things I've come to appreciate about the intellectual consistency in his concerns. He raised a concern, for example, around urban renewal. Would we be tempted to create an urban renewal district that otherwise might be questionable on the merits simply because it created a revenue stream for a good purpose?
 and i i will i will confess steve that for me the education ura was a close call when we adopted it and i'm very pleased that this council uh honored the commitment by shifting by finding resources in north mccadden to compensate for the loss of that but i think steve's point about not uh simply embracing something for the purpose of creating a revenue stream is important and it would certainly be my expectation that if
 If at some point this council said that we are not going to allow short-term rentals and multifamily, then that's going to affect the income stream, and we all understand that. We'll have to balance having the money for the HIF and the health and safety and well-being of our people. But that's not what I think is before us today, and I sincerely believe that using these revenues is intellectually honest because there's a clear nexus in terms of mitigating the effect of short-term rentals, and that's why I support it.
 I just want to add one thing going the other way. I think we can do also a better job collectively, all of us, at engaging the new economy and how it's engaging with the philanthropy community, whether you're talking the tech industry, short-term rentals, Uber, Lyft, whatever. There is an enormous amount of...
 profits being made by those companies, and they are flying in the dark when it comes to really thinking about how to do investments from a philanthropy perspective. And if we can't live in a world where we have everything...
 we want in the context of the market, we can live in a world where we also are being partners with these companies to be able to invest their dollars wisely. We may be adding $1.2 million today. It's possible that we could live in a world where Airbnb matched that money from a philanthropy perspective towards housing. So there's lots of ways to think about this, and it's very complex.
 Mr. Baer, on another point, another issue entirely, I think that Jason Hayward's choice made absolutely no sense, that given the history of the two organizations, choosing the Cubs over the Cardinals is simply a fool's error. I agree, on the record. All right, you two, take it outside. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. All right. Do you have any other invited testimony, Commissioner? All right, then I'll see who else has signed up to speak on this item, please. Thank you.
 Crystal Alinsky and J. Veronica Bernier. I'm first this time. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Crystal Alinsky. I represent 10,000, and I'm very privileged to be here. This is an excellent discussion. I've always been fascinated in following this topic, and I was planning on getting involved about this time last year. January I came to Commissioner Saltzman's office, and that was shortly after I was evicted by Home Forward, and
 the Section 8 Housing Authority. But I guess what I would like to contribute to this is probably the silver bullets, maybe. I do believe that there are other ways to consider it, and I was wondering at first if the calculations have been made on exactly how much we need to house 24,000 in affordable units, right?
 and how much money we need to make sure that these short-term rentals are in compliance. How did you come to the number of this extra funding of $1.2 million, and how much of that is it going to cover? And also, where would you be investing the revenue bonds? I mean, none of that would go into, I would hope, for example, not fossil fuels. Yes.
 But how do you look in the future? I know we're under an emergency plan right now, but for the future to make sure this doesn't happen again, how much are you planning to put into this housing revenue and when do you think we'll actually be able to – because I do agree with the panel here that it would be very simple to collect the data on how many of these units we have. And the people I know who do Airbnb are people sort of, I say, in the same boat as I am.
 that they need extra income to survive in this harsh reality that is not a good economy. I disagree with the last topic discussion. So I would just like to know, how do you invest the revenue? And how did you come to the number that this is actually going to house enough people? Because I would like to suggest the silver bullet, and I believe Bob Seger would totally agree with me, is rent control.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Absolutely agree with this resolution. Again, Commissioner Salzman, I think you're making some real good moves here pertaining to the homeless, providing more affordable housing, and again, also to the Mayor on declaring a state of emergency on housing.
 Now, again, I think Airbnb is absolutely an advantage to this city. We're forgetting to calculate that they also go out there and obtain more units that aren't currently on the market. They do that through aggressive marketing. And also what we're missing with Airbnb is that their system is bringing in tourists from around the world that spend a tremendous amount of money through this local economy –
 that will far weigh out any losses that you can calculate pertaining to affordable housing. And you must keep that in mind and also always keep in mind the Federal Trade Commission. They'll win you in court every day. Now, issue number two is that I want to make sure, and the Director of the Portland Housing Bureau, which brings up some really excellent points,
 I want to use this as security on a bond. He threw out a number somewhere around $30 million. I originally asked for $100 million. I say we go for $50 million to begin with and we go from there. I like that idea and this is positioning that to make it a reality. We also have to look at the window of opportunity on these bonds.
 If we wait another one to two years, I think we're going to miss that opportunity. I think now is the prime time to begin moving forward on that and putting that together. Another issue, again, we were talking on the demolition tax and maybe converting some money toward your fund.
 I still think that's a possibility and could be a reality. I think we have to reduce that demolition tax and make it just a more reasonable number. And I think the developers are going to step up. And if they understand a percentage is going to your fund, they're going to say, fine, let's just do it. And that won't have the resistance that we're going to have at that higher number. And I think we need to keep that in consideration. Issue number three is that
 On the affordable housing issue, I agree with Mayor Hale's position on going for more shelters. I think it's a good move at this time until we can implement other things as bonds that we can get the more permanent housing. Again, looking at Salt Lake City, we're doing just as good, if not better, than they are. And that is my opinion. And that's through the leadership here.
 And a lot of their ideas are no different than what we're doing. We're just not coming up with the amount of resources to follow through. And that's what we're talking about today is resources. And that's the most important piece of this puzzle is how we continue to get more resources for the affordable housing, permanent housing, and making sure we have enough shelter space, which Mayor Hales is taking some risks there. He's using eco-diversions.
 transportation, shuttle buses, transportation to these shelters. I think it's very innovative, and I think it's going to work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. And isn't it ironic, Commissioner Fish, that we would consider Airbnb more illegal than the lottery at one point? We would get our source of funding from the lottery. That's the poor man's lottery. We always lose our money that way. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, other questions for staff? Could I have the City Budget Office direct a comment? Sure, please, come on up so that you have a chance to...
 to find those figures? Yes, with the caveat that they haven't been as thoroughly double-checked as I like. But yes, I believe we have found the figures. So just in terms of housing, and these are overall numbers going to a number of different programs within the Housing Bureau, in 15-16, there was no additional, in the current fiscal year, no additional ongoing funding, but there was about $6 million of one-time added funding.
 In the 2014-15 budget, there was $1.24 million of ongoing and about $1.4 million of one-time. And going back in 2013-14, that's where a big ongoing amount was added, $4.6 million ongoing into the budget. In total, looking back over five or six years, in fiscal year 2011-12,
 The general fund current appropriation level target for the Housing Bureau was $6.1 million. Looking forward to 16-17, given Council's action in the fall bump, it will be $23.6 million, of which about $5 million of that is one time. So $18 million ongoing, $5 million one time. It's helpful. Thank you. Other questions for Andrew? Actually, you need to answer Commissioner Novick's question about what does this do to our –
 plans for next year? So the forecast we just issued yesterday shows no additional ongoing, so essentially the amount of ongoing revenue coming into the city equals what we project to be the expenditures and $11.6 million of one time. This action would transfer $1.2 million of short term rental revenues to the Housing Investment Fund or would create a CalTarget that would do that. So it would put us $1.2 million into the negative.
 And did the previous forecast include the $5 million that we allocated in the full bump and ongoing money? It does. It includes both the $5 million ongoing and $5 million one-time since council already took that action. Thank you. Thank you very much. Other questions? Well, in light of what Andrew just said, I would ask the sponsors, what general fund euros do you think we should cut in what way in order to make up the money? Okay.
 But we'll get to that question when we get to the budget. This is a judgment call about dedicating revenue to a specific purpose, which always means that there will be less general revenues for other things. And that's why, in general, I don't like this practice. But in this case, because of the gravity of the situation in housing, I think it's worth doing. We are also, and the most recent forecast indicates this, we're also being lifted.
 by a better economy in the city to the point, Crystal's point and I'm withstanding, is not better for everybody, but it's better for us and that the general fund keeps growing thanks to the property tax revenues that are flowing in and the business income tax and room tax revenues that are flowing in. Andrew can't forecast a new forecast. They just did one, but we will get another forecast in the spring, and I would not be surprised if our situation didn't improve further
 We can't count on that, so we have to always know that we have to make tradeoffs in the budget process. That's one of the reasons why I directed all the bureaus to go ahead and produce budgets with a 5% cut. Believe me, that's no more popular in the Police Bureau, having gone to a couple of roll calls in the last 24 hours, than it is in the other general fund bureaus. But it is nevertheless a good discipline for us to follow, because if we're going to make choices about prioritizing the housing crisis, we will have to –
 we will have to make choices about doing less in other areas, even in a better economy, even with a bigger general fund than we've currently forecast. So there's no question this isn't a free good. But if there was ever a time when this would be less painful, it's when our general fund is growing as it is right now. Other questions, concerns? Okay, then let's take a vote, please. Novick?
 I'm very concerned about the upcoming budget year. As the mayor said, the mayor has been asked to prepare 5% cuts. MOEC can't take a 5% cut. We've already got too many people working forced overtime. Traditionally, of course, I have said that we can cut the police bureau by cutting the mounted patrol unit and the drugs and vice unit.
 I've heard from enough people who say that they're concerned by increasing lawlessness in their neighborhoods that actually, although I still would like to cut those parts of the police bureau, I would like to reallocate some more officers to street patrols.
 We are going, I hope, to ask the voters for additional revenue for transportation. I've heard loud and clear from a lot of people that if we're going to do that, that we need to continue to demonstrate that we're putting some general fund money into transportation to show that it's a priority for the city as a whole. We have 13 firefighters who are funded with one-time money who should be made permanent.
 So we do not have a good budget situation. I think that it is reasonable, given that there apparently is evidence that the short-term rentals are reducing the supply of overall affordable housing, to dedicate some money from short-term rental revenues to housing.
 However, so I am going to support this, but without making any commitment as to how I'll vote on any other budget issue. I mean, this is, and I want people to understand that I do not assume that this means we're increasing the ongoing housing budget by this amount. We can set us, well, we can vote for this.
 and still make changes in the housing budget in the normal budget process. I, of course, would not like to do that. I'd like to spend lots more money on housing. But I cannot commit that I will support cutting other bureaus by $1.2 million to reflect what we're doing today. And obviously, we're all very open to new revenue sources. And if anybody suggests some, then we'd be eager to take that up.
 So, again, I will vote yes, but with grave concerns about the situation we're in. Aye. So, with this council and the previous one that I had the honor of serving on has greatly increased the ongoing housing budget. From financial year 11-12, $6.1 million. Coming up, this coming budget, $18.6 million. So, we have tripled the housing budget. So, to suggest that this is the first dedicated funding source, that is just not true.
 we have dedicated an additional $12 million in ongoing general fund, which is good money. We have a process for the budget. We just recently allocated $5 million of ongoing money in the
 full budget monitoring process, I was proud to support that. If you had asked for $6.2 million, I probably would have supported that too. That is the process that we have. If we had put on the agenda today, we are giving away $1.2 million of next year's budget early, come on down and advocate for whatever it is that you think is the most pressing need. We would have heard from the firefighters whose ongoing cost of those 13 positions is $1.4 million. Okay.
 We would have heard from the police. Coincidentally, the cost of the background investigators that we approved one-time funding in the full bump is $1.2 million. We would have heard from the youth pass investigators.
 students. That's $960,000 that was one-time funded and which is not funded in next year's budget. We would certainly have heard from the parks advocates and for the union advocates, we've already committed to $2 million to pay our workers fairly and give them union jobs and benefits. That's one-time money. There's no guarantee that those are going to be...
 ongoing. And the Parks Bureau is looking at a $3 million cut with the 5% budget cuts. We've heard from police that they can't do 5%. We've heard from firefighters they can't do 5%. Those are more than half of the general fund budget.
 I don't know where the council thinks this money is going to come from. I'm really worried. We have $11 million in one-time funds coming up. This council wisely dedicated half of that to infrastructure maintenance to catch up on transportation, parks, and emergency management infrastructure. That leaves us $5.5 million in one-time money. That means we're going – I don't know how we're going to find the money to fund this, and I'm sad and resentful that I'm putting the –
 of the first time that I've been on this council of voting against a funding mechanism for housing because it's a shell game. We already allocated this money in this year's budget as one time because we weren't sure how much tax we were going to get from Airbnb. We have already allocated $5 million in ongoing funding.
 It's all money. This is a budget shell game, and it decreases our community's understanding of the budget. Yesterday, the Mercury had a story that said, oh, everything's great. The budget is balanced, and we've got $11 million to spend. This is going to be a great budget meeting. So then that was the evening after the office-enabled involvement.
 budget advisory committee and the evening, yesterday evening I was at the parks meeting. We're talking about potentially closing community centers. We're talking about significant numbers of city workers losing their jobs, their current jobs that pay a living wage and allow them to have decent housing. It's...
 This is irresponsible, and I'm very sorry that we're doing it in this manner where a lot of people don't realize that we actually are giving away, we're starting the budget process early, and that the cuts that have been requested are not imaginary cuts. This vote means that some of those cuts will happen, and because of all of the other things that are one-time funded, that are required by the Department of Justice and by the legislature,
 settlement agreement, the arbitrators agreement, we're going to be required by law to put a lot more money into other things. And that's going to mean that a lot of city services that people care about and that people are employed in are going to be going away now. Well, let me begin by thanking you, Dan, for bringing this forward. I thought it was a good idea last year. I think it's a better idea today. And Mayor Hales, thank you for your support.
 And I appreciate the principle concern that Commissioner Novick has raised in the questions that he asked. We are legislators, which means we have to make choices. What one colleague might call a shell game, another colleague might call making tough choices with limited resources. And that's our job. Last year, this council said we were going to make a substantial commitment to transportation funding.
 I don't remember people raising all these concerns about doing so because as a council, we agreed there was a transportation funding crisis. This year, we have said there's a housing crisis, and we're going to focus our attention on meeting the needs of people who are literally dying on our streets. So we make choices. We are also guided by our values, each of us in good faith. We can disagree, but we can disagree honorably. Our values say that this is a pressing need.
 The reason that I think this particular mechanism makes sense is that we are taking revenues from an activity which is making the current problem worse. In other words, we are mitigating the negative impacts of something this council legalized. Now, if you want to go back in time and agree with my position that we should not have authorized short-term rentals, I'm fine with that. Steve, let's find a third vote.
 But as long as we authorize an activity which we all understood was going to make a bad situation worse, I think the decent thing to do is to take the revenue and address the mitigation. To me, this is no different than taking lottery money and using it to address problem gamblers. We are using a revenue source to mitigate the negative impact of an activity of which I remain very dubious. Second,
 Commissioner Saltzman has laid out a vision for using a housing investment fund as a flexible tool to address this housing crisis. My political mentor, Barney Frank, set up a federal housing trust fund. His greatest regret when he left Congress was he couldn't fund it. A housing investment fund without funds is a rather empty exercise. And these funds are flexible. And that means unlike our federal funds, which are heavily encumbered, unlike our urban renewal funds, which are heavily restricted –
 these funds can be used for all kinds of good purposes including gap financing and land banking and all kinds of things which are going to get us to where we want to go and i will support every reasonable proposal dan puts forward to build up that hif and the fact finally that director krieger who has uh i have to just say in his six months on the job five months four felt like six in his four months on the job
 has left quite a mark and an impression on our community and on this council. For Director Krieger to say that he can take this income stream and bolster it by bonding it so that we can actually address the needs of low-income families today and not tomorrow, I applaud that. So for me, this is a day to celebrate. I wish we had done this a year ago because technically had we done so, then it would have been reflected in our forecast. But I think it is principled. I think it is a sound policy.
 And I applaud you, Dan, for sticking to it. And today we have the votes to pass it, and I proudly vote aye. Commissioner, I have to say that none of us is actually making a tough choice today, and I include myself in this because I voted yes, because none of us is saying what we would cut in the ongoing budget in order to fund this. Saltzman? Well, I appreciate the discussion, and I know this is a vexing decision to make, but I think, as I said in my...
 opening remarks when we consider that we have a deficit of 24,000, a lack of 24,000 households or 24,000 residents who lack access to affordable housing, and you add another 10,000 in our comp plan projections.
 You know, we've got to start somewhere with a steady state stream of revenue that can be used for capital investment in affordable housing. And that's exactly what this is going for. And with the tantalizing ability to use revenue bonds to turn this $1.2 million into $12 to $30 million dollars,
 and is just an opportunity that I think we can't pass up. All of us have said we are in an affordable housing crisis. That's the number one issue you hear from legislators, from business leaders, from your persons on the street, certainly those who are struggling
 finding themselves under very tenuous conditions in their rental housing, evictions, rent increases. We've got to increase the supply and we've got to start somewhere. And this is a good start. And believe me, one of the first entities we will call when we have these revenue bonds is Airbnb. Airbnb.
 we hope they'll purchase some of these bonds we think it's a good role model for them a good behavior for them to demonstrate so i'm very pleased i appreciate the support of my colleagues and respect certainly the uh opposition principled opposition of my other colleagues hi hails
 Although the next budget process will not be easy, and I don't want anyone to get the impression that I think it's going to be a cakewalk, we are not without resources. This is a city that's financially strong, and the very prudent and conservative approach that our managers like Andrew Scott take are one of the many reasons why that's the case, a very important reason. I do believe that we have in this emergency more to draw on
 than we have done so far. We are, again, seeing great prosperity in at least parts of our local economy.
 The revenues will come from that, and we will have options, even if we dare to speak its name, to increase public revenues by tax increases and new taxes. Those are not things that we do casually here, but in this economy and with this crisis, they're worth considering. And we should do that as a community.
 So I do not think that we're up against it here. We have tough choices to make. We will see where we stand when we do the budget in the spring. I think we will stand in at least this good a place and hopefully better.
 but extraordinary times require extraordinary measures, and this is an extraordinary situation with housing. I had the opportunity to meet with my colleagues last week who are mayors of other West Coast cities and had sort of a teasing conversation with Mayor Ed Lee from San Francisco that Portland's trying really hard not to be San Francisco, and actually San Francisco wished it had had the chance to not be San Francisco either because the housing crisis there is so much greater than ours. So I think that's a great question.
 So we really need to act with every tool at our disposal, with some level of risk, and with the credible claim to the people that are up against it in housing that we are doing everything we can with every tool that we have. And I think this is consistent with that. We will spend less on shelters someday if we spend more on housing now.
 We need to spend more on shelters at the moment, and that's a cost of doing business in this housing crisis. But if we do this right and well, we will not be San Francisco. We'll still be Portland, and it will be because we have been so aggressive at just the right time on this critical issue. Thank you all. Aye. Mayor, in light of the relationship you're trying to develop with West Coast mayors, could we pick on an East Coast city? Okay, pick one. Okay.
 New York. You don't want to be Boston. New York. Okay. Actually, everybody wants to be. All right. So let's move on, please, to 1322. Accept bid of Iron Horse Excavation, LLC, doing business as Oxbow Construction for the Skidmore Pump Station upgrade for $1,094,000. Ms. Moody, good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Christy Moody, Procurement Services. We have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Iron Horse Excavation. The engineer's estimate on this project was $731,000. On October 8, 2015, four bids were received, and Iron Horse Excavation is the low bidder at $1,094,000. Thank you.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing at 50% over the engineer's estimate. In their bid analysis, BES identified cost inflation and improved market conditions as contributing factors for the price of the bid. The second and third low bidders were within 5% of Iron Horse's bid.
 The city identified five divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 27%, with overall MWESB at 72%, as Iron Horse Excavation is a certified women-owned business. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions regarding the bidding process.
 And the representative from BES is here.
 This may be a new high watermark, and we're actually 50 percent over the engineer's estimate. The times are showing up in our bids here. We were – this question I had for BES. We were told in the prior presentation, we were told this was a fairly specialized piece of work that had some complications. What accounts for the 50 percent premium from what was originally a high confidence estimate?
 Again, I'm Dan Hebert. I'm the senior engineer with the BES and the overall project manager for this project. There are a number of complicating factors in this site. One, it's a very small site and restricted by easements that we've negotiated with the Sisters of Perpetual Sorrow and having to work around all of their holidays. We didn't really account for that very well in the engineer's estimate.
 And we unfortunately relied upon an estimate that was nearly a year old going to bid. And the market conditions changed rapidly during that one year. So other than that, again, it was an outdated estimate. We didn't have the engineering record revisited immediately before the bid. And the fact that we're converting an old –
 suction lift station by rebuilding it as a submersible pump station Complicated our efforts on this site. Is there anything that you've learned sir in terms of the bidding our estimating process that we might do differently next time Yes, we're gonna pay much closer attention all of our projects now to revisiting estimates at the hundred percent level and immediately before we submit projects to procurement services to bid I
 Mayor and colleagues, I got briefed this morning from Mike Jordan. We set a record this year on Halloween in terms of flow because of the volume of rain. That record was recently broken, Commissioner Novick, last Monday. And we saw a...
 six-fold increase in volume. Now, our system is built to a certain capacity. Big Pipe was designed to cover 94% of expected needs. The pump stations play a very vital role. But we had a six- to seven-time flow increase. And so in one year, we set a record and exceeded that record. And the reason I mention this is that...
 While BES maintains the system, PBOT does most of the visible hard work in the community. Steve, I want to congratulate your PBOT team for the way they managed the storm last week. Thank you, Commissioner. Very proud of the work all the bureaus did together. And one thing I heard consistently was the bureaus uncoordinated wonderfully in the really trying times. By the way, Mayor, some people have asked, well, if we knew that
 a six to seven-fold volume increase might strain capacity, why didn't we build the big pipe to a different specification? It turns out that if we had gone from a 94% rate of success to 100%, anticipating every contingency, we might have tripled the cost. And that's going to become a relevant consideration when we talk about Superfund. What's the marginal utility of that extra $100 million or $200 million
 And since that's money that is diverted from other good causes, it's something we need to grapple with. Let's hope that if climate change means more boisterous storms, that we can figure out some other solutions other than building a second big pipe. Thank you. Any other questions for the team? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Motion to adopt the report? Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Okay. Thank you very much. Aye.
 Great minority and women participation. Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you both. Thank you. 1323. Pay settlement claim of Pavel Krivolenkov and estate of Ksenia Aleksandrova in the sum of $325,000 involving the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Okay.
 introduce this or do you just want to take it straight to the city attorney here? Let's go straight to the city attorney.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Rob Yamachika, Deputy City Attorney. The ordinance before you is to authorize settlement of the Krivolinkov and Estate of Alexandrova lawsuit. The lawsuit stands from an automobile accident at Southeast 108th and Washington that took place November 20th, 2012, where a driver, Ms. Dennis, ended up hitting...
 elderly couple, Mr. Krivolinkov, was 78 at the time of the accident and his wife was 71. Unfortunately, Ms. Alexandrova passed away five hours after the accident. The medical damages in the case for Mr. Krivolinkov were $129,000 and for Ms. Alexandrova $117,000. The intersections controlled by a, well there's
 four pedestrian crossing signs, a ladder crosswalk, two stop bars, and a sign that says stop here for pedestrians. In the middle of two of these signs, there's a supplemental warning beacon, which is activated by a motion sensor. Officers investigating the incident after the accident determined that that one motion sensor on the south side of the street was
 It didn't pick up motion quite as easily as it should have, which would have triggered this warning light. There was going to be testimony that the warning light was not active. The driver admitted liability and was negligent for failing to keep a proper lookout, failing to observe the signs and heed those signs, and failing to yield for the pedestrians. Based on the medical damages in the case,
 the sympathetic plaintiffs, and the fact that the motion sensor wasn't working quite properly. It's my professional opinion, after consulting with risk management and the director of PBOT, that a $325,000 settlement was appropriate for this case. Thank you.
 I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Questions? I should add that I did have questions about the potential presidential impact of this settlement, and I'm convinced that these are really unusual circumstances. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you very much. Other questions? Thank you. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If it's an emergency ordinance, then we'll take a roll call vote.
 Is the gentleman joining us the survivor? No, this is John Buehler from Risk Management and my colleague David Landrum.
 I should mention that the intersection has since been upgraded. There's now a pedestrian hybrid beacon. After an analysis after the accident, it only warranted a rectangular rapid flashing beacon. But because there's an overhead mask there, we were able to put in a more protective device. So this intersection is safer than it was before. Thank you. Appreciate that, too. Okay, roll call, please. Novick. Thank you very much. Aye. Prince. Aye.
 I'm very sad for the family's loss and I appreciate the work on it. I this yes I join with Commissioner Fritz our hearts go out to the family. Hi All right, thank you 1324
 assess benefited properties for street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 52nd Avenue and Alberta Street Local Improvement District. Before we get started on this, just one time management point. I'm planning to take the polled items at 2 o'clock, not during what remains of the morning session, unless there's anybody that particularly wants to talk about the polled items. If we were going to get to the parks item this morning, I'd like to have the polled parks item at the same time as the other parks items. All right, we can certainly do that.
 Okay, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales. Carla, if we could switch to the presentation. I'm Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. It is my pleasure to be joined today by Travis Rubel from Portland Parks and Recreation. I know it is the afternoon, so we will be respectful of Council's time. I just wanted to share a little bit of what I thought Council would find to be good news this early afternoon.
 So, just to go over this, we did not receive any remonstrances against final assessment or excuse me, objections against final assessment of the LID. We just kind of wanted to show you a couple of slides here. Thank you very much, Carla.
 So this is a map of where the project area is. It's in the Cully neighborhood, which until recently has been significantly underserved by parks and unfortunately today continues to be significantly underserved by transportation infrastructure. And this is a map of the Cully neighborhood.
 This is the second LID that we've completed in Cully in the last two years. The genesis for this project is I had worked with parks on a new street project in the Palo Verde Gilbert neighborhood where the park had been built several years in advance of the street improvements and we had a pretty chaotic situation due to the lack of proper infrastructure.
 So when that LID got completed, we had spent over $100,000 tearing out recently completed park improvements. So Parks and PBOT put their heads together and we thought there was a more efficient way to do that. And so at the outset of this project, Parks and PBOT collaborated extensively on it. As we kicked off the design, our traffic engineers advised us to widen the pavement on Alberta for traffic safety reasons.
 So even though we increased the reconstructed pavement area by 9%, we still came in 10% below budget. And I think that's largely because we already had a contractor mobilized and there were a lot of efficiencies in doing that. Most importantly, we avoided tearing out the newly constructed infrastructure by parks, and we now have safer pedestrian access to the park and near Riggler Elementary School.
 And I also wanted to tip my hat to the Bureau of Environmental Services. BES was very helpful in working with PBOT to be proactive and plan. So if you look at Alberta Street, the north side of the right-of-way is about two feet lower than the south side of the right-of-way. And
 What BES did is they worked with PBOT to plan the stormwater system to allow future street improvements on the north side of the street to improve those property owners' drainage should they choose to do so in the future. And what we built here was an oversized sump sed system that has the capability of allowing those property owners to reconstruct the street on the north side and tap into that sump sed system without tearing up the entire street.
 And that is the extent of my presentation, and I'll turn it over to my better half, Travis Rubel. Mayor Helles, Commission, thank you for having us here today. My name is Travis Rubel. I'm a Capital Project Manager and Landscape Architect for the Parks Bureau. I'm happy to be here to talk about the wonderful work completed on this project, as we believe it exemplifies strong communication and coordination between parks, PBOT, and BES. Thank you.
 The formation of this LID was directly in line with the desires from the community to build more sidewalks within the Cully neighborhood. These frontage improvements provide better pedestrian access to a regular elementary to the south and to the park. They also provide for increased pedestrian safety for unloading vehicles and park users. By working with our colleagues at PBOT, we were able to efficiently coordinate the design of the park with the design of the right-of-way improvements to create a seamless transition and overall development that has met with praise within the Cully community.
 This project should serve as a model for future development of this type as it capitalizes on the eternal expertise each bureau brings to the table while allowing, at the same time, the adjacent community to optionally participate in right-of-way improvements the LID affords.
 both parks pivott and bs should be proud of the coordination had on this project while at the same time achieving each bureau's goals we have delivered an award-winning project that serves over 1300 local residents previous not having park facility services indeed we are raising the bar for future park development work we at parks are happy to report this development not only came in on schedule and under budget but we've put forth a quality project for all to enjoy
 As a result of the success of this project, we will continue to look for other opportunities to participate with our colleagues at PBOT, BES, in the future, which we hope you will continue to support. Finally, I'd like to thank Andrew Abbey for his diligent work in making this overall process so successful. Thank you again for the opportunity to speak about this important work being completed for our community. Thank you both. Questions for Andrew or Travis? Thank you both. Thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 she's still signed up but i think she left cully residents here mr gunderson come on up good afternoon good afternoon my name is richard gunnarsson i live in cully neighborhood been on the board and parks has been my passion for 51 years and this is one of my greatest delights in seeing this park finished
 Not only to me, but to the whole community if you go by there it is packed Every day you can't find a parking spot around the park. It's unbelievable And it's one of the best designed small parks and I've seen in my professional career So I want to thank the parks Bureau for doing a fantastic job and for City Council Making it possible. Thank you. Thank you. I
 good afternoon welcome good afternoon my name is laura young and i'm the transportation chair for the coley association neighbors so rich and i work in tandem on a lot of project he's been the did you say the parks chair for 10 years i think it's been roughly and uh i've been the transportation chair for six years for collie so i just wanted to add a couple of comments about the lids that we have had in the collie neighborhood
 Specifically, I'd like to express support and appreciation for the ongoing efforts of PBOT's LID office to partner with parks and BES and other bureaus and agencies to find creative ways to fund and implement critically needed transportation infrastructure projects in Cully, and also acknowledge there's potential for similar successes in other underserved areas of East and West Portland with whom Cully shares a common history of annexation and similar community needs.
 These projects have provided desperately needed infrastructure improvements without creating financial burdens that could negatively impact low-income homeowners in our neighborhood and others, and I believe this is the spirit of cooperation between the bureaus, community leaders, and advocates like ourselves demonstrates the LID system can work and does benefit lower-income communities when applied with creative utilization of resources and robust community involvement. Thank you very much. Questions? Yes.
 thank you both very much so this item is not an emergency it'll pass a second reading but thanks everyone for a great project great partnership thank you all right let's move on to 1325 authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of security services for smart park garages and the portland streetcar facility at an estimated amount of four million dollars jacobs
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Michael Jacobs. I'm a Smart Park Manager for the Bureau of Transportation. Again, the ordinance before you this morning is to authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of security services for Smart Park garages and the Portland Street Car Facility at an estimated amount of about $4 million for a total of five years to be paid for through garage and street car receipts.
 Security is critically important as the safety of shoppers, visitors, and business customers is important in carrying out the Smart Park mission. As in other cities around the nation, downtown parking garages are heavily used by legitimate customers, but also can occasionally attract those who conduct themselves unlawfully or misuse the garages, which can discourage parking in the garages and can also have a negative impact on economic growth.
 With that, I respectfully request Council's authorization for procurement services to issue a competitive solicitation for security services at the Smart Park garages and the streetcar facility. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, questions. What's the current system that's established for dealing with any complaints that we receive about the conduct of any of these security personnel? No.
 About the security personnel? Right. They will be reported to the security company, and they have their own internal procedures. How do we review? So do we monitor complaints if any –
 I don't monitor the complaints that come in against security guards, but I can tell you that I haven't received any complaints that I can think of in the last three or four years. So if a citizen felt like they were poorly treated, you would have heard about it? By a security guard? Typically I would hear about it, and the security company would let me know if they got a complaint. Well, I bring a certain experience working in a commission-style form of government where communication is not our strong suit. So unless you have a formal mechanism for –
 receiving complaints, it may or may not come to your attention and you don't know what you don't know. So what is the formal mechanism for advising the city of complaints regarding the security services? They are required to give us monthly activity reports and we meet with them twice a month in management meetings. And in those meetings, they would bring up any of those concerns. But
 We meet with the companies, right? Yes. Commissioner Fish is basically asking, is there a way for a citizen to figure out who within the city to complain? Sorry, it is posted on our website. And we can certainly look at improving ways where the public can know who to contact if they have concerns. Yes.
 And I'm not suggesting there is some wholesale problem. This is something Commissioner Novick and I have been talking about in a different context. I'm just interested in making sure that particularly where we contract out services that we have – the fact that we contract out services is of no concern to the average person in the public.
 They're going to come to one of these lots. They're going to either get good service or bad service. And if they get bad service, they're going to want to know who they complain to. And they're going to want to know that it's taken seriously. So I'm asking innocently, what is that mechanism? And because we're talking about security services, people are operating in an area that sometimes results in
 you know, interactions with the public which could become charged and where we're hoping people show good judgment. And so I just want to make sure we have a system whereby we're getting good real-time information and able to monitor the performance under this contract. You raise an interesting question, Mr.
 Not just in this form of government, but certainly in this one. If people can't figure out who to complain to, they often complain to the mayor's office about TriMed or the schools or anything else. And so, without being a little flippant, but I don't recall us getting any complaints about security at the parking garages either. So if they were unable to find them, that's fine.
 the right place in our structure they would end up in my office and i don't remember hearing anything lately but it's good good one to watch and actually commissioner i think that's a reasonable point and i'd like to explore the possibility of using signage at the rages or something so that people are aware that there is some a city office they can call okay other questions or concerns
 Just to reconfirm, the contract requires the employees to be at least $15 an hour. That's correct. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, it passes the second meeting, 1326. Thank you.
 speaking of parking. Just a point of order, since I know we have staff waiting for agenda. Are we going to break at 1230? That was my hope, that we could get the parks items done and then break at 1230. Any reason to do otherwise? Mayor, since it's a second reading on 1330, and I have a director here, can we do that as well? Yeah, what we'll do is we'll get through the parks items, deal with the second reading, and save the rest. How does that sound? We have three second reading items. We ought to be able to dispose of those quickly. Okay.
 okay all right another parking item please 1326. 1326 extend contract with central parking system of washington inc through march 31 2017 with an administrative option to extend one additional year through march 31 2018 to manage and maintain six smart park parking garages
 Mr. Novick. Mr. Jacobs again. Thank you. Good morning again, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, my name is Michael Jacobs. I'm the Smart Park Manager for the Bureau of Transportation. Now, would you ever come in, please? The Smart Park Program consists of six parking facilities with almost 3,800 parking spaces. Okay.
 The Smart Park mission is to support the economic viability of the Central City by providing an affordable system of parking garages, primarily designed to meet the short-term needs of shoppers, visitors, and business clients, and by investing in other Central City transportation improvements. Specifically, Central Parking provides services including garage operations, janitorial services, equipment maintenance services. They operate the Merchant Validation Program, and they have recently taken on the PCI Compliance Responsibilities.
 The contract is funded by receipts from the garages. It is a separate fund. It is not part of the general fund. For the current fiscal year, the net operational revenues were budgeted at $12.1 million. The operational expenses were budgeted at $2.66 million. The contract provided for our current monthly management fee of approximately $810 per garage per month, along with an incentive fee, which was anticipated to be approximately $65,000 for the current fiscal year for all of the garages. Thank you.
 I am happy to say that our current revenues are about 10% higher than they were when the contract started. And from a recent survey conducted, we have found a 97% satisfaction rate for customer service in the garages and a 92% satisfaction rate with the automated payment system. In addition, we have found an 89% overall satisfaction rate with the Smart Park Validation Program, which was from a survey conducted with the downtown merchants.
 with that i respectfully request a one-year extension for this contract with the director's administrative option for one additional year and i'd be happy to answer any questions um is the operator still required to provide somebody on site at each garage yes when we originally a real person live person yes okay yes that's still a requirement yes okay
 Commissioner, I've had to take advantage of that a couple of times. So have I. That's why I was asking. All right. Other questions? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then it passes to second reading. Second reading, please, on item 1327. Update private property impound towing code to add contact requirement consistent with state law. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye.
 And let's take 1328 and 29 together. 1328, authorize a contract with ESA Vigil Agremis, Inc. for design and construction administration services for the replacement of Forest Park pedestrian bridges in McClay Park and on the Maple Trail for a total not to exceed amount of $235,000.
 and 1329, authorize a contract with GreenWorks PC for design and construction administration services for the Washington Park Rose Garden accessibility improvements for a total not to exceed amount of $170,000. Thank you, Mayor. These are both projects that are possible because of the generosity of Portland voters in passing the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond, and they fulfill the promise to voters to prioritize continued natural activities
 access to natural areas and also continued accessibility. With that, I'll turn it over to Mary Ann Kasson, our Bond Projects Manager. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of the Council. My name again is Mary Ann Kasson. I'm the Replacement Bond Manager. And once again, I'm here with some fabulous bond projects. Apologies that you've seen these first two slides. I promise I'll change them up for the next time.
 We've created this amazing system of parks over the last several hundred years, and that we've done it through a series of bonds and levies. In 2014, just over a year ago, we got a resounding yes vote to spend $68 million for urgent repair and replacement projects.
 If you remember, there are seven focus areas within the bond program. I'm here to talk about two different projects. The first one is in the trails and bridges theme area, and this one talks about preserving access to natural areas and open spaces by repairing bridges and trails. Thank you.
 The first project is to do three different projects within Forest Park. They're in two different locations. They're small bridges, but they're complex projects because of the places they're located. They're difficult to get to. They have significant permit restrictions, as they should. They're in very sensitive environments with salmon-bearing streams. So though they're small projects, the substantial completion won't be until November 2017.
 And often what you see on these kind of projects is the ugly stuff is underneath. And what you're trying to avoid is the photo on the left there. The first two locations are within McClay Park, really closely located to the main park entrance. This is a very, very popular trail. And though there are dozens more projects that we could attack, we've done an analysis and determined that these make the most sense to hit right off the bat. They're on such a main trail.
 The second one is to replace a bridge that's been missing for several years. Actually, it's deep within Forest Park on one of the most popular trails called the Maple Trail. We've had to close this section of trail since 2012. There just wasn't the resources to accomplish it. And again, this is a difficult-to-get-to location, but very worth doing. We had a competitive project to select our consultants here. Thank you.
 The second theme area is accessibility in our approach, and this is twofold. The main way we're doing it is on every single project we're looking at accessibility and doing what we can within the project. But we decided in addition to that we would add one signature ADA project that was selected exclusively because it was an ADA project, and the one we chose was the Washington Park Rose Garden.
 The public was involved in choosing that one particular project. The idea there is to address the main esplanade, the parking, and the significant ramp that gets down to this main esplanade. At the moment, it's a 13% ramp.
 Doing this project, we will need to be sensitive to the exquisite detailing that you have within the park, including all the stonework, etc. And we're working very closely with the stakeholders to make sure we're aware of and, to the degree possible, can get it either completed or at least phased in by the time of their centennial in 2017.
 Our MWSB utilization, again, is good on these projects. We did extensive outreach efforts to get these numbers up as best we could. And once again, I'll warn you that you're going to see a lot of me in the next few months, and these are the things coming at least in the next couple of months. I can answer any questions that you might have at this time. Great. Thank you, Mary Ann. Questions? Ms. Kessler, do you realize that every other city employee is jealous of you because you're able to just bring good study news at all times?
 I know that. I'm a very lucky person. That's why we were able to recruit you back. That's right. All right. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on any of these items, either of these items? They're both emergency ordinances. Let's take a vote, please. 1328 Novick. Aye. Fritz. Thanks to the voters and to Mary Ann. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 1329? Nozick? Aye. Thanks to our whole parks team. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's take, you had one more item that was, you want to deal with that? 1312?
 authorize a purchase order to Valley Athletics for purchase of infield mix delivered to Walker Stadium at Lentz Park for $39,158. Commissioner Fitz, did you pull this? I pulled it. We need to amend it. There's some code citations that are incorrect, and the amendment fixes that error. And we did send it out on the Tuesday memo. So I move the substitute. Substitute's been moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call on adoption of the substitute? Second.
 Novic aye Must speak on the side then a roll call vote on the amended emergency ordinance no Vic aye Thanks very much to Kia Sally who's here and to the council for your indulgence. I Okay, we have a couple more second readings let's get those done 1317 please no sorry wrong number 13
 31 I think. 1306 and 1307 were pulled. Right. No, I'm just talking about the emergency items that are still on the regular calendar. We'll take those others up this afternoon. We were going to do 1330 Mayor? Yeah, 1330 and 31 and 32 and 33 are all second readings. 1330? Yeah.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Stormwater Pump Station 2 West, project number E10726, for an estimated amount of $880,700. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish?
 Mayor, given the time, I will not give a 30-minute speech in support of this. Good. I do – and by the way, we seem to have a video. Do we have a video issue? Anyway, I want to acknowledge, Mayor and colleagues, that, as you know, we have new leadership at the Water Bureau, a new director, Mike Sturer.
 and a new engineer, senior engineer Teresa Elliott. And they have been extremely busy this year addressing the broader issue of resilience, which in plain English means how do we protect our system in the event of an earthquake, or what some people call the big one. Nothing is more important than ensuring that we can continue to provide a basic service during a crisis.
 And I want to commend Mike Sturr and Teresa Elliott and Dave Peters and Tim Collins and all the folks working in the front lines for the work they've done this year.
 In particular, bringing to a peaceful resolution a set of very controversial issues involving reservoirs, both at Washington Park and at Mount Tabor. And Commissioner Fritz, a special thank you to you for your invaluable partnership in bringing Mount Tabor to a soft landing. I think once upon a time, people doubted we could get to this point.
 But in working with the community, we've arrived, I think, at the right place, regardless of how one feels about the underlying federal mandate. The net effect of that is our water system will be safer as a result of the investments in Mount Tabor and Washington Park. And now today we're taking up the question of a secure conduit underneath the Willamette River.
 And that is hugely important because we have hospitals and businesses in the downtown corridor. We have residential customers and business customers throughout Southwest and Northwest. And then we have very valued wholesale customers that together get us to system-wide about a million people that we serve. Again, I don't think anything's more important than making our system safe and secure and resilient.
 and I'm very proud of this step forward on Willamette River crossing. One other observation, this project is already in our five-year CIP, which means it had been previously budgeted. So in and of itself, it will not have a new and significant rate impact. And recently, I've directed my colleagues to,
 that this year, as with prior years, the council expects them, if they are to propose a rate increase, that it come in below 5%, consistent with the commitment that Mayor Hales, that you and I have made to stabilizing rates and creating some predictability. So, again, thank you, Mike Sturr, Teresa Elliott, Dave Peters, Tim Collins, and all the people who are working so hard on making our system more resilient, and thank you to my colleagues for the support they've given this new leadership team. Thank you.
 i believe that vote commissioner was for 1332 and 30. 33. we're doing 13 30. right okay saltzman hi hails hi yeah i didn't realize until you started that we were we were off on the calendar but we'll put that in the record oh we don't have a uh 13 so we still need to vote on 1331 and 13 32 and 1333 right okay let's take those roll call votes please
 1331. Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent property rights necessary for construction of the Woodlawn King Alley Sewer Rehabilitation Project through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hale. Aye. 1332. Aye.
 Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements, authorize a competitive solicitation for use of the design-build alternative contracting method, and authorize payment for construction related to the Willamette River Crossing project for an estimated amount of $40 million. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye.
 I love watching the English question time on TV when the Prime Minister says, I refer my colleagues to my earlier comments. And on this, I would refer my colleagues to my earlier comments. Aye. Helmsman. Aye. Hales. Rare day when both Carla and Commissioner Fish make some mistake. Aye. 1333. Authorize a formal qualification-based selection request for proposal 1333.
 process and contract for owners representative services related to the Willamette River Crossing project for an estimated amount of $4 million. We'll call. Novick? Again, that's one of my favorite projects. Pritz? Fish? Saltzman? Hayles? Seattle still has a used tunnel machine for sale.
 Don't say that, Mayor. Please don't say that word. I'm teasing. Okay, now, Dan, are you still content to stay 1334 to the afternoon, or would you rather do it now? I can do it in one minute. Oh, well, let's do then, please. Let's take on 1334. Okay.
 Revise the resolution approving and terminating limited tax exemptions for properties under the homebuyer opportunity and multiple unit limited tax exemption programs to correct Exhibit A. Commissioner Salsman. Well, I love it. I think we've all experienced this where we give a talk or go to a meeting and somebody raises an issue and
 by golly you're actually able to do something about it this was an issue that was raised although this isn't the specific property it has to deal with people who are owning homes under our home ownership limited taxes against program if a bank forecloses on that home they previously or before we made this rule change had to vacate the house even if the bank were to sell the property within 180 days so we're making a rule change this allows
 one homeowner to stay in her home pending this foreclosure proceeding and to maintain her home ownership limited tax exemption and we do have a couple others will be coming their way as a result of somebody flagging this issue to us that's great that's our adoption yeah i don't believe there's anyone here to testify so let's take a vote on the resolution please
 Novi? Aye. Fritz? That's really terrific, Commissioner Solmerson. Thank you for telling us the back story to that. It is great when somebody brings something to our attention and we're like, yeah, we can do that. Aye. Fish? I'd like to see more of that can-do spirit in my meetings with my colleagues on a monthly basis. Aye. Holtzman? Thanks to Dory Van Bockel for taking care of this issue. Aye. Okay.
 Nails Aye Okay now we will recess till 2 p.m and take up the items from this morning and our afternoon calendar Who pulled the We could do those okay let's do that good afternoon everyone and welcome to the December 16th meeting of the Portland City Council would you please call the roll
 here Rich here Fish here Stelzman Hales here bear with us folks for a couple minutes because we have a couple of items left over from this morning's calendar that we need to address it won't take us long and then we'll get to the resolution so we have items 1306 1307 remaining right okay let's take those please 1306
 authorized disposal of surplus firearms property and authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the State of Oregon Department of Public Safety Standards and Training for the Portland Police Bureau to proceed with donation of the property. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure people understood. I don't think we have a presentation on this, but that these are surplus weapons that will be donated to the training center in an inoperable condition.
 for purposes of training at the academy. So there will not be operable firearms that are moving from us to the state academy. Any questions about this item? Anyone want to speak on this item? And if not, we'll take a roll call vote. Mr. Lightning's here. Someone did sign up on this? Come on up, Lightning. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the reasons why I pulled this ordinance out
 First of all, I guess from my position, I'd like to have these 75 surplus firearms destroyed. I do not want them transferred to anybody else outside the city of Portland. I do not want a trail of liability also tied back to the city of Portland if anything happens with these weapons, accidental or otherwise. I do not want to have in this agreement where it states that upon the transfer of ownership of firearms that the...
 Commissioner in charge of the Portland Police Bureau will have the ability to make the transfer to any person, government, agency, business entity, or third party. Again, that is with your written permission. I don't want that in this agreement. Again, I want to have any and all these weapons destroyed, and I don't want them to be transferred to anyone else outside the city of Portland. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
 Yeah, and again, to explain, this is transferring these firearms to the state academy. They will be rendered permanently inoperable, so they're for teaching purposes only. Any further discussion? And they'll be destroyed if they're ever not used by the academy. That's right.
 Yeah, and actually we're gonna be looking at some other options for how to deal with weapons that we're confiscating They destroy them now, but you might be able to do better than that in terms of the reuse of the material Okay, roll call vote, please on this ordinance. No, thank I And item 1307
 Accept bid of Brown Contracting, Inc. for the Southeast Holgate and Ramona 122nd to 136th Avenue sidewalks project for $723,794. And this was just pulled to the regular calendar because it was over the threshold of dollar amounts where we don't do things on consent. So if there's no questions and no one wants to speak on this item...
 Then a motion, please, to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Nails? Very nice to see more sidewalks getting built in East Portland. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Aye. Okay. Now we're ready to move to our afternoon agenda, and we have a resolution that's a four-fifths item. Would you read that, please?
 Item 1334-1, declare support for the city's Muslim community and reaffirm Portland's welcoming nature for all immigrants and refugees. Thank you. Well, because this is a special order of business and therefore wasn't in the fully printed calendar, I think in this case it would be good for me to go ahead and just read the resolution and get it into the record. It says...
 declares support for the city's Muslim community and reaffirms Portland's welcoming nature for all immigrants and refugees, whereas Portlanders pride themselves on their warm and welcoming nature, and whereas our city has greatly benefited from the addition of many immigrants and refugees from all religious backgrounds who moved here
 In the past decades, they have become valued and contributing citizens, significantly benefiting our community. And whereas the Muslim population in the Portland metropolitan area is estimated to be around 20,000, and whereas our Muslim community is an important part of Portland's diversity and our growing multicultural identity,
 And whereas the city of Portland continues to work toward a more inclusive society and welcomes cultural, ethnic, and religious diversity, and whereas there's been an increase in anti-Muslim and anti-immigration rhetoric in the national media with the intended outcome of increasing patriotism and loyalty through inciting fear and hatred, and whereas this country was founded on principles of freedom of religion and freedom from religious persecution,
 And whereas recent demands seeking a ban on Muslims entering this country are unconscionable and if carried forward would or could constitute violations of the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution, as well as violating Article I, Sections 2 and 3 of the Oregon Constitution, and is tragically reminiscent of prior historic profiling of race and religion.
 And whereas the City of Portland's values of non-discrimination, as evidenced by the city's Title 23, call for this City Council to take a public stand, and whereas as a community, Portland is a city that does not tolerate hate speech,
 Now, therefore, be it resolved, Portland and its city council members stand in support of our Muslim community and call for an end to the continued use of anti-Muslim and anti-immigration hate speech. And be it further resolved, Portland will continue to be a welcoming city to immigrants and refugees from all parts of the world, including many Muslims fleeing from violent and unstable countries.
 So that's the text of the resolution. I appreciate my council colleagues all joining together to put this before us today. This is a time where there is poisonous speech in national politics, Mr. Trump in particular, and where we need to stand on behalf of the values that this city loves.
 the people of this city who expect our country and our city to be welcoming and expect us to hold to those constitutional principles that we all learn in school and recite as we take our oaths of citizenship they should matter and that's why we're here so i appreciate my colleagues joining together some may have some comments here at the outset and then we have some invited testimony as well mayor i have a friendly amendment yes please in the you and i've discussed in
 And the eighth, whereas, second sentence, change would to could. Yeah, I think that's correct. It should be could. And the point that we just want to make, you and I have discussed, is that it's twofold. One is there are circumstances where it could violate constitutional protections. We don't want to just say would and assume that it would. And second, the spirit of this gathering is to counter speech we disagree with with speech that reflects our best values. Okay.
 And I think we've learned in our history that it is our finest tradition to counter speech we disagree with by speaking out and condemning it, while also protecting people's right to say dumb things. Presidential candidates have the right to say dumb things, and we have the right to censor them for it. And that just makes that clearer for that change. Good point. Thank you very much. I'll consider that a friendly amendment.
 And then unless there are any other comments at the outset, I'll certainly open that up if you'd like that, Commissioner. This is the very first item that's been on the council's agenda with a four-fifths vote. We were supposed to get our council items in by the Monday of the previous week. And since we started the pilot project, everybody has been able to do that.
 And it's very appropriate that this is the first one because we wanted to get it done before the end of the year. And we all wanted to sign on to it. I also want to be clear that we are not singling out any particular candidate for office in this resolution. We're not allowed to by state elections law. We're not allowed to use public resources to campaign for or against any particular candidate.
 So although it was inspired by a particular candidate, and we were initially thinking that we might particularly call him out, we are against all hate speech. And we are very pro-immigrants and refugees and very
 pro-all-Muslim community. Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fish and I had the opportunity to spend three hours with our Muslim brothers and sisters on Saturday at the opening of the Muslim Educational Trust Community Center in Tigard. It was a wonderful gathering of people from every section of our community and anybody who doubts that we are a community should have been there that day. It was wonderful. So thank you all for gathering here again today. Commissioner Fritz, can I correct you on one point? Why not? Um...
 There were so many speakers and so many people of goodwill at the gathering that it actually lasted four and a half hours. That's a good thing. Well, yeah, and we as elected officials, for those who wonder about the legalisms here, we can't as a city put – we cannot engage in politics as city government. The five of us are free to exercise the right to speak politically any time we please, and we will always do so. Thank you.
 So with that, let me call on some folks for invited testimony, and I know there are several others here who would like to speak as well. First, I want to invite Imam Abdullah Pallavina, Wajdi Saeed, Casey Jama, and Matt Hennessy, please, to come forward. And pull up another chair since I called four of you and make that work. Thank you. Now we're loaded with chairs. Thank you.
 Okay, just great. Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome We'd like to go first him on Abdullah. Would you like to proceed? In the name of God the beneficent the most merciful. My name is Abdullah Palovina. I'm an imam dear Honorable mayor hails member members of City Portland City Council dear friends brothers sisters and
 I would like to greet you with the greeting of Islam and the greeting is greeting of peace. As-salamu alaykum. Peace be upon all of you and I wish you good afternoon. This is a great day for us Muslims here and Americans. My understanding of today's days that we came here and gathered here to proclaim that our strength is truth, that our destiny is justice, that love is our hope, that peace is our lesson.
 We came here to find the means and methods and to exercise them, to move forward in building a better society in which we will love each other, respect one another, and accept our diversity as a bucket of different flowers with good aroma. As our Honorable President Barack Obama has addressed our nation on Sunday, December 6th,
 reassuring all Americans, including all Muslims, all Muslim Americans, that we are all equal before the eyes of law, and that we must all unite together in our resilience against all threats. It is very important to know that this kind of attitude is exactly what we were taught from our Islamic teachings. Second, I would like to just share a few thoughts from this. First of all, I would like to say, we Muslims...
 strongly condemn all acts of violence, extremism, and terrorism of any sort. In Islam, manifestations of extremism, especially violence, particularly against innocent people, are abhorred. Any individual, Muslim or non-Muslim, choosing to engage in violence against innocent people is a criminal. We call upon all Muslims to promote essential values of Islam,
 and to reject any type of arrogance, exclusiveness, and false interpretations of Islam. Next, bigotry of any kind, by or against Muslim or non-Muslim, is unacceptable. It is a clear contradiction to the Quran and to the prophetic tradition. Islam calls for equality, social justice, and respect for all human life. Islamophobia and extremism are two ugly faces of the same coin.
 One begets another, and creates a vicious cycle that can only be broken by engaging the Muslim community. Vilifying an entire group of people breeds extremism. I would like to finish. Our Honorable Civil Rights Activist, Martin Luther King Jr., once said, In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.
 Dear and honorable Mayor Hales and members of this city of Portland Council, today we Muslims are not alone in this. You and all our other American friends are not silent. The words of support, love, peace, mutual understanding today are not silent. Because of that, I feel honored, I feel proud,
 not only as a Muslim, but as an American. Today I see America in its all beauty. Today I see the true America. I see the land of the brave, the land of the free. So dear mayor and members of the council, I thank you. May God bless your hearts and souls.
 And may God bless your work for this beautiful city and all its citizens, irrespective of color, creed, religion. So in that manner, we finish with one prayer. O God, please grant guidance, success, and happiness to all of us here and to all of our leaders in this beautiful city, state, and country.
 Without your help and guidance, none will be able to do anything good. You are the source of peace. Let there be peace in all of us. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'd like to be next. Wajdi? The man in the middle. Push the button there. There you go, Wajdi. My name is Wajdi Saeed, W-A-J-D-I, last name Saeed, S-A-I-D. Respected Mayor Hills and respected commissioners,
 Portland residents and all communities must stand with American Muslim communities and Arab Americans against bigotry and hate, and as well as against those, the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. And not against Muslims because of ISIS. Respected Mayor Hill and respected commissioners, tourism has no religion and no community should be singled out as being its source.
 History tends to repeat itself in so many occasions, but with different targets. Different groups face the same phobia from the public in the past. The ethnic cleansing of the Native Americans, the African slavery, the Spanish Inquisition against Jews and Muslims, the Holocaust, the Japanese-American imprisonment, and the anti-Mexican sentiments in the public square.
 We have to confront racism with ourselves as individuals and as communities to become better human beings. The phony so-called Republican presidential candidates, the dirty dozen, the 12 of American leading Islamophobes that the fairness and accuracy in reporting have stated, and leaders of ISIS,
 know that they cannot defeat us here in Portland or over the nation. So these dirty-minded groups' only hope is to divide us as Americans of different ethnicities and different religions along religious and ethnic lines.
 the Portland, Oregon, and national American Muslims and Arab Americans. And I say Arab Americans because there are a lot of Arabs that are Christians, that some of them are present today. Communities have been anonymous in their condemnation of all kinds of forms of violence and religious extremism and violence of any sort. Despite our condemnation, respected mayor and commissioners,
 of extremism and violence, hate-filled rhetoric and anti-Muslim attacks and anti-Arab attacks and anti-Semitism are putting the lives of American Muslims and so many individuals and minorities and their families in real danger. Respected Mayor, Hales, and respected Commissioners, at times like this when many people
 are sowing seeds of division, hate and fear. It is heartwarming to know that there are good individuals like you making a public statement
 When we write the history of the Arab Americans and the American Muslim community in Portland, definitely all of you will be remembered. We'll be remembered as shining stars. We'll be remembered as ethical and moral individuals. In spite of all our politics and our affiliation and our division, here we are successful partners in getting a resolution that history will be remembered.
 The fight against Islamophobia, anti-African, anti-Semitism, anti-woman, anti-immigrants is necessary to defend our democracy. Our democracy and values that our founding fathers and our founding mothers, and I'm saying mothers, because we have created a society that is separate church and state.
 Not because of fear of Muslims or Jews. It was a fear of Catholics and Protestants will be dominating each other in the public square. A great historian and a great professor of law, Aziz Al-Hibri, a professor of law at University of Richmond in Virginia, a Lebanese Muslim scholar, she said, when the first elected Muslim was elected into Congress in 2006,
 and when he wanted to swear by the Thomas Jefferson Quran. Again, the Thomas Jefferson Quran, a shining founding father. She said that the founding fathers have been exposed to what's called the Medinan society. 1400 years ago, when Muhammad, peace be upon him, he gathered the Jewish of Medina, the Arab Jews, the Arab Christians, the agnostic, and the multi-ethnic, and multi...
 Tribals together in what's called the Medinan document. And together they created a great civilization for 900 years that extended from West China all the way to North Africa and South Europe. Muslims were contributing to the societies. Jews and Muslims and Christians lived and coexist together in what's called Andalusia or South Spain civilization.
 Muslims and Jews and Christians built a great civilization. Yes, Muslims were predominant, but Muslims never condoned violence. This is why there are, where I came from, there are Jewish flourishing societies, Christian societies. Yes, we had sometimes tensions, but most of the time it was harmonious, and it was a great civilization that been contributed.
 My dear mayor, health and commissioners, respected commissioners, my dear teachers have taught us that success comes through partnership rather than division and competition and conflict through competition. Respected mayors,
 and respected commissioners, Portland City Council resolution, rejecting Islamophobia is an opportunity to clearly demonstrate the path toward local and national unity and not division. Thank you very much, and thanks for your leadership, and thanks for your public testimony. Thank you. Who would like to be next? No, no, no.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hurls and commissioners. In my culture, elders go first. So thank you for leading us. That was a joke. I think for me what I added to the conversation is that I think we all of us recognize that there's such a great
 difficult time that our country is going through, but also globally. And I think what I encourage that all of us to think about unity and solidarity. At this time, I think we were meeting last night to discuss about this issue, and one of the Muslim sisters said, you know, at this time, I'm asking, I'm very vulnerable. I am being harassed as I go and do my shopping. And she said, the best thing you can do is to be in solidarity with me. So I think, you know,
 As a Muslim, as a Portlander, I'm very, very proud to call home Portland today. This is a spirit of Christmas and holidays. I think we all come together today to show that we are one community. And as my five-year-old kid says that, you know, my twins, and they are – I can say because I'm not elected. I mean, they are anti-Trump.
 And they always say we should stop him. That's their conversation that we have at home. But I think for me, to move forward, this is a great step forward, this is a historic moment. I won't add anything that has been already said. I would invite my brothers and sisters from the Muslim community who are here today, this is your city, this is your electoral officials. Please come back, testify, participate. This is our home, this is our town. Run for an office.
 This is, we can be elected to this city as we contribute. And as I said this morning at the press conference, Muslims are not outsiders. We are doctors, we are nurses, we are business owners, we are soldiers, we are police officers. We contribute, we are part of the fabric of this society. And what this resolution affirms is that we are one together as one community, we are part of this community. Thank you.
 Your leadership, I appreciate and I thank you very much for your support. And I would love to continue to be working with you on this issue. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you so much, Mr. Mayor, to all of you on City Council. For the record, my name is J.W. Matt Hennessy. Hennessy is spelled not like the cognac. It's spelled like the state of Tennessee, H-E-N-N-E-S-S-E-E, without the Y.
 I represent today Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church, where I serve as the senior servant, but more importantly, the Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon. Jan Elfers is our interim executive director and could not be here for this session. She was a part of the press conference earlier today.
 Many of you may know that I share, I come not just as a 27-year member of the Portland community, and as a pastor for the last 11 years, as the godson of the late Coretta Scott King,
 and also certainly as a father and a grandfather. I'm proud of my city once again today, and I'm proud of you as our mayor and city commissioners. I'm grateful that today we in the Christian community can work together with the Muslim brothers and sisters who mean a great deal to us and that anything that affects them affects all of us
 And I'm reminded of the great words of Dr. King, who I will paraphrase for the 21st century, when he said that no person is free until all people are free. My paraphrase is, no person is fully respected until all people are fully respected.
 It is my hope and my prayer that not only are we meeting here in the public square, but that we are doing everything that we can in our individual lives, in our organizations that we represent, and in our neighborhoods to make certain that there won't need to be another resolution passed, that we know and learn exactly what we must do.
 Let me read this then for the Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon, which represents a statewide organization of Christian denominations, congregations, ecumenical organizations, interfaith partners, all of us working together to improve the lives of Oregonians through community ministry programs, ecumenical and interreligious dialogue.
 ecumenical, I'm sorry, environmental ministry and public policy advocacy. Our board strongly condemns the anti-Muslim rhetoric coming from public figures and other individuals. These statements from our perspective are xenophobic, racially prejudiced, and clearly contrary to our values as people of faith and as Americans.
 This language serves to divide, to denigrate, and incite violence against our brothers and sisters of various races, religions, and ethnicities. Our country must learn continually from the mistakes that we've made in the past and uphold our constitutional commitments to defend the freedom of conscience and religion for all individuals.
 Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon stands together with all people of faith and goodwill for religious tolerance and racial tolerance, and we're committed to working towards just and compassionate communities and value the human dignity of all. We are believers that free speech is one thing, hate speech is another. We want you to know, finally, that in our resolve, we are not afraid.
 to stand with our brothers and sisters in the Muslim community to let them know they are not standing alone. We stand with them, and not just today, but always. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. So I know we have some other folks that are here to speak as well, and let's move to the sign-up sheet, please, and call on them.
 We have a total of 15 people signed up. The first three police coming up are Tam Antron, Peter Miller, and Ned Roche, and they'll be followed by Linda McKimbell, Curtis Bell, and Maxine Fookson. Please. Please.
 welcome good afternoon mayo hales and commissioners i want to extend a pers a special greeting to amanda fritz and dan saltzman because they know me i know amanda recognizes me i am tom antron by the way this is the second time i've actually given testimony before before city council
 I am very proud to be a Portlander, and especially from what you, Mr. Mayor, and the commissioners have been doing recently. And I speak of the action, the resolutions you have made regarding Native American citizens. And I am very proud to be here to testify on behalf of my Muslim brothers and sisters.
 I am not Muslim. I am not Christian. I am a Buddhist, a practicing Tibetan Buddhist, and I'm very proud of that too. And in Buddhism, violence is out of the question. Even the Dalai Lama has said that violence is wrong. And I really, Portland has been through a lot. We have had FBI federal police
 FBI people here in terms of police activities in relation to what has happened with people with mental health differences. And I think we deserve more than that. This is a great city. And I think to perhaps I'm asking you to go a step further. And oh, wrap up if you can, please.
 and speak out against people who will come here and speak language of hatred. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. You can slide that whole box a little bit to one side if you need to. Thank you. My name's Peter Miller. I'm with Americans United for Palestinian Human Rights. And as the Honorable Wajdi Saeed mentioned, that history repeats itself, and it repeats itself in big cycles and in little cycles. In Portland here, we've seen anti-Muslim propaganda come to the city of Portland in the past,
 and the city has in the past responded. In 2008, this organization called the Clarion Fund purchased rights from the Oregonian to distribute an anti-Islam DVD called Obsession that went to people all over the city of Portland in the Sunday Oregonian. And back then, Mayor Tom Potter opposed that and said,
 It said that the mayor reviewed the video and personally asked Fred Stickle, Oregonian publisher, not to distribute it in Nixon Day's issue. The mayor felt that the tenor of the video contributes toward a climate of distrust toward Muslims that holds the entire Muslim community accountable for actions of the few.
 Distributing it with the Oregonian lens, the video, an impression of objectivity and legitimacy that it does not deserve. And simultaneously, the members of the community came out, including...
 to oppose this DVD, including Sho Dozono, the past president of the Japanese American Citizens League, David Leslie of the Ecumenical Ministries, Jan Abushakra of the Institute for Christian and Muslim Understanding. And Clarion spent about $20 million on this video that went out all around the country, and it's just to let us know that this is an ongoing process by certain groups to demonize Muslims,
 and using quite a bit of funding and money and resources to make this happen. So today's statements from you are very welcome. The statements by these certain candidates are just a tip, really, of the iceberg of what's been happening these many years. Thank you. Thank you, and welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Ned Roche. I speak on behalf of Jewish Voice for Peace in Occupation-Free Portland. The N in my name comes from my great-uncle Noah.
 who as a teenager came here a century ago. Because he walked with a limp, he was turned back to Europe from Ellis Island. My family that was here corresponded with him for years and years, and then in the early 1940s as the Nazis were raging their death camps, they never heard from him again. So my uncle who was turned back from this country because of a deformity and had his life snuffed out because of his religion,
 teaches me and so many others that the lesson from the Holocaust is never again for anyone.
 We are so much stronger as a community when we all stand together with our Muslim sisters and brothers and everyone else in this community. We are so much weaker when we allow people to be targeted, maligned, degraded. I congratulate the city council. I admire your leadership on this resolution. I know that my uncle would have been very proud. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 The next three are Linda McKim-Bell, Curtis Bell, and Maxine Fuchson. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Curtis Bell. I'm a member of the First Unitarian Church here in Portland and also on the board of a national organization called Unitarian Universalists for Justice in the Middle East. And I might begin just by saying that the Unitarian Universalist faith itself is a multi-faith group. We have...
 Jewish, Christian, atheists, Buddhists within the Unitarian faith, and we support very strongly the rights of all to express their faith and to act in accord with it. And I want to also add my great thanks to all of you for bringing this resolution forward to defend our city as a place where all people of all faiths and ethnicities and races are welcomed.
 Thank you very much. I might just like to make two small points that I think are very important.
 I applaud the statements that have been made with regard to the moral and legal aspects of this hate speech against Muslims. But I would like to add a strategic point that is kind of insanity to alienate 1.5 billion people in the world, about a quarter of the world's population. This is a major strategic craziness.
 I would also like to say that, to applaud this resolution and ask all of us to remember this moment of solidarity with all of our people of all kinds, because I think we are in for a period of
 continued struggle on this issue, continued threats to that position of acceptance of all of us and I hope that we will remember this moment as we go forward and face perhaps even greater stress on that strong belief that we now express. Thank you very much.
 I'd like to thank you for this strong resolution, and I'd like to speak to the issue of welcoming Syrian refugees here in Portland. Put your name back in there. My name is Linda McKim-Bell, and I live on Northwest Aspen Avenue here in Portland, Oregon. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I would like to speak to the issue of making a welcoming climate for Syrian refugees and to share with you that in 2000, my husband and I went to the Middle East to see where he was born and grew up and where he went to high school. We visited Syria also, and it was a beautiful country and very multicultural.
 We were welcomed wherever we went. People put their hands on their hearts and said, you are welcome. We visited lovely little family businesses. We visited mosques, museums, and churches. And I will never forget the Christmas Eve that we spent at the Maronite Church in Aleppo for a Christmas Eve service in Arabic. It was one of the most beautiful experiences of my life. Today, that church has no roof.
 And those families that I met that welcomed me and invited me to have tea with them, with their hands on their hearts, they need a new place to live. And I'm so glad that Portland is welcoming them. Welcome. Thank you very much. My name is Maxine Fuchsen, and I am also speaking for Jewish Voice for Peace, our Portland chapter. We are deeply committed to working against Islamophobia. I'm also speaking today as a Jew.
 That's important because we, the Jewish people, know the horror of being profiled and attacked and decimated. We also know that when Jews tried to leave the anti-Semitism and hatred of Europe, they often found foreign doors closed to them. So we say never again for anyone. Jewish Voice for Peace wholeheartedly applauds the stand you're taking today.
 that there is no place for Islamophobia in our community, and that we welcome and give shelter to refugees. We see that some are using the recent horrific acts, such as in San Bernardino, Paris, and Beirut, as a justification to scapegoat and target entire communities. We will not allow that kind of hate and entrenchment of racism and Islamophobia to sink roots.
 Each of us can make the commitment to challenge the racist, anti-Semitic, or Islamophobic comments as we hear them every day in our life, at work, at school, or even from our family and friends.
 And we ask that our community leaders commit to never engaging in racist surveillance or profiling of Arab, Muslim, or any communities of color, and that we work to dismantle the foundations of institutionalized Islamophobia and racism. We, Jews, and all people of conscience vow to be in solidarity with our Muslim sisters and brothers and all communities to end Islamophobia and racism.
 Thank you today for this very important statement. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Ali Hudros, Levon Heaster, and Ali Al-Abda. Good afternoon. Afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Ali Hudros. I am a Muslim, American citizen, and I'm a retired engineer, electrical engineer. I spent 31 1⁄2 years with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
 I worked 15 years on all the dams. Our office designed the powerhouses, and I worked on the Bonneville Second Powerhouse. And the last 15 years of my career, I worked in the information management, in which the Corps was in the beginning of establishing the World Network for the Corps of Engineers. And I was one of the people who contributed and contributed.
 In 1998, I became the team lead of the Network Operations Center here in Portland, and we used to troubleshoot network things for 34,000 core employees.
 I came here not really to have a speech or anything. I just came here to thank you on behalf of our community. I'm one of the founders of the Islamic Center of Portland. Actually, we're located in Beaverton. And we'd like to thank you for this resolution. I hope it passes. And this is really a good sign for us really to feel at peace here in Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is LaVon Heaster and I'm the chair of the Portland Commission on Disability. I bring you greetings from our commission. We wanted to say thank you. Thank you so much for this. We feel it's very important that Portland continues to be an inclusive community.
 And in places of war, conflict, and violence, oftentimes people are highly impacted physically and emotionally. They need a safe place. They need a place, a safe harbor to come to. And anything that can be done...
 in the city of Portland to further that cause of creating a home for people who need it, and especially people who have been impacted and have experienced some type of disabling condition because of where they've been, what they've experienced. It's important that we provide that here. We also know that there are members of the Muslim community, the immigrant and refugee community,
 like every other community in our city that have disabilities and live with disabilities. And I have been at Muslim Educational Trust dinners and talked to folks, people with disabilities, people who work with people with disabilities. And I feel that bringing that diversity into the larger community is so important.
 What I've learned from hanging out with people in the refugee and immigrant community is that these are people who have the strongest work ethic I have ever seen. And they're very creative about how they deal with getting people into being able to work
 And that's something that's really needed in the disability community. So I'm really happy that you're taking action to make sure that people are welcomed and that it only will enrich our community further.
 Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Ali Al-Abbas, A-L-A-B-B-A-S. I'm a business American. I'm proud to be from Portland. I came to the United States in 1994 from Iraq after the first Gulf War. Just to give you some success, refugees here. I'm a businessman. Today I'm running a million-dollar business. I'm very proud to be an American Muslim.
 And today I'll be very proud and proud of your leadership, what you guys have done today, because that makes me and makes my family and my kids proud when we have a great leadership. And I want to thank you very, very much for the hard work you guys do. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are Kevin Martinick, Gosaf Ahmed, and Bahir Batai. Go ahead, Kevin. Please. Hi, my name is Kevin Martinick, and I just wanted to thank you all for...
 passing this resolution and opening a welcoming community to the Muslim community. And I think it's – I just hope that it carries out to the rest – to all corners of our community and also the other cities will take note of this resolution that's been passed and follow suit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Honorable Mayor, honorable commissioners, thank you.
 from the bottom of my heart for this resolution against hate and Islamophobia. I came to Portland in 1973, long time ago. I've been a Portlander, I live in Tualatin, and I've been, I've seen the Muslim community grow from a very small amount to what it is today. I've raised my children over here who are very successful
 business people, working for the government, working for the industry. I'm so thankful for what America has given me. It's a beautiful country, and what you're doing today is a testimony to that. I thank you very much for your kindness and for this resolution. God bless you, and God bless America.
 Thank you. Could you just put your name in the record, please? Oh, sorry. My name is Gulzar Ahmed, G-U-L-Z-A-R, last name Ahmed, A-H-M-E-D. Thank you very much, Gulzar. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Bahar Butti, B-A-H-E-R-B-U-T-T-I. And I left Iraq in 2006. I came to America in 2007. I founded the Iraqi Society of Oregon in 2008, and
 And on me personally, on behalf of the Iraqi community, I would like to show gratitude and thankfulness for your statement and resolution today. I would like to give you a simple example of our people. I'm Christian, Orthodox from Iraq. The Iraqi state was established in 1921. The first minister of media and publicity was my grandfather.
 Christians in Iraq are a minority, yet the first minister of media and publicity was a Christian person. My grandfather, that's the way we lived in Iraq with acceptance and tolerance. Unfortunately, fundamentalism, extremism, and terrorism grew in the last decade.
 let's say 20 years, it's alien to our people. We are the victims and you all hear in the news what's happening here. Thousands of our people are being killed. Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Paris, California. And now this resolution, your resolution is actually showing our people the meaning of the acceptance and tolerance that we in Portland
 we have and shine to the other cities all over the place, and we can live all together as civil people of this world. So thank you again. Thank you. Thank you very much. The last three who signed up are Lynn Longfellow, Osman Saleyev, and Charles Johnson. Go ahead. My name is Lynn Fuchigami Longfellow. That's F-U-C-H-I-G-A-M-I.
 I am here representing the Portland JCL, which is the local chapter of the oldest and largest Asian American civil rights organization in the United States.
 as well as the Oregoniki Endowment, a nonprofit here in Portland whose mission is to preserve and honor the history of Japanese Americans in the Pacific Northwest. We educate the public about their experience during World War II and, more important, advocate for the protection of all of our civil rights and civil liberties. After 9-11, the Japanese American community was one of the first to speak up
 and show support for the Muslim community, and we are here again today to stand up and speak out against the hateful, Islamophobic comments being generated now. Our community sadly knows only too well what can happen when hateful rhetoric generated from fear and ignorance overtakes rational thinking.
 Dangerous rhetoric that creates fear and hysteria in the name of national security is exactly what led to the forced removal and unjust incarceration of 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry, the majority of who were American citizens. One would hope that the lessons learned from the mistakes of the past would not be repeated,
 But to once again hear the same type of hateful comments and to hear a presidential candidate propose the banning entrance, entry of Muslims into the United States is disheartening and alarming. It jeopardizes the very ideals and principles of our country and should be a wake-up call for all people who value their civil rights and civil liberties. In 1988, President Reagan and Congress
 formally apologized for the Japanese-American incarceration, recognizing that it was caused by racial prejudice...
 war hysteria, and a failure of political leadership. So we are here today to commend and thank this gathering of leadership today and the Portland City Council for this resolution in speaking out against bigotry to show that racism and prejudice has no place in our city, our state, and our country. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, city councillors. Good afternoon.
 It's a special honor and a little bit of a sadness to speak after this representative from the Japanese community who, among all the speakers, who has most clearly reminded us that we live in a land of internment camps and racial segregation. We hope that we've moved on from that time 70 to 80 years ago when our neighbors were rounded up and put behind fences. But we know that right now, today, there is the Northwest Detention Center
 and that Latinos suffer persecution. And we're glad to have the Muslim community stand in solidarity with them and vice versa. And we're very pleased to have this resolution as a first step to make sure that we, as American people and Portland residents, embody the best possible efforts, not just nice words, not just avoiding offensive speech,
 but pushing for concrete actions to fight, stop, minimize all forms of racism and xenophobia, including Islamophobia, which one particular presidential candidate seems to have as his hat trick to get attention. So I want to encourage you to remember that message.
 Often violence and hate speech rhetoric comes from injustice. So as we pass this resolution, we need to look at also moving our country towards just expenditures, closing the Guantanamo prison, reducing incarceration of any illegal immigrants, whether they're Latino or from anywhere else.
 and justly expending our foreign aid so that developed countries like Israel do not get equal amounts from impoverished countries like Egypt and perpetuating a situation of chaos there in the Middle East. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you all very much. So unless there's further council discussion, we should take a vote, please, on this resolution. Nova?
 Edmund Burke, the Irish political philosopher and statesman, said, the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. On this issue, the triumph of evil is not a distant possibility. Donald Trump is not a fringe figure. He's the leading candidate for the Republican nomination. According to Real Clear Politics, the average of polls over the last month shows Donald Trump only five points behind Hillary Clinton.
 The reason Hitler was able to exterminate 6 billion Jews is that not enough Germans stood up for their Jewish brothers and sisters. The reason the United States government was able to incarcerate over 100,000 Japanese Americans was that not enough Americans stood up for their Japanese American brothers and
 I do not want it to be said 50 years from now that the reason the United States adopted a policy of mass discrimination against Muslims is that not enough Americans stood up for their Muslim brothers and sisters. So I vote aye.
 Thank you all for being here. I see many current and former members of the Human Rights Commission here and others who are here in support but didn't take the time at the microphone, and I appreciate your being here without saying anything. Sometimes just showing up makes the difference, and I really appreciate that. I am an immigrant. I was welcomed to this country 36 years ago. I still get emails from hateful people who tell me to go back home. Well, when you love people in more than one place, you're never really home.
 I'm home here, I'm home back there. Or else I can be not at home in either place, depending on whether people are welcoming or not. So I very much appreciate the mayor and the support of the council, the mayor putting it forward in all of the council meetings
 supporting it. It's important for us to stand up for each other. I am blessed by living in the neighborhood with two of the main mosques in Portland. 14% of the people in my neighborhood were born outside of this country. I love our local elementary school where my daughter was in second grade. There were children who had been born in 13 different countries in her class, and that was before the class sizes got to be outrageous. So, and that...
 That's a wonderful experience, and all of us being here makes it better. We are a nation of immigrants, and the Native Americans, the indigenous peoples who we honored in our previous resolution, have been welcoming to us and have helped all of us who came afterwards. So thank you for all of you for doing the good work that you do in our community. Thank you for showing up today. Thank you for the council. Bye.
 Yes. Mayor and colleagues, I'm proud of this Council for taking this action today. Over the weekend, I had the honor of attending the opening of the Muslim Educational Trust Community Center and School. Mayor Hales spoke first, and he declared Islamic Heritage Day or Week, hopefully week, but maybe day, and he was cheered by the very large and diverse audience. Commissioner Fritz spoke next.
 and she talked about the experience of being an immigrant and a woman on this council. And she spoke deeply and movingly, and she was cheered. And when my time came, I began my comments by introducing a young woman who works for me named Asena Lawrence, a first-generation Muslim American who has been pained by the events of the last few months and has experienced firsthand what it is to be targeted and to feel less safe and to have your religion slandered.
 and disrespected. Ironically, Asena's dream in life is to be engaged in global conflict resolution, which is the academic inquiry that she is pursuing at Portland State University. It was a deeply moving experience spending the afternoon with our Arab and Muslim brothers and sisters, and in fact, the whole faith community and the broader community, elected and faith and community members, speaking as one in solidarity with
 our friends. We are so much better than this. And what we can do on an occasion like this is together rise up and say no. I am as close to a First Amendment absolutist as probably is in this room. And so I believe firmly that people have the right to say dumb things. But when people say dumb things, I think we have an obligation to counter and to condemn that speech. And that's what we're doing today. There are people running for high office in this land saying awfully dumb things.
 And we here today are taking the opportunity to express our disapproval and to loudly and firmly say that that does not reflect Oregon or Portland values. So, Mayor, thank you for taking the lead on this. Thank you to my colleagues. And today I'm proud to stand with our Muslim and Arab American brothers and sisters in firmly condemning the hateful and bigoted speech that we have been witness to for too long. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you, Mayor, for bringing this resolution forward. It's very important that any time, there's been many times in our history where it hasn't been a proud history for this country. And I think we are at the point here on pushing back on potentially one of those moments here. It's understandable people are afraid. People were afraid during World War II after Pearl Harbor. But we can't let fear rule the day. And it's important for all of us to recognize and respect one another.
 And the differences that we all bring together and we weave into a tapestry of strength, and that's what makes this country strong, is our diversity, our welcoming of immigrants and migrants, and continuing to do so, and our standing up in the face of terrible statements that people are saying about Muslims. And we have to understand that some of it comes out of fear, some of it comes out of political opportunism,
 and we have to stand up for it, and I think that's exactly what the City Council is doing today, and thank you, Mayor, for your leadership in bringing this forward. Aye. Mills? Well, thank you, colleagues, and thank you all for being here this afternoon. I guess I'd like to close our discussion by just talking briefly about three words, principle, safety, and community.
 When I was an undergraduate student, I went to the University of Virginia, which was founded by Thomas Jefferson.
 And I think people see him as maybe a stone statue and a towering presence, but he actually was a very humble man, much more like an academic than the folks that are on the national stage today. He was so shy that he had Meriwether Lewis read his State of the Union speech to the Congress. And before he passed away, he asked that there be three things put on his tombstone—
 that he was the author of the Declaration of Independence, founder of the University of Virginia, which all of us UVA graduates were happy about, and the author of the Virginia Declaration of Religious Freedom. Notice he left something out that by today's metric we would perhaps regard as more important. But he believed that the principles that he'd lived in his life were more important than the offices that he had held. That's a lesson that others should relearn today.
 Safety. In addition to being a member of this council and a member of this community, I'm the police commissioner. And every night I and the men and women of the Portland Police Bureau have to think about how do we keep our community safe. And the way to safety is not exclusion and prejudice. That is not the way to safety.
 The way to safety is to come together around principles and around respect. And we have heard today from our Muslim leaders a condemnation of violence carried out in the name of religion. That is the way to safety for all of us to reassert that principle that God is not on the side of those who hate and those who kill.
 And I so appreciate that statement, and I so appreciate that feeling that runs so strongly in our community, where we do have this tendency, as we see here this afternoon, to come together, rather than to wall ourselves off in some illusion of safety by keeping the other at bay. And then finally, just about community. This is a good example this afternoon by what we've heard from all of you of who we are,
 We are friends, and we are neighbors, and we are one people. Thank you all very much. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Let's take a brief recess, and then we'll take up the rest of our action this afternoon. Thank you. Okay, we're going to resume the council calendar for our other items that are before us this afternoon.
 Carla, if you would please read Item 1335. Yes. Accept report on 2015 Summer Free-for-All Program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Summer is just a memory, especially on dark and cold and drizzly days like today.
 But park staff are already beginning the work to plan for the 2016 summer free-for-all. The program's success rests on strong collaborations. Sponsors, dozens of neighborhood committees, and hundreds of volunteers work together to bring fun activities to our parks and playgrounds all summer long at no charge to participants. Thank you.
 Normally, this report has been presented to Council in late spring as the kickoff for the next season of fun events. This year, I asked my park staff to bring it to you as a year-end review to highlight lessons learned and to address challenges that will be coming as the program moves forward.
 Please be aware that there will be another report to Council in the new year giving details about the successes and challenges of the new summer youth program, specifically aimed at providing positive programming for teens at our community center. That ongoing program established by Mayor Hales and he and I have implemented collaboratively is aimed at reducing teen misbehavior and crime. We are still gathering data to present to you regarding its success and that will be coming.
 So this is about the rest of the summer free-for-all program, and Director Mike Abate will begin the presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, Mayor, and members of Council. Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm joined today by Jeff Milkus, the manager of our summer free-for-all program. On my right, Shelley Hunter, our development manager. And on my far left, Jeff Anderson, the Executive Director of the Portland Parks Foundation.
 So this afternoon, we'll tell you a little bit about how summer of 2015 was a summer of firsts for this amazing program, including our first audience intercept surveys. We'll talk about how it was also a first for staff in building new partnerships, programming culturally relevant programs, adjusting program size, and shifting our marketing strategies. And we'll also talk a little bit about our plans for 2016.
 The Summer Free-for-All program has changed over the years. It's amazing to recognize that Parks has provided playground programs for over 100 years. Over 100 years we've been in playgrounds with kids. For 50 years we've been providing concerts, movies for 10. And we first combined the movies, concerts, and playgrounds in the park into the Summer Free-for-All in 2009 under Commissioner Fish's leadership.
 It was in the depths of the Great Recession, and the need for staycation programming was apparent. We've long since evolved the program. With the loss of a previous longtime title sponsor, the program has grown even more dependent on the great many smaller partnerships and neighborhood support, both in-kind and cash.
 On the slide here is a map of Portland. What you see is 291 free activities at 90 different sites, each marked by an orange pin. This is more than double the number of free activities offered just six years ago.
 Thanks in part to Council's one-time support for this summer and at the direction of Commissioner Fritz, some changes this past year included enhanced our target marketing efforts for underserved communities, expanded training to include full-day session on equity and cultural responsiveness skills for our playground staff, and as we close the gap on free lunch service so youth have access throughout the summer. Special thanks to Commissioner Saltzman for his attention in closing this hunger gap.
 With the backing of business and nonprofit supporters, we were able to cultivate new sponsorships, such as Salt and Straw, a local business. We increased our fundraising over 2014 by $73,000 more in cash and $86,000 more in-kind contributions. After implementing new hiring strategies for the Playgrounds program, we succeeded in hiring a workforce that was 48% people of color and recruited from communities all over Portland.
 And with a focus on equity, we were able to build new partnerships with groups like 93.1 El Rey and the Latino Network so as to improve the cultural responsiveness and relevancy of programming. We also hosted Festival Latino, which I'll tell you a little bit more in a moment. But at this point, I'd like to turn it over to Shelley Hunter. Thank you, Mike. Just press the button there. There we go. Thank you, Mike.
 For the first time ever, and with thanks to the citywide innovation grant, we collected public opinion and demographic information through an audience intercept survey. The survey was conducted at 14 movies and concerts in the park. The survey confirmed some information we knew, and it also provided information that we didn't know about the movies and concerts. Specifically, we found out that 48% of the attendees were families with children. 29% were first-time attendees.
 In the homes of those attending, 26 different languages were spoken, and 30% of the attendees were people of color. We also noticed that there was limited participation by the Asian American and the African American demographics. We learned something else through the survey. Our audience tends to be more representative of the higher income brackets in our city.
 specifically when you compare it with citywide data. For instance, 48% of audience members had a total annual household income of between $50,000 and $199,000. When you compare it to the city overhaul... Excuse me just one second. The numbers are not showing up on our... Oh, there they are. Thank you. When you compare it with the city overall, it's 42%.
 19% of the respondents to the survey reported that they had a total annual income, household income, of less than $25,000. If you compare that with the city overall, that figure is picked at 25%. Summer Free For All is our premier outreach program. It provides fun and free events for the Portlanders most in need.
 We want to create events that result in participants and beneficiaries who are more reflective of the income distribution in our community. If there is any disparity, we aspire to meet the needs of those folks with less discretionary income for entertainment while helping neighbors meet their neighbors in the park.
 In the coming year, you'll see us spending more time focusing staff capacity on audience inclusion by building partnerships and delivering culturally relevant programming. A special thanks to the Council, Mayor Hales, and the Office of Management and Finance for providing the funding for the survey through the City's Innovation Fund microgrant program. The findings of the survey will help change how we deliver Summer Free-for-All in the coming summer.
 And we want to speak a little bit more about a specific program that was extremely successful, the Festival Latino, and I'll turn it back over to Mike. So this inaugural Festival Latino really demonstrated our commitment to engaging new audiences through program design, marketing strategies, and partnerships. It included cooperative program planning, so we planned this in partnership with Latino Network.
 We had culturally relevant food, music, family activities. We had tabling by a wide variety of organizations and many social service agencies. And we had on-site simultaneous translation and bilingual marketing material distributed through partners like Hacienda, CDC.
 With a targeted distribution of marketing material and $40,000 of in-hand broadcast support, in-kind broadcast support from 93.1 El Rey, we secured the largest audience ever for a Spanish language movie in a park. We had over 1,000 attendees on July 12, 2015.
 Engaging our community in new ways, like Festival Latino, requires substantial investment in relationship building. Through these relationships, we look forward to growing this aspect of parks programming in the future. And now, to Jeff Milkus.
 Good afternoon. It's always such a pleasure to spend a few moments with you. As the slide above shows, the revenue sources for the summer free-for-all in 2015, they're varied. One challenge has been funding to give the program long-term stability. A thank you to the Council for your support in funding the one-time needs of the program in 2015. Thank you.
 However, the Summer Free-for-All program faces real challenges under current funding levels. The Summer Free-for-All is a well-leveraged investment, with general funds currently accounting for only 18% of program costs. If private donations fall, the program is not sustainable.
 Even with current sponsors and current general fund support, parks cannot match the number of events we had in 2014 and in 2015. In addition, complying with the recent arbitrator's decision will increase the cost of the summer free-for-all going forward. We are planning the following changes for 2016 to match our available resources.
 As demand for neighborhood programs continue to outstrip our resources and capacity, we will encourage neighborhoods and community groups to work more closely together, expanding on the partnerships such as the East Portland Rovers Active Volunteer Collaboration
 and funding support between more and less affluent neighborhoods, like the Mount Tabor and Montevilla areas. I know Commissioner Fritz is particularly happy to see these supportive relationships flourish, since she's in charge of neighborhood involvement as well as parks. Unless a new major sponsor steps up, the 2016 Washington Park Summer Festival will run Thursday through Sunday, with four nights of quality music and entertainment, rather than the ten events provided at the height of the program.
 In addition, Parks is coordinating with the Water Bureau to minimize construction impacts of the Washington Park Reservoir Project on schedule for both 2016 and 2017. Third, we commit to assess, evaluate, and improve programmatic and physical access to the Summer Free-for-All events.
 And finally, while every year we hope that Portlanders have fewer hunger needs, we stand at the ready to step in for summer 2016. We are already in conversation with our tremendous partners in the school districts to continue to provide over 100,000 lunches all summer long.
 I'm just going to interrupt there because this was a surprising finding to me that we actually gave out more lunches this summer than previously. I had been hoping that with the recovery from the recession that the need would have gone down, but in fact it's gone up.
 So thanks again to you, the council, for continuing to be great supporters of this important program. And I want to introduce to you another supporter of the program, Portland Parks Foundation Director Jeff Anderson. Jeff comes to us and to the foundation from the Oregon Community Foundation. We're very excited to have him at the helm of our primary nonprofit partner. So, Jeff. Thank you, Mike. My name is Jeff Anderson. As Mike said, Executive Director of the Portland Parks Foundation.
 A bit of background in case this isn't top of mind for everybody up there. The Parks Foundation was created almost 15 years ago as part of Portland's 2020 vision for parks. Every large city in the nation that aspires to genuine livability considers great urban parks to be indispensable, and nearly every major city has worked toward those visions of theirs through public-private partnerships like ours.
 since 2001 the parks foundation has helped to provide the margin of excellence in our own parks through raising more than 11 million dollars in private funds for parks projects all over the city and that's about a four to one ratio over our operating expenses um helping through annual park idiom events to harness the energy of volunteers to care for our parks and also promoting the passage of last year's 68 million dollar bond measure for parks
 So I'm very pleased to encourage the city's continued investment in summer free-for-all. In my first week on the job in October, Parks Bureau staff sent me their draft report on summer free-for-all, and that was really my introduction to the breadth of the program and the services it provides for Portlanders,
 I was a neighborhood concert attendee myself without really realizing that it was part of a much broader program. And as you've heard, almost 300 free activities, more than 320,000 people benefiting.
 So while the Parks Foundation part of this overall program is relatively minor, we're very excited at the plans you've heard outlined by the staff just now. And we'll be encouraging generous support from partners such as Bank of America, which has supported over the years, and others to continue their sponsorship.
 To me, the city's investment in summer free-for-all is emblematic of three values, which I really think are endemic to a great city. First is the understanding that our residents need and value beautiful, open spaces. Secondly, that our open public spaces are vital venues for fun, health, positive youth development, shared cultural and civic experiences. They're not empty spaces. They're places in which a lot is happening that contributes to the health of the city.
 And third, that parks are essential visible elements in building social, economic and racial equity in a rapidly changing and growing community.
 where we expect in just the next few years to be building more than 100,000 units of housing, mostly apartments, for whose residents access to a high-quality local park will be absolutely critical to the quality of life. And just today, an article about east side gentrification in the Oregonian included a community leader's comment that the residents there want to be able to stay in part to benefit from parks that are planned for their area.
 So as we continue our work with Portland Parks and Rec to fund priorities for new and improved parks and park programs, we'll be talking with private donors and pointing to Summer Free-for-All as an important measure of the city's commitment to serve all Portlanders.
 We at the Parks Foundation also invite your comments and your support of our work, and we look forward to ongoing dialogue and close collaboration to sustain a superb park system in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Council. I think that concludes our remarks. I'll be open to any questions. Questions? I have a comment and a question. First, I just want to say to Jeff Milkus,
 I've had the pleasure of working with you as the commissioner in charge and as a mere commissioner, and I want to publicly thank you for your public service and the dedication to the work. I believe you're an exemplary employee of the Parks Bureau, and I just want to put that on the record. Thank you, sir. That means an awful lot to me. The other thing is Commissioner Fritz has put her stamp on this program, and that includes equity,
 both a commitment to the diversity of the people who provide the services and then who we serve. And she has also, looking at the map, I noticed that the entire city is being served in ways that we once aspired to but I think is now being realized. I want to offer one observation, which is, and this is just one consumer's view,
 But what I love about Summer Free For All is when we showcase the best of local arts and culture. And I know there's an audience out there, Jeff. I mean, I know there's a big audience for some of the sort of out of the, you know, these packaged programs, particularly at Washington Park. Just, you know, my own sense is that
 There are some events I go to thinking I'll probably be the only person there, and it turns out it's mobbed. So I don't presume that my tastes are the same as others. But I would just urge you, while I know there's an appetite out there for bands that do covers and do some of these things, and they have national reputations, the truth is that we are home to great arts and cultural organizations. And I hope that...
 If there's a bias in our programming, I hope it's towards showcasing the best of what's here. And obviously what's here is classical music, is jazz, is blues, is ethnic music of every stripe, and also dance and other things. And again, I'm just one consumer.
 I'm always doubly appreciative when I go to an event and it's well attended and we're getting all the benefits of summer free-for-all and we're showcasing local artists. And we happen to be a capital city of art and culture, and I hope we focus as much as possible on giving local artists a chance to shine in our events. Congratulations. Thanks, Commissioner. That's great feedback, so I appreciate that. Other questions? Yes.
 Approximately how many of the staff in summer free-for-all or seasonal staff
 I'd say a way vast majority of about 130 people over the course of the summer that will work in the program. I would say probably in the neighborhood of 120 of those, maybe 123 or four are seasonal. And some of them may be affected, as you mentioned in the presentation, by the arbitrators' decision and that we would need to be paying them higher wages and benefits. Yes.
 Yes, ma'am. So the chart that we got showing 18% general fund support doesn't count in the fact that the staff costs will be going up? No. Thank you. Other questions, comments? Thank you all very much. Do you have any other invited speakers, Commissioner? Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then I motion to accept the report as an order. Roll call, please. Novick?
 Thank you very much for the wonderful program and wonderful presentation.
 Thank you, team. This is a program which provides a lot of joy over the summer. As we look at a $3 million budget cut, it's going to be something that will be difficult to continue to fund. And as you pointed out already, we're scaling back. I want to thank Shelley Hunter for your work since she joined the Bureau. The increase in both money and in-kind donations since she started is very, very impressive, and I'm very glad you chose to relocate here. Thank you.
 And thank you, Jeff Anderson, for coming to help with the foundation. I was involved in the very first project that they did with the Holly Farm Park. So it's an honor now to be the commissioner working with you. Bye.
 And I just want to add our gratitude to all the community partners who help us provide these services. And the back of the beautiful brochure you've put together this year is an honor roll of community businesses and organizations who support our work for the benefit of the community. So bravo to them and congratulations to each of you. Bye. That's awesome. Thank you very much. Bye.
 Well, I just want to say that's a very impressive list. So, first of all, to our staff and our development director, great work. Because that doesn't happen without a lot of work on the Parks Bureau's part and on the foundation's part. But then to the community, you know, for this amazing list of businesses, neighborhood associations, and the community.
 organizations of every kind and individuals to step up like this is really heartening really impressive and then secondly just as a citizen who goes out and enjoys these events in the summer they really are a great part of Portland so thank you for a great report great program, look forward to next summer aye thank you
 Okay. Let's move from one great summer activity to another here. And read item 1336, please. The joy just keeps coming. 2015 Portland Sunday Parkways, final report. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, I'm just going to steal from Margie Bradway's introductory memo in our materials because I think it was very well put.
 Sunday Parkways, sponsored by Kaiser Permanente, and don't you forget it, are open street events. They facilitate car-free biking, walking, and rolling, and show off Portland's premier family-friendly bicycle routes called Neighborhood Greenways. The routes are six to nine miles and are anchored by Portland's beautiful parks. VBOT works in collaboration with the Portland Police, Portland Parks and Recreation, many other Portland bureaus, nonprofit organizations, and vendors to bring communities and families together for five Sundays a year.
 Sunday Parkways events draw people to our public streets and public spaces where they visit local businesses, interact with neighbors, connect with their community and city, and build physical activity into their daily lives. And I'm really sorry Chris Smith isn't here because I'm about to mention the Portland Plan. Sunday Parkways brings to life one of the goals of the Portland Plan, a healthy, connected city to improve human and environmental health by creating safe and complete neighborhood centers linked by a network of city greenways that connect Portlanders with each other
 encourage active transportation, integrate neighborhoods to neighborhoods, enhance watershed health, and provide access to services and destinations locally and across the city.
 That is what Sunday Parkways is all about. I want to underscore again that city bureaus work together through Sunday Parkways to share information with the public. Fire, environmental services, police, water and parks are some of the city agencies directly involved with Sunday Parkways. And I want to again extend our thanks to Kaiser Permanente, which has invested over half a million dollars into Sunday Parkways since the program's inception. Thank you for your continued partnership.
 And now it's my great pleasure to turn it over to Margie Bradway, Linda Goodenvold, Rich Cassidy, and P.V. Hi. Thank you for having us today. Like Commissioner Novick said, this is an opportunity to celebrate something that brings much joy to the city. Before I get into the presentation, I want to make sure to recognize the team that works on Sunday Parkways. As you probably know, thousands, 130,000.
 people come to Sunday Parkways every year with hundreds of volunteers. What people don't know is a very small, talented, and mighty team of people that run Sunday Parkways. With Lennon getting involved as the lead, Rich Cassidy as logistics, and Alexis, do you want to stand up in the back? Thank you.
 with Alexis. These are the three staffers for Sunday Parkways. This is it, folks. They're amazing. Along with our amazing consultants, Neil Armstrong and Phil Barber. Where are you two? Can you stand up? But these five people really run that huge, amazing show called Sunday Parkways. And I could not...
 ask for a more talented team. And I think one of the reasons why Sunday Parkways doesn't come to council very often is because it's such a smoothly run program. People don't see the messes that go behind.
 and also you will hear later we have invited testimony, as Commissioner Novick said, I believe Dan Fields and Phil Wu are going to say a few words, as well as Heather Morrell and Marlene Conchay, if I pronounced that correctly. So thank you.
 Where are you? You've got the slides. I'm not going to spend too much time on my introduction. I think everybody knows what Sunday Parkways is. We like to call it an open streets event rather than a closed streets. A quarter of the property in this city is public right-of-way.
 So PBOT owns a massive amount of land, and there are lots of different ways to use this land. And I think Sunday Parkways is a great example of how you can literally open the streets and bring people together in an excellent use of our public right-of-way. As the commissioner noted, this is the—
 Activities of Sunday Parkway are called out in both the Comprehensive Plan and specifically in the Portland Plan in terms of opening our streets, programming,
 activities and community gatherings such as block parties and Sunday Parkways in our streets. Next slide. We like to think, I like to think of Sunday Parkways as the gateway drug to active transportation to biking and walking. We see, we have both
 Quantitative evidence and qualitative evidence. There are many people who are nervous about biking in the streets, who don't have biking and maybe even walking and rolling, who aren't that confident, but when they have the opportunity to bike in a
 open street, but close to car traffic environment, they try it. And this is, it introduces them to new neighborhoods, it introduces them to new parts of the city, and they feel the freedom to do that. And I do believe that Sunday Parkways is one of those things that makes the city so successful in both biking and walking. We are a leader in open streets. If you can go to, just jump to the next slide. Okay.
 We have won national and international awards thanks to Linda's leadership and this team's good work. There are 365 Open Streets events internationally. In the most recent report, we were one of eight recognized internationally for our practices, for best practices in terms of
 Fundraising best practices and efficiency best practices in terms of programming and how we program it. So not only is it seen as a successful program by Portlanders, but we're internationally recognized for the work. And at this time, I think it's a good transition to hand it over to Linda to go into more of the specifics of the 2015 Portland Sunday Parkways Report.
 Great. Thank you, Margie. Thanks for those kind words. So we started Sunday Parkways back in 2008, and we started in North Portland, and we were pleasantly surprised. There's a deep hunger for these kinds of free family activities. And so at our very first event, we had 5,000 participants. At the time, in 2008, we were the third largest biking event group.
 the nation. Now we've been surpassed by many other open streets around the country but at the time it was really pretty phenomenal. So last year was a record-breaking year for us. We had 119,000 people participating and those are good hard counts and we had a largest number of people ever in our East Portland event at 16,000 which I think
 I don't know of any other event in East Portland that has 16,000 people. So it was pretty phenomenal for us. And Sunday Parkways, yes, it's definitely about active transportation, but it's also about health and getting out and being active. So we work very closely with our Parks Bureau. They have been spectacularly
 partners on this. They provide a lot of the staging and equipment and classes and disc golf and the climbing wall and a whole bunch of other things. This is a photograph of a
 This gentleman, Prashant, who does Bollywood dancing, who's terribly popular. So it is about health, and that's really a critical piece of it. And the reason why we spend so much time talking about health is, again, it's what people want to do for their everyday mobility. It helps their health. But as part of the Portland plan, the goal is to have 70%
 of all Portlanders being active by 2035. So it's very much a part of how we get people to be healthy. And additionally, if you've seen it, you've seen there's a zillion kids. But also about 44% of our participants are 45 years and older. So we're also reaching older populations as well, which is a critical component. Linda?
 I have to say, I love that statistic, over 53 million calories burned, because it sounds like the good flip side of the McDonald's signs. Exactly. Thank you. Does that include dog calories or human calories? They're delicious calories that we're getting to eat at Sunday Parkways.
 So equity is sort of front and center for Sunday Parkways. We organize specifically with – we don't really have to do all that much to get bicyclists and people who are sort of already doing this to come out. Really it's about getting low-income families, communities of color, Spanish-speaking community organization, people who are underrepresented in our community to come out and experience Sunday Parkways and enjoy it and sort of use it as a blank slate so that they can –
 take the goals of their own organization and use Sunday Parkways for that platform. This is a picture of our bilingual bike fair that was done in northeast Portland with one of those speakers that we'll have later, ABC. And then the community, we work with about 340 community organizations, which that's a lot of phone calls. We...
 focus in on 25 where we do activities with with those organizations and we had major collaborations this year with parks for new Portlanders, the community cycling center SMERC which is a sexual minority youth center and the Latino network. And as you can see there's a lot of pink shirts in the room. That's our year's color and volunteers are really our lifeblood. We're a small team of folks
 who none of us work full-time on Sunday Parkways, so we need as many volunteers as possible to keep the streets safe, get the neighbors to their houses and all that kind of jazz. This year we had 814 volunteers, individuals, over 5,000 hours, and as part of that we worked with some community groups, and those community groups get...
 support from us by giving us bulk volunteers. So that amounted to about $12,000 to community organizations as part of our volunteer program. And we also did a campaign to encourage more leadership. We had 13 leaders in the program the year before, and this year we had 23 leaders.
 So we're really growing our leadership pool. And specifically, we did a campaign to encourage women to take on more leadership. The bicycling community, there's a lot of men who take leadership in these programs. And so we did a campaign to encourage more women to take that leadership, and we were quite successful in that.
 So I'm going to turn it over to Rich Cassidy. If you're having fun at Sunday Parkways, it's probably because Rich Cassidy was doing it. So with Sunday Parkways, we've designed the routes to not only connect four parks and create those wonderful recreational activities along the route, but we've also created what we call marketplaces at those four parks.
 And in our first year, 2008, we had 25 vendors along the route. And as we've gained popularity and added events over the years, we had over 200 vendors last year. We average about 90 vendors at each event. And many of those are small and local businesses. This is great not only in the sense that we're growing.
 exposing Portlanders to these great food carts, community groups, other city bureaus, as Commissioner Novick mentioned, and sponsors along the route. But it also means that we've generated a lot of vendor fees and additional revenue towards our budget. And last year, we generated $38,000 in vendor fees.
 Many of our vendors report that the five events are the busiest events that they work in the city this year, and many of them work a lot of the street fairs and things, especially when weather cooperates. And they sell a special lot of ice cream. The next one, please. Yeah, sorry. Okay.
 Several vendors are small minority-owned businesses, and we've taken an active role in seeking out more of these types of businesses. And a few of our vendors employ individuals who are developing job and business skills. And we've heard from – yeah, one next one.
 We've heard from several of our food vendors that our events have helped them get more contact with their local customers who seek them out after the event at their bricks-and-mortar stores. We call that, like, bounce-back traffic. Their regular food cart locations and local companies and retail shops also get a chance to build their customer base by introducing people to their product or their business at the event as these people pedal and walk by their booth at Sunday Parkways.
 Great. So I want to talk a little bit about the interagency communications. I think people have discovered the secret sauce and the magic of Sunday Parkways. We deliver 20,000 people to your organization to talk with people who are really blissed out and really happy about being at Sunday Parkways. And you can really engage in a conversation with them. It's a great way to connect. So the Bureau of Emergency Management
 in the nicest way I can say it, they just killed it. I mean, they had so many people at their booth. They did a fantastic job of doing outreach at these events. We had the Bureau of Environmental Services. They had the fish hats, which are a little odd, but...
 but people love them. And so they show off the Foster floodplain. We partnered with them this year on the Salmon Festival, which was fantastically successful. We work with the Fire Bureau, and they did practice CPR, and what child does not want to climb into the big red truck? Yeah.
 And then Water Bureau brought back west the water stations for Sunday Parkways. So that was really tremendous. So in all, you know, we have the – all the big bureaus are represented at Sunday Parkways because it's a great city program, and it's a way that the city can connect to our citizenry.
 So sponsorships. Sponsorships make up about 55% of budget for Sunday Parkways. And I've gotten really good at dialing for dollars. It's...
 It's kind of fun. Kaiser Permanente has been with us since the beginning. Back in 2008, they were our presenting sponsor back then. The other thing is we look for sponsorships that reinforce our messaging. So Kaiser Permanente, easy. They're all about health, all about thriving, all about getting people active in their everyday activities.
 and again they've been with us since the beginning. We also work with Whole Foods. Whole Foods is all about healthy eating and so we really are able to get sponsors that help us with our messaging. And then this is the plethora of sponsors that we have. We've got businesses that are tech businesses and
 that want to connect with something fun and hip and groovy so that they can really get more folks who are moving to Portland in the tech industry to connect with something that's cool. We've got TriMet. We've got the Bike Gallery, which has been with us since the beginning. Cliff Kid has been with us.
 since the beginning. So it's a wide variety of people. We also get individual contributions. So we do a phone bank every year like a nonprofit. We do a mailer, one mailer a year. And then we have buckets at the actual events. And that, we raised about $21,000 this year. It's not a ton of money, but it's a lot of friend raising. And it's $20,000. On our budget, that's money.
 And then, of course, we get the vendor fees. So it's a lot of fundraising. It's a lot of connecting with a lot of different pieces of the community. And it has been my distinct pleasure to work on this program and to work with most of the commissioners here on this program and how we can make it best for our city. Thank you.
 Thank you all. Thank you so much. Questions? How do you decide which events are which Sundays? Well, there's a couple of things. We looked at the number of volunteers that we can recruit for different events. So usually the shoulder events are physically smaller because May and September is harder to get volunteers. And so our big juggernaut events with the larger footprints are,
 have those areas. So that usually means East Portland is either May or September, and then the September one has changed from being southwest. We did the Selwood, which was physically smaller, and so the Tillicum one. So that's how we sort of figure it out. The other thing is keeping it fairly regular means that the neighbors can anticipate both from getting out of
 Like, when do they put their couch out on the front lawn to enjoy Sunday Parkways in their neighborhoods? So we like to keep it as consistent as possible. This year, this coming year, because we're not going to be utilizing police resources for this, we will be able to shift some of the dates around. So...
 We will not be on Mother's Day in 2016. That was kind of the gist of my question. I've heard from several folks in East Portland about that. Then there's also the intersection of often Father's Day with the Pride Parade. And we will not be on Father's Day. I appreciate that. Yeah.
 yeah i encourage you to work with do you have a steering committee of community folks who advise you um we work with a significant number of the neighborhood associations and the business associations and the community organizations so we don't have a formal steering committee but there's a lot is a ton of communications that go back and forth the there are more partnerships
 than they are sort of a steering committee because, honestly, this is a community event as opposed to a program where they're going to be programming the individual aspects of it. So what I want people to do is engage in the ways that serve their purposes and not sit on my committee and advise me on –
 on traffic things which we really don't have that much choice in. So that's kind of what – No, I was thinking more in terms of the scheduling, that local folks know what else is happening on particular weekends and in particular gathering the lead advocates from various parts of the city together once in a while so that they could discuss. I'd prefer to have May or –
 you know somebody else has turned to have me that um to that point i think that's a good idea um commissioner treat has changed her budget advisory committee to a bureau advisory committee that has quite a few people from neighborhood associations on that so maybe we could look into bringing our proposed schedule to the bureau advisory committee i would really appreciate it thank you
 Yeah. And we've always not been able to, we haven't been able to pick our dates, because we're the last kid on the block to get in on the date. So the Race for the Cure and Rose Festival push us around. So our schedule is sort of the last one that's set. So we've never really picked our dates. You're saying the Race for the Cure and the Rose Festival
 They just have precedent by time. We're new kids on the block. We're new kids. Linda, did I hear you say earlier that you won't have police support?
 for the next round? Yes. Yeah. Yes. I want to be clear that the traffic captain, Sheffer, has been a great partner, and we worked through a lot of issues this year. The traffic division was brilliant on the Tocoma Crossing route. That was a very difficult route. They had staffing issues in our southeast event, and so what we did was we piloted an event that we're...
 We didn't use police, but instead used flaggers at certain intersections. And we had our traffic engineers look at it closely. That seemed to work. And so because of the staffing demands on the police for the next year, we're looking at not having police presence at all at Sunday Parkways with traffic.
 carefully looking at our options with flaggers and our engineers kind of approving the routes. And having just returned from a city, New York, that has a tradition of having police and other highly trained people at key intersections managing traffic, I'm just curious, do you feel that that provides the same level of safety?
 that we had. I don't feel comfortable speaking to that, honestly. This is, I think this has been a very hard conversation with police and they're very, you know, the traffic, as you know, the traffic division has been pulled off to work in the
 on other issues, and I really don't want to speak for the police on this. I'm asking your opinion as PBOT. We cross – I love your program, but most of the Sundays across major thoroughfares, and so I appreciate that there are staffing issues and potentially even funding issues
 but i think the council's concern would be there'd be no drop off in public safety right and those are difficult uh things to balance i just want to put that marker down okay i appreciated um commissioner fish and i will note that we did not see any safety issues on our pilot this year and the southeast sunday parkways which we piloted that concept
 Yeah, and let me add to that. I hope you and Commissioner Novick and his staff will feel very free to call on me in my office to participate in that discussion. I appreciate the...
 the difficulty for the police bureau in staffing the event because they are stretched thin on the other hand i see the value in having them involved police officers are not the least expensive option for how we how we provide support for these events so that's also a factor but i spent a lot of time talking to police officers during the event when i'm riding around and um
 I think it's very valuable for the police bureau to participate for them, aside from the fact that it's very supportive for the event. And then secondly, there are certainly situations out there where it's nice to have a police officer there.
 In fact, I was talking to a couple of the traffic officers along Foster who said that it's asking if you have any problems. They're saying only with obnoxious motorists. And so if we're going to have to deal with the occasional obnoxious motorist, it would be nice to have somebody...
 in a police uniform doing that. So, again, don't hesitate, despite the staffing issues at the police bureau, to call on me and my office to help mediate the question of how much is the right amount of support and participation from the police bureau. Mayor Hales, just a thought. At a lot of the intersections, there are usually two police officers or two people in.
 perhaps having a police cadet in lieu of a second officer. They do use reserves to some extent for this event. No disrespect to flaggers, but I've noticed in the city where the general decorum on the roads is slipping that there's nothing like a police officer and a visible car to get people to behave. And I don't know that flaggers always get the same respect. Understood. Thank you.
 In terms of fundraising, do you and the Parks Free for All folks coordinate as to who's asking who? We've had the conversation early on. I think we've both been doing it for a while now, so we haven't had that conversation. I'd love to. That would be awesome. Yes, I encourage you to do that. So far, we haven't stepped on each other's toes, which has been great. And because there's so many, it's such a...
 project has parks as a part of it and we work so closely with them on other things, it's actually been a really, really positive conversation. It's very positive for me because I'm the parks commissioner. I'm always telling you how much they love Sunday Park. Thank you. Yes, it's a lovely program. So I would encourage you to do that. And potentially with your budget advisory committee and parks, together we could look at
 who has been tapped and has given, and who are the outstanding omissions that we could perhaps say, you could fund this, or you could fund this. Which would you like to fund? It would be great. Both programs, yours is at 34 percent general fund subsidy, ours is at 18. There's a lot of room for some extra sponsorships. Just a clarification on that. In the report, there's 163,000,
 $500,000 of city of Portland funding only a hundred and five thousand of that is general fund the other portion approximately fifty eight thousand comes out of the active transportation budget it's I use a funding source remain from Betsy credits actually a dwindling funding source that is kind of left over flexible state money so there's a so
 To finish, there's 105,000, which is approximately 20 percent of the program coming from the general fund. Female Speaker 1 Female Speaker 2 Female Speaker 3 Female Speaker 4 Female Speaker 5 Female Speaker 6 Female Speaker 7 Female Speaker 8
 Do you have plans for how you're going to fund it this coming year? We're having, you know, there's discussion at the director's team, and we're going through our budget process like all bureaus right now to make sure we have adequate funding for all our programs. So we're looking at that. So with that, it's actually very similar to the level of general fund subsidy of the summer free-for-all program. Yeah. Yeah.
 Thank you. I appreciate that this year, maybe, Linda, you've done it before, but one of the Parks Bureau programs was frisbee golf. Disc golf, yeah. Disc golf. I had a chance to do a couple of rounds with the head of Kaiser. It's a lot harder than you think. I think it sounds harder. All right.
 We appreciate Commissioner Fish coming out to Sunday Parkways. Thank you very much. My God, it's a lifesaver, particularly since I'm on my own these days. I mean, you hear this from us every year, but you do a wonderful job.
 community service in organizing the event. It is, for the electeds, it's especially fun because we get to be with people who are really happy and feeling good about the city, and also their hair's down a little bit, and at every intersection, it's like being in a town hall. People are not shy about sharing their views on things, and I think it is one of the great events in Portland. I congratulate you.
 Here other questions and not anyone else. I know there's some other folks that you would like to have to speak so yeah Afternoon good afternoon. We'll be very brief
 Dan Field from Kaiser Permanente here with my colleague, Dr. Phil Wu, who's a Kaiser Permanente pediatrician and also a nationally recognized expert in the health benefits of active transportation. So how perfect to have him here. You've just heard a fabulous presentation about the what, the how, the why, and we're really here just to deliver a big thank you. Collectively and individually to Commissioner Novick and the PBOT staff, the leadership
 Leah Treat, Margie Bradway, Linda Ginnenthal, Rich Cassidy. It's a fantastic team that delivers for the city on five major events every single year, so thank you for your leadership. Mr. Mayor, we've seen you out at Sunday Parkways for years and years. Before you were mayor, you were coming out there, and we appreciate your continued support. People love having the mayor out there. Commissioner Fish, you anchored the Tilikum Crossing event this year. In fact, I think, do we have the picture of him in his spandex? That's all right.
 I think our lawyer said since there's a family, this is a family-friendly show. I tried to persuade the staff to put it up there. There are some job security concerns. We won't show that photo, but thank you for being there and thank you for your comments. To Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman, we know there is tremendous support that comes from the Park Bureau. We know that there are many demands on your budgets.
 And you make a general fund commitment every year to this, and we appreciate that, and we couldn't do it without the support of the entire council. Just quickly, before I turn it over to Phil, I will say that Kaiser Permanente is so proud and pleased to partner with the city on this. We're one of the largest companies headquartered here in downtown Portland, just across the river. Three and a half billion dollar company just here in the northwest. 12,000 employees here.
 But the most important data point for us is that we're a nonprofit and we're mission-driven. And we take our mission to improve the health of our communities, we take that very seriously. And our partnership with the city of Portland around Sunday Parkways really allows us to live and breathe, literally, that mission.
 and without your engagement, your support, and your willingness to partner with Kaiser and the other sponsors that Linda mentioned, we couldn't be part of this. So we have a lot of touch points with the city, as many of you know, but I will, at the risk of offending somebody, there's no touch point with the city that we love more than Sunday Parkways. We're so proud of it, and I'm very pleased to confirm that this week, in fact, I don't know, Linda, if it was today or just this week, today? Today.
 Very pleased to confirm that we let the city know that we are going to be the presenting sponsor for ninth year next year. We've committed those dollars. We're pleased to be back with you in 2016 to see how we can continue to grow Sunday Parkways. Can we suspend the rules, Mayor? Yes, sir. Thank you.
 With that, thank you. With that, let me ask Dr. Wu just to comment briefly on why it is that Kaiser holds this so dear. Yeah, Mayor Hales, Commissioners, thanks very much. You know, with that very comprehensive report, I'm not sure what I can really add, but I think I'd like to maybe put a little bit of a spin on some of the health aspects of Sunday Parkways.
 So over these past seven or eight years of Sunday Parkways, I think one of the wonderful things about this program is that it's continued to align with an ever-broadening, more holistic concept of health. And so, yes, it's about active transportation and encouraging physical activity, but there are so many other co-benefits involved
 that are major determinants of health. And Sunday Parkways has done a very good job of highlighting those. So just to give you a couple of examples, the fact that Sunday Parkways highlights the open spaces in Portland, so yes, the streets, is in and of itself getting people outdoors. And regardless of what they do outdoors, which of course in this case is being active, but still just the act of being outdoors in and of itself
 impacts health in so many evidence-based ways. And that's a value all by itself.
 Second, the prioritizing and engaging of people with low income and communities of color and seniors and youth and others is, of course, the right thing to do. But we tend to forget that this is a major way that we can have an impact on closing the gap with health disparities. And that's a major issue for Kaiser Permanente.
 And then finally, some of these co-benefits around neighborhood awareness, economic activity, mobility, and livability are actually significant under themselves as well, because we have this growing conversation around the linkage between prosperity
 community and families and health. And this is a major discussion that I think we will continue to hear more about in the future. Sunday Parkways encompasses all of that. So certainly I think we all need to celebrate Sunday Parkways for being a marvelous program in the past, in the present, and even going into the future. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks for your support. I'm really glad to hear you talk about the connection between prosperity and health because –
 That's something that I forgot to mention, which is that one of the reasons active living is good to promote is that it helps with economic development because if we're healthier, then we have lower health care costs, and we're all in the same big health insurance pools, and health care costs are a drain on governments and families and businesses. So if people are out there getting in better shape, then that helps the whole economy. Dr. Wu, I have a question for you. Just as I get older, I'm more and more surprised when I see young people smoking.
 And I don't want to be a curmudgeon about it, but what is the appropriate response to someone when there's a young person, they're smoking, and you want to offer a loving rebuttal? What's the appropriate public health response? Boy, there are probably just a whole bunch of messages. I would just say, you know, if you want to prosper into the future, if you want to live a healthy life, you know, don't smoke. Right.
 pretty simple yeah you take a picture of them and threaten to send it to their mother that might work yes there is a move to raise the smoking age 21 it's been done in a variety of cities
 One of the things also I noticed, and I don't go to the movies very often, but I've noticed that there's more smoking in movies than I've been going to lately. And to the extent movies glorify smoking or show cool people smoking, I think that's devastating to the overall effort we're trying to do to discourage people from doing something so dumb. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Thank you so much. Others that are here to, yeah, let's hear it for Kaiser. Thank you so much. Thank you as a sponsor very much. Come on up.
 I'm very happy to be here to talk about our partnership with Sunday Parkways. My name is Heather Morrill, and I work for a nonprofit called The Giving Tree. And so we provide services and work alongside residents living in affordable housing. So we're there to build community amongst those residents and enhance individual quality of life opportunities.
 And once we've been able to address some of those immediate concerns and build a good community, we can do the really fun thing, which is to connect to the Portland community as a whole. So three years ago, we began a partnership with PBOT's Active Transportation Division. Active Transportation staff became a part of our community. They started visiting us on site and teaching us.
 like map reading skills and doing activities to talk about walking and moving around the city in a less utilitarian way, because that's a lot of folks in affordable housing are using it, and in a more engaging sort of community-building way. So this led to group walking tours, and the highlight of that was really the resident participants getting to share stories about
 about Portland, getting to share their stories. Active Transportation had done so much for us that last year we decided we wanted to contribute to what they're doing and further our engagement. So we began volunteering as a group at Sunday Parkways. This summer...
 Thirty-five residents volunteered with me. Seventeen of those residents were unduplicated, and this was over the course of three Sunday Parkways events. We were a part of the Telecom Crossing celebration. Three residents volunteered at all three of those Sunday Parkways events, and three resident participants actually biked the Telecom Crossing route, either pre or post their volunteer shift. So,
 So the residents I work with, they really love getting out into the neighborhoods. They get to talk to the community. They get to hang out with their neighbors in a different setting, and they love to see all of the bicycles. So I've got two quotes from resident participants. Mary said, I could feel the excitement of the event as I walked through Colonel Summers Park to my volunteer intersection. Seeing big groups and whole families biking and walking together is wonderful to see.
 And Mark said that getting outside and giving back to the community by volunteering is the best part of Sunday Parkways.
 He said, I got a standing ovation by a group of cyclists when directing a car safely through an intersection and off of the route. So the gratitude received from the participants as they roll and walk by the intersection where we're volunteering as intersection superheroes is just, I've seen it lift up this population of folks who very often feel invisible.
 our group volunteering at Sunday Parkways is just such an extraordinary opportunity to connect to each other and connect to the Portland community. And it's just, it's something that's only possible at Sunday Parkways. So thank you. That's great. Thank you. I love the term intersection superhero. Yeah, intersection superhero. One more? Okay, come on up, please.
 Children have been so good just sitting there. If they want to come up and just watch so they can see themselves on camera, they're certainly welcome to do that. ¿Aquí adelante con la mamá? No. Buenas tardes. Yo me llamo Marlene. Soy del grupo de ABC por cuatro años. Y me gustaría que sigan apoyando las asociaciones entre Sunway Parkways y ABC. Estoy un poco nerviosa. Gracias.
 Hi, my name is Lali. I will translate after she says her, she reads her. Cuando me metí al grupo, aprendí a valorar y a ocupar bicicletas en el grupo. Me motivó y me ilusionó para salir a pedalear. Si el grupo, yo me miraría a mis hijos pedaleando, pero con el grupo me motivé.
 to go out with them. The first time we went out to the park, they lent us bicycles and carts. We went out as a family for the first time and we liked it a lot. At the end of the walk, I asked Lali if we could go around quickly while the bicycles and carts were going up in the truck.
 For me, this association is important because every year it invites us to participate and plan everything in a team. San Luis Park is a celebration for the community. That day you feel free to ride your bike because the cars can't pass.
 One can have fun and feel free because there is no need to shout cars in front, cars behind, or go in a line. One feels more free. Please continue to support the association. Thank you very much for your time. So she said, good afternoon, my name is Marlene Canche.
 And I belong to the ABC group for the past four years. ABC stands for Andando en Bicicletas en Culi, Riding Bikes in Culi. And she would like for everyone to continue their support, particularly the collaboration between Sunday Parkways and the group ABC. When I'm going to speak in first person because I'm translating, but.
 When I joined the group, I learned to value and use bikes. The group motivates me and inspires me to pedal. Without the group, I would watch as my kids ride bikes, but with the group, I get motivated and ride with them. The first time I participated on Sunday Parkways, they lent us bikes. They meaning the team, right?
 Bikes and baby trailers. We came out as a family on bikes for the very first time. And we liked it very much. So much that at the end of the ride we asked Laleh, that would be me, if they could ride around more while we put away the bikes, just to get a little extra riding. This collaboration, to me, is very important because every year we are invited to participate and we plan everything as a team.
 Sunday Parkways is a celebration for the whole community. A day of Sunday Parkways, one feels very free to ride because there's no cars allowed. And we have fun and feel free because you don't have to yell to the children, you know, car front, car back, stay in line. So please continue the support in this collaboration, and thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Gracias. Thank you. So anyone else here to speak on this report? Come on up, please.
 Charles Johnson and Paul Langstroth hi my name is Paul Longstroth Commissioner Nick Fish good to see you again it's been a while I actually got to work with them on a community project many years ago at a elementary school where I actually had to teach the Commissioner how to paint properly
 How did I do? You did pretty good. You and your daughter, yes, it was fun to see you with your family. But I want to thank all of you for being a part of Sunny Parkways. As you can see, I am also an ambassador as well as an info booth coordinator with Sunny Parkways. I've been pretty much been a part of it from the beginning. And I like to say with all these people from the city of Portland, Neil, Phil, and everybody else, Linda and Rich.
 that, yeah, without them, this program would not be here. But I'd also like to say the reason why it's grown so many years is because being an InfoBoost coordinator, I have met people who tell me that most of the time they come to these events...
 are usually because by word of mouth. I've met people from overseas who get word of mouth, family, like when we do Mother's Day and Father's Day, also word of mouth. But I'm saying with this event, and being that we are Bike City USA, that this is an event, I hope it goes on forever, because it does bring a lot into Portland, as well as sponsors, and not to mention the people I've met all over the world.
 But with you folks being there too, seeing out there, being a part of it, just like you said, letting your hair down, having a good time, getting involved. Just like past mayors too that have gone involved. I'd say, yeah, this is definitely something definitely we need to hang on to for this community. Because, yes, we are growing. There are problems or anything else. But as long as we've got some summer events in Portland that keep this going, I'd say good job for everybody. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and it's been my pleasure to be a volunteer at Portland Sunday Parkways and also to note that one of our other frequent testifiers is also a volunteer and is no longer in jail, Barry Joe Stull, so we should be glad that that happened. I want to thank...
 Kaiser Permanente for choosing this route to engage with people in the insurance-free marketplace rather than spending millions of dollars to put their name on a sporting venue. Those of us who know about equity and care for poor people in the Portland metro area are pleased to have
 corporate citizen like Kaiser Permanente who comes here and engages and conducts events that people can participate in to improve their health, to bring different parts of our community together and have real health rather than seeing millions of dollars go to signage on sporting complexes. Those of us who
 advocate for a universal single-payer health care system, it would be sad to see Kaiser Permanente kind of absorbed into that, whereas we would be much more content with the high-paid executives of Providence and Moda
 having their high salary positions disappear so that hardworking nurses and physicians, like the one that's testified recently, could have a more compassionate care system. So I hope that while we're thinking about the overall picture of biking and health and balancing the cooperation between city bureaus, that we'll focus on the holistic picture of having –
 more money available for actual care and patient well-being, and less for overhead. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then a motion, please, to accept the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Novick? Yes.
 first of all i'd like to thank all of the volunteers here with and without pink shirts for all of your work thanks again to the small and dotty kibat team and all of our partners in the bureaus for all the work you do it's a great honor to be part of this celebration hi
 This program was started by Commissioner Adams in 2008, and then over the course of the recession, Mayor Adams insisted on continuing to fund it. And it took a while, I think, to really catch on and for people to understand the value of it and for the volunteers to buy into it. In the early days, there wasn't much volunteer participation. It was more run by the Bureau staff, and I really appreciate transportation for sticking with it.
 And also, I appreciate Commissioners Saltzman and Fish and my own votes to keep it going over the course of the recession, because we're starting to see it blossom. It's starting to become of age, and there's a lot more recognition that we need to not only do outreach to underrepresented groups.
 we need to figure out how to make sure that they actually do participate. Another offer that I will make on behalf of Parks is that we found that translating into eight or more different languages can be very helpful. Engaging the East Portland Action Plan, as I know you do, and various other community groups to spread the word about what this is.
 including that it's a really great event for those of us who prefer to or have to walk or use a wheelchair as well as those who choose to bike so there's in many places the connections between parks are close enough that it is possible to walk and when it's not there's often enough to do in a single park that you can go there and enjoy the event and we so appreciate the
 partnerships not only with parks, but with the Parks for New Portlanders program, with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, with all of the community groups, that it's a good recognition that public spaces are important gathering spaces. Public streets are particularly important. They serve multiple functions. And in the comprehensive plan update, we're going to have some more discussion about the
 have we actually listed all of the purposes of public streets? And maybe we should add some more to make sure that we all understand how many different values and principles come together in our public streets. So thank you very much, Commissioner Novick, for this report. Thank you to staff and for volunteers. Thank you especially to our friends who came with three very well-behaved children. Mine would not have been able to sit here. And I'm very impressed. Congratulations. I. Yes, please.
 Thank you for bringing this forward, Steve. Linda, Rich, and Margie, thank you very much. I really love this program. I'll just offer you an observation. I used to ride my bike to the gym and lock it, and it was stolen. I ride my bike on Sunday Parkway, and I leave it unattended, and it's never been touched. You can draw your own conclusion from that.
 But I love this event, and it seems to me it keeps getting better. And I particularly appreciate the partnership with Parks. There's a lot of interesting things going on, including dance-a-thons and active stuff. And the Parks team really knocks themselves out as a partner. We're proud to offer the water. I was delighted that Dr. Wu didn't suggest we put fluoride tablets in that water. We're not going to go there this time. We're just going to offer unfiltered bull run water. Okay.
 I want to thank our friends for coming here today. Very nice testimony. Normally I do Sunday Parkways with my family, but they moved to Spain, and my son is now in a public school in Spain.
 and he's my translator so i'm sorry he wasn't here today um i i will continue to support this program any way i can going forward because i i think it's it's it's become part of the tradition of the city and um i'm not a lifetime biker but um ever since chuck amato told me to get my act together um i've been more interested in things like biking and better nutrition
 other things that help me get through the next half century. So thank you for your great work, and thank you, Steve.
 Well, this is one of the best things we do, and it is a pleasure to participate as a citizen, not just as an elected official. And it is really a community builder at every level. I love what's going on. I'm wary to reduce the police bureau's role too much in this event, so I do want to talk more about that because I think it's a very beneficial event
 for the relationship between the Police Bureau and the rest of the communities. I sometimes have joked that this is the one day a year when 15,000 people wave at police officers with all five fingers. And...
 You know, it's really a great event because they get to see 15,000 people who aren't causing a problem for their neighbors and who are not stealing bicycles or otherwise misbehaving because these are law-abiding Port Wonders out to have a good time.
 So I think it's a very beneficial event in that relationship-building effort that Chief O'Day and I believe so much in between the police bureau and the rest of the city. So let's do talk more about that. Obviously, we've got to pay attention to cost and availability, but it's Sunday morning after all, so we ought to be able to flex to help, and I certainly want us to be able to do that. The fact that other cities are doing this means that we ought to –
 continue it of course but also look for new ways to innovate to expand this so i'm interested in that as well and then finally to kaiser and to the other sponsors thank you
 This, as a Kaiser member, I know how committed your folks are to people actually being healthy and preventing problems. And this is so consistent with that philosophy that it is a natural for you, but you didn't have to do this. And we certainly appreciate it. And it's a huge community service for Portland. So on behalf of the whole community, I know all of us thank Kaiser for being such a stalwart supporter for this. Well done, all. Thank you. Aye.
 Mayor, do you think we could get a picture with some of our volunteers and sponsors, and especially the three children who waited so patiently? Yes, please. Let's take a moment and take a photo, please. Come on, guys. Everybody's coming back with my volunteers. Come on up. Let's do it. Come on up. Right? Okay.
 Everybody's gotta squeeze in, folks. Squeeze in. I'm gonna come in and light the huge down. Sharpie, my friend, is holding the bag. Yeah, I was gonna say that. Okay, everybody say, Sunday Parkways! Yay! Oh, my God. I'm lighting the... Oh, my goodness. Hey, would you close it? Yup. Yay! Oh, yeah. I can be here. Oh, thank you. I'm here. Yeah, here.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good to see you. See you out there this summer. Thank you, Commissioner. Yeah, I know. Thank you. All right, we'll see you all out there next summer. Yes, yes. Rocking you. Yeah, there we go. Oh, cool pink T-shirts. Oh, you got a... Right. ...organization created the bank. Right. Good memory, man. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Wear it with pride. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, we have just a little bit of business left this afternoon and some staff standing by to do that.
 So why don't you read 1337 and 1338 together. 1337, adopt City of Portland investment policy. And 1338, extend to December 31, 2016, the council approved corporate securities do not buy lists. Okay. Jennifer Cooperman and Katie Shriver have been waiting patiently for this presentation. So thank you. We're almost empty room. Not as exciting. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer. Let her roll. Okay. Go ahead, please. Oregon law pertaining to the investment of public funds requires the city to adopt an investment policy annually since we make investments that exceed 18 months in maturity. Okay.
 So the investment policy establishes the framework for the city to invest its cash assets. The policy is a set of conservative parameters that's written in accordance with ORS and that I bring to you each year for adoption. The investment objectives are to preserve principle, ensure liquidity so we can pay our bills, and thirdly, to earn a market return.
 Investment earnings net of an admin fee to recover Treasury's operating costs are distributed out to city funds. In fiscal year 15, Treasury distributed $7.4 million and earned an average portfolio yield of 0.57 basis points, so a little over half of the percent.
 This year, we're recommending the following changes be made to the city's investment policy. The first is a change to clarify the requirement that we have at least two bond ratings for every corporate bond that we buy. We've been operating that way, but there's a little bit of ambiguity in the way the policy is written, so I just want to clarify that.
 And the second change is to move us to a market standard benchmark to measure our performance, rather than a custom benchmark that we've used for many years. I think this will more consistently track our investment performance. The remainder of the changes are housekeeping changes. And all of the changes were reviewed by the city's investment advisory committee, which is comprised of members of the public who are experienced in financial markets.
 So I'd be happy to answer any questions or turn it over to Katie if you want to talk about the next item. I have a quick question. What's the problem we're trying to solve by getting two ratings? Yes.
 It's not a problem so much as just a clarification. The current policy uses the words, in the event of a split rating, where one rating agency rates a bond, say, AA, and another one rates them AAA. And I just want to clarify that even in the case of split ratings, we want to have at least two ratings that are the minimum required ratings.
 And the other question is, under the market standard versus the custom standard, is the bar higher, lower, or the same? It's actually higher. It's a higher bar. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Katie, why don't you take the next piece, please? Great. My name is Katie Shriver, and I'm staff to Commissioner Novick. And I just wanted to provide a brief overview of number 1338. This resolution extends the existing corporate securities do not buy list through December 31st, 2016. And as you probably recall, just a little bit of context, council created the socially responsible investments committee charged with making recommendations about the companies council should add to or remove from this do not buy list.
 you confirm the committee appointments in July, and those dedicated volunteers have been working diligently and are developing a process and work plan to make recommendations. And I expect we'll see a set of recommendations next year from them, and then council will be able to act on them before the end of the calendar year when this list would expire.
 So I just wanted to say a few words about the companies on the list that are attached to the resolution before you today. As you remember, Council added fossil fuel companies to the list just this past September. The September resolution documents the role of fossil fuels in climate change and the impacts of climate change here in Portland and throughout the Pacific Northwest. That resolution added 200 fossil fuel companies to the list, including 100 coal companies and 100 oil and gas companies.
 Of the 200 fossil fuel companies on the list, the city treasurer has indicated that two, ExxonMobil and Chevron, would, if not for the do-not-buy list, be eligible issuers under the city's very stringent investment policy.
 The other company currently on the list is Walmart. Council first added Walmart to the list in 2013. Walmart is the largest private employer in the U.S., and its business model exerts considerable downward pressure on wages throughout the retail sector and the broader economy. In 2012, Netherlands' biggest pension fund announced that it would divest from Walmart because of the company's noncompliance with the United Nations.
 Global Compact Principles, which present a set of core values related to human rights, labor standards, the environment, and the anti-corruption efforts. Outside of the U.S., Walmart has focused on fast, low-cost production at the expense of basic safety measures for employees. Thank you.
 This year, you may have followed the news, Walmart raised wages to a minimum of $9 per hour this year and $10 an hour in February 2016. Although the wage announcements have been positive, the Chicago Tribune and other news media sources reported this summer that Walmart had begun cutting work hours at some stores to adjust costs from the wage increase to balance it with other expenses. And in addition, there continue to be reports of anti-union activity by Walmart management.
 Given these factors, Commissioner Novick decided that, on balance, to propose keeping Walmart on the list, we expect that the Socially Responsible Investments Committee will review Walmart and make a recommendation to Council next year about whether the company should stay on the list beyond 2016. So I'm happy to answer any questions. Very clear. Thank you. Questions? Are we treating Walmart different than other big box retailers that have been in the news lately?
 I would defer to Commissioner Novich. Obviously, we are because, well, in one sense, in that they're on the list and others are not. We decided to give Walmart the honor of being the first company to do not buy a list because of a collection of issues with the company involving the way they treat workers, the way they operate in the market, substantiated allegations of corruption in a widespread scale.
 So it wasn't for any – I mean, it was for a variety of reasons that we put Walmart on the list, not just one reason. And I would add other big box retailers aren't eligible. They don't have debt that fits the criteria for us to invest in in the first place. Thank you. And the second question is, of the Carbon 200 that we're incorporating, are any of these Oregon companies?
 I believe one company has operations in Oregon, and I think this question came up when the mayor brought this resolution in September, and we did, I believe, that there was outreach to that company to let them know that this was happening. And I would add on that, but that's also not an eligible investment based on the minimum rating criteria that we have. And we're continuing to talk about prospective investment, not retrospective investment. Is that correct? Correct.
 Questions? Thank you both. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up with these items. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the problems I've always had on the securities do not buy list is that I don't think Walmart should be on it. I've had a disagreement with this from day one, and if you look at other companies, I think they'd fall into kind of the same category as Walmart, and
 I don't see you going after these other companies. And Commissioner Novick, I'll be very frank. You have a problem with Walmart. You really do. And if you were to focus your attention on some of these other companies, you'd find faults, and they'd be on this do not buy list. And Walmart is a great company to me, and they've done a tremendous amount for the local economies. And I think a lot of workers do enjoy working at Walmart, and they have a great future working at Walmart. So...
 I have a real disagreement on demonizing Walmart. I don't think they should be on this list. Now, when we're talking the extraction industries, I would agree that they should be on this list. And why I say that is that we have other alternatives to look at at this time. And plain and simple, we don't need to be investing in these type of companies. Now, what I'd like to know on this is that
 when we're looking at the extraction industries and putting them on this list, is that with the money that we actually divest, where are we going to put that money? And that's my main focus right now is that can we – is there any possibility to look at being able to somehow use some of that money toward affordable housing? And why I ask that is that we're taking a tremendous amount of money from these companies –
 And where are we going to put it? So I like the extraction industries removing that money, but can we put it towards some type of affordable housing type situation? And that's my question. Mr. Blading, it's not that we're taking money out of these companies. It's that periodically we buy corporate or other bonds. Yes. And have a ready source of money there.
 You're investing your money. Right. And so, I mean, the treasurer can explain exactly what the purpose of it is, but it's almost like having a checking account. So the question is, in what companies' bonds do we invest so that we can have short-term returns? So what we're deciding here is prospectively, there's some companies' bonds we won't buy, which means that we'll buy other companies' bonds. Yes. And my point to you is that,
 Is there a way to divest out of the fossil fuel industry and invest in affordable housing industry? Is there a way to do that? And we are investing money into these companies. Right.
 Well, we're not buying equities. We're buying bonds, which means we're guaranteed a particular rate of return. So putting the money into affordable housing would be a big departure from our current financial policies where we maintain a certain pool of investments based on certain criteria that are applied to the companies.
 Even if you could reach that same return, and that would be backed by certain investors to make sure you have that guaranteed return. Lightning, this is really probably not the right place to have this discussion right now. Okay, this is my communication, though. This is my communication, and I'd like to finish it. Well, go ahead. I'm just saying you're raising a whole set of questions around fiduciary obligations and industry standards and things. And what Jennifer would tell you is that we can't use that money in investments that
 have even the remotest chance of being speculative or risky. That's why these are very conservative investments with a very low rate of return that are heavily regulated. I completely applaud your idea of using the funds
 Pension funds have a little more flexibility to do that, depending on the law. These are heavily circumscribed, and we can't put it into affordable housing. That's the short answer. And why I brought this up. I support the concept. I applaud you for raising it. Why I brought this up during my communication is that I wanted it to possibly be looked at
 from various individuals to see if there can't be some changes or some directions made toward affordable housing with some of these funds. And that's all I've asked at this time. And then they can counter back and tell me why it can't be done, and then we can look at possible ways of understanding that maybe we can go in a certain direction to do it. That's all I'm asking during my communication. And I applaud you for raising it. Okay. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. Again, my name is Charles Johnson, and thank you. We know that nationwide, on campuses, and particularly local here at Reed and at Portland State, there are divestment from fossil fuel movements. And as Commissioner Fish raised with his question, right now, unfortunately, this list is only prospective. And I didn't have time to thoroughly brief myself on the situation, but I hope that...
 There will also be some chances for the community to engage with you in a retrospective look, a sort of house cleaning. In the media, it's been clear that many people feel that Exxon has been biased and deceptive about climate change or ExxonMobil. So I think this city council session this afternoon, since our action against Islamophobia has been talking about
 raising the bar and the highest of ethics. And fiduciary duties are complex. There are pressures to compromise. But I hope that citizens will be able to engage with you and get a clear report back and a retrospective look to make sure that
 Any investments in companies that have been deceptive about climate change or profiting from pollution will be cleaned out and depollute the portfolio of the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay. Any further council discussion? Then let's take a vote, please, on the first of the two resolutions. 1337. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, Treasurer Jennifer Cooperman. Your work is always great. Aye.
 Chris? Aye. Anything else? Well, as Treasurer Cooper-Mamoud would say, I think she and her predecessors have all assured that this is a bolted-down, fiscally responsible investment policy, but it's also a smart and socially conscious investment.
 investment policy. And I think we've struck that balance, not so much between conflicting ideals, but compatible ones. So thank you. Aye. Second vote, please. 1338, Novick. Thank you, Treasurer Kuperman. Thank you, Katie Shriver. Thanks to the members of the Socially Responsible Investment Committee, which are going to present us with a new list next year. Thanks to all of my colleagues for recommending folks for that advisory committee. And I'm pleased to vote aye.
 I appreciate the diligence of the committee and taking the time to look at a very complicated issue. So thank you, Commissioner Novick, for formally bringing to us a deferral. Sometimes we just let things slide, and it's nice to see a specific action to extend the deadline. Aye. Bish? Aye. Nails? Thank you very much. And we're recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Thank you.