Thank you.
 Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We're going to gavel into session in a moment. But before I do that, I want to acknowledge a distinguished guest that we have amongst us here today. We are honored by the presence of the Consul General of Ireland. Robert O'Driscoll is here with us today.
 Council General, would you please welcome us with a few words? We're honoured to have you here today. Thank you. Great, you've incited something already. You just got here. Welcome to Portland City Council. Yes, yes, yes, indeed. And we're very thankful, obviously, to be here today. And thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler.
 and commissioners for giving me just a couple of minutes this morning, and I won't take too much more of your time. This is my first visit to Portland, and I came here with two purposes. One, I wanted to meet with the strong Irish community here and people of Irish heritage to talk to them about, one,
 The strong heritage in this city, I want to learn more about it. I know, of course, that one of the very first mayors here in the city was Stephen J. McCormack, who took office in 1859 after only eight years in this city. I only have four years of my term, so I'm not sure I'll reach the same level. But I want to talk about that. I want to learn more about that.
 I came here to talk about an Irish economy which has been through a massive recession, but has now come out the other side and is the fastest growing economy in Europe. A country which is more diverse and more accepting than ever after our marriage equality referendum in 2015, being the first country in the world to vote for marriage equality.
 I wanted to speak to them also about Brexit, about the UK's decision to leave the EU and what that means for Ireland and particularly what that means for relations between North and South and the Good Friday Agreement which brought peace to Ireland after a very troubled period of over 30 years of conflict. That was the first part. That was yesterday. Today my focus is going to be on the future of Ireland's relationship here in Portland
 I'm struck in the five months that I've been here at how deep the connections already are between Ireland and the West Coast, but also on the potential of how we can do much more. And people say to me all the time, Robert, you need to go to Portland, you need to see what's happening up there, you need to see the vibrant start-up scene, you need to go and meet the people and see how more and more Irish businesses should be here, and adding to the...
 up to 100,000 jobs that Irish companies already support in the United States. And that's why I'm here today, and I'm going to meet Business Oregon later on today and talk to them about how we can do it a little bit more. I hope maybe in Q1 next year to lead some more of our enterprise agencies up here to have those conversations and try and build those relations. So that's why I'm here today. I won't take any more of your time, but I want to thank you very much for having me here. And in Irish, we would say at this time of the year, we would say...
 It means, happy new year, have a happy holidays. Thank you very much. Wonderful, and thank you so much for being here. We're very appreciative. Thank you. Do we have a sister city relationship? Well, we pretty much do. We don't, we...
 have really close connections to both Dublin in the south and Belfast in the north, and we've led many delegations there and hosted many here. So while not an official sister city relationship, there's very, very strong connections economically and civically. So we're proud of that. Good job. Very good. On the rink record, USC.
 There you go. Thank you so much. Thank you for taking time this morning. Appreciate it. Yeah, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you so much, sir. Appreciate it.
 Good morning, everybody. This is the December 13th morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Are you daily? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Colleagues, I'd like to suspend the rules and begin this morning's council session with remembrances for a great leader for this city and for this state, Vera Katz.
 Vera Katz was, as many people have noted this week, larger than life. In all the descriptions I've read of Vera Katz this week, there's one common theme, and that was that she was a force of nature, leading her community to new heights. She made an indelible impact on our state and our city over four decades in leadership from the early 1970s to after the turn of the new millennium.
 Mayor Katz represented, in my mind, the very best of the American spirit, from when she had to flee Nazi oppressors in Germany to her transformation from concerned citizen to fearless civic leader. Wherever she went, Mayor Katz seemed to break new ground, becoming Oregon's first female Speaker of the House, Portland's three-term mayor,
 and changing the fabric of the life in this city in the process. All of us in public service can aspire to her boldness, her candor, and especially her humanity. On a personal level, I always felt privileged to attend school with her son, Jesse. And in my mind, I can't separate Mayor Katz from Vera Katz, the mom. Yeah.
 The school mom. My heart goes out to her and to her son Jesse and to Mel Katz and all of her many colleagues and many friends that she met along the way here during this very difficult time. It's extremely rare that someone as accomplished in public life dies.
 makes a similar impact in their personal life. And as I read all of the memories that people have put forth this week, it's clear that she did both. Even people who said, you know, I didn't really like her politics, but then they would go on to talk about an encounter they had had with her, an experience with her.
 that they had had with her or some opportunity that they had shared together in the community. And it's obvious she made an impact on people at a very personal level. She'll be remembered as mayor, as a legislator, as a mother, and as a friend to many in our community. We'll all miss her greatly. And I want to say something else on a personal note. As I sit here in the chair position,
 that she sat in for all those many years. I know I'm not a Vera Katz, but she's put the path before me, and I aspire to lead the way that she led this city, and I believe I'm capable of that, and I know her somewhere. She's looking down on me, hoping that I live up to that expectation. Colleagues? Commissioner Fritz? So, Commissioner Fish? Mayor, two quick stories. Uh...
 Three or four weeks ago, I was at the Knight Cancer Institute, where I spend about seven hours every other week. And I had a little downtime, so I called Vera on my cell phone. And she answered, and she was heading to dialysis. And she had regular dialysis to deal with her health challenge. So we compared notes, and I had not spoken to Mayor Katz for some time.
 but she was as warm and funny and I should say irascible as ever. And at the very end of the conversation, she said something to the effect of, did you call me to ask for money? And I said, no, Mayor, I'm calling just to tell you that I love you and I was thinking about you since we both have a shared struggle. The story, though, Mayor, that I will never forget and that is familiar to some of the folks in the room today is –
 the way Mayor Katz stepped up right after 9-11 to represent our city. Now, as many of you know, it was not a well-kept secret that she was phobic about flying in airplanes, and she would do anything not to have to fly in an airplane. She was fearful of flying. Well, right after 9-11, Schoenlohe and D'Zono organized a so-called Flight for Freedom, and 1,000 Oregonians went back to New York City.
 Well, not only did it require flying in an airplane, but it required flying in an airplane at a time just following the worst terrorist attack in our history. And I can assure you that a lot of planes weren't going into New York. So she had to overcome two significant concerns. But the sense was that you could not send a delegation of Oregonians without having Vera lead the delegation. So ultimately, she agreed to be the leader, and she flew to New York.
 And there was one moment that crystallized everything that I have come to know about this remarkable woman. There was a ceremony at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, which is the magnificent seat of the Episcopal Church in the northern part of New York City, right next to Columbia University. And it had been designated as the Northern Morgue.
 for any terrorist attack. So it was the place where bodies were to be taken in a serious attack. And every year they do something called the Blessing of the Animals, and it's a significant event, and it generates about 3,000 people who come
 That year, the blessing of the animals was especially poignant because they invited, as the lead animals in the processional, the dogs that were down in Ground Zero looking for bodies. So they honored those dogs, those highly trained dogs that were seeking out survivors. Mayor Katz was asked to speak on behalf of Oregon at the ceremony. It was televised. There were 3,000 people in the cathedral there.
 Judy Collins sang. But the speaker that preceded her was Bobby Kennedy Jr. And Vera was not aware that Bobby Kennedy Jr. was going to be on the program. And what made that extraordinary is she came into politics because of Bobby Kennedy. It was Bobby Kennedy's father who inspired her to get into politics. So for her to follow Bobby Kennedy Jr. at that moment. Well, Vera rose and stood facing 3,000 people in this enormous cathedral hall.
 And she told her story about coming to America as a Jewish refugee and all that she had endured. And I had never heard that story before. And as many of us know, she wasn't someone who was comfortable talking about herself in that way. She would not share those kinds of stories. Well, it turned out that when she came to New York as a refugee, she lived in a tenement right across the street from the cathedral. But she had never been in the cathedral because she never found it a welcoming place for a Jewish person.
 So here she was all these years later speaking in the cathedral, and she told her story, and then she got very emotional, and she offered the love and support of all of Oregon for the victims of 9-11. We all have our personal highlight reels of moments with Vera Katz, but I've never been prouder of her as a leader representing our city, and it made an indelible impression on the people of New York.
 to have this feisty mayor get up and offer solace when it was needed. So I will never forget that and all that she did for our city mayor.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thanks, Mayor. I started my political awareness in Portland in 1991. So for the first 12 years of coming to this hall as a community activist, there was Mayor Katz being the leader, the person with Gretchen Kifori who was directing policy for the City of Portland. And it wasn't until later that I realized how few women have been on the Portland City Council. That was the normal thing for me. She was a great role model for that community.
 Two things I particularly remember are, one, she never learned to drive. She was the archetypical Portlanders, just used to try and love it like I do, although I can drive. And secondly, people sometimes say that we have a weak mayor system in Portland. You think of Vera Katz, that is not a weak mayor. That was a strong mayor. Very good.
 I usually give a long statement about... Oh, one more thing, Mayor. Sorry. Yes, please. The Mayor has had a condolence book placed in the lobby downstairs, so if anybody would like to send a message to the family, somebody did that for me in 2014, and it was really helpful to me. So I encourage you to write your own memorandums down there. Very good. And alternatively, if people want to send an email, I'll make sure that they get forwarded to the family.
 ordinarily we talk about conduct. I don't think we need to do that today. I think everybody knows the basics. Treat everybody with respect. You'll hear differences of opinion at the microphone. That's okay. First issue is communications. Please call the first item. Item 1317, request of Joseph Walsh to address counsel regarding impacts of illegal camping. This was the other Joseph Walsh show. Okay. Okay.
 Good morning, sir. We're glad to have you. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. Great to be here in the friendly confines of the council chambers. It's been 30 plus years since I was here as a city employee. Again, I'm Joe Walsh. I reside at 4035 Southeast Oak and have for more than 40 years.
 I'm a member of the Laurelhurst Neighborhood Association and their safety committee, but I'm here as an individual. I'm also a member of an informal group of neighbors and small businesses that's coalescing around this issue of illegal camping.
 So you can expect to see us here regularly on Wednesdays sharing stories of what we see out on the streets. I want to remind you of three things that you probably already know but need to be talked about on a regular basis. First of all, the extent of this illegal camping in Portland is disgraceful and dangerous. Second, the city's response is far too ad hoc. It's better than nothing, but it's still not up to what it needs to be. Third, the city and its partners, county and ODOT and others, simply have to do better.
 No one that I talk to, no one has the least interest in criminalizing homelessness, harassing the homeless, and claiming otherwise really is a distraction from the real issue at hand, which we think is the enabling of a lawless subculture on public property.
 So the extent there is a tremendous groundswell, obviously, of discontent over the increase in property crime, the health hazards. I've got a packet here with 28 stories from folks all over the east side that we gather just in a couple of days by word of mouth. So you can go through those.
 In my case, I'm very concerned about these health and livability aspects, but in my own particular case, as a person in long-term recovery from drugs and alcohol, somebody who devotes his time in retirement to the treatment world, I'm talking to folks with a lot more training and experience than I. They're unanimous. For folks in their addiction with mental illness, this is not compassion.
 For folks who combine their addiction and the mental illness with criminality, it's enabling and it's dangerous. As to the ad hoc nature of the response, a longtime local government employee, more than 10 years with the city of Portland, like-minded folks in our neighborhood association, we spent six months trying to get a concerted response to camping on the fringes of Laurelhurst Park.
 Imagine how hard it is for folks who don't have those kind of resources and the kind of savvy with a Rolodex or whatever the current version of a Rolodex is to know who to call and to be persistent. But once the Bureau folks got on the same page, police, parks, and PDOT, they...
 At the district level, on the ground level, they did a great job. And they also understand and articulate that this is an intolerable situation. They hate seeing their city and their city facilities so ill-used. Thank you.
 Third point, we've got to do better. All right, I'm out of time. We have in this packet is a safe zone, a model ordinance, a safe zone ordinance that will allow the city to designate
 parks, schools, and playgrounds as no camping areas, as in we really mean it this time. So please go through this, and as I mentioned, we'll be back Wednesday after Wednesday talking about this issue. Thank you for your time. Very good. I appreciate it. And if you're going to be back Wednesday after Wednesday, let me also tell you what would be helpful for us to hear.
 because as you know, we are pursuing a comprehensive response around...
 homelessness. This administration, along with the county, has never invested more in prevention, rent assistance, emergency shelter, housing strategies, addiction, mental health treatment on that side of the spectrum, nor has there been a more concerted effort in recent years around what I'm describing as livability issues, enforcing codes, ensuring safety, addressing
 uh, uh, public health and public safety concerns, environmental concerns. If there is more that you think we should be doing that is not part of, uh, uh, that spectrum of services, I'd like to know specifically what I have this meeting 10 times a day where people tell me they see the trash, they see the litter, they, they have the anecdotal evidence of, of criminality. Um,
 But then they never say what I need them to say, which is what do you want us to do about it that we're not already doing? Are we right track? Are we the wrong track? And remember, it has to be legal and it has to be constitutional. I'm always open to suggestions. Better coordination among the city. I'm a long veteran of the silos that exist in our commission form of government.
 There was good news in your op-ed about these resources. People at the front lines don't know about this. They aren't seeing it. We'll dig into it. We can work with your office, figure out where these resources are, where they need to be going. Good. And one moment, Commissioner. Speaking of silos, when I took office –
 There's a lot of landholders here. The city, the county, TriMet, ODOT, Union Pacific Railroad. There's lots of different organizations and entities that have different rules. We're under the Anderson Agreement. ODOT's under the Carr Agreement.
 And for the first time we're actually coordinating and trying to find compassionate and effective responses simultaneously. So I feel that's improving. It's not where I'd like to see it yet, but I acknowledge that silo. More communication about these efforts, the ability to get in and find out what's going on. And, again, the issue here is a very small subset of folks who are, in my anecdotal experience,
 choose this mode. It works for them. It needs to not work anymore. And I look forward to furthering the dialogue and I appreciate your presence. Commissioner Fritz? Well, just a further question that I would have for future dialogue. If we were to designate some places places where people could not live outside, we would also need to decide where they could because there are not places, there's not except in emergency, enough shelter for everybody overnight.
 All right. Thank you. To be continued. Yeah, good. Thank you. One more thing, too. The mayor has a website with a single point of contact. We use it and abuse it. Have you seen the reporting on what has been done, what is due to be done? We're following. On an ad hoc basis, we're following it. But there is not a – and maybe we can learn about where we can see the big picture, where the dashboard is.
 If you check the front page of my website, I'll make sure that's there. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 1318, request of Jim Atwood to address council regarding unreinforced masonry mandatory seismic upgrade plan. Good morning. Good morning. You have brought props with you. We brought props. Excellent. Excellent.
 Mayor, commissioners, my name is Dean Aldrich. I'm a lawyer with Aldrich Ikey Construction Law Office here in downtown, located at 621 Southwest Morrison, Suite 1050-97205. Thanks for the opportunity to present today. I'm here today presenting on behalf of J.A. Atwood Corporation. Jim Atwood is here with me.
 Early next year, you'll be receiving a recommendation from the Unreinforced Masonry, that's URM, Building Policy Committee. The committee is expecting to issue a final report soon. We don't have one yet.
 Although there are still unknowns, which is a problem, the committee appears to be scrapping the existing regulatory policy in Title 24, which requires seismic upgrades only when there is a change in use or sufficient improvements to a building in favor of a mandatory or forced seismic upgrade. Thank you.
 Even if the URM is not changed to its use or being otherwise improved, and even if those URM buildings are not critical facilities, schools, or public assembly spaces, this kind of catch-all URM buildings are known as Class 3 under the policy, the new policy. This mandatory or forced seismic upgrade policy, especially for these Class 3 buildings, causes more problems than it solves. Here are five examples.
 The real costs of the mandatory or forced seismic upgrades were not properly analyzed by the committee. The committee estimated the compliance costs were $20 to $69 a square foot, and this was based on local anecdotal information for some information and then FEMA standards for the rest. Now when we look at an actual example of the Glade Hotel, which is in the heart of Old Town, we see the problem.
 The Glade Hotel underwent a PDC DOS study in 2015, and the cost of the seismic upgrades was $334 a square foot. That's approximately $1.88 million divided by 5,225 square feet, and the building's only worth $940,000 today.
 That's the first reason is this failure to analyze the cost. The second is there's no viable funding option to pay for the upgrades. There's a Senate Bill 311, which provides some offsets by abating property tax for 15 years. For the Glade, that basically is about 5% of the cost. Permit cost deferment may also be available. That's insignificant.
 And with these property tax abatement and the permit deferment, I mean, somebody probably needs that property tax money and permit fees to pay for government services, which may be a better use than this mandatory seismic upgrades.
 Number three, the policy eliminates owner rights, abilities, and choices regarding development of their property. Number four, the committee appears to be locked into forcing some new complex and costly regulatory scheme with details to be determined to justify its work. Number five, the retroactive application of regulations to existing buildings invite numerous legal challenges. For these reasons, we respectfully request that the city...
 or the council reject the forced mandatory seismic upgrades and send it back for further study under the existing policy and using some actual examples like the Glade Hotel. We do have the numbers of the Glade Hotel have been passed out. So, Mayor, can I just? Commissioner Fish. So thank you, by the way, for this pro forma. And just so, because not everyone's going to be able to see this, the takeaway that you want us to see from this is that
 if you compare the replacement value of the building, in other words, demolishing it and replacing it, versus complying with this new URM mandate. This shows, according to your numbers, that it would be cheaper just to replace the building, and the cost is, from your point of view, cost prohibitive, so you're asking us to go back.
 to go back and look at these kinds of buildings to make sure we're not actually encouraging demolition. Is that a fair comment? That is a fair comment. Thank you. Exactly. Thank you. Could I ask a follow-up question as well? There has been compromise after compromise on the recommended strategy. It was originally under Tier 3. There actually wasn't a Tier 3 initially, and it was a fairly prescriptive regulatory framework that,
 And having met with a number of small building owners in particular, like the one that you have a photograph of right there, the Glade Hotel, which, by the way, is a beautiful building, we backed off considerably while maintaining what we thought were the critical life and safety elements. So cornices, parapets, and chimneys. Is that all that is reflected here in your pro forma? Yeah.
 No, if you look at the hard costs, I tried to break them down based on the DOS survey. So we got kind of the tier one, the parapets and the roof work, and then the wall work is secondary. One of the problems is trying to analyze as the numbers change and as the policy changes, what happens to an existing building like this, which is, I think,
 where the main criticism is, is how do these apply to actual buildings that are going to be impacted by it? Yeah, and we're, you know, we will go through a lengthy public hearing process on this, but I want to be very clear where the current...
 baseline is parapets, chimneys, and cornices. And just by way of a preview of coming attractions around this subject, I actually believe the market's going to take care of some of the rest. Because as the probability of a catastrophic earthquake increases, the value of buildings that aren't seismically upgraded are going to go down.
 possibly precipitously, and the ability to insure those facilities is also going to go down precipitously, regardless of what we do here. So there's a give and there's a take. I'm trying to find the right balance. I would never ordinarily quote Ed Koch, but I will do it just this once. When he chose to close the Williamsburg Bridge,
 which was hugely controversial because it needed an upgrade for this very reason, he was being yelled at and screamed at, and the press was shouting questions. And he said, listen, at the end of the day, I'd rather people be inconvenienced and safe than convenienced and dead.
 And we're talking about a catastrophic earthquake. That's sort of what we're talking about. But I agree with Commissioner Fish. I love the pro forma because now we have some real numbers that we can talk about. I appreciate your taking the time and the energy and the money that you invested to do this, and it's a good place for us to build the discussion from. So thank you both for coming in. Really appreciate it.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. Next individual, please. Item 1319, request of Ambassador Margaret Hepziband to address council regarding racism, judicial accountability, housing, and finance. Good morning, Ambassador. Welcome. Pardon me? Welcome. Ambassador Margaret. Welcome, Ambassador Margaret. It's nice to meet you, Mayor. It's wonderful to meet you. I know I only have three minutes, so I don't want to be derided here. Okay.
 Let's see here. And it's Hepzibah, Carla, not Hepzibah. But let's see here. And I don't mean to be snide. I have a bit of anger, and I think anger is an emotion. Okay.
 As long as we don't do anything ridiculous from our anger, then it isn't an emotion. And there are very critical issues and heated things that we have to do with, and I think that's why we're all here usually anyway, right? So very emotional and or harmful or not things. So, all right. So I'm trying to see how I can quickly do this. It's nice to finally hear you and see you, Mayor –
 I am an ambassador of God, which means, and a lot of people don't know that, the churches do not kind of preach structure of authority in the church. Very nice to hear you speak. You're definitely very intelligent, and I feel you're confident to do your work. Thank you. But let's see here. So ambassador, I speak the voice of God. It's not me. It's not my persona or anything, and I have goodwill.
 So I have goodwill, but there's a lot of serious things going on. My son was killed here by the KKK. I'm currently homeless. I'm being stalked and attacked every day by KKK, as well as my own brethren, which for some reason want to throw me in jail and keep throwing up in the face of God and his voice.
 that they want to have their way and God can't. And so I think I'm going to carry that to the last part of your mention with this last earthquake, seismic considerations. Most geologists or some part of that science world have now, they are now saying that human behavior is related and connected, linked somehow with...
 ecological disasters. And so these things are happening, and I would just say to all the council, hi, Commissioner Fritz, that these things are happening instantly. I've had someone literally shave my hair off while I was asleep. That's why I have to put all this in. And the next day, a flood happened where that person came from, the flooding in Texas.
 All kinds of things. And people can deny and blah, blah, blah. But, you know, it gets redundant after all. And again, I have goodwill. I love you all. They don't love me. So that's just my role. That's kind of an ambassador, prophet, apostle. And speaking to the U.K. and Ireland and their scenario with the E.U. and Italy. And their terrible earthquakes and the Basilica. Yeah.
 Down to the ground. Stones just, amazing. I've had a charcoal etching of the basilica all my life. So anyway, let's see here. I want to say something here quickly. And then, so KKK abolishment and my, what I was going to say, racism. Okay.
 spiritual occult behavior and it goes into the homeless scenario as well it I want to mention the Christian institutions like Mercy Corps red Red Cross as well as where I am the harbor light Salvation Army
 run by people hanging skeletons and signs of Satan from their ceiling in their offices? Why is that? And they're supposed to be Christian. I put myself on the line of sleeping in my car now, and I vowed to say that. Why?
 How can these people get funding? And, yeah, I'm talking about money because when you rob God, you're going to have cursings. You're going to have ecological judgments. You can't listen to the voice of God daily. I'm sorry. I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up soon. Okay. So what I'd like to say is this homelessness situation.
 I'd like to be a part of that. As far as Ku Klux Klan is concerned, again, I'm not saying war against them. I would like to see that entity as criminalized. Their behaviors are criminal. Very good. And one last thing, if I might. So here, I just want to read this, 2 Chronicles 13, 11 and 12. Thank you.
 And this is going to the brethren here. So we're talking about not just the word, but the power to save our city. We're talking national security and city safety from ISIS. All right. Ambassador Margaret, last comment here. So, and they burn unto the Lord every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and sweet incense. The showbread also set they in order upon a pure table.
 Not a mixed Wicca Christian church.
 And the candlestick of gold with lamps thereof to burn every evening, for we keep the charge of the Lord our God, but ye have forsaken him, the person. We're not worshiping matter. Matter's the problem. Last thing. Thank you. Verse 12. And behold, God himself is with us for our captain and his priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you, O children of Israel. Thank you. Fight ye not against the Lord God of Israel.
 Thank you, Ambassador Margaret. We appreciate it. Thank you. We'll see you next time. Thank you. So what I'm requesting, Mayor Stupak, I'm sorry, City Council Mayor, what I'm requesting, Mayor Wheeler, is a sit-down. I don't need three minutes just to kind of talk and show. I need to sit down to talk about some of these critical issues. Happy to do it outside of council session. Very good. I want to be talking towards the end.
 Okay, I'm happy to do that outside of council session. We're on a schedule here. Next individual, please. Item 1320, request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding need to do better concerning Portland's rising rate of suicide. Good morning. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. And having spent the past year and a half on my suicide prevention work, partnering directly with city suicide first responders,
 There are a number of issues that I hear constantly that I feel need to be addressed. One is it's not our problem, go to the county, especially when it comes to the issue of addressing our high rate of high-risk suicide as it pertains to Portland Bridges.
 So seeking information, I spoke to somebody at PBOT and learned some interesting things that some genuinely surprised me when it came to where bridge jurisdiction within the city of Portland lies.
 Any bridge that is a connector to a state road falls under ODOT jurisdiction. That is the St. John's Bridge, the Markham Bridge, the Fremont Bridge, and the Ross Island Bridge. The Steele Bridge is privately owned by the Union Pacific Railroad Corporation and is their responsibility.
 The Burlington Northern Santa Fe Mainline Bridge just south of the St. John's Bridge is the responsibility of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Rail Corporation.
 The remaining seven bridges that go over the river are the county's responsibility, but the Portland Bureau of Transportation has jurisdiction over 155 bridges referred to as neighborhood bridges.
 The most well-known of these bridges that Peabody has jurisdiction of, because of its horrible reputation of 90 years as Portland's suicide bridge, is the Vista Bridge.
 As well, when we say it is just the county's responsibility, we don't acknowledge how suicide is responded to within the city. And I would like to tell you a story about a suicide response that happened this past June at the St. John's Bridge.
 A 20-year-old young man in crisis made his way to the bridge on his cell phone, called his mother, who lived out of state, to say goodbye. How his father was able to connect with the Portland Bureau of Emergency Communication, I'm not sure, just that he didn't.
 Police dispatch immediately sent officers from the Portland Police Bureau's Behavioral Health Unit and Enhanced Crisis Intervention Team. They took one look at what was happening. They declared a extreme high risk, sent it to the crisis negotiation team.
 And by the time all was in place, we had Bureau of Emergency Communications, Portland Police Enhanced Crisis Intervention Team, Crisis Negotiators. Thank you, sir. And Portland Fire and Rescue. I know we're in a hurry because we're delayed because of the tribute earlier, but it's city employees outside of the County River Patrol.
 Please, if you're not going to take it seriously for the people suffering, take it seriously for the city employees who are responsible. Point well made. I'm sorry, Mayor, I need to ask the question. What was the outcome after the response? This is one time we could say what happened was the young man in crisis said he would come down if the crisis negotiator from the crisis negotiation team was there to meet him and hug him.
 And he was. And they got him down. But I see the trauma that happens to first responders also as well when they complete. So please, for the sake of the people, you have the commitment to take this.
 Thank you, Sarah. Very good. Thank you, Sarah. It's my understanding that item 1329 has been pulled from the consent. We still have one more communication. I'm sorry? One more communication title. Go ahead and read it. Item 1321, request of David Keefe Davis to address counsel regarding the use of Guantanamo Bay white torture tactics on October 11th.
 I don't see him here. I understand there's one item that's been pulled from the consent agenda, 1329. Is that correct? Yes. Very good. And could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Eudaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. I do have staff here for the pulled item. We can do it in five minutes or less.
 So we have a lot of people here for the this time certain. Can we do the first time certain and then shift to that? That's the math. Is that acceptable? Very good. Let's do item 1322. Please call it. 2017 Steve Lowenstein Trust Award. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, before I begin, I'd like to welcome our honored guests today, a dear friend and former Steve Lowenstein Board Chair Michelle Harper and current Board Chair Joe Hertzberg. Michelle, are you going to bring all four? Yes.
 And they're going to bring two honored guests forward. While we get situated, I'll fill this silence by saying, along with lots of City Hall stories, one of my favorite memories of Vera Katz is, as a neighbor, she was the first person I ever saw who followed her dog with a plastic bag and picked up its poop, and I thought she was absolutely nuts. Great story. Mayor, colleagues, thank you.
 This prestigious award is named for attorney, author, and civil rights activist Steve Lowenstein. Steve was the founding director of Oregon Legal Services. He was a Peace Corps volunteer. He was an advocate for social justice. He also worked in this building as the chief of staff to former Commissioner Mike Lindberg. Steve wrote that the recipient of the trust award, quote, shall be that person or persons who demonstrated the greatest contribution to assisting the poor, vulnerable,
 and the underprivileged in the city of Portland, Oregon. Today, the board has selected two great and deeply respected leaders in our community, and I'll turn it over to the board chair. Thanks. I'm Joe Hertzberg. I'm the current chair of the Lowenstein Trust Board.
 board and Michelle Harper, who's next to me, I thought was chair for life, but somehow she was able to pass the baton to me. Nick's given a summary of Steve's life, which really was almost like fiction. I mean, he started working in the Kennedy administration as
 As a young lawyer in the early days of the war on poverty, worked with the Ford Foundation in Ethiopia and Chile, founded Oregon Legal Services and the Oregon Law Foundation, and wrote the definitive history of Jews in Oregon.
 He was Mike Lindbergh's chief of staff for six years, and he was part of a generation of leaders that shaped this city. Vera Katz was one of them. Mike was certainly one of them, along with people like Charles Jordan, Neil Goldschmidt, Bud Clark. They all knew and trusted Steve as a straight shooter, a consensus builder, and a passionate advocate for the disadvantaged.
 More than 25 years after his death, his influence is still felt here. I think every one of you has people in senior leadership positions in your bureaus that consider Steve to be a mentor and a role model. This is the 26th time that we've come to City Council to make this award, and it's the most humbling thing that I do every year because we solicit nominations and –
 learn about people who are making unbelievable contributions to this city, most of them unsung. Our two honorees today join a distinguished and select group of local heroes. I just want to see, I think that a couple of them may be here today, along with board members of the trust, if they could stand up and just...
 I want to say the one person we're going to do a photograph afterwards. The one person who is both a past honoree and a member of the board had to leave for an emergency. Mark Jolin received the Steve Lowenstein Award a few years ago and has been on the board for some time. Michelle is going to tell you about this year's honorees.
 Good morning. Michelle Harper, past board chair of Steve Longstein Trust. Thank you so much, Mayor and City Council. It is a great honor to present these two gentlemen to you this morning. This is the best of Portland.
 to be able to celebrate with you this morning that Reverend Dr. T. Allen Bethel and Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, they bring you these nominees this morning. They were nominated by Fay Burch and Dr. Carmen Thompson and also Senator Avril Gordly that put together a pretty compelling nomination for them to give us this award. We're honoring two extraordinary and unconventional leaders
 who just happen to be best friends. Individually, they have achieved remarkable things, just remarkable things that are just overwhelming. But together, they are a very powerful force to be reckoned with. They have moved mountains in many areas of social justice. Their faith drives their compassion and opens their heart to help many, many people.
 In their presence, you cannot help but come away with and not be changed by their wisdom and their experience. It causes you to examine yourself and be moved to action. I'd like to introduce these gentlemen to you today. Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, place of birth Beaumont, Texas, has a daughter and grandchild.
 Bachelor's degree with honors from the University of North Texas in Denton. Master's degree of theology with honors in social ethics from Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas, and the Perkins School of Theology. Doctor of ministry from Texas Christian University and Bright Theological Seminary in Fort Worth, Texas. Post-doctoral studies at Boston University and pastoral excellence program, Boston, Massachusetts. And he just happens to be my pastor that I'm proud of. His career...
 Chaplain and Professor of Religion at Southern University of New Orleans, Louisiana. Dean and Chapel of Professors of Religion at Texas College in Tyler, Texas. Pastoral experience serving as Senior Pastor in Beaumont, Texas, Fort Worth, Tulsa, Oklahoma, and the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church. Presently serves as a Senior Pastor at Allen Temple CME Church and presiding elder for the states of Oregon, Washington, and Alaska. Thank you.
 Emeritus President for the North Portland Bible College and Evangelical Christian College in Portland, as well as past chair of Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon. Dr. Bethel has served as senior pastor at Maranatha for more than 23 years, having served in churches and bosses in Kansas City. He attended Bay Ridge Christian College and received a BA of Theology from Kansas City College and Masters of Religion from South Hamilton.
 Dr. Bethel serves as the National Association of Church of God in West Middletex, Pennsylvania. He's a long-time executive, 14 years as secretary and treasurer, currently as the chairman of leadership of ministry. He's also the president of the Albina Mystery Alliance, along with Dr. Haynes.
 And so what I will say to you today about these two gentlemen that have done such an amazing body of work that has shaped the fabric of our city, whether it is police reform, social justice, housing, feeding the homeless, clothing.
 Finding people jobs. You know the foundation of the African American church has been the place where we go, where we have not had, we've had our rights denied. So the church, African American church, has always been the foundation of everything that we need to survive. And that continues today. So even though these leaders have extraordinary organizations that they lead, they still have it in their hearts today.
 to be leaders for the city and for the state in more ways than can be counted. The current police reforms that are now underway and being discussed are as a result of these two gentlemen. There are so many. I could give you a laundry list of the number of things that they have accomplished. That is just extraordinary. It gives me a great honor and pleasure to bring these two before you this morning. In the challenging times that we live in right now, where some people are feeling rather hopeless –
 The best thing I can tell you if I believed you with something is that they are the light. They are the light, and they're leading us the way we should go. At this time, I would turn it over to Dr. Bethel and Dr. Haynes. For the record, I'm Dr. T. Allen Bethel, Senior Pastor, Maranatha Church, Portland, Oregon. To our mayor and all of our commissioners and to the Lowenstein Trust, it is indeed a pleasure and an honor to receive such a recognition today for something that,
 I do almost naturally. I was born January 31st, I won't give you the year, about 8-something at night in a segregated hospital in Columbia, South Carolina. It's now known as the Richland Memorial Hospital, where my aunt was the first African-American or colored nurse to be in that particular hospital. Raised in the rural section of that capital city on a dirt road with many...
 instances and experiences of segregation. To be able to rise through and go to a segregated high school and then eventually into a desegregated high school and graduate, to be the only second of my family to graduate from high school, to go on and be the only one in my family of siblings to attend college and to graduate and to go to where I am today. There's a little country boys come off those dirty dirt roads
 Gone many places, seen many things. But above all, I must go back and I just want to refer to two songs that will just sum up where, and I believe what is my life and why I am doing the things that I have done to support the people in Portland and any place that I have been, to make the fabric of life better for us all. A charge to keep I have, a God to glorify, a calling to fulfill.
 I do believe that there is a calling upon my life, a calling upon my life to serve God with everything that I have. And a part of that serving is to serve that people and mankind will be able to walk around free, not only in a spiritual sense, but to have the freedom of life to live in the city free, clear, safe, as brothers and sisters together. And secondly, I would conclude that what I am trying to do, as I said earlier this week,
 It's just to quote this other little song, just a part of it. If I can help somebody as I travel along this way, if I can help somebody with a song or a word, then my living shall not be in vain. So all of what I'm trying to do is to help somebody to have a better life as I travel along this road, travel along this road.
 Put your hand in my hand, and together we can. Thank you so much again for such a prestigious honor. Thank you. Dr. Haynes, try to beat that. To our illustrious mayor and distinguished members of this great city council, the City of Roses,
 Commissioner Fiske, Commissioner Fiske and Commissioner Udaly. I am the very Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr. I am deeply honored and humbled to be the recipient of the Steve Lowstein Trust Award. This award and many of its past recipients represent a commitment to the service of humanity, this city,
 and the idea of freedom, justice, and equality. At an early age, at the age of 13, my pastor was Dr. Martin Luther King, a lieutenant in southeast Texas for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. I became a son of the freedom movement at the age of 13,
 going to jail every other two weeks to break down the walls of segregation in our city, experience our church being bombed by the Ku Klux Klan because of our church being the headquarters. It was at that age, as a teenager, I made a commitment to the church.
 movement for humanity of freedom, justice, and equality, and democracy in our country. That has led me into SCLC and SNCC, and eventually into the ministry itself. I, like many others, I stand on the shoulders of
 of the many that have died with their blood, sweat and tears in the civil rights movement to make this nation a greater nation, to bring out the best of humanity in our nation.
 And I am delighted and have been delighted to be a part of this city and that it was actually Mel Cash that engaged me into city government and politics in my coming here and nurtured me and I serve as one of her counselors.
 We have a great city here, and we are committed to bringing the best out of Portland and to building the best. Mayor Cass was one of those leaders that if it didn't work, she was going to fix it. If it may get a new chief.
 a new policy or whatever it need, she was going to keep fixing it until it got done. In that same spirit, we want the best for our city. We want to create a model city for our nation, a model police department, a model housing, a model health care, a model city that will speak to the humanity of our citizens.
 And in the words of the late Dr. Martin Luther King, we desire to create the beloved community, a community where people will feel human, that where they'll feel free, that they'll feel just, that they'll feel equal, and that they will feel inclusive. This is my life legacy and my commitment,
 to this city and to humanity. Thank you. Let's have comments. Let's come down here. Are we going to have comments afterwards? Yes. And they're going to make a presentation. Michelle. It is my honor to present the Steve Lowenstein Award to Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes,
 for service to the poor and underprivileged for the City of Portland, the year 2017. Great. And mine says exactly the same thing to Reverend Dr. T. Allen Bethel. The Steve Lowenstein Award is presented to Reverend Dr. T. Allen Bethel for service to the poor and underprivileged in the City of Portland, 2017. And these do come with a check as well.
 So just to put a finer point on that, it's $7,500 shared by both gentlemen. Come to the table. Now, before we go, could all the other recipients that are here please stand? The council would like to just respond if we could. Could we go to the table for one moment? Absolutely. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 Thank you. Thank you for what you've done for me as well as what you've done for our city. Because you talk and live for and work for justice, not only in police reform, but in so many other areas of people's lives and in ways that matter. And you are both rare in that you speak the words for justice and the truth and things that can hurt a lot.
 because they are true, and yet in a way that is inspiring and makes me want to do better, makes me want to find out what needs to be fixed, as you mentioned, Doctor. And also, you bring the words of beauty and of peace and of inspiration in always respecting the institutions, respecting people's right to be heard,
 in some ways respecting people's right to not necessarily have understood everything right away, and yet you persist. And so thank you for what you've done for me and for our city. I appreciate it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Dr. Haynes, Dr. Bethel, it's been a pleasure to get to know both of you and an honor to get to work with you on some of our shared issues and values. And I also deeply appreciate your
 The perspective you bring, especially in moments where I'm feeling tired and discouraged, and like this road has been too long because you've been on it a little bit longer than me, and you just both give me hope and inspiration, and congratulations, and thank you for your service. Thank you. Thank you. Just want to do a special shout-out to Michelle.
 and Joe and the whole Lowenstein Trust Board. This is a true labor of love, and it's really become one of the favorite and cherished events here at Council every year to honor the life and legacy of Steve Lowenstein through people in our community making a difference today. Two quick comments. Dr. Bethel, you cited a psalm. My dad, just before he died, asked that the words of that psalm be placed on his tombstone.
 And so the words that are inscribed are, if I can help somebody, then my life shall not be in vain. And those are words to live by, and thank you for that. And then, Dr. Haynes, thank you for saying we're a great city. I think we have allowed a toxic environment at the national level to undermine our confidence as a city. And we're not going to make the kind of progress that you've challenged us to make unless we truly believe we can be a model and a great city. Thank you.
 of what you have set out as the marker. So let us aspire to be a great city, and let's reject the negativity that has become, I think, the standard and the norm in our culture. Thank you both. It's an honor to call you brothers and friends. Thank you. Well, I'll chime in.
 As well, Reverend Drs. Bethel and Haynes, I can't tell you how important your leadership has been in helping my administration getting its footing under it. We came in, obviously, with the DOJ settlement agreement.
 And both of you gentlemen have rolled up your sleeves and gotten down into the nitty-gritty of that. And I appreciate your patience and your leadership and the time commitment that both of you have put into that process. And I always feel when I'm hearing you speak that there's a refrain between the lines in what you're saying. And that refrain that I hear is a very optimistic refrain.
 And it's one that calls on us to achieve something greater and be something bigger than our own selves or even to not be mired down in these times or think about just the short-term issues that we're confronting. We've had our disagreements on the minutiae of the settlement agreement. But I always keep coming back to the reality that we have two incredible people
 giant leaders in the both of you here in this community. And I think it's great that the two of you are friends. I always think of you together. And you come as a pair. And there's a little part of me, and maybe this is the part of me I shouldn't speak of, that always wonders, what were you guys like when you were young? I bet you were a couple of troublemakers, weren't you? And
 Now I look at you, and I think all of us are inspired by the many, many years of leadership that you've given us. And here's to many, many more. I hope we come back again and again and again and have these conversations. So thank you both, and congratulations, gentlemen. And thank you to everybody who's been involved with the Lowenstein Foundation for making this possible.
 It's really important, as Commissioner Fish just alluded to, for us to take a deep breath every once in a while and to pause and to be grateful for what we have in this community and who we have in this community. And gentlemen, you represent the very best of who and what we have in this community. So thank you and congratulations. Thank you. So, colleagues, what I'd like to do as we...
 move forward. I'd like to get to the item that Commissioner Fritz has already agreed will take less than five minutes on the consent agenda, and that was item 1329. And then, colleagues, I'd like to get to
 Sergeant Barnum for item 1338. He has a very short time frame here, so I'd like to move that into the next slot after that, if you would not mind. Thank you.
 And so with that, Carla, if you could read item 1329, please. Okay. 1329, authorize a restructure of the temporary loan terms between the Portland Capital Improvement Fund and the Gulf Fund for Colwood Golf Course improvements. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. The staff's going to give a very brief presentation and then we'd like to find out who pulled it and whether we can respond to any concerns. Thank you.
 So I have Eileen Argentino, the Recreation Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. Don't watch all this. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Eileen Argentino, I'm the Recreation Services Manager. With me here today is Todd Melton, and he's going to share a little bit of information about the item before you. Good morning. Again, my name is Todd Melton. I'm a financial analyst for Portland Parks and Rec, and part of my job is to work with the Golf Enterprise Fund, among other things. This item, we originally...
 Council originally approved a loan from our SDC fund to redevelop the system development charge system development charge, sorry to redevelop Colwood Golf Course in North Portland. Originally the amount approved was up to $1.5 million. Originally stated in the resolution was that we would pay back the loan in five equal installments. This
 We are requesting to amend the resolution to allow us to restructure the payments in order to allow us to realize the anticipated increase in revenues that will allow us to make the payments in a little more affordable manner. This request is to allow us to pay interest on the first three years and then a graduated portion of the principal back in the next six for a total of nine years. Thank you. That's fine. Thank you.
 We'll just have you stay in case there's something to respond to. Joe, did you want to speak to this? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We have a problem extending the loan. My understanding is this loan was supposed to be paid off on a certain date, and now you're extending it to something like 2029. Is that correct? Yes.
 The paperwork that I read, that's the implication that you're extending the loan payments. And at least when I take loans out, if you extend the loan, it's going to cost you a lot more. So I don't know why we're doing that. The second part of our objection is the whole concept of golf courses when we have people dying on our streets.
 So we weigh them on the scale of justice, if you kind of image that. On one side, we have golf courses, which is very elitism. I mean, it's the height of elitism. The majority of people do not play golf. We have a very select group that does.
 So we look at it as all of this land on a golf course going to waste. That's the way we look at it. And periodically, you have people running around hitting a little white ball in a hole. And then they do it so well, they go on to another hole and hit it again. On the other side of the scale, we have people dying again.
 And we have this loan on a golf course on a city. Why are we doing that? Why does the city even own golf courses? If it was such a great idea, private industry would eat it up. It's not a good idea. It's a waste of land because it's so intensive. I mean, you have 350 yards.
 In each hole, times 18. And I'm not good at math. I'm not good at doing the math on that. But it's miles. Miles of land, acres upon acres.
 And meanwhile, you have a company complaining that people are in their driveway, in their hallway, and you have a golf course going to do nothing except guys, mostly guys, hitting little white balls into a hole and picking it up and going to the next one. Duh. Think about that. So that's my objection to it.
 It isn't an objection to parks and recreation. I know this. You're very protective of your territory, Amanda. But this is ridiculous. And someday people will start to realize it, that it is just ridiculous. And I know I'm over time. But you've been very generous with everybody today. So be generous with an old guy.
 Thank you. Did you want to respond? I'd like to respond, actually. Commissioner Fritz, sorry. The golf fund is an enterprise fund. It raises funds that have been dedicated to the purpose. Colwood is actually one of the reasons for the restructure is that it's being used as a community center. The golf clubhouse is opposite the street from Thomas Cully Park.
 And so what's happening is that the community there is patronizing the clubhouse as a place to have weddings and other gatherings. And that's as intended. And we expect that over time that will become profitable and serve many purposes, not only the open space and natural habitat on golf courses.
 So it's because we are not charging enormous fees for the use of that facility because of the neighborhood where it's located in. It turns out that we need slightly longer to repay the system development charges. System development charges for parks cannot be used for other purposes. They cannot be used for housing people or anything else by state law.
 So this is really a very simple thing that says we're not going to use general fund resources to pay the debt. We're going to make sure that the golf fund repays the debt. Commissioner Fritz? Can I also just add from my Bureau's perspective –
 The Columbia slough bisects Colwood, and not only does the comprehensive plan place a premium on protecting the slough and the sensitive wetlands there, but it also puts a premium on protecting open space, something the Cully neighbors fought for. And so the compromise was worked out to keep a portion of Colwood open and a portion to be developed.
 But it is at the heart of our open space inventory. And if we do start talking about converting it for some other purpose, we'll actually potentially be out of compliance with the comprehensive plan. Thank you for reminding everybody about that, Commissioner Fish, because, yes, the northern part of Colwood has been converted to industrial land, very much needed for providing good jobs. And, by the way, I'll just say this personally, not that it matters. I'm not much of a golf fan, but the only reason I watch golf is because of Tiger Woods.
 And he changed the game, and I watched him. But just as Portland Parks and Rec offers tennis and offers mountain biking and hiking and basketball and all kinds of sports, we also have an enterprise business that offers golf. Will the demographics of the golf playing public over time make that a sport that is less viable? Time will tell.
 But let me assure you that our first impulse should not be to take open space and necessarily develop it, because that is almost the equivalent of a park in the middle of certain neighborhoods in our city, and people would be very upset if we took away their open space. So thank you. Call the roll. Can I answer? No. No. Call the roll. E. Daly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The resolution is adopted. Chubby strikes again. Thank you.
 And could we please move to item 1338, please? And then we're going back to time, sir? Yeah, then we'll go back to that.
 Authorized application and accepted grant in the amount of $75,057 and appropriate $60,000 for fiscal year 2017-18 from Oregon impacts driving under the influence high visibility enforcement program for sworn overtime reimbursement. So, colleagues, as you know, this is a...
 a grant program that reimburses the City of Portland for the traffic division's direct enforcement that's focused on reducing impaired driving and improving traffic safety. I think we're all aware that there have been a number of high-profile pedestrian deaths in our city of late.
 This is one of the programs that is specifically targeted towards reducing those kinds of conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians. We have Sergeant Barnum here this morning to share a few highlights of the program. Good morning, sir. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, council members. Thank you very much for your time. This grant is provided to the Portland Police Bureau through Oregon Impact, which is a community group based out of Clackamas County. They've been providing this grant to the city of Portland and other municipalities throughout the state for well over 15 years, to my knowledge. And year to year, we find that this grant really serves the city very well. Just one more thing.
 Case in point, last year on grant overtime funds that we had with officers working, we were arrested and took 201 impaired drivers off the road, which were both alcohol and marijuana impaired drivers, drug impaired drivers. That's 19% of the total custodies that we had, the total arrests that we had for the whole city that were not a part of the grant.
 And all together, our total statistics for the year on impaired driver arrests were over 1,000. Almost 1,100 drivers were arrested in the city of Portland. What this equates to is 1,100 people who had the opportunity to maim, kill, or injure our community members in our city. This grant really does provide a viable community livability issue, which...
 where we're at right now trying to reach the goal of Vision Zero by 2025. We really do need these funds. We monitor these funds closely to make sure that our officers are not being overworked.
 we coordinate with some what we call high visibility enforcement times, which we actually have one that starts this Friday. So as a part of the grant, there are a few specifics that we have to work in order to be in grant compliance, and one of those is a high visibility enforcement through the Christmas and New Year season, which starts beginning on the 15th of this month. Overall, this will provide...
 over 1,000 patrol hours at no cost to the city. So I can't help but to think that it's a benefit for our community members. Very good. Any further questions on this item? Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question?
 Just more of a comment that being aware that we have in the past had a challenge with racial profiling and with people of color being disproportionately stopped. I hope that there will be some kind of mindfulness as these patrols are sent out to just bring that attention because some of these biases are almost subconscious. And I just want to make sure that everybody is safe this holiday season. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Very good. Any public testimony on this item, Carla? One person signed up, Shedrick Wilkins. Come on up, sir. Yes, I am Shedrick Wilkins, and I think it was a year ago I took the unpopular viewpoint about in cases where there's a crash of a car that the driver be, an ambulance shows up that they should be of a mandatory blood test. So also I think it's important to find out where...
 people are getting a lot of alcohol and drinking around so some of this information or the increased use of the police to pull people over will find out which restaurants or bars are letting people out, you know and and and stuff like that. So I get some statistics there and again I really think that
 impaired driving. There's an illusion too. I think I drink beer and when you, about the first hour you drink beer, it peps up your brain and you feel good, which enhances skills. But then after about an hour, you tank and you're not awake and you're not alert. So alcohol is tricky because, again, it's like a stimulant at first. You're relaxed and then it hits you and then you're just dangerous to everybody. Thank you. Any further questions?
 Please call the roll. Uday Lee. Aye. Fritz. Another thought that occurs to me in response to Mr. Wilkins' question is I don't know if we've ever coordinated between the Office of Enabled Involvement's Liquor Control Section and the Oregon Liquor Control Commission and enforcement efforts like this. So I'm sorry I didn't ask you that before you had an opportunity to respond, but it's certainly an area where we should be doing a lot of work.
 wrap around thinking so that we do keep people safe. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 The ordinance is adopted. Thanks very much, sir. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. And Commissioner Fritch, just so you know, we do partner with OLCC, and when we do have these problem establishments, that's a part of the document, part of the written report, so that's all captured by OLCC. So if there is some action to be taken about somebody being over-served by a particular establishment, there is some focused attention and a collaboration between the Port Police Bureau and OLCC. Thank you. I really appreciate you putting that into the record. Thank you.
 Thank you. Colleagues, we're doing a little bit of agenda rodeo this morning to accommodate people's schedules. We're going to start with 1324.1. That's the four-fifths agenda. Carla?
 Presentation by Portland State University Institute on Aging, on Building a Community for All Ages, Age-Friendly Portland Initiative. Colleagues, December 15th marks the 50th anniversary of the Federal Age Discrimination and Employment Act 2020.
 sometimes known as ADEA. The ADEA protects applicants and employees 40 years of age and older from discrimination on the basis of hiring, promotion, discharge, compensation, or terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. It's an important policy to promoting an age-friendly nation.
 When I think about us building as a community, I reflect on my dedication to building Portland as a community for all ages. We must engage people of all ages socially, civically, and economically.
 Older adults are a renewable and largely untapped resource, our only growing natural resource, I would argue. And in Portland, we're working to maximize their skills and talents through our Age-Friendly Portland Initiative, which has been recognized both nationally and internationally. I believe that age-friendly cities will be more desirable, more successful, and economically more viable than those cities that are not.
 Portland can and should continue to be a leader in the global age, and the Friendly Cities movement is an important part of that. We need organizations and individuals, both young and old, and everybody in between, working together. We can build a community that truly is a place for people of all ages.
 Commissioner Nick Fish has had a long-standing commitment to this issue and has long been a supporter of our age-friendly initiatives here at the City of Portland. Commissioner Fish, would you like to say a few words to kick us off? Well, I think in the interest of time, let's invite our honored guests forward and just say that I'm proud to live in a city that uses as one of its organizing principles the idea that we are welcoming and accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
 And that's reflected in everything from Harper's Playground, a place for young and old to enjoy, to how we build our buildings, organize our parks, our walkways, our trails, how we think about our economy.
 And we are blessed to have very strong partners here in the city. It's sort of a perfect storm. We have a mayor who, as county chair, took the lead in looking at how we capitalize on being a center for older adults. We have partners at Elders in Action, AARP, Portland State University, at the county and the state, and in many other places who are working together.
 very collaboratively to think about how we capitalize on this advantage of being a destination place for older adults. And as someone who is recently, well, who will soon turn 59, I'm thinking more and more about these issues about an age-friendly city. And anyway, I'm pleased that we have this alignment between leadership on the council, leadership in the community,
 and that we have a council that's willing to invest in this important work and turn it over to you. Thank you for your good work. Thank you. Very good.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you very much for having us here today. My name is Margaret Neal. I'm from Portland State University Institute on Aging, along with Alan De La Torre, co-coordinator of the Age-Friendly Advisory Council. What we want to do today is just run through a progress report of our activities over the last year. But before I start, I'd like to ask the members in the audience who are part of our program
 community partners who are members of our community partners to just raise their hands at least. So we can acknowledge them. All right. Welcome. Thanks so much. Thank you all. So Portland is now a member and has been for several years of the World Health Organization's Network of Age-Friendly Cities and Communities.
 There are 541 members of this global network, 37 countries representing 179 million different people, and there are 13 affiliated programs, including the Canadian program and AARP, in the U.S. And there are 194 members in the AARP network of age-friendly programs.
 So an age-friendly community is one that's livable and friendly for people of all ages and abilities. And what we're doing through this initiative is trying to sharpen Portland's approach to livability, specifically looking at the physical environment, the social-cultural environment, as well as the service environment, which includes health services and communication.
 In terms of our timeline, we've been at this for some time. We began in 2006, and Commissioner Fritz will remember that she was our initial champion of this effort. The World Health Organization asked us to participate in its global age-friendly cities research project to identify what makes a city age-friendly, what are barriers to age-friendliness, and what suggestions people had for change.
 So that's now a number of years ago. In 2011 and 12, Portland joined the brand-newly created WHO, Global Network of Age-Friendly Cities. In 2013, the Action Plan for an Age-Friendly Portland was developed by our advisory council and ratified, approved here by city council. In 2014, Multnomah County joined
 the global network and the U.S. AARP network. And then from 2016 to present, we've had a great deal of support from the city for our action plan implementation efforts
 To date, although we have ten areas of focus in our action plan, we have five working committees. It's essentially a volunteer effort. And we began with civic engagement, our working committee on that. We have employment and the economy, health services, prevention and equity, housing and transportation. Those are our five working committees.
 committees. And essentially what we're doing through this effort is bringing together community partners to align their various efforts. If you look at the diagram below, you can see that each individual organization makes an important but isolated impacts. When we can align the efforts of the different organizations, we can accomplish so much more. So this is essentially a collective impact approach.
 It provides a structure so that we can get our organizations together and make decisions together about how to move the Age-Friendly Action Plan forward.
 The Advisory Council adds value and an identity to the efforts related to older adults in our region through our age-friendly label, through local, national, and international networking, through public engagement and community storytelling, and through gathering of data and conducting research to inform local policies. Thank you.
 So our action plan, as I said, was accepted in 2013 by city council via resolution, and its goal was to inform city council and city bureaus in the course of decision-making related to long-term planning and capital improvement in the city. And the resolution directed the advisory council to oversee and monitor the implementation of the action plan. So I'll turn it over now to Alan De La Torre to talk about highlights from our last year. Okay.
 Mayor Wheeler, City Council, thank you very much for this opportunity to present. Before we get started, I wanted to thank Deborah Stein for helping us in compiling the annual report. She did a great job of maybe stripping a little of the academic out of us and getting something that was more concise. I was just noticing that. Well done for reeling her in.
 Former leader of the Portland Planning and Sustainability Bureau. This is excellent. Thank you. Well done. I think it highlights some of the growing partnerships and kind of fine-tuning some of our efforts. I'd also like to thank the liaisons from each of your offices that have been working with us, in particular Jamie Dunphy and Michelle Planbeck, who have been meeting with us and really guiding us to be more effective in this effort. So I'm going to quickly touch on some of the highlights from the report.
 So first, with respect to physical environments, we really have focused on advocacy and consultation. And I want to highlight the work, really, that marches back all the way to the Portland plan, but has come to a head with the comprehensive plan and the projects that have emerged from there in the residential infill project and better housing by design. We really have had an opportunity to...
 to draft what is innovative policy that's being looked at from other places in the world. In the U.S. in particular, we're sharing some of that right now with Seattle. They're interested in kind of what we're doing and how we're moving forward the concept of visitability, which is a basic accessibility concept with zero-step entrances, wide halls and doors for people and mobility devices, and a bathroom on the ground floor that can be used by somebody in a mobility device.
 We've also been enhancing mobility options through the Neighbor Walks program with AARP, working with Vision Zero and the Adaptive Bike program as well.
 I also with BPS have been working on a more inclusive public outreach component, doing some focus group research with end users of homes, as well as designers and developers to try to get multiple perspectives on how to accomplish certain things. And I want to note here with respect to the physical environment, just to.
 A call out to Suzanne Stahl, who passed away last month. Suzanne Stahl, I worked with her for more than seven years in the Accessibility and the Built Environment Committee through the Portland Commission on Disability. She was a strong advocate and a leader in the area of accessible environments, and we'll miss her dearly. I know that there's an opportunity we're looking for to honor her, but this seemed an appropriate place to do that. Thank you for doing so.
 I'd like to move on to social environments and really highlight one major thing that just occurred in October. We held our 2017 Aging Well Conference, which had over 200 attendees. We focused on community resilience, but we moved beyond the idea of just emergency preparedness as a component of resilience and looked at housing and healthy housing, including a session on feng shui and aging, which was the first time that we had seen something like that presented.
 looked at conflict resolution. There was a great opening plenary on stories of resilience and the day-to-day experiences that people were carrying out. And about two-thirds of the folks who were involved expressed interest in continuing to be involved in some way, shape, or form.
 With respect to service environments, I think it's incredibly important to highlight that we launched this fall our new website. Also trying to clean things up, streamline processes, provide people with important information so we don't have to answer those interesting calls and emails we get all the time to say, how has Portland done this? Or what's the story?
 We really feel like the new logo is actually quite good, thanks to Multnomah County for that free consultation and work.
 I want to highlight a couple of other service related issues. We've been working with the Water Bureau on affordability and crisis vouchers. I appreciate Commissioner Fish in reaching out to us on those issues. I have been training community health workers who are really front line workers with communities on age specific approaches. And are increasing involvement and advocacy opportunities throughout the community.
 So opportunities that are ahead. We would like to continue to be on the leading edge, but are recognizing that we've fallen behind with respect to some of the work that's happening in other communities. Investments from different municipalities, including things like statewide efforts that are starting to be underway, are things that we'd love to be able to explore together.
 We really have the need to continue to implement the action plan that was accepted in 2013. We've made solid progress on housing accessibility, healthy aging, communication and information. But we're primed to advance employment and the economy as the ADEA...
 proclamation mentioned today as well as transportation and civic engagement but there's substantial work to be done with respect to inclusion and equity, understanding community services and also housing options that may be available for older adults.
 and people of all ages and abilities. I think that's important to note. This is not just about people over a certain age, but really thinking more inclusively about our community. We would also really like to find out ways this year to work more closely with bureaus and offices in the city. We found success at most of those efforts, and so if we can use the beginning of 2018 to figure out how to be more effective and to align more appropriately, that would be incredible. Thank you.
 And we would love to suggest exploring an age-friendly position within government and to see if that's something that can move this forward differently and more holistically. Just a couple of ideas for cross-organizational synergies. We are exploring an Age-Smart Employer Award that would maximize opportunities pertaining to an aging workforce, which is happening in government as well as other organizations in the community.
 and would love to start exploring what this age filter, this is kind of an idea right now, we don't want to recreate the equity lens in the city, but to find out how an age filter, age equity may compliment what's happening. And then as I'm sure Barbara Bernstein, the Executive Director for Elders in Action, will talk about really trying to enhance involvement. They've got an exciting new series called Civics 101. I'm wondering if I can sign up for that actually.
 I want to leave just with the last slide here to read a quick quote. What we do now to make our communities good places to grow up and grow old will yield returns not only for today's elders but also tomorrow's. That is for all of us. And I really think that this resonates with folks to say this initiative is about older adults, people with disabilities, mothers and parents with strollers, folks on their bikes, and everyone in between.
 So for folks who are wanting more information, please visit agefriendlyportland.org, and I'd like to turn it over to our colleague and collaborator, Barbara Bernstein. Thank you, Alan. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for giving me this opportunity to talk about volunteerism and how it's integral to this movement and to the community's health and well-being.
 As we know, studies know, and as we know instinctively, volunteerism has all sorts of benefits for aging well. It improves health and well-being. It provides meaning and purpose. It creates opportunities for physical activity, for intergenerational activity. It reduces depression. It reduces isolation. It reduces depression.
 It creates an opportunity for a transition from work structures to volunteer structures that maintain social networks. And it provides all sorts of benefits to the community that older adult volunteers are serving. In effect, I'm going to say that volunteerism is the secret to aging well.
 At Elders in Action, we have about 10,000 volunteer hours logged every year. And if you translate that into a financial number, it's about $200,000 that the city is leveraging through your support of Elders in Action. And if you multiply that across all the volunteer activities that are happening throughout the city, you can see how volunteerism and civic engagement are integral to Elders in Action.
 How we, how this city evolves or, what's the word? How it works. Works. Okay, thank you. How it works.
 And I do want to bring up, however, that times are changing. We've added 30 years to the lifespan in our memory, and that means that work life is changing, work volunteerism is changing. People are living into their 80s and 90s, and that will challenge how we do public policy and how we think about volunteerism and civic engagement.
 Many adults are living on limited incomes. In a time of reduced wages and disappearance of pensions, older adults are having to think about how they will make limited means stretch. Can I just put one statistic in the record that I think I heard from one of you? Every day in this country, 10,000 people age 65 or older retire, and less than half of them retire.
 have retirement savings of $10,000. So when you think about it, it's a ticking time bomb of a demographic wave of people that are going to be retiring without the resources to fund their retirement. And then they're going to have housing needs, health care needs, all kinds of needs.
 And it's in Oregon, it's around the country. Just think about that statistic and how staggering that is. Thank you. And when you think about the answers to the questions, volunteerism is one way. When you ask us...
 to reach out to diverse communities, to link them to resources in the community, we do that with volunteers. When you ask us to work with the Water Bureau, we do that with volunteers. And one, you bring up a point about the Home Share Program. That revitalization is a really amazing answer to one of the challenges that you just articulated. And we did that advocacy with volunteers. Okay.
 Additionally, as civic and faith community membership.
 with shrinks, then there are fewer places for that civic engagement and volunteerism ethic to evolve and to be nurtured. And volunteerism has been a part of our community and this country, but it's not a given. It really needs to be supported, nurtured, and cultivated. And so the question for us can be, what are we doing in the schools?
 I'm really proud to live in a city that has a bureau dedicated to involvement, civic involvement. And it's called the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. I think of it as the Office of Community Engagement. But that support is just incredible to the nurturance and maintenance of the structures that allow older adults to be engaged in our community. So in a time of change, I want to say thank you.
 to that support. The volunteerism and the civic engagement of our community is essential to the health and well-being of our city, and it's what makes this city an age-friendly city. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. And with that, I'd like to read the proclamation.
 Whereas December 15, 2017 marks the 50th anniversary of the Age Discrimination and Employment Act, ADEA, enacted by the United States Congress to protect individuals 40 and over from discrimination in employment on the basis of age. And whereas the City of Portland recognizes that no one should be denied work or should lose work based on assumptions or stereotypes related to age –
 And whereas the Portland City Council, the age-friendly Portland and Multnomah County Initiative, and community partners such as Elders in Action, Venture Portland, AARP Oregon, and Portland State University are committed to a shared vision of Portland that is welcoming and inclusive to people of all ages and abilities.
 And whereas recruiting and retaining older adults in the workforce as employees, mentors, and business owners can create more economic opportunity and livable communities. And whereas age-friendly communities flourish when people of all ages contribute their knowledge and skills, experiences, time, respect, and services together.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, here do I proclaim December 2017 to be the 50th anniversary of the Age Discrimination Employment Act of 1967 in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you and congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to get a photo up front here.
 Are you sure? Right here. Okay, one, two, three. One, two, three. I do flash.
 One, two, three. One, two, three. Okay. Then she does all the Photoshop. Yeah. Exactly. Great. Thank you everybody. Congratulations. Thanks so much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks. Appreciate it. Nice to meet you. Thanks, Ben. Everything legal so far? Everything is. Oh, yeah. Thanks for the first day. Good job. Good job for today. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
 All right. We're going to do the pub report next, 1324, please. Accept Portland Utility Board Annual Report. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, we welcome to honor guests today Colleen Johnson and Alan Warman, co-chairs of the Portland Utility Board. This is their second annual report to Council.
 As my colleagues will remember, in 2014, the city charged a blue ribbon commission with improving oversight of our public utilities. The blue ribbon commission ultimately recommended a new committee, citizen led, called the Portland Utility Board, to replace three existing oversight bodies.
 In its second year, the Portland Utility Board provided extensive input on the Bureau's budgets and informed policy positions in areas such as the BES Strategic Plan, the disposition of Terminal 1, and water quality. This report includes an overview of the Board's activities for fiscal year 2016 to 2017 and some goals for the next year.
 Alan and Colleen, thank you for being here. Thank you for your patience, and we look forward to hearing from you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Alan Warman. I'm the co-chair of the Public Utility Board. And I'm Colleen Johnson, co-chair. As advocates for the citizens of Portland, the pub members need a broad understanding of utility management, bureau operations, and the city's budget process, which in some cases is difficult.
 In our second year for the pub, we've dedicated, the members that is, have dedicated over 450 hours of service. We have held 14 board meetings, 8 subcommittee meetings, off-site tours at the Bull Run Watershed, Portland Water Pollution Control Lab, and the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant.
 What we wanted to do was to give you some highlights of the report that you have, and I'm sure you've all read thoroughly at bedtime. So the first issue is communications to council. As part of its role as the budget advisory committee for both bureaus, Pub submitted its initial observations of the fiscal year 17-18 requests.
 We also provided comments on the final decision packages and a supplemental letter on the request for two BES staff that were added late in the process. Over the past year, PUB has been developing a more robust process to review the requested changes in the budget monitoring process. This year, we have allocated time during the regular board meetings for all members to participate.
 This fall, we provided you with our concerns about the expectations for non-general fund bureaus during budget adjustments and articulated five principles we felt would be useful guides for evaluating mid-year changes to the budgets of these bureaus. Those five principles are technical changes and requests for unanticipated or emergency needs would be expected requests in the bump process.
 Staffing should be part of an annual prioritization discussion. Bureaus should use management techniques to prioritize new needs and reallocate existing resources mid-cycle. Bureaus should refrain from building internal capacity for central service needs. And finally, approved requests for new resources should be coupled with metrics and communications of outcomes. Thank you.
 Finally, other policy considerations come before the Board. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, for fiscal year 16-17, this included the disposition of Terminal 1 and Cryptosporidium, and for the current year, the Board has discussed the hydroelectric power contracts, water quality issues, and filtration. And we have provided you with our concerns and recommendations for those issues.
 We're very interested in making sure our public involvement is expansive. We've established a website that includes all of our public meetings, agendas, minutes, bureau presentations, and all five members, or many of the board, five members, have participated in 11 administrative review committee hearings for the bureaus.
 Four members also stepped out into the community and went to five community meetings that were specifically there to talk about filtration. For the current year, Pub is committed to gathering further outreach. We're also trying to beef up our website to be more public friendly.
 In the area of challenges and opportunities, PUP spent the year working with the bureaus as they updated their strategic planning processes to allow for PUP input earlier in the planning and design phases. As the recently approved filtration treatment illustrated, PUP and the bureaus can improve public outreach and education on large-scale processes.
 We appreciate the Mayor and Commissioner Fisher's request for the bureaus to prioritize their budget requests. For PUP to provide meaningful input to the City Council, we need to ask the bureaus for information on the relative priorities of bureau requests as well as how choices to not fund activities will affect service level and performance of the bureaus.
 As chairs, we feel this prioritization of projects assists the Bureau management to manage their budget in light of scarce resources and will also facilitate a public discussion on the value and benefits of utility investments at varying costs to the residents of Portland. Thank you.
 In our second year, Pub began working to address more complex recommendations by addressing real and perceived issues of public concern and trust, improving transparency, communication, and education.
 working with City Council to adopt new standards of practice regarding utility oversight and providing for strong and consistent public involvement in decision-making, viewing the Bureau's activities with an eye towards innovation and cost-effectiveness, and thoughtful consideration of the investment requirements and policies that may be appropriate and necessary to retain high bond ratings for both Bureaus.
 In order to do all this, Pub has reserved a second meeting time during the month to allow for greater reflection and discussion of issues, and staff have institutionalized a process for better information flow between Pub and the bureaus. And finally, the Board saw improvement over the last year in the opportunity for Pub input in the city's deliberations and will continue to work with the bureaus and the council to refine that process. Thank you.
 Going forward, the proposed fiscal year 17-18 work plan, it's basically designed to help the bureaus integrate the pub into the workflow.
 This is sort of changing cultures a little bit, but it's the right way to go. And this includes getting us involved in the strategic planning, the capital improvement budgeting, and the operational budget process. In an effort to increase our efficiency, Pub has identified eight key areas for engagement for the coming year. Number one, equity. Two, public and community engagement.
 Three, regulatory compliance. Four, strategic planning. Five, green infrastructures. Six, operational efficiencies. Seventh is resilience. And eighth is emergency preparedness and inter-bureau coordination. This is in addition to our regular part of being involved with the budget process. So looking forward, the Pub understands both bureaus have a concern for aging assets and
 With that said, the Water Bureau faces a number of costly programs. The Willamette Park, the Willamette Crossing, I meant to say the Washington Park, and the Willamette Crossing, and now a treatment plant. We believe the Bureau's management team needs to apply budget constraints in light of these major projects and their financial future.
 BES now has a strategic plan in place and will need to apply their plan to continue to make wise and strategic decisions for a cost-effective future. We both say thank you for your time, and please enjoy our annual report. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, a couple comments? Please, Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 This got moved a couple of times, and then we kept you waiting. So apologies for that, because this is a lot of great work. And the bureaus that I have the honor of leading have reviewed this very carefully. I've read it. I need to ask you two questions. I need to just highlight three things. Are you getting all the staff support you need to be able to perform the functions that you've been assigned?
 I would say yes. You're well aware both bureaus have cultures, and I think they're changing to bring in the pub as a third party to help the process going forward.
 And could I add, internally, our staff, we have had great help from our staff support, Melissa, and also from Shannon, who is with the CBO and does the analysis for the Bureau. And, by the way, that was the –
 That was one of the recommendations of the Blue Ribbon Commission that stood in stark contrast to the frustration of other citizen-led bodies that felt like they were given a mission without the staff support. So you have dedicated staff support that's funded, and I'm glad to hear that you're getting what you need.
 And just a reminder about that, those staff are located within the City Budget Office? Correct. So they're in the office that reports to all of us, and I'm glad to hear that you're getting good service from them. And the second question, you kind of alluded to it a little bit, but from the Bureau Director, from the leadership point, are you getting the kind of cooperation you need going into this season, where this will be your first meeting?
 in which from soup to nuts you're involved in reviewing the budget and in providing guidance to the city? Are you getting the kind of high-level buy-in from leadership that you need to be successful? I believe we are. I think, as I repeat this, we're going from a –
 a set of bureaus that have not had the integration of citizen input, and so the culture takes a while to change slowly. And I think both directors are helping that process go forward.
 Could I add to that? We had a meeting, I think it was last week, for the preliminary operating budgets for both bureaus. And the difference in the detail and the narrative that they provided us from over last year was enormous. And so they put, and it quite clearly showed, they put an amazing amount of work in planning
 bringing those preliminary budgets to us. I'd like to compliment you for a moment. You mentioned community engagement and neighborhood involvement. It was really at your request that, particularly the Water Bureau went out and talked about the filtration proposals or the various options for complying with LT2. And they took those to coalition meetings and actually got very interesting feedback.
 And so that will become more institutionalized in terms of big-ticket issues going out to the neighborhoods, and that's something that you challenged us to do, and I want to thank you for that. The final thing, and I also want to thank you for the leadership you provide on the low-income discount program. We've gotten a lot of community feedback on that, and you've been working to help us crack the nut, and I know we have some exciting announcements to make in the new year.
 The one other thing I just want to clarify and do so with the mayor here, in case he disagrees with what I'm about to say. When the mayor was providing his budget guidance this year, he had conversations with his colleagues. And because there is a possibility that we're going to have a shortfall on the general fund, and also because I think this mayor believes that,
 a forced choice exercise is good for general fund bureaus to identify what's core and what isn't. He has asked people to plan for a scenario where you could have up to 5% cuts. My own view is it's highly unlikely we'll have to take 5% cuts, but he has said do that, and in the process help us understand what's fundamental and what you can live without.
 It's what we call a modified zero-based budgeting. It's not zero-based budgeting because we don't take it down to the studs. When it came to the utilities, the mayor did not make that same request. Instead, the mayor said that, and my guidance echoed this, said that we should continue to look for a combined rate increase under 5% with the goal of getting as close to 4% as possible.
 And the reason, and I had conversations with the mayor about this, the reason that we chose not to go further than that is that the council has already spoken in directing the utilities to undertake these larger capital construction projects. And when we said do a 100-year plan on filtration, plan for a resilient pipe under the Willamette,
 complete the reservoir deal, the council did not say and simultaneously degrade your work plan on all the other stuff you're doing to build your capacity. It was understood that it's cumulative.
 But we have been challenged to use every tool in our toolkit to get this under 5% as close to 4%. But it was never our intention to have the bureaus, after being directed by counsel to take on new work, to have to cannibalize existing work. And I know there's been some conversation about that. I think it's terrific for the public to have a better understanding of tradeoffs
 So if we, you know, the Bureau of Environmental Services this year will actually be operating at inflation. The Water Bureau can't operate at inflation because the council has directed it to take on a lot of responsibilities that push it above the rate of inflation. The combined rate increase, though, can come down well below 5%. And using rate stabilization funds and other tools, we could shade that down even lower. But I want to be clear, neither the mayor nor I contemplated that the bureaus would have to negotiate
 would have to degrade their existing CIP or operating budgets in order to also meet the requirements of the new regulatory requirements that the Council has placed on them. And I ask you to consider that as you are evaluating budgets. I think that's great insight. Speaking for two left-handed economists up here, we believe in the word choice.
 And you can't necessarily have it all. It's not an end. It's a choice of maybe delaying something. And perhaps if indeed you expect to put together your infrastructure and you want to take 50 years to replace that, that's good. You don't say, well, maybe I could do it in 20. Those are the kind of choices that we look at that aren't regulatory at all. They are.
 good professional financial choices, and I think that's where the pub is coming from. Thank you. Could I add? And I hear what you're saying, and I agree, but I also think Alan makes an important point. What we've asked from the bureaus is in delivering their operating, well, in delivering their budgets, that we have some idea of priorities for,
 and maybe even more so that we have, as you put it, tradeoffs. So if we're going to pursue a $300 million to $500 million filtration project,
 What does that mean in terms of trade-offs? And I would say, in recognition of the Water Department, they did exactly that. They did prioritize their operating budget for us. And I think that helps the pub have a more deliberative and robust discussion of what's coming down the pike in terms of the budget. Okay.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. I just want to throw in one comment and just say thank God for people like you who want to step forward and be
 be part of this process, to have people who are willing to really get into the nitty-gritty of the operations, the nitty-gritty of the budget process, open up and converse throughout this dialogue as we define what our priorities truly are. I'm really grateful that we have people who are willing to take the time and the energy, and I'm absolutely 100 percent certain you do not do it for the money.
 Because there is none. And I just want to keep reminding people as they listen to this commentary, this is a group of volunteers. These are people in the community who have an interest in these issues and are willing to spend some time working alongside the city council and representing the interests of the community and being one more set of eyes on the process. And I'm really grateful for it.
 And I always enjoy the testimony you provide, particularly during the budget process, but certainly as we were discussing some of the capital construction proposals as well. Thank you both for that important report. Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further comments? Please call the roll. E. Daly. Thank you for the report and for your service. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you very much. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for conceiving this and for bringing back public trust in the utility bureaus with the assistance of the Public Utility Board. It's certainly achieving even more than I thought you were going to. I particularly want to thank those who are retiring from service, Gwyn Johnson, Julia Pearson, Janet Hawkins, Cindy Dietz, and Marie Walkovics.
 and to Kendra Smith who was the co-chair. And so the fact that we're so established, people are now rotating off having completed their service is another testament to the need for this body. I particularly appreciated in your report that you included all of the previous letters that you've sent over the course of the year. While I read them as they come in, it's helpful to have them all compiled so that the public can see them as well. And that was, it's also kind of,
 reminded me of several of the ways that you've provided guidance, one of them being about the equity positions. And I appreciate that you have supported Commissioner Fish in making the resources available within the Bureau without asking for extra to prioritise equity. And I agree with your urging for a citywide conversation because I want to see all the Bureaus doing that. And thank you again.
 Well, Alan and Colleen, thank you very much. We deeply appreciate the partnership. Five and a half years ago, when then-Mayor Hales assigned me both utilities, and that was somewhat of a surprise to me because there had not been an immediate precedent for that. It turns out many, many years ago, Dan Saltzman briefly had both utilities in his portfolio. Okay.
 But when the then mayor said, I want you to leave both utilities, I was caught a little bit off guard. A hearing like this five and a half years ago, even to receive a report, would have been a full house. There would have been a lot of vinegar in the room. And I would not have been the most popular person in the room.
 And what I deeply appreciate since then, since we weathered the storm on the Water District, since we did the Blue Ribbon Commission, since we adopted some new policies, since we went back to the public and showed them that we can be trusted to focus on basic services, since we have come now close to resolving the lawsuit that's been hanging over us, what I appreciate is over this period of time,
 We've been helped by people like you in restoring some public trust in how the utilities run. And your report and your independent guidance is crucial to maintaining that public trust, and for that I'm very grateful. We have. Thank you, Colleen. Thank you, Alan. This is very well done. I vote aye to the report's acceptance. Thanks for your hard work. Colleagues, I'm going to go through the two second readings before we get to the final time certain. Could you call item 1333? Okay.
 amend street vacation ordinance to replace certain conditions and add conditions applicable to the vacated portion of Southwest Madison Street between Southwest 10th Avenue and Southwest Park Avenue for the Rothko Pavilion at Portland Art Museum. Colleagues, any further discussion or questions on this item? Please call the roll. Udailey.
 Well, I wasn't here last week, as all of you know, but I have reviewed the item and the testimony. I would say it was almost equally split between those for and against, maybe leaning a little more towards the against side, and our constituent contacts to my office leaned more in the for side. I...
 was especially compelled by the testimony from a woman who is 93 years old and who's been volunteering at the museum for 40 years, which is pretty close to half her life, and has recently developed a mobility challenge, and she shared her challenges and frustrations with accessing the museum, as well as testimony from the docent who leads tours for visually impaired and blind people.
 visitors. I'm really excited about the potential of this pavilion both to overall accessibility and the user experience for all visitors to the museum. I understand there's some resistance and cynicism in the community. I listen to that carefully and
 I trust that the museum is operating in good faith and that we as a council will be here to ensure that the commitments to the community are upheld. So I'm very pleased to vote aye. Fritz?
 Well, I very much appreciated everybody who participated in the public hearings, both in the spring and last week. People who came believing they could make a difference, even though it seemed certain that the approval was going to be given. It's very clear to me that the benefits to the art museum are obvious and many. The benefits to the community of closing off the right-of-way are obvious.
 undetermined at best. And I am disappointed that we're not able to get to more of a win-win situation. We've already got one super block on the next two streets over, and it's difficult to find one's way to the streetcar except by going on the main thoroughfares, and those are not pleasant places to walk or go with a wheelchair or a stroller or other places. And although I appreciate the...
 stated intent to make this enclosed space welcoming. The current space is welcoming. The sculpture plaza, I think, is beautiful. It's a place where people can sit and reflect and that really entices people to go inside because of the sculptures that are visible to people walking their dogs through that plaza.
 I do hope that as the project moves forward, the museum will consider and implement living wages for its custodians and security staff, some of whom we heard from last week in support. Again, it's very obvious that people care a lot about the art museum and as do I. I am disappointed that this is another of, this is the third cut that takes away from the
 street right-of-way that was established by the people who put together the city of Portland. I do appreciate Brian Forriso and the Art Museum to continue in their dedication and in their stated willingness to embrace community members from all walks of life and from all parts of the city because for me this should still be a place that is used most by Portlanders.
 while still recognizing that the art museum is a regional and international draw. So unfortunately, I'm not able to support this decision, no. Fish? Well, we've had a really, I think, robust and thoughtful discussion about this issue, and I appreciate everyone who's taken the time to share their views. I have watched with a lot of encouragement the leadership of Brian Ferriso transform this museum from what,
 from my point of view, used to be a little bit on the stuffy side, to being now a much more accessible institution. And I say that with all due respect to your predecessor and to people who have served on the board. But the institution, to me, and I'm a member of, I buy a family membership, and I love the art museum. It felt to me a bit exclusive and a little stuffy.
 And I think this new director has done a wonderful job opening up this institution to our community, and I think he has captured kind of the vibe of Portland in both what he's done in programming and in how he's made it more accessible. I was also not one of those who was much of a fan of the MARC renovation because even as an able-bodied person, I have found it extremely difficult to navigate the two buildings.
 and to get to the film center, to get over to see the modern art in the Mark Building, even to get to the Native American collection in the historic building. It's a warren of stairways and elevators and hallways, and it's really not very welcoming. So along comes this maybe once-in-a-generation opportunity to leverage private philanthropy to solve a fundamental problem of connectivity between two buildings.
 And I came to this with an open mind and actually, frankly, had some skepticism. But what I have learned over time is that the public interest here, in my view, overwhelms what I think is the inconvenience this may cause to some people who live in the neighborhood. And that's because we have a chance to have an art museum which sets a standard for accessibility on the West Coast and hopefully beyond.
 And we have an opportunity through the commitment that the art museum has made to expand and protect the easement that gives people unfettered right to traverse the property beyond even the hours of the existing easement. And the amendment we adopted last week expands the hours to conform to the streetcar schedule. So what it comes down to is the fact that some will have to,
 enter and depart a glass pavilion, whereas before it was open. To me, the public benefit is we finally have a main entrance to our museum. We have an accessible entrance. We have cured the circulatory problems which have dogged the historic building and the new building.
 What I think for me ultimately is the tipping point as the liaison to Elders in Action and as the city's arts commissioner is I think this has a chance to further burnish our reputation. And I thought it was interesting we began today by talking about Vera Katz and the fact that Vera Katz always looked long-term. She was looking out long-term about the river. She was looking long-term about the river district. She was looking long-term. And she was not thinking just short-term.
 This is going to require some change in the short term. I think on the long term, it has a chance to really provide a tremendous public benefit. And it's being paid for by very generous private donors who want to see our museum enhanced. So for all those reasons, today I'm proud to vote aye. Thank you. Wheeler. I think this is a great vision, and I'm appreciative of the fact that the museum brought it forward. We had about four and a half hours of testimony in this room last week today.
 I heard the arguments that people raised.
 but I am convinced that this is the right step forward. It addresses the connectivity issue, and we had a number of architects come in and talk about some of the original problems that this rectifies. We had people discuss the building flow situation and how the elevation of the first floor significantly improves access and flow through the building as well as direct access to the elevators. This corrects what I think is an egregious...
 with regard to ADA access in the current facility. There's no way of putting it differently in my mind. Currently, the way the art museum is set up, ADA access is through the back door. It is second-class access to what should be a world-class community facility. And that...
 This overcomes that effort. A number of the people who testified in opposition said they felt that we were supporting with a public contribution, meaning the right-of-way, a private and elitist institution.
 And to me, if people believe that, and by the way, I don't believe either of those things. I think it's very much a public institution, and we had a lot of people who are docents and volunteers and others share their experiences. The museum director expressed his support for free access, which he's already implemented, and other opportunities, particularly for youth. And he talked about how this new entry could be used as a better opportunity for students
 youth to gather and begin their experience in the museum. If you believe that this is still an elitist institution and you believe that community engagement is not sufficient, I have an easy solution. Volunteer.
 and help make this institution better. Rather than pulling your chair away from the table, turn it around and slide it in and participate in what is very much a public institution and has the opportunity to be one of the great museums in the United States of America. And Brian, personally, I just wanted to share my gratitude for what you have done. To you, it probably seems like a relatively long tenure. To me, it seems like it's been a relatively short tenure.
 period of time, you have really begun this process of acknowledging that this has to be a community-based institution. Finally, a number of people mentioned security issues in the vicinity of the building as being a concern. And we heard from one of the security personnel.
 We also heard discussions around lighting. We heard discussions around security. And the museum has agreed to keep the hours of public access from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., which I think addresses a lot of the public access issues. But I also want to personally commit, as the mayor, I have said,
 said loudly and clearly, we need to address the livability issues in our community. We need to address things like drug dealing, littering, the disposal of needles in public right-of-ways, concerns people have around public safety. We are addressing those issues, and I will commit that as the museum goes forward with this project, we will continue to look at the issues that are in that immediate neighborhood to help make people feel safer.
 The fact that people said, I have to go through this.
 that existing public access point because I don't feel safe going the other way, that's a bigger problem than just whether or not we should build this entryway. That's a question about the broader sense of security in the neighborhood, and I think we need to collectively work together to address those issues, and I'm committed to it. So as I said, it's a great vision. No great vision comes without some disagreement, but I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everybody.
 Next item, 1334. Authorized contribution to the Northwest Transportation Fund to satisfy requirements found in Portland Zoning Code and qualify for a floor area office use bonus for the ESCO property prior to submittal of a land use review application or building plans. Colleagues, any further discussion on this item?
 Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. We'll go back to our second time certain, which is 1323, please. I declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements,
 in the Southeast 80th and Mills Street Local Improvement District. Colleagues, Commissioner Saltzman is out today. He asked if I would read an introductory statement on behalf of this item, so I'll do so. This local improvement district is to comprehensively integrate street, stormwater, pedestrian, and sanitary sewer infrastructure in a single project...
 stretching property owners' LID dollars and Bureau of Environmental Service rate payers' LID dollars further. A great example of the city working together is what this is.
 This also includes our partners at Portland Public Schools and Bridger Elementary, a Title I school with a high proportion of low-income students who will benefit from this project and help our equity and our Vision Zero goals. Today we have PBOT's Capital Project Manager, Andrew Abbey, with us to give more details on the project. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. We are joined today by David Hammond, my colleague from the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Ryan Webb, an engineer from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Ryan received his PE license earlier this year and is already making a positive impact designing LED projects. Thanks.
 Joining Ryan on his left is Olivia Grenier, who made the trip today to join us from Corvallis. She will be graduating from Oregon State University next year with a degree in engineering and entering with PBOT last summer. She deftly handled every curveball that I threw her while she was scoping and estimating this project and responding to property owner concerns. She, along with David and Ryan,
 played key roles in helping put this project together, and I just wanted to show you some of the staff behind the scenes that helped make these LID projects happen. So with that, Carla, if we can switch to the presentation, and I need your help to make this a- It's F5. F5? Okay, thank you. So the first slide here today is
 A picture of what Mill Street looks like. This project went on hiatus from an unsuccessful petition effort in 2006. Earlier this year, I received this plea from a property owner in what is now the proposed LID.
 We have been struggling for the last few years with who to talk to and address the crazy water pond we now refer to as Lake Mill Street. I've written countless emails to different city departments pleading for some help, but things don't go anywhere, so any advice you have would be great.
 You can see from this picture in the background of a traffic signal. That signal was recently installed by ODOT, and thanks to the partnership with ODOT, the property owners will not need to replace the curb ramps at SE 82nd and mill the current ADA standards. As you can see, once you get behind the new vehicle detection loops that were installed by ODOT, you have a truly dreadful street. Here is what the father of a future Bridger Elementary student – here is a picture of a father of a future Bridger Elementary student going for a walk.
 This little boy's mother said, we are trapped inside our property due to the standing water and no sidewalks, which forces us to climb through a neighbor's bushes with our son to get out. When the time comes for our son to go to school, we will unfortunately have to drive one block because we cannot leave our home by foot. Moving on to the next slide here, Southeast Mill Street is among the 306.8 centerline miles of streets in the city that are paved without curbs.
 This is an example of one of those blocks. Montevilla's proportion of streets fitting this category at 14.1% is about 10% lower than the citywide average of 15.4%. 306.8 miles may seem like a daunting number, but keep in mind that five years ago, we had 2.1 more miles of these types of streets, so we have been able to slowly chip away at the backlog.
 I was asked by an elderly property owner who could not be here today and who is a caregiver to her husband to provide a personal story behind these statistics. She said, my family and I are caring for my husband who is in the later stages of dementia. His caregivers often have to push his wheelchair down the middle of this road amidst the heavy afternoon traffic to avoid the masses, puddles, and potholes. It can be a rather unnerving experience for all concerned.
 but just quickly moving on to the next slide i really want to thank commissioner fish for this the catalyst for this project is the pending sanitary sewer replacement in mill street but if you thought that a software program would have told pbot and bes to work together on this project you would be wrong earlier last year i got together at the city engineer to grab some coffee and look at some current projects around the city and our way back to the office we found these utility locates on the street
 and put in a phone call to BES and found out that they were planning to replace the sewer. So to BES's credit, they were willing to delay their sanitary sewer project for one year while we worked on a possible LID. The goal here was for BES to spend about the same amount of money that it otherwise would have been throwaway on trench repair. A 12-foot repair around the existing sanitary line shown in red on this diagram would temporarily result in a nice 12-foot swath of street
 but over time it would crumble just like the pavement around it. And then the day after BGS would do the trench repair, my phone would ring and people would ask me, well, why couldn't we just fix the whole street while the sanitary sewer was being replaced? Instead, we can apply that money toward the brand-new pavement section, as shown on the right, while reducing the LID obligation for property owners. David, did you just want to share a couple of quick thoughts on that?
 So our project, I'll be here in the afternoon reading authorization about to bid for these projects. This is a small piece of one of those that we'll be able to package with the PBOT work and put out at a later time. The rest of the project will still go on schedule. And it'll be a good way to improve the neighborhood community in coordination with PBOT and get a much better final result than we would have got with a normal street repave and patch. Okay.
 Thank you, David. And what I just passed out while David was speaking to you is I had a meeting with the city of Bend earlier this year. We were talking about infrastructure finance issues, and they had brought to my attention a missed opportunity in Bend where they did a major utility project on the east side of Bend, and they didn't try to put a sidewalk in at the same time, and they got quite a bit of blowback from the community. So when I got back to Portland and this project was taking shape,
 we thought we'd err on the side of trying to build the sidewalks in this area. Can I just interrupt for a second? Yes. I thought that when Leah Treat first became Director of Transportation, that she had had similar, she actually had had software in Chicago or somewhere else that she had worked, where everybody entered, each bureau entered in their projects, and it said, you know, red alert. Do we not have that yet? We do have it. This one, yeah.
 just for whatever reason, it kind of fell through the cracks.
 We have a little more work to do on that, to be candid with you. Well, actually, I think the other way of thinking about it, at least we've got people who are doing thinking rather than machines that can sometimes not give us the answer we need. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. And I'll try to move quickly to the rest of it. I know you've had a long morning. So I just wanted to show you this next slide that we are going to, as much as possible, minimize impact to trees. I showed a little concept diagram here on the right side of the slide showing
 of a way that we're thinking about possibly preserving those three trees that you see in the picture on your left.
 I just wanted to share with you just a few excerpts of that testimony that's shown there on the slide. So we have a woman by the name of Kara Christensen who lives in the neighborhood. She feels unsafe walking a short distance to Bridger School and also to her closest park, which is Harrison Park. This is because of the lack of sidewalks, having to share the road with vehicles and bicycles, vandalism, graffiti, violence.
 gang tagging, drug paraphernalia, dumping stolen vehicles, abandoned vehicles, and stripped vehicles. And you can see most of that on this next slide. But again, just going back to the previous slide, the jutting out of the curb to save those trees was...
 would tend to diminish the amount of kind of gathering and cut through activity on that street. Yes. So that's really brilliant too. I hope you can make that work. Yes, thank you, Commissioner. We are planning to do that. So this is 80th Avenue between Grant and Stevens, and this is going to be part of an amendment that I'll pass out. So this is an example of the 55.8 centerline miles of streets.
 in the city that are unpaved. Montevilla's proportion of streets that are unpaved is 3.5%, which is about one quarter higher than the citywide average of 2.8%. Again, this may seem like a daunting number, but keep in mind that five years ago we had 59.5 miles of unpaved streets.
 So through the block by block, project by project approach, LIDs have been among the tools to reduce this backlog by 3.7 miles in five years, which is a 6.1% reduction citywide. Let me again provide a personal perspective behind these statistics.
 A nearby middle school principal said, To watch my students come to school with wet shoes, knowing that those are their only shoes because they have a journey to school that involves walking through water is heartbreaking to me. I think it is an assault on their basic dignity to have to live like that because there aren't amenities that most communities take for granted.
 So this is a map of the LID as we started the discussions in September. We're proposing through this amendment to expand the LID so the project limits, instead of stopping at Stevens and not addressing those problems you saw in the last slide with pictures, would instead come down to 100 feet north of Grant Street.
 I also wanted to mention that as you look at the larger area, we are also going to partner with some other funding to upgrade some curb ramps so that we can address the accessibility issues to Bridger School, not just from the east with the cell ID, but from other directions as well.
 So here's a quick recap of the financing of the project. We did look at a number of funding sources to make this project go, including general fund capital set-aside and Fixing Earth Streets funding. We ultimately settled on the BES funding with that partnership. So, again, I'm deeply appreciative to Commissioner Fish and his bureau for coming through so that we can build a much better project for approximately the same amount of money.
 And then I just wanted to wrap up before I get to the amendment. I just wanted to show you this video, which I really think kind of shows what we're looking at. And it doesn't seem to be – there we go. Well, I got a phone call early this morning. Apparently, we had a fire in one classroom. Wrong one. We'll switch over to the correct one now. Thank you. Yeah. Okay.
 I don't know what. I don't know what. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
 I walk here to school every single day with my brother. And from my house, the street that we walk in, there's really no sidewalks. And there's a lot of cars parked on the side, so we always have to walk in the middle of the road. And my mom is always nervous when we walk to school because some cars, they don't pay attention. You know, my mom, she's the one who's always like,
 We come two blocks to school. Half of our walk is unimproved road with one foot mud puddles. The other half of our walk is a block with no sidewalks and cars parked along the side of the road which force us to walk down the middle of the road. My mom drops me off at Gwen's house and we meet up.
 When we walk together to school. My favorite way of getting to school is walking with Ava. . Near our school here in Bridger, not long ago I was bringing my children to school. I'm parked on Mill Street, and it's a street that is in bad condition,
 well, there are wells, wells with water, mud, and it's very difficult when the parents come with their children. I parked on the edge of that street,
 to bring my children. I came for them. We were already going home and I was putting them in the seat, I was putting their seat belts on. When a car passed by and I was totally on my back, I was bathed in that water with mud and dirty, from my head, I was all wet.
 I couldn't believe that this was happening, but it happened. So this was, it wet me this time. Thank God it wasn't something...
 It's tragic, but it could happen. Just like that happened, an accident could happen. Well, there's a bunch of water puddles, mud puddles, and there's no sidewalks, so it's really hard to get to school. Tell me, how do you get to school? With my scooter. Yeah, tell me about your scooter. Well, I like to scoot down with it, but I haven't really did it for a long time because it was free vacation.
 We always walk to school because we live really close, but we're on an unimproved road, so it doesn't feel too safe. Sometimes the cars slide around. We feel a little nervous about that. Well, it's pretty dirty. It's pretty dirty. And at night after practice, after we have our basketball practice, it's really pitch dark and we can't see nothing. And with the roads being puddles and stuff, you might get stepped in there and cars might not see you.
 so it's a possibility that a car can hit you. So we live on 80th and Division, in between Division and Clinton, so we don't have a...
 safe, easy spot to cross to walk to school. We have to drive, we go down to 76 and take 76. If we had a place that was like easily crossable, we would totally walk more. I ride the bus, so when the bus picks us up and tries to get out, there's a lot of cars that's going very fast. So it takes a long time for the bus to even get in the lane and go.
 And then when we get around the school block, the cars are going really fast, and it's really compact, so it takes a long time for the bus to get in. So most of the time we're kind of a little bit late. But the only good thing is the bus gets to our stop earlier, so I'm actually not late. And that concludes our video. I appreciate your time this morning. Happy to answer any questions you might have. Could you just reiterate, homeowners will or will not receive a bill for this?
 Homeowners are contributing towards the LID. We also have Portland Public Schools contributing. I'm sorry, the average contribution will be?
 For the average single family home, they're generally running in the $10,000 to $15,000 range. There's $2.40 per accessible square foot. Thank you. I'm sorry I had to walk out for the first part. And there's some financing options available for that, right? And we will also be offering a low-income deferral, and we're able to do that because of PBOT-STC funding, and then we can repay the PBOT-STC fund. I did pass out an amendment to take care of all of those streets, including all those streets you saw in the presentation,
 So if you want to take a roll call on the amendment, then we would have a complete project. How does the deferral program work? Low-income deferral program. I'm sorry? How does the low-income deferral program work? The way the low-income deferral program would work, sorry, Mayor Reel, I didn't hear your question. So the way this would work is the final assessment, we haven't developed the agreement yet, but we used to do this many years ago with PDC.
 now Proff for Portland funding, where we substitute an LID lien for a deferral lien, and then upon the sale of the property, then that LID, what used to be an LID obligation is now a deferral lien that is due and payable on the sale of the property. There is an interest associated with that, but it's a way that people can realize
 The benefits of the infrastructure and not have a financial hardship before they sell their property. And let me ask a follow-up on that. So I support that because obviously we don't want to push an LID that forces people out of our housing. That's not the goal here. But then how do you capitalize the project up front?
 We basically do that through all the other funding sources in PBOT-STC. So, in effect, what we do, Mayor, is we temporarily overfund the project with PBOT-STC, and then as those deferral liens are paid back, we
 We repay the SDC fund, and then we bring the SDC funding contribution in line with our typical 30% SDC funding ratio. So, in effect, the LID and the BES funding is providing that 70% local match that we need to make this project go. So my guess is that the improvements to the streets and the sidewalks, the drainage –
 enhances property value more than the individual property's contribution to the project initially. Do we have any data to support whether that's true or not? I mean, it's an impression I have, but I don't know if it's true. Okay.
 So I haven't looked at it in a – I mean, I have a lot of anecdotal examples from residential. I did do something called a cross-collateralization ordinance many years ago where we did a LID on Northeast 148th Avenue that resulted in very significant increases to property value. I would just give you another analogy, which is on my own personal property, I had to hire somebody to deal with drainage coming from my uphill neighbor. I spent more hiring somebody with no survey, no set of plans –
 None of the formal stuff we go through on this, just simply to redo my backyard to handle the drainage problem. And I suspect from those pictures that you saw that there's property owners who are spending their own money trying to put in homegrown drainage solutions, and instead, you know, we can build a very comprehensive improvement to deal with all that. So, and I'll stop here, but, you know, here's our chance with a new LID or maybe even some of the ones we've recently supported. Let's do a data collection on this. Let's do it.
 and I understand it's a longitudinal study. It'll have to take years, but I feel like this is data we need. I need to know the answer to that question.
 Somebody will be sitting in this seat in ten years, maybe me, maybe somebody else, and they'll be asking the same question. But if we could definitively answer that question, and if it turned out to be true, that would certainly reduce whatever resistance might be out there. On the other hand, if we're wrong, then maybe we need to rethink the financing structure. So, Mayor, can I just make a comment? Commissioner Fishman and Commissioner Fitz have a question. Oh, go ahead. I just want to move the amendment.
 Second. Amendments moved and seconded. Does anybody care if we call the roll right now on the amendment? Please call the roll. Daly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Commissioner Fish? Just a cautionary flag. I think it's ultimately going to be extremely difficult to measure the benefits to property owners, Mayor, because we don't control the business cycles.
 This is currently property – these are currently homes in an area where, because of the white-hot housing market that's essentially moved into East County, you know, these homes are going to be doing better now. A recession could hit. Interest rates could spike. It could change the whole valuation that has nothing to do with basic infrastructure. So I don't know how you screen for that, for location, for timing, and for other things –
 The other thing I wanted to do, though, is just to answer something Commissioner Fritz asked earlier. I don't know the status of this project that Leah Treat was leading of putting all the inputs on one electronic database of public and private construction projects. So it would be public utilities, private utilities, everything else. What I do know is that.
 Within the constraints of the BES CIP, what this represents is senior leadership of PBOT, senior leadership of BES saying, here's an opportunity, let's pool our resources. So it's wholly opportunistic. And if it weren't for those conversations, this wouldn't happen. Being on a spreadsheet would not advance that conversation. This is just opportunity.
 Both sides saying this is a priority. It meets a number of other values, location, safe routes. And the BES has to do this work. PBOT has to do the work. So we pick them. But it is on the opportunistic side, I think. Yeah, thank you, Commissioner Fitch. I'd just make two quick points. One is last year council passed something called the Capita Value Capture Ordinance, Resolution Number 37205.
 and we will be tasked with bringing our first report to council so we can frame these types of issues like the question you've raised, Mayor. And I would also just point out I really appreciate Commissioner Fish's comment because we do a lot of planning in the city, and that's a good thing, but LIDs, as Commissioner Fish said, are very opportunistic. You really can't pick the group of property owners who step forward and say we want to do a project. Okay, so let me politely disagree with you.
 I don't think there is any process here that is so precious that it is exempt from our best faith effort around data collection. So let me take another stab at this. In the real estate industry, people use comps. And they say you have a, you know, whatever, two-bedroom, one-bath house here, and you have a two-bedroom, one-bath house here. And they can compare the relative value even in a current market environment.
 Can somebody tell me, if you're on a street with crosswalks, paved sidewalks, and the street doesn't have foot-deep potholes as described in the video, what's the additive value to that house or to that neighborhood relative to
 to the other that doesn't. I mean, I'm not saying I have the right answer, but I don't believe we should just shake our heads and say we can't ever collect that data or that information. I disagree. First of all, I just have to note this moment. I've served on this council for nine years, and this is the first time someone has ever disagreed with Andrew Abbey. So, Andrew, I'm going to make a note of this. The mayor will be counseled on this. We hope it doesn't happen again. I will say, Ted, though, as someone who not long ago sold his house,
 I found the comps uniquely irrelevant because there was such a shortage of available homes, and there were so many market distortions that the crappiest house in my neighborhood was valued above my house, was barely standing just because it was the only house available. Let's collect the data, but I think you're going to find the market forces make that data difficult.
 less than compelling? Well, let's put it out there. Somewhere there's a smart master's student at Portland State or University of Portland or somewhere. I have to say that because Tom's in the room, and he'll be... But at any rate, there must be a way for us to at least...
 Before we walk away and say we can't answer that question, because there is a value proposition that we are making to this neighborhood. We are saying we want you to invest your hard-earned cash in this local improvement district, and they're going to say, why? And you're going to say, well, the sidewalk's there and the road's not potholed and it's easier, and they'll say, not interested. Right.
 But if you could come to them and say, you know, every dollar you invest in this returns $1.15 in additive value, give or take some standard deviation, I'll acknowledge that. That's a better value proposition. I'm just saying. I don't want to – we've already spent too much time on it. Should we hold it on children and provide them sidewalks?
 I'm sorry, could you just come and say, we'll have public testimony and you say it in the microphone because otherwise the captions can't get it. Thank you. So, Mayor, maybe just to wrap this up, I have in mind a way I think I can thread the needle between you and Commissioner Fish. I won't go into it today, but I have some ideas on some past projects that I could do some research on and do that. All right. Mayor. Yes. May I? Please. Okay.
 So the conversation about the impact on property values brings up a concern that I've heard from low-income residents from East Portland to St. John's, which is that they don't welcome improvements like this because they're concerned either with rents rising, property taxes rising, and displacement.
 I mean, I understand it would be great to be able to present this proposition to a homeowner as a net gain for them. We also have to sell it to other communities, members who a net gain is not necessarily beneficial. So I'm glad to hear that there's funding options. What was it? It was a low-income... Deferral. Deferral. But then do we help...
 People in other ways who may not qualify for that low-income deferral, like do we offer someone who doesn't qualify? Maybe they don't have $10,000 or they can't qualify for a conventional bank product. What do those people do? But they don't qualify for our low-income deferral. So all the property owners in this LID automatically qualify for financing, but what I'm saying is over and above that, we will offer a deferral as well.
 If they can't secure financing? Well, they don't even have to secure the financing. Even if they, I mean, they already have the option to finance through us, but if they don't want to finance because they're trying to put food on the table, that type of thing, then they can sign up for the deferral and not pay until they sell their home.
 I would just like to remind everybody that the city, the environmental services is putting in over $700,000 and transportation is putting in over $750,000. So to a certain extent it's irrelevant about where else should we be doing this because we usually can't put that kind of money into a project like this. Also Portland Public Schools is paying into it. That's correct.
 And just one other quick thing. The main thing is I've always felt that we shouldn't consign people to being stuck with third world streets in order not to have property values go up. So thank you. Thank you. Public testimony. Yes, I show five people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Lars von Schneider, Heather Mandar, and Dustin Verseth. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Lars von Snyder. I'm here with my wife, Heather Mondor, who's sitting back there. We are residents of the block that's in question. We personally live at 8058, and we've lived there for 10 years, and that's the entire time that we've been here.
 In Portland, we've seen the neighborhood change extensively throughout the years. And when we heard that this was a possibility to take advantage of the money that was being offered, we were absolutely ecstatic because we love our house, we love the neighborhood. But as you've seen from the pictures, that's the one thing that I can point to, that I just have all kinds of anxiety about the street.
 and about the condition. We've spent thousands of dollars over the past few years to both fix and to prevent water coming into our basement, not necessarily from the street, but just in general. We can see that the weather patterns are changing and that as more rain is coming, there's a chance that that would happen again. We support this. We think that the work that
 that the various organizations have done have been amazing and would love to see it go through. But, of course, we want to have some sidewalks on our streets, but why should you care? And I think that the point that was just made that reminds me of a comment that a friend of mine made about two years ago that he lives off of 50th and Southeast Hawthorne, and the comment that he made that really resonated with me was that...
 everything that's east of 60th might as well be Afghanistan. And what he meant by that, I think, is that many people, especially new residents, they get towards 82nd, they see streets like this, they think that Portland is not quite what they thought it was. So this is a chance for us to take advantage of the funding that's been
 provided to help the kids that have to walk to school. And this is one of these efforts that I think that to leave this kind of money on the table would just be foolish, and we support it more than anybody could. So thank you for your time. Thank you for having us here, and thank you for the chance to speak. Great. Thank you for being here. Would you like to go next?
 My name's Hillary Barasa. I'm up next, but his wife was called. So anyway, I represent myself and my partner. We also live on Mill Street. I'm also a realtor, so I can speak a little bit to the values. I don't have any numbers to share with you specifically today, but the intrinsic value of what's added by this project
 proposed improvement is so valuable, both to the students that go to Bridger. I mean, it's crazy pulling out of my driveway every day, worrying about these children walking up my street. I'm worried about them, I think they're worried about me, that I'm gonna hit them, that they don't have a safe place to walk out of the puddles. They're weaving in and out of cars that are parked along our street.
 and people walking their dogs, it goes beyond the school. I mean, this has just been an unsafe street for a really long time. I've lived in the neighborhood for 12 years. I've been a realtor for 12 years. I've watched the Portland market go crazy. And it's gonna be difficult to come up with numbers because the market is the ultimate driver. But what I can tell you is that if someone is looking for a house to buy,
 They have two similar properties, two comparable properties. One has sidewalks. One has safe streets. The other doesn't. They're going to buy the house with sidewalks. So putting a number value on it is difficult, but I can tell you that it does give value, and not only to the homeowners, but potential future purchasers.
 I appreciate that. Thanks for that perspective. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Dustin Ferseth, and my wife Hannah and my son Sander was in some of those photographs. He's 18 months old, and he'll be attending Bridger Elementary that's also in the LID. I think Andrew and everybody did a great job of covering the issues. I think that's very clear. I just wanted to give a personal perspective, just that I think that
 Our street is different than a lot because we have three things happening. It's a place for children because of the elementary school. It's a city greenway that's dedicated as a bike thoroughfare that connects Lincoln and downtown out to 205. So we have kids and bikes, and then we have cars. Whether they're there or not for a reason, going to school or just cutting through the neighborhood, it's a dangerous culmination in its current state. And when it rains, all you have to do is go out there any time it rains, and you'll see it again.
 So I just think that the bottom line here is that we don't want to wait until anyone gets hurt, and I'm a homeowner that acknowledges that I will be contributing, and it's worth every penny from my standpoint. And the dialogue that you were just having about property values, we've been having with the neighbors that were not on board, and people are coming around to that, even longstanding neighbors are starting to see the fact that
 This is something happening outside of your property that will help the neighborhood, and it's worth your money. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you for being here. We appreciate it. Next three, please. The last person I chose, Rebecca Hamilton. Did you want to say something on the record as well? Good morning. Good morning. My name is – do we want to – I'm okay right now. Thank you so much. Thanks. Sorry.
 good morning my name is rebecca hamilton i live in north portland but i am an advocate for safe places to walk and rule in our city and i'm a member of the pedestrian advisory committee although today i'm here just representing myself
 So I'm here to ask for your support of the proposed LID for transportation improvements in Southeast Mill and 80th Avenue, and particularly the amendment that extends the LID to Southeast Grant. The project would create safe, connected walking routes to two significant institutions, Bridger Elementary and the Slavic Church Emanuel. And it would connect with improvements made by PCC earlier, so we could create a complete network of sidewalks in this neighborhood.
 Coordinating these transportation projects with planned sewer projects creates an opportunity for huge cost savings on a sidewalk network that this neighborhood would have little chance of affording on its own. Creating this LID and implementing these transportation projects now, when so much of the cost burden can be shared between bureaus, is possibly the only chance that this project could be done in the foreseeable future.
 So I certainly encourage you to allow the neighborhood to take advantage of this opportunity to build sidewalks for their kids at a price they could afford. I'd also like to encourage you to direct PBOT, BES, and the Parks Bureau to look for these cost-sharing opportunities or to take a look into why efforts to do that already, why they're not as effective as they could be.
 These opportunities save taxpayers money and they can make sidewalk infill projects possible in places where they would never otherwise happen. And finally, I'd like to share something with you. For over 25 years, the city has sponsored the Traffic and Transportation class. It's a class that was started by Earl Blumenauer with the goal of teaching citizens of Portland how to be effective community advocates, how to work cooperatively with government and city staff
 to implement needed transportation projects in their neighborhood. I'm a graduate of the class myself and I've been volunteering with the class for several years. So I wanted to let you know that one of the students, Amy Ren, a resident of Montevilla and a graduate of last year's class, was a driving force in bringing this project here today and in organizing her neighborhood to get behind this project.
 So I just wanted to let you know that your continued investment in educating the citizens of Portland and productive civic engagement through the traffic and transportation class continues to pay dividends. So in conclusion, please support the LID, particularly its extension down to Grant, so that we can make a complete sidewalk network in this neighborhood.
 Let's actively look for these opportunities for cost sharing through inter-bureau coordination, and let's keep supporting public education in productive, cooperative citizen engagement. Ms. Hamilton, I want to do just a quick shout-out for a former colleague. When Steve Novick had PBOT,
 and he hired Leah, this was very high on their radar, this idea of collaboration with BES. And I'm very pleased that you also, in your testimony, acknowledged the benefit to rate payers of aligning the work. So it's a win-win. And Andrew will tell us otherwise, but the senior –
 CIP managers have been directed to look for these opportunities. We'll make sure that we're doing it at a high enough level. But this is now our third or fourth year of this being baked into PBOT and BES looking for these opportunities. But we'll follow it to make sure that we're seizing every opportunity. Thank you. And Parks Test 2. Thank you, everybody who testified. Please call the roll. Uda Lee.
 I just want to clarify for people in the room that my concern I expressed has nothing to do with my support of this LID. It's obviously a really excellent opportunity for the neighborhood. It's just that when we talk about increasing property values, we have to talk about the potential for displacement. And we're about, I hope we're about to adopt a comprehensive plan that includes 11 anti-displacement measures.
 which is wonderful. I'm just concerned about how we continue to be held accountable for those. So I'm happy to vote aye. Fritz? Usually when people stay two hours beyond the time that they're, actually two and a half hours beyond the time that their item was scheduled to be discussed, it's because they're furious and want to speak against it. So I really thank you very much for still being here at 12.30, particularly our
 representative from the Western Advisory Council, to live in a different neighbourhood and come and say, what a good project this is, I think is evidence that people of Portland care about each other. I live in deep southwest Portland, and I've served on the council now for almost nine years.
 Deep South West has similar streets compared with East Portland, very few sidewalks, despite Andrew's best efforts to remedy that situation to the extent that can happen. I've never seen a local improvement district that is more commendable or more needed. I mean, particularly the frontage of the school being in such terrible shape. How did this not happen before? It's crazy.
 That's a question. I also want to commend a former Portland Commission on Disability Commissioner, Sue Stahl, who used a mobility device and was very active in promoting accessibility in the built environment, and I'm sure this is something that gives her pleasure even now. And I also thank Andrew Abbey.
 We should not consign people to live on third world streets for fear that their property values will go up. We want people in all parts of the city to have safe, accessible streets and to have access to opportunities that create a better life and a better future for them and others. Aye. Well, another superb piece of work by Andrew Abbey.
 I'm very proud of the work that BES and PBOT do to coordinate these projects. It was not always the case. I want to thank the folks who took three hours out of their life or more to be here. We ought to have a system that says if you get heard at least two hours, if you get heard two hours over a time certain, we should pick up your parking tickets. But I don't have PBOT in my portfolio. And, you know, I have a 13-year-old at home.
 We're very lucky. His safe route to school is crossing the street in front of our apartment building and getting on a bus. And so I know he's safe going and coming. But looking at these pictures, this is not acceptable to our city, that young people have to dodge puddles and streams and other kinds of things and other safety hazards. So this is a great project, and I'm very pleased to support it.
 We can quibble about the data, and I'll always raise questions about data, but that's the minor point here.
 The larger point here is we have neighborhood streets and sidewalks, as Andrew said, that are not safe, and they are not up to standard, and they are not acceptable to this council, and they're not acceptable to the community. So we need to find creative ways to be able to address these issues. And as has been stated by all of my colleagues, the larger issue here is safety.
 particularly for kids who are making their way to school. That is the larger issue and the more important issue. Andrew, as always, you're a diplomat and a statesman with a withering attention to the details and an ability to bring people together to support these kinds of transactions. And I know having heard you discuss other maybe more contentious issues,
 LIDs. This one is really masterful work. I want to acknowledge the Portland Public School System for their efforts and contributions to this as well, and the Bureau of Transportation, and Commissioner Saltzman, who couldn't be here today, but I want to acknowledge his leadership on this important issue as well. This is a good roadmap.
 for other LID discussions and partnerships around this kind of improvement in the parts of our community that desperately need it. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Colleagues, we're now into the speed dating portion of our agenda. Could you please, Carla, read items 1335, 1336, and 1337 together?
 1335, appoint Thomas J. John to the Portland Code Board of Appeal for a term to expire November 28, 2020. 1336, appoint Robert Bruin to the Electrical Code Board of Appeal for a term to expire November 28, 2020. 1337.
 And 1337, appoint Terry Glenn to the River Community Advisory Committee for a term to expire November 8, 2020. Colleagues, I have invited all three of these appointees to attend today. All three had hardships.
 Well, I'm your staff. Well, okay. Let me get through this, and we'll see what we need. They all had hardships related to their employment, and we know that that is an important consideration. Or opportunities. Or an opportunity, yes. However, they have all provided me brief statements, and I'd like to read these both in terms of what they do and why. Okay.
 The Building Code Board of Appeal, here's building code issues that are appealed beyond the Bureau Development Services Administrative Appeals Board. The BDS Administrative Appeals Board consists of the building official and managers and staff from BDS, the Portland Fire and Rescue, while the Building Code Board of Appeals consists of private industry professionals from a variety of designated backgrounds. The board provides an alternative.
 to appealing code issues directly to the state. Thomas Wan is recommended to fill an alternate position fulfilling the membership category of builder. So he is qualified as a builder, and that is why he is being appointed.
 The Electrical Code Board of Appeal hears electrical code issues that are appealed beyond the BDS Administrative Appeals Board. It consists of private industry professionals from a variety of designated backgrounds as well. The board provides an alternative to appealing code decisions directly to the state. Robert, is it Bruhn?
 It's a Breeny. Breen, sorry. Is recommended to fill the membership category of journeyman electrician, which is what he is, and therefore is being appointed. The River Community Advisory Committee advises and assists BDS with development procedures and administrative guidelines for implementing Title 28, the city's code on floating structures. And I assume that means docks. Yes.
 Is that right? What's a floating structure? It's docks. It's also floating homes. Very good. And anything that would support in a marina. Excellent. The committee consists of industry professionals and floating structure community members. Terry Glenn is recommended for appointment filling a yacht club member membership category. So that's it. I'll turn it over to you if there's anything else to add. I don't have anything to add. No.
 You said what I was going to say. All of the commissions serve three-year terms, and we're slowly but surely getting these commissions, their membership up. They were not fully...
 Staffed is not the right word, but we didn't have all the positions filled for a while, so we're slowly getting that up to the required number of positions. Great. So if I'm at home and I'm listening and I'm so bored I'm watching the Portland City Council on television, I'm thinking, wow, I really could be on one of these boards. Where does one go in order to apply? One can call the Bureau of Development Services. We have several different boards and commissions, and they're all staffed by different managers. So you would want to just get in touch with BDS, and we can put you in touch with BDS.
 list of all of our commissions and the contact person appropriate commissioner fritz they could also call 823-4000 and the staff at the information referral line would help them we do now have a coordinated application within the office of
 neighborhood involvement. So that's hopefully going to be a way to make it easier for community members to apply and for staff to process those applications. That's great. Great. Any further questions? I'll accept a motion on 1335. I'll accept a motion on 1336. Did you second that, Commissioner Udaly? Second. Thank you. I moved them all. Thank you. I'll second them all. Perfect. Please call the roll on 1335, Carla.
 Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for being here. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. The nomination is accepted. 1336. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Mayor, I understand your reasoning for putting these on the regular agenda. I did wonder about the 15 minutes requested for each of them. I thought that was a bit generous. That was generous. Agreed. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The report is accepted and the appointment is accepted. 1337, please. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted and the appointments are all approved. Thank you to our appointees and thank you for bringing us some very good people. Next up is 1339. Okay.
 Otherwise, amend contract with Radler White Parks and Alexander LLP to extend expiration date and increase contract amount by $150,000 to provide additional on-call legal assistance to the Spectator Venues Program. Good morning. Good morning. Susan Hartnett, Spectator Venues Program Manager.
 It's a little close. The contract in front of you is actually a contract with the city attorney's office, but the costs are paid out of the spectator venue program, less my appearance in front of you. This contract provides outside legal support for our work
 to amend the agreements related to Providence Park, the city's stadium, in relationship to the planned expansion, which you will be hearing more about next week. We are looking to add dollars to the contract, $150,000. We're also looking to extend it until June 30, 2019.
 which will get us through the anticipated two-year construction. We're not expecting that there will be any legal issues during that period of time, but we figured we might as well provide that capacity within the contract. So it's a pretty straightforward amendment to an existing contract. I'm happy to answer any questions. Colleagues, any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Eudaly? Thanks for being here. Aye. Aye.
 Well, obviously, we need to have good counsel to help us get to the end of this contract. It is unfortunate that the other party was not able to help us get to a speedier conclusion. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. 1340, please.
 Accept amendment four of contract number 30005394, which states the guaranteed maximum price of $147,350,000 from Howard S. Wright Construction Company for the Portland Building Design Build Relocate Project. Colleagues, we're here to review and accept the guaranteed maximum price contract number
 amendment for the Howard S. Wright contract to reconstruct the Portland building across the street. The project is on budget with the total holding at $195 million as set by the council in 2015.
 Howard S. Wright has started construction, and this amendment will guarantee they deliver this project as defined in the contract documents for a maximum of $147,350,000. This includes the scope already completed, such as the design, pre-construction services, and build-out, and move to the temporary locations, as well as the construction for the Portland building and the move back in for the employees.
 The City is directly contracting and providing services which make up the remaining portion of the project, such as the owner's representative, project management, specialty consultants, telecommunications, leases, and utilities. The $195 million budget also includes additional owner-controlled contingencies to manage any unforeseen incidents
 conditions currently not in the defined contract documents with Howard S. Wright. Joining us today is obviously our Chief Administrative Officer, Tom Reinhart. Good morning, Tom. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, Council. For the record, Tom Reinhart, CAO. We're asking Council to accept the guaranteed maximum price today. I think the Mayor did a fine job outlining it. And now that this is, I think, the fourth consecutive time that I've been in front of this body over the lunch hour in which you are –
 fatigued. I'm just going to do a very brief overview. The budget has two primary sections, the contract with Howard S. Wright and then the owner's responsibilities and we are the owner. So the way to understand guarantee maximum price in my opinion is that now we have a contractual arrangement which cannot be exceeded which guarantees that the city's risks on the hard construction costs are borne by the contractor.
 To reiterate one point that the mayor said that's important, we did shift some of the technology work, some of the temporary space costs and other costs from the owner's responsibility to Howard S. Wright, which is why the original cost is a little higher, but we are still tracking below the $195 million budget item.
 We're on track for LEED Gold certification. We have very aggressive equity goals, which I know I briefed all your staffs on, and the Community Oversight Committee continues to do an excellent job working with myself and my team to unearth issues and address them as they come up. Happy to answer any questions that you might have. Tom, this is like mind-bogglingly detailed stuff here about all the systems. Thank you.
 At some point subsequent to the hearing today, could you just send me an email telling me where we would find the key references to the work we're doing on all the upgrades to the restrooms? Absolutely. And one point I want to make on the complexity is that we also have lists of literally hundreds and hundreds of items that if we do need to tap into contingency, we'll be up for consideration. So I'm confident the team has looked at every potential item that could be reduced if we need to do that to stay under your budget direction.
 Tom, thanks for watchdogging this and keeping it on time and on budget. It's a lot of work to go. You're welcome. Thank you. Anything else, colleagues? This is a report. I'll accept the motion. I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll call. You daily. Well, thank you, Tom, and good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Commissioner. Aye. I stand corrected. I was actually thinking it's the mark of an excellent staff person to say good morning when your boss says good morning when it's 10 o'clock to 1. So nicely played. Thank you very much for your work on this. Aye. Thank you. Fish. I was actually going to take you to task today, because the other day I walked across the street, tried to get in the building, and someone had put up a wooden wall. What the hell is going on here?
 They won't let me in either, Commissioner, if that's any consolation. It probably isn't. You keep better company. Thanks to your good work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The procurement report is accepted. Thanks to your great work. Last but not least, item 1341. Accept bid of Wildish Standard Paving Company for the Virgard Lumber at North Time Oil Road project for $1,754,560. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Wildish Standard Paving Company for the Burgard Lombard North Time Oil Road Project, $1,754,559.53.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $2,635,000. The Bureau's confidence level was high. On May 24, 2017, Council approved the ordinance number 188382 for procurement services to competitively solicit this project. I'm not going to go through the name again.
 The project was advertised on the city's electronic procurement system. Bids were opened October 24, 2017. Three bids were received. And Wildish Standard Paving Company is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,754,559.53. This is 33.4% under the original engineer's estimate, which in today's bidding climate is quite a surprise, a pleasant one.
 The project is a federally funded highway project, and as such, the city's standard goals of 20% for disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses is not applicable. Federal projects recognize the DBE or Disadvantaged Business Enterprise certification only. The Oregon Department of Transportation, as the grantor or project manager, fund manager, assigns a goal to the project for the disadvantaged business enterprises.
 This project had a goal of 10%, which is actually higher than our normal goals. We usually see goals in between like 4% and 8% as they come forward from ODOT. And PBOT's been asking for higher goals, and they've gotten them. This one, we got 10%, which, like I said, is kind of a – for ODOT to give us 10% is kind of significant.
 There is a total of $423,910, 24.1% committed subcontractor participation for the project, of which $176,400, or 10.05%, is committed to five disadvantaged business enterprises.
 While the standard paving is located in Eugene, Oregon, they are not a certified disadvantaged minority women or emerging small business contractor. They do have a current City of Portland tax registration account, and they are in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. If council has any questions relative to the procurement process, I can answer those, or I believe Winston Sandino from PBOT is here. He said he was going to be here. He was. Okay. Okay.
 Well, I'll do my best. Normally, your excellent reports tell us exactly what was subcontracted out for the disadvantaged businesses, but this report doesn't. So can you tell me, A, why it didn't, and B, where is that? What kinds of work is being done? I can tell you the firm's.
 It does not specifically identify what their scope is. And is that because it's an Oregon Department of Transportation-led process or what? Well, yes. ODOT reviews all of the subcontractors as they're presented, the certified, the DBE-certified firms.
 They confirm their certification, put in everything in their format, and then we know exactly what is committed for the disadvantage, which is the only certification recognized. I can tell you that there is Chick of all trades, which generally speaking is flagging, Brothers Concrete Cutting.
 which seems kind of self-evident. Igami Construction, honestly, I don't know what their scope of work is. Bent Enterprises, same thing. And Faison Construction, whom we're familiar with, is in there too. The total there is, as I said, it's $176,400 between the five firms. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion. Moved to accept the report. Second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Fish seconds. Any further questions? Please call the roll.
 You daily? Thank you for the report. I am. Fritz. Thanks to both you and you for your perseverance and also the person who waited all morning. I saw you at the back. Would you like to just come up and...
 So we can thank you properly for being so patient and then needing to leave for two minutes. Give us your name for the record, please. Yes, Winston Sandino. I'm a project manager for PBOD. And thank you for being here. It's such a good project. We didn't need any. I have further questions, so I'm happy to vote aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Great report. Thank you, aye. The report's accepted. We're adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you very much. Didger, Warwick.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session in the council on December 13th, 2017. Carla, could you please call the roll? Udailey? Here. Fritz? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. And Commissioner Fritz indicated she will be here very shortly. Please call the first time certain item, item 1342. Thank you.
 Accept the City of Portland Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. So, Ken Rust and Michelle Kirby are here to talk about the annual, the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, which we all call the CAFR for short. Good morning, Ken. Good afternoon. What day is it? I'm totally confused already. Good afternoon, Ken.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. For the record, my name is Ken Rust, and I'm the city's chief financial officer and director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 Joining me this afternoon is City Controller Michelle Kirby, and we will be presenting to you today the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, or CAFR, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. And I know you're going to be asking yourself, didn't we have one of these presented to us already this year? And the answer is, yes, you did, but that was for the prior year.
 And we've been engaged in an initiative to produce the CAFR more timely. And the result of that is we actually get to present to you that CAFR in the calendar year in which we complete it. So, therefore, a unique event today. We're going to celebrate the fact that you get to hear two CAFR presentations in one calendar year. At this point, I'd like to have Michelle walk you through the findings of the CAFR and the process that we use to complete it.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. The preparation of the annual CAFR is quite an extensive process, which, as you can see by the photo here, takes many hands to make it a success. The Accounting Division of BRFS has the responsibility. BRFS? Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Thank you.
 has the responsibility of preparing the CAFR, ensuring its accuracy, and working with the auditors throughout the process. However, involvement is also needed from all the city bureaus, the city auditor's office, as well as our external auditors, Moss Adams, to ensure the timely, successful completion of this report.
 Several members of the accounting division team are here today, and if you would allow us, I'd like to recognize them for their hard work on this project. Please note it took five people to hold this report up. Yes, they will now stand so they can be identified. Thank you. Thank you for your hard work. Excellent job. I'll offer my colleagues $1 if they can tell me where this photograph is.
 It's taken from the – it's in the south waterfront, and it is taken from – The tram? No, it's not. It's the – I'm not throwing your lifeline. Do you want to shout out, call a friend? No, it'll come to me. It'll come to me. We're going to sit here all day and talk about this. Thank you.
 It's our new home, the 22nd floor of the Congress building, which has beautiful views. I lost. Okay. Well, I'm very pleased to be able to report to you that the June 30, 2017 CAFR was published on November 1st, or 120 days after fiscal year end. This marks the earliest CAFR completion date in recent city history.
 In fact, by working more efficiently, we've been able to reduce the time it takes to prepare the CAFR by 49 days over the last three years.
 The initiative to produce the CAFR within 120 days was a goal set by our CFO in the spring of 2015 to establish the city as leaders in financial reporting. And now we are within the top 10% of all local governments in terms of financial reporting excellence. So why is this important?
 Well, timeliness is a major objective of financial reporting, in that it ensures the information is relevant and useful for decision-making. Preparing the CAFR in less time also allows the accounting division to work on other important reporting initiatives, such as the popular annual financial report, or PAFR, which was produced for the first time last year.
 Now I'd like to discuss the highlights of the fiscal year 2016-17 CAFR. The good news is that our external auditors gave the city an unmodified or clean opinion and found no weaknesses or deficiencies in the city's accounting processes. In addition...
 The CAFR complies with state law, generally accepted accounting principles, fund balances continue to grow, and we received the Government Finance Officers Association Award for Excellence in Financial Reporting for the 36th consecutive year. Now, the not-so-good news is that our declining net position in governmental activities –
 During fiscal year 2016-17, the city's net position in the governmental activities area declined approximately $150 million, which brings it to a negative $1.6 billion.
 This negative trend is primarily the result of GASB accounting rules for pensions, but there are also other factors. And I'm now going to turn it back over to Ken, who will provide you with a more detailed assessment of the fund balance decline, the net position decline, excuse me, and the city's long-term financial health. Could you give me a couple of sentences, not the long version but the short version?
 in terms of the treatment of the pension liability. I assume you're referring to our unique pay-as-you-go system for police and fire, pension, and disability. Yes.
 Well, the city has two pensions that it has to record in the financial statements. The Oregon PERS is one, and the FPD&R, or fire and police, that you mentioned is the other one. And it is the larger factor. It's the largest factor of our liabilities because, like you said, of the unique funding. So could you again, and just put this in sort of an abridged version,
 with regard to the non-PERS pension liability, which is pay as you go. So there's really no risk of us not meeting that pension liability. And in my opinion, and I'm just one opinion, it does not jeopardize the overall financial standing of the, quote, corporation, unquote. How do they treat that liability? Okay.
 Maybe if you would indulge us, I'm going to walk us through that, and I think I will address all of that question and the various elements to that. And if I don't, certainly come back and ask me. Excellent. And this is actually a good segue, because...
 As Michelle indicated, we have this interesting anomaly on our financial statements, this real large negative net position. And I've presented this chart to you in past sessions when we presented the CAFR, and you can see this 10-year trend.
 Two major areas in which we're measuring net position, governmental activities, which is shown as the blue line on this chart, which is basically our general fund and transportation program. They're kind of governmental activities under our accounting rules. And then under our business activities or the orange line, if you think of the water utility and the wastewater utility, BES, those are our major enterprise business activities.
 Their net position is increasing over time, really reflecting the fact that they're spending a lot of money on capital, and it's not just all borrowed money, but they're actually adding ratepayer cash and equity into that capital investment. What you see with governmental activities is, in particular, the sharp drop in 2015, was we were required to put onto our balance sheet the full unfunded liability for all of our pensions, both PERS and FPDNR,
 And as I've discussed with you over the years, FPD&R is this interesting legacy pension system that probably no other government has quite like ours. We have a pension system for old plan members closed in 2006 when we reformed FPD&R.
 that requires us to pay pensions when they are due, not when those benefits are earned, like the rest of our system. So we don't put money away. The charter prohibits us specifically from putting money away. In fact, we can only maintain a reserve of $750,000. So we don't have assets that back the pension liability. What we do have is a dedicated property tax levy,
 that can be levied by the City Council up to a maximum of $2.80 per thousand dollars of real market value in the City of Portland.
 And what we have learned over time is that that tax levy has always been sufficient and generally much more sufficient than necessary to pay all the liabilities we do. And, in fact, the actuaries for the FD&R fund routinely analyze that levy and the capacity of that levy to fund all obligations when due.
 And what they have found through their extensive simulation processes is there's a very, very small probability that the levy would ever be insufficient. And, in fact, we know from our reform of FPD&R in 2006 that for a while we would be carrying basically the funding of two pension programs, the old pension program and all the new hires going into OPSERP or OPRS, the PRS system that a lot of our other employees are covered by.
 We knew we would be adding a little bit of cost to that levy, and it was a modest way to unwind that old plan. In about 2033, we hit a crossover point, and the levy requirements then declined and declined really for the rest of the forecast period.
 What that means is our period of risk is greatest between now and about 2033. And right now, we have way more capacity than needed to make good on those obligations. And as long as real market value continues to grow, as it has been, that capacity actually increases over time.
 The question you asked, Mayor, about our unique pension system and should we be worried about it, the answer is yes, we should be worried about it, but we've taken the steps necessary to reform that plan. And that's one of the interesting things about the view of net position is if you look at this, you have a billion six negative, the city's a AAA bond-rated credit.
 How does that work? And it works because the rating agencies and others look beyond just the presentation of net position in the CAFR to the kinds of things that we have that aren't captured by standard GASB and GAAP accounting to understand whether we have an...
 a problem in our ability to pay all of our costs and liabilities when due. So those are some of the interactions that's going on. So this chart is something that we've been showing you and presenting, I think, for the last three or four years. So, Ken, again, just because we have a new council and we've had this conversation in past years, so we have a unique pay-as-you-go system, which when the –
 when these new rules kicked in, required us to show it as unfunded, which was a drag on our net position. But it may be unfunded, but it's not unsecured. That's correct. It's secured against the assets of the city. So why isn't there a compensatory asset or security position shown to net that out?
 That's a very good question. Under GASB accounting rules, Governmental Accounting Standard Board accounting rules that we're required to follow, they don't allow the recognition of that tax levy and the future value of that tax levy to be placed as an asset, if you will, on our balance sheet. And so I'm going to walk you through a couple things that I think are really important to kind of get to your question is, because at the crux of it, I think what's
 This is a very big negative number, but at the end of the day, is it impairing our ability to deliver, not just meet that obligation, but to deliver other services as well? So I want to provide a little bit of a framework how I've thought about it and how we get to the point of what we really should be focused on and worrying about.
 And the next chart really talks about what affects net position. And again, net position is basically assets minus liabilities. And there's a couple other adjustments to it, but that's basically what it is. So what are the factors that decrease our net position? And by that, revenues are less than expenses on a generally accepted accounting principles basis. Okay.
 So the things that can result in our net position declining is we have increases in pensions and other similar liabilities. That increases or decreases net position. We increase bonds payable without an offsetting asset, and we've done some of those transactions. I'm going to talk with you a little bit about that.
 Or we have non-cash expenses like depreciation that affect our income statement, if you will, but they contribute to expenses exceeding revenue. So these are the kinds of things that can result in us on a GASB gap measurement basis having expenses exceed revenues.
 On the other side of the equation is what can actually increase our net position? So the things that can increase our net position are things like external grants. If we got a grant to build a capital asset, the asset's on our balance sheet, but we don't have a liability, that increases our net position. If we fund capital improvements from current revenues, that helps to increase our net position. We have an asset, no liability. Or if surplus revenues are simply held,
 we maintain them in a fund balance, that increases our net position. So that's some of the dynamics that are going on here. And so what we've seen over time is that the things that have really driven up the increase and the decline in net position has been our pension liabilities,
 and basically are under investment in things like transportation assets. Last year, for the fiscal year, we actually ended up on a governmental activity basis with investments in capital assets exceeding depreciation. That's the first time that's happened in a while. But we still had more depreciation of PBOT assets than we put in the ground by about $100 million.
 $19, $20 million. So we're still under-investing, even though we were net positive on our capital investment side. So these are some of the dynamics that are going on. And what I've shared with you in the past is that trying to figure out what we should worry about, I think, requires us to restate the net position calculation to take into account some of these unique positives that the city enjoys. So, for example, I've taken those same net position figures, and for governmental activities, I've taken those same net position figures, and for governmental activities, I've taken
 I've added back the value of the net pension liability for FPD&R. Why? We have a dedicated property tax levy that is available to pay that. It's always been sufficient. Our actuaries tell us that it has a very, very high degree of probability of always being sufficient. I deem that as something that should be treated as an asset, and so I've adjusted net position accordingly.
 I've added back the value of tax increment debt incurred in our urban renewal districts that does not result in us getting an asset back. So what happens in urban renewal, the city is the bond issuer, and those bond liabilities sit on the city's balance sheet. But what do we do with that money?
 We give the money to Prosper Portland, and they execute the urban renewal plans. We estimate that 75% of that liability is – we get about 25% back as a city asset, but 75% is on their books or elsewhere. But the creation of the urban renewal district means we get a stream of revenue to pay –
 those bonds and so therefore, and it can only be used for those bonds, so therefore there really isn't any impairment or inability to service that debt. I think it's a reasonable thing to adjust net position accordingly. And then finally we've done transactions where we enter into agreements with other governments and we have given, for example, Metro, we gave them $100 million to expand the convention center. In exchange we were made part of an agreement where we get tax revenues from the county to pay debt service on those bonds. That
 those intergovernmental revenues aren't treated as an asset, but the assets allow us to service the liability, and I think it's fair to take that one off. So when you do this adjustment, what you find is that our net position in governmental activities has been relatively stable, and overall, when you combine that with the business activity growth, you see a slight increase in net position over time, and I think that that's a more fair reflection of,
 of our financial condition and strength, and it also squares up better with the way outsiders view us when they take into account these kinds of factors, people like rating agencies and investors, et cetera. Ken, how many other cities have a pension system like ours which creates such an anomaly?
 I don't know that there is one. If there is, it's nothing of the magnitude of Portland. I've talked with the rating analysts from the rating agencies and asked that question. They can never give me an example. And then the second question is, if we're already qualifying for AAA credit or close to AAA credit in key categories, isn't that in some ways –
 the best indicator of how third-party evaluators view our balance sheet.
 I think it's a very important indicator. Now clearly, you know, people have raised issues about the the accuracy of those ratings. It wasn't that long ago in 2008 where there was a lot of things that were rated AAA that ended up not performing very well. But I think on the municipal side there's a general understanding and agreement that those ratings are valuable and they are a pretty good assessment of the credit worthiness and ability to pay obligations when due. And I think that
 what they do, and I know I've talked with them, is that they make these kinds of adjustments and calculations. They well understand the FPD&R liability, and they're not worried about it. And the reason why they're not worried about it is because of the tax levy that backs it and the capacity of that tax levy to be sufficient over time. So I think that the credit rating is a good assessment, and I think when you adjust our net position to take into account things that we aren't allowed to capture under GASB accounting, it starts to
 to give you a better idea of our credit strength and our financial condition at the moment. Now, that doesn't mean we don't have some issues, and I think we need to be aware of that, and that's always where I get this, well, what does all this mean and what should we do? Well, I think we need to be aware of that.
 What we want to make sure is that we focus on the right things. And I think if you just looked at net position without any adjustment, you'd think we should be dealing with FPDNR because clearly that's the thing that's driving this so far negative. And the answer is there's nothing to do with FPDNR. We've done that. We're monitoring it.
 And that's not the worry area. The worry area for us really is our underinvestment in capital assets. And when we start tearing apart and teasing out some of this information, we start to see that that's the one area that systemically is creating a negative and a draw on our net position, and that's something that we need to focus on. And, frankly, that's something the council has been focusing on quite a bit over the last couple of years.
 What I've been trying to do, and we've had a really good conversation and kind of a segue of, well, what does all this mean and what should we do and how are we doing long term, is I prepared this fiscal health snapshot a couple of presentations ago, a way to think about some of the big financial issue areas that we're dealing with and how well we're dealing with them now and what that future looks like. And I broke it down into three categories.
 long-term liabilities in the form of PERS, FD&R, and other post-employment benefits that we're obligated to pay, our infrastructure liabilities in the utility area, in parks, and in public safety and housing, and then our legacy liabilities like Portland Harbor and the levy system, and then employee costs.
 And you can see my assessment of them currently and into the future. And, frankly, this is the same picture that I share with you on February 1st of this year. I don't really see much change. You'll note that I have PERS as a red indicator. And, frankly, I was concerned about that. I'm even more worried about it now. PERS, year over year on our financials, the net pension liability is up $340 million, and it's going to go higher.
 And just as a general rule of thumb, for every $100 million increase in that unfunded liability, that's about a $10 million increase in payroll costs. Forty percent comes to the general fund. That's $4 million. So 3.4 times that, you can see maybe $12 million more cost coming our way with PERS. And the thing about PERS is it's dependent on investment earnings. We had a change in the assumed earnings rate that –
 increase the liability to us because it was actually recognizing that long term they might not earn as much money. But those are the things that we have to pay attention to, and there's not much we can do about it. The FPDR, on the other hand, we understand very well, and we know that we have enough capacity to pay for it. I have that in green status, and as long as our tax system stays stable, I'm not too worried about that.
 We've talked about infrastructure financing. Utilities are doing well. They have big obligations. We have regulatory requirements to meet. But I'm pretty comfortable that those kinds of obligations will be met, and we've got a plan for it. Can I just ask you about that? Yes. We've had this conversation every year about whether we need a fourth color. And the point that I would make is that according to the auditor's annual survey –
 just if you look at BES, something like 60 to 70 percent of the assets are in good or better condition. So that's a good trend line. They've got dedicated revenue from a, you know, in terms of their financing model. And the council has agreed to a strategic plan for BES in particular, which promises over 10 years to maybe get to fully sustainable infrastructure. Okay.
 Is it still yellow on the future outlook because you're discounting the possibility that we get stuck with another LT2 or some unanticipated cost? I think where I'm at, why it's still yellow, I think for BES the shade is closer to green. Although the rates and charges, I'd like to see them trending down in close to inflation levels, and we're getting there. But we're not there yet. Okay.
 On the water side, we're now starting the ramp up with compliance with the treatment facility. So I think that they over the last year might have got a little further away from green and they're still in yellow status. So if I was going to add another color, I'd probably add purple because of the concern I have about PERS. I'd make it even as deep a color as I could. What percentage of payroll is PERS? And I understand FPD&R is the lion's share of pension.
 What percentage of payroll is PERS right now? What do you project it to be? As you're asking, I'm trying to do the mental calculation. It gets a little more complicated because we have debt service on pension obligation bonds that fold into that. Could you get that to me? I can get the number for you. I would expect it's in the 20% range plus. Okay. And if you could get me the current and the projected, given the current return assumptions. Yes.
 So bottom line is that we, as good as we're doing at the moment, we have many challenges in front of us, and we shouldn't forget about that. And, you know, we got them in the area of long-term liabilities, infrastructure, and we're making a lot of improvement there. And, for example, things like Build Portland are helpful. They will improve the investment in infrastructure, but they're not going to help our net position, because if we borrow for those improvements, we're going to have an asset offset by a liability. Net position won't get better, but our assets will certainly be better.
 So, you know, what I've talked with you about in the past is that we basically have a math problem. Our expenses operating in capital are growing faster than revenues, and that's been the case for a while. So we know that that's kind of a systemic issue that we're facing, and we're looking at it right now. Here we are, the best revenue picture in the city's history, and we're in a position where we're looking for reductions in revenues.
 from bureaus in order to balance all the needs that we have, operating costs, capital costs, and new programs. So, you know, you are wrestling with that, we're wrestling with that, but we're going to have to be mindful of that because if we don't and try to bring that into a better balance through a combination of more revenue, less cost, those kinds of things,
 we do risk running into a position where we could be impairing not just our current financial well-being, but the financial well-being of the future of the city. And I think that's the important takeaway, is that we need to be constantly mindful of some of the systemic issues that we're wrestling with. You know, in summary...
 Michelle talked a little bit about what the CAFR presented to you. We're in full compliance with all of our required accounting and standards. We have an unqualified or unmodified opinion. Our financial position is strong. Fund balances are growing. But we do have issues that affect our long-term health that we have to pay attention to. We have a track record of doing that, and I know that that's what's going to provide us the capacity to deal with that going forward.
 That really is the story. It's the same story we've been telling you, and it's a continuation of that story. But if you would indulge me for a few minutes, this is the last time I'm going to get the chance to talk to you in my capacity as the city's chief financial officer. And I'd like to conclude the presentation with some thoughts about the financial operations of the city and what I've been able to help contribute to over my career.
 Over the past few months, I've had a chance to reflect on the more than 35 years that I've been working for the city in a variety of capacities on a broad range of projects and programs. One area that I'm really the most proud of is the contribution that I have made to growing and improving the city's financial management capacity, particularly in three foundational areas that I'd like to discuss with you today.
 First, I'm really proud of the city's financial and policy framework that I inherited, an edifice that was built by my predecessors and mentors, people like Mark Gardner, Steve Bauer, David Smith, Tim Grew, and others. They laid down its initial underpinnings and structure and taught me what it takes to maintain, improve, and protect it. While the names of these individuals, soon to be joined by myself, will fade and be forgotten,
 I'm confident that the financial foundation and legacy of excellence that has been created will endure and continue to guide the city's decision-making. I want to acknowledge the vital role that you, the City Council, and the Council members that preceded you have played in the city's financial success. Without your willingness to support the development, adoption, and implementation of sound financial policies and practices, the city would be facing a far different financial future.
 Balancing the wants and needs of our community within the fiscal boundaries that we operate within, it's never easy. However, when faced with the truly tough financial decisions, you have always erred on the side of financial prudence. And for that, I'm deeply appreciative. I also want to recognize the important role that our internal and external auditors play in reviewing our financial practices and performance, identifying issues and weaknesses when they occur, and recommending ways in which we can improve.
 While we may not always agree on every issue we're finding or how best to proceed, I do know that our auditors are motivated to help the city continue improving its financial performance. Second, I'm proud to have helped maintain and improve the city's credit ratings, which are critically important to the city's financial operations and are integral to almost everything we do. Credit ratings are a shorthand way for finance professionals like myself to measure how well we're doing, as it provides an independent assessment or grading of our work.
 Early in my career when visiting Moody's Investor Services offices in New York on credit rating visits, I was struck by the artwork that adorned their entryway to their building at 99 Church Street in Lower Manhattan. An imposing metal frieze depicting two allegorical figures standing atop the inscription, Credit, Man's Confidence in Man.
 The City's credit ratings reflect the confidence that external parties place in the City's financial integrity and its capacity to honor and fulfill its financial obligations, in good times and bad. When I started working for the City, it had already earned its AAA bond rating, and we have never lost that rating while I've been charged with its management. In fact, during my watch, the City has never had a downgrade of any of its direct credit ratings.
 We've achieved numerous credit ratings upgrades, but never a downgrade, even during times of tax law and legislative changes, recessions, great recessions, and citizen initiatives that threatened our fiscal health and stability. The city has fulfilled and continues to fill that underlying credit premise, man's confidence in man, and has earned the financial integrity that comes with it.
 Lastly, I am proud to have worked with so many dedicated and talented finance managers, bureau directors, city attorneys, and staff over the course of my career, and for the opportunity to help grow, develop, and lead the city's financial services. Since returning to the city in 2014, I have been committed to creating a high-performing financial services organization and establishing the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services as the trusted advisor and voice on city financial matters.
 With the support of my Bureau colleagues, each of whom has my deepest respect and appreciation, I believe I've achieved that goal. With a solid foundation in place, I am confident that the city will continue the strong financial management that supports all that we do to serve the citizens of Portland. Looking back on my career at the city, it surprises and humbles me to see all the things that I've been part of, made more special by the fact that I was born and grew up in Portland. I am proud to have been part of making Portland a better place for Portlanders.
 And I'm proud to be a public servant. Thank you for your support and for the opportunity to serve the city of Portland. Ken, thank you. And I know everybody up here wants to say something as well. Why don't we accept the report and dispense with the business? So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the report, please call the roll. Udailey? Okay.
 Well, thank you for the report, and I'm sad that I haven't gotten to pick your brain more this year, but maybe I'll be able to do that even after you're gone, depending on where you're headed. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you for the report. It is sobering news in some ways that we do need to continue figuring out how we're going to pay for the obligations in the years to come. Thank you for your work making that more likely and more possible. Thank you for all you've taught me over the last nine years. I half expected you to end your speech with, and for this reason I am filing for Commissioner Saltzman's seat, because it would be a solid resume for any...
 ongoing service to know what you've done for the city of Portland. And you actually can have the dollars and cents to prove it. So I'm very glad that I've had the opportunity to work with you, and I wish you all the best. Hi. Fish. Well, Ken, I want to join my colleagues in thanking you for your public service. We live in a time when public service has been degraded and attacked, the very idea of public service.
 And yet, when you think about it, if it were not for people like you and for governmental institutions, people would not get the services that they've come to expect. And the confidence that people have in their government is, in large part, a reflection of the confidence they have in the systems that are set in place. I think Commissioner Fritz would join me in the following sentiment, that during our service together – I've served a little over nine years. She's serviced almost nine years –
 There have been a number of reforms that have been adopted during our tenure, which I think we would both agree have had a significant impact on improving the quality of the work that we do and the improved public attitudes towards our city and other things. And for me, three of the top reforms are creating an independent budget office,
 supporting the independence of the elected auditor and reestablishing the chief financial officer position and making sure that that office was independent and reported both to the CAO and to the city, excuse me, to the council. And I think those three reforms have had and will continue to have a significant impact on the very issues you've addressed in your farewell address.
 I will say on a personal note that I can think of only a couple times in my service where I was undecided on an issue.
 And the last person I spoke to was the person that convinced me that I should go back to my basic instinct on something. And on a very high-profile issue that we will not belabor publicly, you were the last person I spoke to. You gave me very candid, direct advice about the financial implications of a big issue before the council. And because of my great respect for you, it was the tipping point in causing me to get to a point where I could not support the then proposal.
 We owe you a great debt of gratitude. I wanted to ask you before you lost the mic, outside of PERS, what's going to keep you up at night? But I think from the chart and all those red lines, I think I know what's going to keep you up at night. But we owe you an enormous debt of gratitude for your work. And just speaking as one commissioner that's had a chance to work with you on some very challenging issues, it's been an absolute pleasure. So thank you very much. Bye. Okay.
 Long before I had the privilege of working directly with you, Ken, I heard about you from a number of people. And as people may remember, maybe they don't, I actually used to have another job with the state for six years as the state's treasurer.
 And during that time, PERS was very much front and center. My piece of that puzzle was really the investment side of the equation and making sure that our pension system continued to get the top returns amongst our peers in the United States, which we did then and which we continue to do to this day.
 But the reality is the structure of the pension system is very problematic when we look at long-term liabilities and we look at what it does to school district and county and municipal government budgets.
 It is a problem that has not been fully addressed and which must be fully addressed for the sake of all of the services that we provide that the community expects and wants us to provide, not just here in Portland but all around the state.
 And on a whole host of issues, your name would always come up as somebody who I should speak to, who I should consult with, as somebody who is trusted both amongst professionals in the finance community as well as people who were maybe laymen. And your job is a unique one and has been a unique one in that you walk in both worlds. You don't get to just go.
 and talk to the people at Moody's and have very cerebral technical conversations around bond ratings or unfunded liability or whatever, you also then have to come into this chamber and work with all of us. And we have varying degrees of technical expertise on the matters which you have outlined today. And you have to explain it to the public. And explaining some of this complex financial stuff,
 to the public, it's time-consuming and it can be frustrating, but you've done it with aplomb and directness. You've worked for the city for 20 years. You've provided sterling public service. And I will tell you, I understand people retire or people move on to other parts of their lives, and they should and you should, and you have lots of potential in really any direction you want to go. I will miss you.
 and this institution will miss you, and the shoes that are left to be filled in your absence are substantial. And I'm just going to put out your summary as where you think we should be going and what you think we should be putting front and center, and I want to assure you I will continue to fight hard on all of those issues to make sure that we address these issues. One final thought.
 The finance shop, and I guess I'm speaking broadly to your colleagues as well, is largely invisible to the rest of the world. I felt that way when I was the state treasurer. You know, I'd sit there in my office and I'd wait for people to come and visit. And, you know, nobody ever would.
 So he ran for mayor. He wanted a little more attention. He wanted a little more action. A little more action. But the truth is, it's one of those roles. It's like the backbone to a body. It's critical, but you don't know it's there until you've cracked it. And the same is true with financial services and the financial operations of the city government. What you do is critically important. It's the backbone. It's...
 The revenues, it's the support for our bonding mechanism. It's our ability to pay for capital construction projects and other improvements. And nobody notices it until it's on the front page of the paper. And believe you me, there is never any article going, oh, my God, can you believe it? For the 17th year in a row, the city of Portland has a AAA bond rating. Read below. Nobody cares. Yes.
 But the minute that bond rating is squandered and the cost to taxpayers for every capital construction project goes up substantially, then people are going to notice and they're going to care. And you always operated as though you clearly understood that it's not just about the cost.
 the ledgers and the spreadsheets and the pro formas, you understood that what's represented in those numbers and those columns and those complex calculations is our ability to serve the most vulnerable people in this community. That's what was at stake, and you got it. And, boy, will I miss you. Great job. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thanks for your service. And to all of you in the finance arena, thank you for your service as well. Next up, 1343. Okay.
 Results of financial audit of the City Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for Fiscal Year 2016-17 and related communications. Madam Auditor, good afternoon. Mayor and Commissioners, I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, and it is my pleasure today to introduce Jim Lanzarota and Fiona Howell-Earl.
 Mr. Lanzarota is a partner in the accounting firm Moss Adams, which audited the city's fiscal 2017 financial statements. Ms. Hal Earl is a principal management auditor in my office, and she oversees the city's accounting contract and acts as the liaison between Moss Adams and city bureaus. These statements are important resources for community members, taxpayers, investors, and decision makers to understand what fiscal shape the city is in at a moment in time.
 Once management has prepared the financial statements, federal and Oregon law and city charter require an independent audit be conducted to determine if the public can reasonably be assured that they fairly represent the financial position of the city. It's important to note what financial audits don't do. They do not provide opinions on whether the city is spending appropriately, making good decisions, or what the long-term future may hold.
 We have to rely on other types of assessments to determine the answers to those questions. So Jim is going to present the audit results now, and Fiona is also available to answer any questions that you have. Mayor Wheeler, fellow council members, thanks for the opportunity to come before you and present the results. Wow, hard to follow that.
 I'm kind of reminded of a few years ago presenting to Metro. We do Metro's audit as well. And I followed a group of about six fifth grade girls who had just completed an amazing science project to deal with a problem in our landfill, styrofoam. They'd come up with a solution that ate styrofoam so that it wouldn't stay in our landfills. And I had to follow that. And these fifth grade girls were eloquent students.
 and did an amazing job. And then I follow up with the audit results. I kind of feel that way a little bit, Ken, after following this discussion of a long and storied career for a pretty recognized finance professional across the nation, not just in Portland, Oregon. But anyway, I'll do the best I can. So obviously we performed an audit for the city. And I would say our audit could probably be broken down into about six phases for you.
 So the first phase, I think you have a pretty good understanding. An audit is that independent verification of the numbers that appear in these financial statements. How accurate is this? And does this contain all of the footnote disclosures and bells and whistles that are required by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board that Ken mentioned? So that's looking at source documents. That's talking directly with your bankers and custodians of your documents.
 Cash and investments, just talking with your legal counsel, and obviously looking at things that verify these numbers. A second phase, though, which may not be quite as evident, is that obviously it requires a lot of what we call internal controls. What are those checks and balances that management uses to ensure that they can put this document together accurately? Okay.
 We have an obligation to evaluate those. Are they properly designed? And, in fact, is management following those internal controls? So a second phase is doing that evaluation and then telling you if there are weaknesses. Are there things you need to be worried about in terms of their ability to get this right?
 A third phase, since you're an Oregon Municipal Corporation, you're required to follow a number of state laws. And I'm required to do testing of a few of those. There's about six or seven specific areas and two that we spend the most time. One is how well you administer the budget.
 So the public process to which you put your budget through, the changes to that budget after it's adopted, and so forth, is a big emphasis for us to determine how well you've done that. A second area is public purchasing. You know, that's a very transparent process, and you've got a whole department dedicated to procurement. A number of state laws there, we test that. And there's a number of other areas. So testing your compliance with certain state laws.
 A fourth area is in testing your compliance with federal grants. So as you know, you're very fortunate. You've got a number of folks here that write grants that help fund the various services that you provide. We have an obligation to do testing of those grant programs and make sure that, in fact, you are complying with the applicable requirements to those. Thank you.
 A fifth phase is really you have the staff, as Ken mentioned, and sought some recognition for the team of individuals here. You've got the people that put this document together. A lot of my brethren out there have to actually prepare this document in addition to auditing it.
 So we have the luxury of not preparing it in your case, thank goodness. So our role is to do that technical review. Does this match what we audited? And, in fact, is it meeting all those bells and whistles? And does it meet those additional requirements of that certificate of excellence that Michelle mentioned 36 years? 36 years in a row. That's pretty impressive. Okay.
 And then finally, a sixth phase is what I would just call reporting. So we do all this work, and we have an obligation to report to you the results. So you're helping me meet that kind of that final phase. All right, let's get to it. Actually, you've already heard the results, so this is rather anticlimactic. So on page 13 of this, you'll find...
 our opinion. And in technical terms, we call it an unmodified opinion. So basically, we did not have to modify it for any of the things that we identified through our audit process. And I think Michelle mentioned, we call it a clean opinion is a good way to refer to it. I think that's something that can resonate with most of us.
 So we've done a lot of work to get there, but we're very pleased to say that at the end of it, we're satisfied that this is materially accurate and we got to a clean opinion. On that internal control issue that I mentioned to you, so as a result of our work, to look at how well those internal controls are designed and, in fact, is management following those, again, we have no issues whatsoever.
 that we're required to bring to your attention. So your folks are doing a very good job at identifying appropriate internal controls. They're designed effectively, and there weren't any significant weaknesses that we believe are important to bring to your attention. Another excellent result.
 On state legal compliance, so those state laws that I mentioned to you, so in all the areas that we tested, we did not identify any areas of noncompliance. And the unique thing about the state law testing is it's a pass-fail test. You could be out of compliance by a dollar, and I have to bring it to your attention. It's not like there's a materiality we can apply to that.
 But we've identified no areas of non-compliance. And you might recognize, and you've been a victim of this in the past, probably the most common type of non-compliance is an overexpenditure. Somewhere in the...
 multitude of funds that you manage, somewhere we're going to slip up and a bill is going to come in at the end of the year, and we didn't adequately provide for it in the budget, and we have an overexpenditure. But this year you had zero funds that resulted in overexpenditure. So that's a pretty nice milestone for you. On the federal grants.
 So you received over $29 million, or I should say you spent over $29 million of federal grants this last year. And we actually tested over $89 million when you include some of the grants you've received in prior years are loaned out. So the value of the loan receivable on the books becomes a number we need to pay attention to.
 So the total breadth of grants that we looked at was over $89 million. We ended up testing three of the larger grants this year on a risk basis. The Homeland Security Grant, a Lead Hazard Reduction Grant, and your Home Investment Partnership Grant, which I think houses most of those loan programs.
 And within those, again, we did not have any findings of noncompliance that were required to bring to your attention. That's also a nice milestone. You've had some instances of noncompliance in prior years, but no instances of noncompliance.
 You know, we also have to look at internal controls that you use that help you in meeting the compliance requirements on those grants. And if you have weaknesses in those, we need to tell you about it. We did not identify weaknesses in your internal controls over managing those grants. So that's another pretty phenomenal result. Okay.
 So in addition to the reporting phase, we do have some required communications that we make to governing boards. And we've issued a letter. So you've already seen that. I don't know if you've had a chance to read it. It's not my intention to read it. There's probably seven or eight areas in there. But I thought I would hit on just a few that you might want to know about.
 For example, it's oftentimes that you want to know, geez, did we have any problems in the course of our audit? You know, are we asking questions and management is not being forthright or transparent or causing any problems for us? And we encountered no difficulties. So I think, as you can tell from Ken and Michelle, you know, no one likes to be audited, but I think they see the value in it and embrace it.
 and we've never experienced any particular difficulties in performing our work. Another area that boards wanna know is, did we have any audit adjustments? So we came in, we did our work, and guess what, we found an error, and management needed to post some adjustments. You can probably already tell, we didn't identify any errors that required management to post corrections. In fact, sometimes we have to identify maybe smaller errors
 that are not material, but there weren't even smaller errors that were required to kind of report to you. Another area that our boards like to know is did we have any disagreements with management?
 Maybe they don't like a particular accounting treatment. No one liked that pension liability when that had to be booked in its fullest intent. And I'm happy to report we had no disagreements with management about any technical issues or the application of our audit procedures whatsoever.
 We've had some good-spirited discussions, which I would put in the healthy category, but nothing that I felt would be important to bring to your attention in terms of something that would not be good. So, a lot of work.
 a pretty quick summary for a fantastic result to your audit. And hopefully, and I bet you can probably appreciate the amount of effort that goes into it in order to have that type of result. So I hope you feel good about those, this report from me and the result from your audit. And with that, I would just be available to answer questions that you may, that you may have. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz? I'm just wondering about the mind of an auditor that's been working like this. That when you get to the end and it's all clean, do you think, oh my goodness, I just thought I've looked a bit harder, I could have found that one thing. Or if you find the one thing, you're like, yes, I got it.
 What goes through your mind as you're doing this due diligence? You know, it's a mixed bag. Obviously, it takes a team of people. Just like Ken mentioned, you've got a team of very qualified people in the finance department. I have a very qualified team of individuals that it takes to do the audit work. We have some youngsters. They're trained to find errors. I mean, they're ready. Yeah.
 You know, they want to glom on, and oftentimes in their angst to find an error, they may report something that really isn't an error, and we have to kind of calm them down and say, you know, nice effort. So, you know, part of it is that we want to encourage our people to really hang on and find those errors, and you feel good when you find one in a sense because that's what we're trained to do.
 So when we don't find one, it can be a mixed blessing. Pick them up for ice cream or something. But the nice thing about it is it's almost like your doctor. You go into the doctor and you go there and you pick one who's very qualified, right? They do a thorough, and at the end you're hoping for that clean bill of health. And when you walk out, you feel good about it.
 I feel good when we can walk out and give our clients a clean bill of health. We know the level of effort we put them through to get there. So it's a mixed blessing. Our staff maybe walk away a little disappointed they didn't get their error moment, but it feels really good to find folks that care about what they do and they do a good job in the performance of their duties. That's a really helpful analogy. Thank you.
 I have a question. Just curious if I could review something. The management's discussion in the CAFR, it says that in the first six months of 2017, inflation has risen 4.8%, which is pretty astonishing. Now, that doesn't mean it's going to be annualized over the course of the whole year, but obviously there's been an uptick in cost of living here. When we bill...
 Portlanders for utility services, we provide them with a combined bill. It's part water, part sewer stormwater. Water is about a third. Sewer stormwater is about two-thirds. From your point of view when you look at these numbers, is it fair for us to treat that as a combined bill and refer to the fact that combined and weighted, it's a little over 4% in terms of cost, which would currently be below the rate of inflation? Yes.
 Wow, that's a tough question. I don't know if I have a good answer for you. Obviously, those are related services. I don't know anyone, there aren't many people that provide water, I think, independent from stormwater services. So it doesn't surprise me that it's a combined bill or that you would look at a rate or rate increases together. And ultimately, it seems to me you're correct
 you ought to feel good about the comparative rate that you have compared to other utilities around you and how well you're doing and what's your trend line compared to others and how well you're managing the long-term sustainability of your capital assets and the repayment of your debt. I'm not trying to put you on the spot and ask for, like, as a certified auditor here, but we sometimes get some pushback when we send a combined bill.
 But the way we look at it is these are services that are folded in. It's one bill. And what people really want to know is how's my bill going up? They don't actually calculate what's my water rate, my this, my that, weight it. They look, am I paying any more? And we've kept rate increases about just above 4%, which used to be above the rate of inflation.
 But I was really struck by the fact that the rate of inflation has spiked. And so we may be in an environment now where utilities –
 The annualized rate increases for utilities in terms of a combined bill is actually below the rate of inflation. Yeah, that's surprising. That's probably an excellent place to be, and I would say that's probably unusual for a majority of our clients for that to be the case. I would say a majority of our clients are dealing with aging infrastructure, and bills are going up by a pace larger than inflation because they're playing catch-up.
 One other question. This is your – how many years have you come before us? Yeah, I think that we have bid on doing your audit three times, if I remember right, and have been successful in that bid process, and we're in the first year of the current contract. So I think this would probably be the sixth year that we've had the financial audit presented. So six years. And my recollection is in –
 many years ago. You dinged us a couple of times.
 on how we booked grants. And I think the lesson for me was that it's complicated, how you book it, how you allocate it. And it was a couple of bureaus, PDC, Housing Bureau in particular, that you singled out. Does the absence of a finding about any problem with how we book grants generally, does that indicate that sort of the city is...
 the city folks who have to administer this now have a better understanding of what's required? I would like to think so and you're right, that's a very complicated area. When you think about your utilities, you know when you're entitled to that revenue. You deliver service, you deliver some water, you're entitled to be paid for that, you know the timing of that. Deliver some water this month, I'm entitled to that revenue. When it comes to grants, those generally are not exchange transactions.
 A grantor agency is giving you dollars, which you go out and deploy. You might build an asset. You might provide service. The timing of that is different from the time that you might receive the check. And the accounting rules are complicated as to when you get to recognize that resource and when you recognize the revenue. And it's one of the probably...
 most common areas that we see mistakes in financial statements is the timing of when do I recognize the resources and the revenue from those. You've done a good job of accounting for that. We have had some issues in the past, and we haven't had an issue in that regard for quite some time. So I would like to think that, yes, you've got some pretty smart people that really understand those accounting rules about when it's appropriate to recognize those resources.
 Good. Thank you. So I have a question, James. You heard the CAFR in the prior presentation, and the punchline for that was that expenses are growing more rapidly than our revenue structure, and that was a concern. And the auditor notes in her letter to the council that you had also indicated in communications your concern about this, but you said it did not rise to a material level. Correct. Okay.
 at what point would it rise to a material level? You know, I've really appreciated Ken's report to you. I think this is the third time I've heard this particular version or idea of presenting this information. And I would have to echo his comment. At the time that it would concern me is the point in which you're not able to meet these obligations when they become due. FPDNR, if you didn't have a dedicated property tax stream to pay that,
 You'd be in a world of hurt there. You've got a dedicated revenue stream. I would say I'm in agreement with Ken right now you don't have an issue there. At the point in time that probably if there's another property tax limitation measure, if all of a sudden you're subject to compression, if you've got a decline in the value of property here in Portland,
 that might be problematic and I might amp up our level of discourse with you about that.
 I'm not worried about it as an auditor for some of the same reasons I think Ken is telling you. He's not worried about it because it feels like you're taking appropriate steps. You changed the plan in 2006. You put all the new members into Oregon PERS, which is funded on a current basis. So you'll work through this problem over time. The other thing is that you're receiving, I believe it's every two years,
 an evaluation of that property tax stream. So you're getting someone that's projecting out what's happening with property values and with property taxes so that you're going to know in advance, or I'd like to think you're going to know in advance, if you start seeing trend lines that will be problematic, and hopefully you'll get that at enough time that you could take steps if necessary. I'd like to think that you've got enough information to be able to take some steps.
 well in advance of an actual shortfall of cash to make those payments. Great. Now I'm going to take you down one of my famous rabbit holes for a moment. Okay. You don't necessarily need to follow me. Commissioner Fish is responsible for utility bureaus, and there is a significant capital requirement to be able to keep those operational. Okay.
 I'm responsible for emergency responsiveness and resiliency bureaus. What do you guys do, and what happens to a community like Houston in the wake of a massive disruption to the property tax system? What happens? Yeah, I don't know if I can answer that question if I've experienced such a thing in my tenure before.
 In terms of the financial statement and an auditor's opinion on it, we have to look at the revenue streams. What's the cost of providing service? What are the revenues you have available? If there's a significant shortfall, what we're looking for is for management to adequately disclose those facts within this document. If they disclose the facts and are very transparent about it, you'd probably still get a clean opinion.
 Do you guys have a specialized team that works in that arena that you could connect me with? I probably can help you out with that. I'd be curious because as part of our overall resiliency plan, obviously fiscal resiliency is core to a lot of our bureaus, and that's an area where I personally would like some additional guidance. Okay. Great. Thank you. I appreciate that. Very good. I'll accept a motion. Thank you.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further questions, comments? Great report and presentation. Madam Auditor, last word. Anything else? No. We just wanted to provide you with that information. Excellent. Please call the roll. E. Daly. Thank you for the report. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your report and for making it understandable. And thanks especially for explaining the mind of an auditor, at least at times. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Yeah, I really appreciate the report, and I appreciate that you alluded to a kind of a respectful but creative tension between your office and our team in sort of going through this process. So the goal is to get it right. And the fact that, you know, that some of the things we used to get dinged for are not showing up with the same regularity is certainly a point of pride for those of us on this side. So thank you for your good work, sir. Hi. Wheeler.
 Great report, but that's because it's a clean report. I vote aye. Thank you. We appreciate that. We are not able to move on to the 1346. That was my request, if we can do that, Commissioner. Do you have all the people you need for 1346? We did. So do we have the BES team here for 1346? Why don't you come on forward? Perfect. Good. If you wouldn't mind calling 1346, please, Carla.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation for price agreements for construction services at the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, and associated pump stations for an estimated $6 million. Commissioner Fish, would you like to also read 1347, or would you like to hold off on that? Um...
 Let me see. We could also do 48. They're totally different people. Totally different. Very good. So I just have a brief introduction, and we're all very good. Commissioner. Paul Sudo just stepped out to take a phone call. That's okay. Do you want me to go grab him? No, it'll take me a minute to tee it up, and then we'll get started. Mayor and colleagues, we're joined today by Aaron Lawler, who's an engineer with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and soon to be joined by Paul Sudo of the BES as well.
 This ordinance would authorize the city to obtain price agreements through a competitive process for small and medium-scale maintenance projects that are needed at the city's two treatment plants and nearly 100 pump stations. And by the way, if any of my colleagues would like a tour of a pump station of your choice, it's actually one of the coolest things in our capital inventory. I think I already signed up. Just waiting for my ride. All right.
 The establishment of price agreements with the city's prime contractor development program will provide minority and women certified contractors an opportunity to gain experience while providing a model where the city's equity goals can be more predictably met or surpassed. These small to medium projects occur throughout the year and are required to provide reliable wastewater treatment service essential for protecting public health and our environment.
 and I would welcome again Paul and Aaron to walk us through the presentation. Aaron, are you going to do the PowerPoint? I am. Why don't you go ahead. I guess we'll just jump right into it. Good afternoon. I'm Aaron Lawler, engineer with BES Wastewater Treatment Engineering Group, and Paul Sudo may join us shortly. He is the principal engineer now at BES. Thank you.
 We are here today to talk to you about our ordinance request for a price agreement furnishing on-call construction services at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, and the associated pump stations. As the name suggests, this will be for on-call construction services at Columbia Boulevard and Tryon Creek, which are pictured here. Columbia Boulevard is on the left. This is...
 The city-owned and operated treatment plant with a capacity of 450 million gallons a day, and it is the largest wastewater treatment plant in Oregon. On the right here is Tryon Creek, which is located in Lake Oswego and operated by the city of Portland.
 We will also be using this contract to maintain our pump stations. The city of Portland operates nearly 100 pump stations throughout the city for pumping wastewater. Pictured here are two examples. Side note, the one on the left there is Alder Pump Station, which is currently under construction and looks completely different right now. That whole building is gone. Okay.
 This contract will be used to administer on-call construction services for improvements and maintenance. So BES's wastewater treatment and pumping facilities are aging and require ongoing rehab, repair, and modifications. We call that the RRNM program. We do this to maintain an adequate level of service for...
 rate payers, our customers. The projects are typically for our line of work small to medium sized projects we're defining that as less than $750,000 in construction costs and they are often requiring an accelerated schedule and a lot of that cost is typically equipment and materials. So
 The wastewater treatment engineering and pump station engineering group need to be able to deliver projects efficiently and effectively, and this program enhances that ability. An on-call construction services price agreement would allow the engineering team to be more responsive and effective on smaller scope projects, improving the quality of service that the city provides the repair.
 The photo here is one of our engineers at Columbia Boulevard observing the wet weather clarifiers, and those are some new scum skimmers that she put in. Through this program, we will be able to issue individual task orders to preselected contractors on an on-call construction services to efficiently and effectively deliver projects.
 The task orders will be $750,000 or less and issued to pre-selected contractors on a rotational basis.
 On this slide here, we have examples of some projects that would be good candidates for this. So the top picture there is the dry weather clarifiers at Tryon Creek. The components associated with that need to be replaced, and there's a short window of dry weather time that we're allowed to do that.
 The bottom picture is a typical valve vault at Tryon Creek. There were some safety hazards raised by staff there, and we needed to effectively mitigate those concerns quickly. And then the right there is the waste gas burners at Columbia Boulevard, which are 40-plus years old and need to be replaced. Okay.
 Again, some more projects that we are targeting or would have been good candidates for this type of delivery. We have hypochlorite lines on the bottom left that are leaking and need to be replaced quickly. The middle picture there is a giant 42-inch flow meter at Columbia Boulevard, relatively small project.
 You can also do small pump stations for stormwater treatment and HVAC work as well. So project benefits. This program will improve our responsiveness and effectiveness for the engineering group to deliver smaller scope projects. The price agreement will allow engineering to bring contractors on board during the design phase, allowing for constructability reviews, which can allow for cost savings during design and construction.
 The task orders will be paid on a time and materials basis, which will allow for flexibility during construction if change conditions are encountered. And importantly, it will allow disadvantaged minority women owned in emerging small business construction firms to build experience on typical wastewater treatment and pump station projects with the city.
 because we will be advertising this to the sheltered market, the Prime Contractor Development Program. So the current budget estimated for this is $6 million. The invitation to bid will be sent to the Prime Contractor Development Program, creating an opportunity for DMWESB contractors to gain experience with the city. It will be a competitively bid price agreement, and selection will be based on the low bids that come
 The rates submitted in the bid forms will be the basis for the awarded task orders in the future. That's how the time and materials will be paid. Up to three contracts will be awarded at $2 million each. That's assuming that we get three responsive and responsible contracts.
 contractors. And the max task order amount has been set at $750,000, but it's believed that the majority of the task orders would be $500,000 or less. And again, the majority of that is equipment and material costs. And this slide is just a summary of what I just went over.
 So we're here in front of you today with our recommendation to authorize the advertisement of an invitation to bid to the DMW ESB market for on-call construction services price agreement at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, and associated pump stations. Okay.
 And that's it for the presentation. I'll let Paul do opening remarks now. Yeah, thanks, Aaron. Appreciate it. Paul Sudo, Interim Principal Engineer at BES.
 So I just wanted to say a couple of things on this, and that's basically that the on-call construction price agreements are a much-needed tool for BES staff to deliver our projects for the treatment plants and pump stations, and it's been an effort that's been very thoughtful over the past few years. We started this a few years ago. We engaged utilities outside of the Portland area that have been doing this model for years. We also looked at similar processes within BES,
 to come up with this approach. And then we spend a lot of time working with our staff at procurement services and also the city attorney's office to come up with this process. So I just wanted to put that into perspective. Thank you. Thank you. Question? Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 So I understand the need to have on-call contracts, and that's what this does. I was struck in the presentation by the limit being $2 million, which is a lot of money for each contract. And I know that BES in particular has had great success in the past with instead of doing low bid, with the construction manager general contractor way of doing things. And so I'm wondering about...
 putting this amount of money out in low bid when we might be able to do better on some of our other goals by the other method so we bs we've actually we haven't done cmgc that often it's been kind of a newer effort that we're looking into we've typically done low bid and most i'll say most of the projects that we do low bid on they're in that i'll say one to two to even three million dollar range
 with the floor being closer to about half a million dollars. So this helps us with kind of our, I'll say, our entry-level projects, which seems to marry well with the contractor development programs. Yeah, and clearly the size of the budget and the kinds of projects are pervasive. I would invite you to talk to people in parks about some of the projects
 even though it takes a little bit longer to do the CMGC, the construction manager general contractor. We have found that it does provide more opportunities to bring in subcontractors to help with our emerging small business women, minorities numbers. So just something to think about for the future. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Very good. Any questions for the panel? Is there any public testimony on this item? You guys can go cool your heels.
 You don't need to sit up here if you don't want to. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Number one, I want to make it clear that when you call certain things reports, you do have the discretion to also have public communication. That is your discretion. So keep that in mind on the last resolution because public does like to speak. Now, moving on with the issue is that –
 I want to make sure we have an emphasis on these type of jobs now that it is a by-America requirement. And as you know on the federal grants that you're beginning to review, the terms in the federal clauses are very clear that they want a FTA regulations by-America requirement.
 And we need to follow those rules, especially when we're looking at the federal grants, which I didn't have the opportunity to speak on these other issues, which is a very important issue when you do have an accountant going over those type of clauses and terms.
 and exactly what they're looking for and to understand that when it does say that, you need to follow those terms, plain and simple. And if you don't, you are in violation. So, again, I just want to make it very clear on these type of –
 restoration type agreements, contracts that they do understand it is by America requirement. And I would like to have more local companies obtaining this type of work. I think it's very beneficial to see the surrounding businesses have the opportunity to be funded for supplies, to keep their workers working, and to improve our local economy, which as you can see on our net,
 On our financial budget, overall budget, that $1.6 billion scares me, scares me. And I am surprised you're still getting the AAA bond rating, to be honest. But, you know, that's just my opinion. I didn't get to speak on that and address those issues due to the fact, at your discretion, you don't want the public to respond. Thank you.
 Thank you, and I will respond to your response. You're correct. It is at our discretion, and generally speaking, we do not take testimony on reports because we are requiring certain bodies to report back to us as the city council. And so typically we do not take public testimony on those items, but I hear your point. It's at your discretion. Yes, sir. And when the public...
 Request to have the opportunity, it would be reasonable on this last item. Could you please call items 1344 and 45 together?
 1344, accept the City of Portland 2018 Federal Legislative Agenda. 1345, accept the report on the City of Portland 2018 State Legislative Agenda. Colleagues, on November 7th, we held a work session with the Office of Government Relations to review and discuss drafts of the City of Portland's 2018 Legislative Agenda.
 federal legislative agenda and the 2018 state legislative agenda. I understand staff has submitted a revised substitute report on the federal agenda. So, colleagues, I'd like to make a motion to consider the substitute report on the City of Portland 2018 federal legislative agenda. Commissioner Fish seconds. The substitute. Second. We're going to vote on it, but we're going to give Carla just a second to...
 get back to her spot. Thank you, Carla. Greetings. Carla, please call the roll on the substitute. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. This is just to put it on the table. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The substitute is now on the table.
 And we will be also discussing our federal legislative agenda in quick succession as the current Congress moves into its second year. It's more important than ever that the City of Portland defend and advance its interests. As we've seen from the Congressional Tax Plan and recent EPA announcements regarding the prioritization of Superfund sites,
 Congress and the current presidential administration are pivotal in our ability to address community priorities like investing in affordable housing and moving forward with the Portland Harbor cleanup. The administration and the leadership in Congress have made it clear.
 with this tax bill that their priorities are not supporting working middle-class Americans. Additionally, it's clear that local government is going to need to further step up as the federal government retreats from addressing issues like affordable housing and mental health services at the community level.
 Lastly, as the EPA has issued a list prioritizing the Portland Harbor Superfund site, we'll be working closely with other interested parties to make sure that this process does indeed move forward. And Commissioner Fish and my Chief of Staff, Maurice Henderson, have an opportunity to meet with them this morning, and I'll let him report out as he sees fit.
 The state legislative agenda focuses on what I believe are the most pressing issues for the short session. That's continuing our efforts to promote affordable and state-led.
 affordable and stable housing. In particular, the state constitutional amendment that will allow local governments to leverage bond proceeds with the funds from other community partners continues to be important. I'm obviously very supportive of the clean energy jobs legislation to reduce carbon emissions, and I know we had a long conversation about that here. Climate change is very real, and Oregon needs to continue to be leading on this front.
 At the same time, we're going to have to continue to reduce emissions of air toxins to protect public health. And finally, I think it's important that we remove statutory barriers which prevent us from effectively coordinating with ODOT to promote public safety, health, and livability on these issues. So with this, I will turn it over to Elizabeth Edwards, who is our government relations advisor.
 We also have Nils Tilstrom here from the Office of Government Relations, and Dan Eisenbeiss is here as well.
 The three musketeers. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you so much, Mayor, Commissioners. Appreciate the introduction. And since you've already announced who we are, I'll kick it off. We're very pleased to be here today to present the 2018 federal and state legislative agendas, respectively, for your consideration and acceptance. So I'll start very quickly with...
 reminder of the process that we use to develop both agendas, and then we'll go through the federal agenda, then to the state. So we were here before you on November 7th in work session. Before that, we had issued a call out to all bureaus and offices starting in August on the state side and September on the federal side for soliciting legislative concepts.
 And we worked closely with liaisons, both in bureaus and council offices, to work through and vet those issues. Part of the vetting process also included outreach to our federal legislative delegation and our state legislators, as well as a wide range of stakeholders. And through that process, we were looking for potential areas of alignment or flagging potential hurdles. So turning to the federal...
 legislative agenda. This report is very similar to what you saw at the work session in November, but it's formatted. It's a little bit glossier than it was in November. And I think the Mayor already walked through some of the priorities, but I'll reiterate them for Council.
 Once again, the top priority is affordable housing, homeless assistance, mental health and support services all kind of packaged in one big omnibus priority. You also have response to the opioid crisis, immigration, investment in urban infrastructure, the Urban Area Security Initiative, which is also known as UACI.
 And then tax reform and Portland Harbor cleanup were two new additions to the priority list from the 2017 agenda because we used that as a baseline. 2017 was the first session of the 115th Congress. 2018 is the second session of the 115th Congress. That's why we built off of the 2017 legislative agenda. So since November work session, I'll note the following changes that occurred. On page 3.
 Of the agenda, you'll see the header of immigration. When we came before you in November, this was sanctuary cities. So we've broadened the direction of this priority, and now it includes references to comprehensive immigration reform, the DREAM Act, and guest worker program. Elizabeth, could I interrupt you for one moment? I have to take care of a piece of homework here.
 Item 1346 is still open. It is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Sorry, continue. Not a problem. Turning to page 4 and 5, that's where you'll find the tax reform priority. This has been and continues to be a moving target, and so it's been updated since we were before you during the work session.
 Added to this header, you have the private activity bonds, which we were just back in D.C. talking with our congressional delegation about last week with Commissioner Eudaly, as well as the historic tax credit program. We also have two additions under the federal policy positions. So on page 7, we now have supporting access to legal services per the recommendation of Commissioner Fishh,
 And on page 9, there is the addition of human trafficking prevention and recovery. Both of those came up during the work session, and they've been added to reflect the comments of council. Those are all the changes from the version that you had before you in November. And I can pause here in case there are questions before moving on to the state side. A couple of comments, if I could. So on Portland Harbor Superfund cleanup,
 On the off chance that it's not likely Congress is going to support the reinstatement of the Superfund tax, it is, though, our collective desire to make sure that Region 10 and the EPA have the resources they need to actually oversee all the 21 priority Superfund sites that they have identified and said they're going to move on. When the Mayor, Chief of Staff, and I and others today met with,
 Mr. Kelly, the special assistant to Administrator Pruitt, the issue did come up around adequate resources to actually oversee implementation of our Superfund cleanup. And so is this broad enough so that it encompasses some kind of bipartisan effort to make sure that there is adequate resources at the region to implement the existing records of decision in those 21 Superfund sites? Yes.
 My guess is this is a bipartisan. My guess is our delegation would be supportive of making sure the region has those resources. So I just want to flag that because that was one of our three most pressing concerns, that they do have adequate resources to implement the record of decision.
 Thank you for the question. I believe that the item is broad enough. I think that, sorry for the record, Neil Stillstrom from the Office of Government Relations. We can
 you know, we'd be happy to work directly with the delegation to formalize that when it's time to make those appropriations requests for the 2019 funding. Yeah, I mean, I know that Congressman Blumenauer has put in his bill again to reinstate the Superfund tax, but it seems like a tough, heavy, steep climb. And so just to make sure that where we may have an agreement here is adequate funding
 for Superfund, and that may be something that our delegation, our two senators, may very well agree with that. Great. So thank you. Welcome flag. Thank you. Oh, the other thing I wanted to flag is at page six, and I'm going to raise the same issue with our state agenda. In the Smart and Emerging Transportation Technology Regulation, it says that federal regulation must not preempt cities' ability to put in place regulations.
 When I had the pleasure of being with a couple of you last time in D.C., what we heard on the radio and in the media in D.C. was that there was a bipartisan consensus around preempting us from doing exactly that. So do you have a sense of where that is? So we are currently working with other interested parties, other cities, to work on what's called the AV Start Act. It's a Senate bill.
 to make sure that there is language that would block any preemption of federal laws. We had numerous calls over the last couple of days. There's actually a number of senators who have an interest in both that preemption and then also how it would preempt.
 impact the California air quality standards that we in this state rely on as well. Good. It was alarming to me on our trip that there were these allies of Silicon Valley technology companies who were Democrats who were generally supportive of the idea of preempting cities like Portland from being able to regulate autonomous vehicles, and to me that would be a disaster. Mm-hmm.
 So thank you. Thank you. And, Commissioner, I think that speaks to the value of having local government officials come back to D.C. and actually tell the on-the-ground story because the 30,000-foot view might make a lot of sense when not faced with the other side of the story about what it's like to actually run and regulate city streets and the impact that it has on traffic safety and livability. Thank you. So with that, I will turn to the State Department.
 legislative agenda, also formatted a little bit glossier than what you saw in November. This is actually, the content is very, very similar. For the upcoming short legislative session, the top priority continues to be affordable and stable housing. That's followed by a healthy environment, community livability and public health, and local funding and authority. So there are two changes since the work session.
 And it starts on page two. There is a technical edit to the way that the description of the municipal bonding concept that was very minor. And then on page four, the first subheading here under the community livability and public health priority has been the subheading and the concept description have been updated here.
 in order to more accurately reflect the desired policy outcome. So it's now entitled Remove Barriers to Coordinating Management of Public Spaces and Services. Before, it had been framed up as more of a funding request, and it's through the vetting process has been determined to be strictly a policy ask. Thank you.
 And those are the two changes from the work session draft. I would also note the drafts have been up on our website for public review since we met in November. I think I neglected to say that earlier. What kind of feedback have you been getting? It's been fairly quiet, although we did have the public input session shortly before the work session.
 And the input from that went into setting the agenda. Yes. Thank you. Elizabeth, on page five, under the sort of blanket opposition that we normally include to being preempted, the closest thing to TNCs that I see here is regulation of emerging technologies. But given our history with the TNCs seeking to explicitly preempt us from regulating them, is that –
 Would it be useful to be specific to TNCs, or do you view emerging technologies as encompassing TNCs?
 So the language is crafted here to say emergent technologies because there's actually quite a bit of overlap when it comes to TNCs and autonomous vehicles. When you look at the fact that TNCs often own fleets and are looking at autonomous vehicles, and there's legislation on that side that impacts how we regulate TNCs. But from your point of view, this language is intended to cover both autonomous vehicles and TNCs? Yes, that's correct. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions?
 I'll briefly describe next steps if that's- Yeah, please. All right. So next month we'll be back down in Salem for January organizational days. That's when bills will be introduced, and we anticipate likely about 260 bills for the 35-day session. After organizational days, we'll have three weeks before they actually gavel in for the start of session on February 5th. So in that three-week window, we'll be reviewing and analyzing the bulk of legislation for its impact on the city.
 Expect that we'll be reaching out to you and your bureaus for input during that window of time and going forward into the session. Also, before the start of session, we'll host our annual legislative breakfast and invite members of the Portland delegation to City Hall to discuss our agenda and look for areas of collaboration. Wanted to put a reminder out there that January 23rd is a special election. So less than two weeks before the start of the February session,
 We may find out whether we have a big hole in the state's budget outlook or not, so that's a large question mark. And then finally, looking nationally, also in January, which is going to be a very busy month, the U.S. converts and mayors will be convening, and we'll also be arranging meetings for the West Coast mayors to discuss areas of common interest and talk with our federal delegation as well.
 So I wanted to put that out there and also just say thank you. Thank you to you all for your help through this process. Thank you to the legislative liaisons. Thank you to my team for the long hours it took to put this together. We're really excited to help push this ambitious agenda on behalf of the city. Commissioner Fritz. Could you just remind or inform everybody watching at home, what are the rules for the short session of the Oregon legislature? What can each legislature do differently?
 Absolutely. So for a short legislative session, it's constitutionally limited to 35 days. Based on chamber rules, the senators will get one bill a piece.
 House members will get two bills. Committees will get three. The governor and the judicial branch will each get five. You have a couple of committees that have an ability to introduce more, like the Ways and Means Committee. But those are the parameters, and that's how we calculated approximately 260 bills for the upcoming session.
 You also have chamber deadlines. So if I am a House bill, I need to move out of a House policy committee before the first chamber deadline. That's going to occur in less than two weeks, which means that you have a finite number of hearings in order to actually have your idea heard before a panel and then moved forward to maybe three meetings. So it goes very, very fast. It is a sprint.
 That's the session in a nutshell. Why do House representatives get two bills and senators get one? You would think it would be the other way around. You would because the House now ends up with four times the number of bills that the Senate does. Yeah. Okay.
 My impression is that the Senate is trying to really restrict the scope of the short session. The House doesn't necessarily take the same perspective. So they each get to set their own rules? Correct. I see. Thank you. And also just to remind everybody, what's the balance of representation in the two houses?
 One vote shy of a supermajority in both houses. So a supermajority is that threshold for revenue raising or tax increases. You're looking at a 17-13 split in the Senate and 25-35 in the House. With the Democrats having majorities in both houses. Thank you. Colleagues, unless there's any other questions, I'll take a motion on the substitute for 13-44.
 So moved. Second. We have an enthusiastic motion from Commissioner Udaly and a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Udaly. I have a toothache, Mayor, so I forgive my lack of enthusiasm. I'm sorry to hear that. Fritz. Thank you to the Office of Government Relations, particularly Elizabeth Edwards, and your leadership of the Bureau after the departure of Martha Pellegrino, which I know we're still all feeling.
 And thank you especially for continuing to work with Commissioner Daley and me on the Legislative Agenda Setting Forum that we hold for community members because their input really does make a difference. And hopefully after this short session we can have maybe a community event after the session before the summer so that we can tell folks what happened and start a lot earlier in 2018 knowing that there will be much more capacity for doing different things.
 in the state legislature, at least, in 2019. So I'm delighted to continue to work with you. Aye. Fish? Mayor, is this on the substitute or on the final? Substitute. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The substitute is adopted to 1345. I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. A motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Eudaly? Aye.
 Well, I just want to thank Elizabeth and Government Relations for preparing me for a wonderful first trip to Washington, D.C. I managed to at least meet six out of seven members of our congressional delegation and meet with five of them. And I wasn't sure what to expect or didn't necessarily even understand the importance of
 bringing the voice of Portlanders to D.C. And as it turned out, given the passage of the tax bills in the House and the Senate, it was quite timely. And our focus was primarily on the potential devastating impact on affordable housing development with the loss of private activity bonds and low-income housing tax credits.
 I don't think I have additional comments on the federal side, so I'll just say aye.
 I appreciate your ongoing connection of us with our federal delegation when they visit back in Oregon during the sessions and over the course of time too. I feel like we have good relationships between members of the council and our delegation. Certainly that you and Vicky Cram represent us well in Washington, D.C. I very much appreciate the work you do. It must be quite inspiring.
 It's hard to know what word to use at this point, but certainly challenging and disappointing and difficult to keep one's optimism, although there are occasional bright lights. So thank you very much. Aye. Fish? No, I'm completely confused about what we're voting on. So I'm just going to make – I'm going to assume I'm making comments about both agendas. And thank you for the good work you did in compiling the federal and state agenda.
 In the nine years I've been on the council, we've had some tough years, clean years, where we've had big needs, but it's just politically been harder. Yet it seems to me we always outperform. And so even in these perilous times, hopefully we'll find agreement on some of the things that, at least in Washington, now the balance of power has shifted to four United States senators of the Republican Party. Let's hope that we can, you know.
 build some bipartisanship around some common sense things that we care about, housing, cleaning up the environment, brownfields, a number of these things. It appears that no longer, that deficit reduction is no longer an issue of concern in Washington, so we don't have to worry about that, which I guess means hopefully we don't have to do any offsets, anything new we want under the new rules, but who knows. But it is a pleasure to work with you and your team, and thank you for your good work and your,
 Let's go to it. Hi. Wheeler. Great report. We spent quite a while narrowing this down to a few issues, knowing that it's a sprint. The short session, 35 days, seems like a lot. But once you get to it, it's actually a blink of the eye. And I think we've picked appropriate strategies. I think we're continuing to put pressure on the right policy initiatives. And considering the list we started out with,
 At our work sessions, I feel like collectively we've done an excellent job. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. So we don't have to do the state separately? We do. We just did. No, we did federal. Yeah, we did both federal. Now we've got the move to accept the state report. I'll accept a motion. I just did. I'll second that. Okay, very good. Call the roll. Thank you, Daly.
 So we touched on the short session and the limitations of the number of bills that can be brought forth by various entities. I just want to state that my personal agenda will continue to be tenant protections, and I want to acknowledge that they're not included in this short session agenda in a big or meaningful way because there just wasn't a sense that
 There was a path forward in this short session, but I am very pleased to see the focus on local funding and authority, which I would personally prefer to call state interference with local power, and that includes the state interfering with our ability to regulate our housing and rental markets. So thank you for that, and thank you for your work. Aye.
 I think my comments over these last three votes, including now this one, illustrate how helpful it is to have government relation people who know what we were intending to talk about, even if we weren't actually testifying or speaking on the right item.
 For all of the ones, though, I also wanted to comment about the financial impact and public involvement statements. They were all very clear, and it included how the public input was responded to and included in the agenda. So I hope that community members share my trust in you, that their voices are heard and that they can make a difference in lobbying at the state and the federal level. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Reports accepted. Thank you.
 Item number 1347. Commissioner Fishes, if you could read it first. Carla, please. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Montevilla North Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10385, for an estimated cost of $6,225,000. Carla, could we read that in tandem with 1348? Yes.
 1348, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Montevilla South sewer rehabilitation project, number E10386, for an estimated cost of $4 million. Mayor and colleagues were joined today by Scott Gibson, BES Manager for Design Services, and David Hammond, BES Civil Engineer. Thank you.
 These ordinances will authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to move forward on the Montevilla Sewer Rehabilitation Program for both the north and the south parts of the Montevilla neighborhood. BES needs to rehabilitate, replace, and construct about four miles of sewer pipes in the Montevilla neighborhood. The existing pipes are about 80 years old and at risk of failure. The project is necessary to protect water quality, public health, private property, and our environment.
 Scott and David please take it away. Thank you Commissioner Fish. For the record my name is Scott Gibson and as Commissioner mentioned these projects are going to rehabilitate a portion of failing sewers. They're both a part of a phase two pipe rehabilitation line item in the budget. To date we spent 104 million dollars on that program to rehabilitate about 37 miles of sewer
 That's roughly 1.5% of the sewer assets that we have. David here will give you an overview of the two projects that we're requesting approval on today. My name is David Hammond. I'm the project manager for these two, Montevilla North and Montevilla South items. As you can see on the slide in front of you,
 These are some photographic images from the pipes in these neighborhoods and a good indication of the types of defects and need for rehabilitation that we've come across in examining the sewer. As stated by Commissioner Fish, the projects were installed between 1910 and 1960. There's a wide variety of materials out there. And we also have homes in the service areas that are not properly connected to the sewer system.
 And the improper connections includes items such as shared laterals or unclear ownership of laterals, which we are trying to resolve and clean up with these projects. By replacing or rehabilitating these types of sanitary sewer mains, sewer laterals, and manholes, these projects will increase the system capacity and reliability, as well as protect public health, property, and the environment by reducing the risk of sewage releases to homes, businesses, and streets.
 On Montevilla North, this project will replace or rehabilitate highly deteriorated sewer pipes and includes resolving 32 non-conforming sewer connections. We have a variety of proposed construction methods in this, which includes open-cut trenching, cured-in-place pipe, and horizontal directional drilling.
 There's about 6,100 lineal feet of open-cut pipe, 7,500 feet of CIPP, and 2,000 lineal feet of pipe bursting, as well as 200 lineal feet of spot repairs. This map shows the project boundaries for the Montevilla North and the Montevilla South projects. As you can see, North was defined to be bounded by Northeast Wisteria Drive on the north side,
 southeast 88th to the east, southeast stark to the south, and 35th to the west. There's 42 project site locations in Montevilla North Project, and as you can see, the south will be picking up and taking on more parts of the community. The Montevilla south will rehab or replace sewers and six sewer extensions to resolve nonconforming sewer connections currently.
 Again, the proposed construction methods on the south project includes open cut trenching, cured in place pipe, and horizontal directional drilling. In this project, there's about 3,800 lineal feet of open cut, 2,600 feet of CIPP, and 85 lineal feet of horizontal directional drilling. The boundary for the Montevilla south project is Stark to the north, southeast 82nd to the east, southeast Haggart to the south, and southeast 71st to the west.
 There are 25 worksites in the south project. Because of these projects being geographically next to each other, the outreach for these have always been combined throughout the life of the two projects. BES public involvement staff has done extensive outreach to homeowners, schools, business, and neighborhood associations through personal contact, flyers, a website, newsletters, and presentations at neighborhood association meetings.
 The outreach efforts over the past few years have been directed to more than 8,600 property owners, occupants, residents, and businesses in the combined project areas. They've also attended meetings and talked with neighborhood business associations, schools, churches, parks, theaters, restaurants, and small businesses in the areas. A website was created and is still being kept up to date. It will be kept up to date through the life of the projects to continue to disseminate information.
 The outreach is trying to explain the impacts that may be encountered when a project like this takes place in a neighborhood. Some of those impacts would be noise, dust, vibration, staging of pipe or other materials on streets, some parking removal, traffic controls, and that there could also be delays because of the traffic controls or the construction that's happening. There are also three locations that have been identified and received permits for night work and noise variances.
 Montevilla North will be having night work on Halsey and 71st, on East Burnside between Northeast Gillom and 69th Avenue, and Broadway-Schuler Streets between Northeast 35th and 36th Avenue. On Montevilla South, there is one location requiring night work at Southeast 82nd and Mill Street, and continues 234 feet west along Mill Street.
 The engineers estimate as shown for north is $6.225 million and $4 million for Montevilla South. The project level of confidence is high on both projects. Both projects are residential rehab projects typical of other ones we've done in the past. We believe we've accounted for possible issues in construction and expect to receive reliable unit prices as far as the cost estimating of the projects goes.
 We were hoping to advertise in December, but obviously it's probably going to end up being in January with holidays coming upon us. Construction is expected to last about 12 months on Montevilla North, as it's a larger project, and then eight months for the south. That's all. Scott, assuming we can stay close to these timelines, are we still planning to do some event in or around March, like a coffee or something at Montevilla?
 at the bipartisan or someplace in the community like we did in Hawthorne? That's a good suggestion. David, do you know? I don't think that was planned for these. No, I've heard it mentioned, but I haven't seen anything scheduled yet. Let's talk about it in our weekly checkup. Yeah, we'll follow up on that. Thank you. The last time we did it in Hawthorne, we caught some people that roughly knew about it, but were then surprised to hear –
 in front of their business where people were like in pods that were supposed to be quiet, that were doing all the drilling. So we were able to make a few tweaks. So let's plan on doing – this is a very disruptive project, as my colleagues can see from the map. We've had the A team of people doing outreach, but there's still going to be people that are going to be surprised to find out that we're doing it. They'll be delighted we're spending $10 million. But I think if we could do at least one more coffee outreach sometime around March, it would behoove us. Thank you. We're happy to do that.
 Commissioner Fritz? Does this project or one of these projects include the area that we talked about this morning with the local improvement district? Yes, it does. The Montevilla South project. Right now, the work on those streets is in these project documents and in that cost estimate, not knowing if it was going to be approved or not. So we are proceeding with planning on doing the work, and now it looks like once we know for sure it's going to happen, which sounds like it will.
 then we'll remove that from the scope of work on south. And would you be able to do the construction? I don't know how long each individual section takes, but would it be possible to do the section near Bridger Elementary in the summertime so that it doesn't disrupt kids walking into school? Yeah, that will be a requirement of the project documents, that anything in the vicinity of the school has to take place when school is non-session. Yeah. You might also consider using the PTA as a forum where people might be willing to come in. Good idea. Yeah, that's a good idea.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on 1347 or 1348? No one signed up. Any further questions? Well done, you guys. 1347 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. 1348 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It also moves to second reading. 1349 is the second reading. Could you please read the item? Okay.
 Amend the boundary of the Northwest 20th Avenue Local Improvement District to accept $500,000 in funding from Esco Corporation. Include and assess property at 2141 Northwest 25th Avenue to fund traffic signal replacement and intersection improvements to the Northwest 23rd Avenue and Northwest Vaughn Street and U.S. Highway 30 intersection. Any further discussion, colleagues? No.
 Please call the roll. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is amended. Last item, 1350. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority.
 Do we have anybody from the Transportation Bureau here? Yes. Come on up. The most patient person. Yeah, no kidding. And at the 12-6 council meeting while he's coming up here, there was a property owner request, as you'll all recall, to redesign a portion in the North Lombard Avenue sidewalk. And we wanted to carry this over to hear the results of that conversation, although the record is closed on this item.
 Rich Newlands, Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm the project manager. And yes, we have talked with the property owner about moving the curb out to build the sidewalk in a way that does not need any acquisition of right-of-way.
 And you don't need any temporary easements either? In that particular location, we don't even need a temporary, but for the rest of the project, there's a sidewalk further to the north. We do need temporary easements. So I move the amendment to remove the words permanent and from the title and to remove exhibits 25, 26, 27, and 28, which all pertain to the same property who testified at the hearing.
 Second. We have a motion on the table from Commissioner Fritz, seconded by Commissioner Fish, as contained in the December 7th letter to the City Council from PBOT. Any further discussion on that item? First, let's call the roll on the amendment. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance or the amendment is adopted. Is there any further discussion on the main motion? I'd like to move to add an emergency clause to read that the council declares that an emergency exists...
 because delay in property acquisition at this location may result in a delay in construction and impact the overall project completion. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force in effect from and after its passage by the Council. Second. Commissioner Fritz moves the emergency clause. Commissioner Fish seconds. Please call the roll on the amendment. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Any further discussion on the main motion? Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye.
 I'd just like to say that I really appreciated that property owner who came and testified on December 6th. She certainly had reason to be unhappy, but she came in well-informed and presented in an incredibly pleasant and helpful manner. And it was just a refreshing experience.
 So thank you. I can't remember your name, but I wanted to acknowledge that. I, Fritz.
 Well, thank you to Rich Newell as well. You've been a person who's been in the Bureau of Transportation for a long time and is known for being a good listener and wanting to work things out, so I appreciate that very much. I also want to thank Janine Gates on my staff who brought the issues to my attention within the exhibits in her briefing beforehand. And I'm very glad that we've got to this successful resolution. I know the community is going to be very, very happy to have the project done, so thank you for that. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Great work. I really appreciate it.
 I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended, and we are adjourned until Thursday at 2 p.m. Well done.