Welcome to Portland City Hall. This is the December 12, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll?
 Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good, thank you. So first up we had two items from the consent agenda yesterday. We did not have a quorum so we'll hear those two items first, 1138 and 1139, but you have to read them separately, Carla. Oh, I think we just take them as a consent. They weren't pulled off so we could just vote. Oh, you know what? Good point. Thank you. Call the roll. Yu Dailey? Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First item is time certain number 1151. Results of financial audit of the city comprehensive annual financial report for fiscal year 2018-19 and related communications. And could you also read 1152? 1152.
 I'm sorry, except the City of Portland Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. Chair Greg Musil. Good afternoon, Madam Auditor. Welcome. Mary Hall Caballero. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero. It's my pleasure today to introduce partner Jim Lanzarota and Senior Manager Keith Simovic from the accounting firm Moss Adams, which conducted the audit of the City's fiscal year 2019 financial statements.
 The city's financial statements are important resources for community members, taxpayers, investors, and decision makers to understand what fiscal shape the city is in at a moment in time. Federal and Oregon law and city charter require that an independent audit be conducted of the city's financial statements. The purpose of this annual audit is to determine if the public can reasonably be assured that the financial statements fairly represent the financial position of the city.
 There are things that financial audits don't do. They do not reach opinions on whether the city is spending appropriately, making good decisions, or what the long-term future may hold. The city contracts with Moss Adams to audit financial statements prepared by Interim Chief Financial Officer Michelle Kirby and her team with assistance from managers across the city. Audit Services Director Kari Guy in my office manages the contract.
 I will now turn it over to Mr. Lanzarote and Mr. Simovic to walk you through the audit results. All right. Thank you. We really appreciate the opportunity to come before you. We never really feel like we're done with the audit until we get to this spot. So we'll have a merry Christmas. Anyway, what we'd like to do today is, again, just review with you the scope and the nature of the services that we provided.
 This year we'll maybe just share with you at least in bullet forms some of the areas where we spend our time What are the areas of the city's financials or finances? That we focused on and spent some time so we'll talk about that and of course you want to know the results So what were what are in our reports? We'll talk about that and
 There are certain required communications from auditors to auditees, and we're not going to go through all of that, but we'd like to at least, and we've issued to you a written form of that, but we'll at least hit a couple of the highlights that are in that written communication. And then, as usual, we'd like to kind of apprise you of a couple things coming at the city in terms of new accounting standards. So we'll hit that very briefly. Okay.
 So when I think of our audit of the city, actually think about six phases. Now I know there's five items on this slide. The sixth element, and I'll hit that first, is really the reporting. So here's our opportunity to come and share the results. So our reporting would be one additional item not on this. But of course you're very much aware that the purpose of our work is to put an opinion on the accuracy of this document.
 So this represents the financial statements for the city. All the budgetary comparisons for all the funds combining and then an overall full accrual set of financial statements and footnotes for the city.
 And I think you have a pretty good understanding that means that we're going to go in and independently verify this information. We talked directly to your bankers and those that hold cities investment portfolio. We talked directly to your legal counsel. We look at source documents. You're pretty familiar with that.
 A second very important element, though, is to look at what we call internal controls. So what are those checks and balances that management uses that enables them to put together an accurate financial statement? And we have an obligation to tell you if there are serious problems with those internal controls. Either they're poorly designed or management just isn't observing the controls that they've laid out. So that's a second element.
 Anytime you receive federal grants, and the city is very fortunate, your various departments are pretty good at seeking federal resources to provide services. And when you receive federal grants, there's additional compliance audit work on your auditor and some reporting that goes along with that. And so we'll talk about the results of that.
 In Oregon, every municipality that is organized under the state as a city or a county or some other form of municipal corporation, there is a requirement of your auditor to also test your compliance with certain laws. And there's six or seven of those here at the city that we focus on. Probably the one that takes the most time is your budget administration. So that whole process from,
 establishing a budget committee and the budget committee work, the public hearing that you hold, the resolution which ultimately adopts the budget or board order, and then your compliance with local budget law after a budget is adopted are all things that we look at and report on. Another area is where you deposit your money. So who holds the city's cash and investments? There are laws that dictate
 whether you, you know, how aggressive you can be in your investments, who can hold that for you, those sorts of things. Public contracting. There are state laws that govern how you go about acquiring or procuring services, goods and services. So we test your compliance against those laws. And there's a number of other areas. And we issued a report on that, and we'll talk about that today.
 And then I illustrate this fifth area here. You're very fortunate that you've got staff that can put this document together. Look at this beast. That's a lot of information. And we're fortunate that we get to work with clients that have the ability to have experienced staff on board to produce this document.
 We don't like to produce it and then audit it. So you're very fortunate, you've got some very experienced staff that can put this document together. Our focus is the technical review of it. Is it really meeting all of the bells and whistles required by the applicable governmental accounting standards?
 And also, your staff goes above and beyond the minimum. So this document has elements to it that if you put them in and you do a good job, you can submit this for a special award. And I won't take a...
 Some thunder away from Michelle and her team. Maybe they could talk to you a little bit about a special award That's available when you do go above and beyond our review Then is designed to make sure that all those elements are there plus what's required by this additional award program so that's kind of the nature of what we do and
 And we do want to, again, express that there are a number of entities here at the city that require separate audits. Of course, there's the city itself, but Prosper Portland, your urban renewal arm, requires a separate audit, and it issues a separate financial statement. So your contract with us also covers the audit of Prosper Portland.
 Your pension plan for the fire and police, so the disability and retirement plan also issues a separate financial statement, and we perform an audit of that. And then under your contract, there's also the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, small piece, and we're just in the process of wrapping that. We're almost done, and I think we meet with the MHCRC board next week to deliver the results of that audit. So all of these elements are included in...
 In addition to the city's financial statements, so Keith money help us a little bit. Where did we focus sure? So I want to just give you a little more insight into the process Every audit that we do we take a risk based audit approach and we take a fresh look at that every single year So before we even start the audit we're talking internally we're talking with management We're reading through council minutes and really kind of get an idea of what?
 what the major transactions have been over the last year, and we are thinking about what new risks could have popped up. Have there been significant changes in personnel and in management? Have there been significant changes in internal controls? Are there new accounting standards that can have a huge impact on how this financial report is presented? So we're kind of taking all those things into consideration and saying, okay, for this year's audit, where are the significant risk areas? Where do we want to spend the bulk of our time? And then we go through a process
 of setting our audit approach to make sure we're appropriately addressing those risks. And so we've got a few bullet points of the areas that we've considered our critical audit areas where we're doing additional procedures to make sure that we have gathered enough audit evidence and feel comfortable enough to give our audit opinion over the financial statements. That's not to say that we're not auditing all the various transaction cycles that are covered in this report, but these are the areas where we spend the bulk of our time.
 So the number one on there is cash investments. This is typically one that we spend a lot of time understanding the various ways that that cash can be collected and deposited at the city, how cash can be dispersed as well. And what are the controls along the way? What are the checks and balances to make sure that those processes happen accurately and completely as well and that things don't go astray along that process?
 The IT control environment is another one we spend a lot of time on. We actually have a separate team of IT specialists that take a lot of time looking at the systems and controls supporting those systems that help put this document together. That is a bigger and bigger piece of our audit every single year as more and more and more controls move to an electronic environment. So we wanna feel very comfortable about who has access to the various systems that the city has to support the financial reporting process.
 and what controls are in place to really protect that and look at that. Capital assets is another big one. Yes, it's a huge number on your financial statements, but one that through the project cost accounting process, there are a lot of inputs that go into that process, whether you think about labor and payroll charges, overheads,
 materials and supplies all those have to accumulate and a lot of them come from different systems and have to get grouped together and monitored and closed out timely so that depreciation starts appropriately at the right time as well So that's a big piece that we look at and the internal control supporting that charges for services utility building is a big source of revenue for your utility funds and that's an area that there's a lot of control pieces along the way to make sure that the city gets that right and
 And so we are looking at the processes in there quite a bit and spending a lot of time making sure we feel comfortable That when you send a bill out to customer for water and sewer charges that it's that is accurate and appropriate.
 Financial closing reporting, that is the accumulation of the city's processes to basically do their own internal audit before anything gets to us to make sure that this document and all the accounting records that support this document, that the city has gone through their reconciliations and review processes to make sure that this is accurate before it gets to us.
 So that's a big piece of what we do. And then Jim mentioned that additional report that we give on compliance over some of the state regulations and looking at the city's budgeting process as well as the procurement and public contracting process. We spend a lot of time looking at those transactions as well.
 So, moving forward, give you a little more insight into the audit process because we get to come before you today with our final deliverable which, of course, as Jim mentioned, the city puts this document together but we just have a few pieces of paper in here, maybe about six to eight pages or something like that that we're responsible for.
 But there's a lot of work that goes into that along the way. And so this next slide is really kind of talking about, well, what is part of our audit process to kind of get to this point? How do we gather evidence so that we feel comfortable with this document? And so the first piece of that, we actually split up our fieldwork into two phases. The first phase of that is what we call our interim fieldwork where we're really looking at internal controls. And the reason we split that up and do that piece first is—
 is because it's all a part of our risk assessment process. So as we're looking at internal controls, pulling transactions, and looking at support for those to make sure the checks and balances are appropriate, if we're finding weaknesses in those controls, that's gonna change our audit plan. That means that we might have to do additional procedures to get comfortable with the accuracy of the balances that are reported here if there's a lack of controls that we can't really rely on.
 So that's a huge piece of what we're doing, and IT is a huge part of that process as well. As again, as I mentioned, the security and the access, the change management, those are the main areas that we're looking at when it comes to IT.
 And then from there, when we come back for our second phase of field work, we use a combination of procedures, whether those are analytical procedures or substantive procedures. You know, the substantive procedures is probably where we're spending the bulk of our time. That is when we're sending confirmations out to your third-party financial institutions, confirming the balances that are reported held on behalf of the city. We're reaching out to attorneys. Okay.
 we're vouching transactions back to supporting documentation and evidence whether those are invoices contracts and agreements making sure that that accounting that follows is in line with those documents but the analytical procedures are very important as well this is really kind of just stepping back and saying
 Okay, does this balance actually make sense based on everything that we know? Kind of reading through what are the transactions that are going on? What has the city council been talking about? And how are the budgets set? And did the actual balances end up where we thought they'd be? So a lot of times we can find issues just kind of taking that step back look rather than digging into the details and pulling detailed samples. So that kind of takes you through the audit process. Okay.
 This next slide kind of gives you the full results of our audit and what you'll see if you read through the audit deliverables inside this document. And, you know, if we set this up and had, you know, kind of a green light, yellow light, red light kind of format, you'd have a green light all the way across this document.
 slide. You can stop there. It's great. Fantastic. Absolutely. Exactly. Very good result. Absolutely. And the result of a lot of hard work that the city and their staff have done throughout the year to get to this point. This isn't something that just when we come out for the audit, everything's done at that point in time. This is a process and accumulation of the work that the staff have done throughout the year. Our audit report on the financial statements, you'll see that we've given an unmodified or really just auditor speak for a clean report.
 opinion, which is exactly what you're looking for. That's kind of the highest level that you can get. It means we didn't find any material errors in the financial statements and that we believe that they're a fair representation of the city's financial position and changes in that financial position throughout the year.
 Our government auditing standards report, we didn't have any findings to report in that item. If we had any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal controls, that would mean you're missing some checks and balances that are so egregious that something significant, whether it's error or fraud...
 would mean we would believe that could actually slip through the cracks and not be identified with the controls in place. But we didn't have any findings along those lines, so very good news there. Our report on the compliance with Oregon state regulations and laws, we didn't have any findings, again looking back at the kind of budgeting process, the procurement process as well. So no findings there, very good news.
 And our report on the federal funds that we look at and the compliance procedures in connection with those federal funds that we looked at, we didn't have any reportable findings as well. So very clean process all along the way and very good result for the city.
 So in addition to that, we have one other deliverable that we issue as part of every audit that we do. It's called our Communication to Those Charged with Governance. And it kind of gives you a summary of really how the audit went. Whether we found anything or not, this is something that we want to let you know that here are certain items that we went through and what the results were.
 We've kind of bolded a few main items on here because it really was a very clean audit. But some of the good news just to continue along the lines of the theme of the last slide. In this deliverable, we're noting if there were any material audit adjustments that were identified through the process. And that means once we start our audit, if there's anything that we're finding errors along the way that's considered significant or material, that's something we want to let kind of the governing body of the city know about.
 Through the testing that we've done, we didn't have any material adjustments or material errors that were noted in the process. So very good and clean there. We didn't have any difficulties in performing the audit. That really goes back to any scope limitations. Any questions that we have? Commissioner Hurst, you had a question. Yes. I'm sorry. I just wanted to stop you for a minute because I realize that auditors have a speak.
 that the people who are watching on TV and in the audience just may not be tracking. And so I'm going to translate for you just for a moment. Sure, please. And so the last slide that you showed showed that
 based on your audit findings, there were no findings, right? And findings would be bad because that would mean that there were some irregularities that you had discovered as you were going through your audit. Is that an accurate statement? That's correct. Right? And so what you're saying is based on the information that you were given, based on your expertise in the field of auditing,
 you have found that the city manages its finances well. Correct. Thank you. I was sitting here thinking, you know, I think we lost a couple of people, so I wanted to bring them back in to the fold. So thank you for letting me. I think we're pretty fortunate, the clients that we work with. It's very rare that we would issue a modified opinion, and usually that, I mean, we can find a material error, but generally management makes the fix. Right.
 Post an adjusting entry to correct the error so we get to clean opinions, but it is common that a
 when there is an error, there's a control that didn't work. And we're reporting a control weakness. So many times we're coming before boards such as yours and saying, okay, we got to a clean opinion, but guess what? We had an audit adjustment. There was an error. There's a control that's not functioning. That's a common type of thing to report. We are fortunate. We don't have any errors like that or weaknesses in controls. On the Oregon minimum standards report, probably the most common thing we report are over expenditures.
 There's a violation during the course. We messed up somewhere and we overspent a line item in one of our funds. That's very common. The city has had some overexpenditures in the past. But guess what? None. So even the administration against your budget...
 which is great news too because of so many funds that you have and the complexity of the transactions, it's often that there's an overexpenditure. You didn't even have an overexpenditure. And on the federal grants too, it is common to slip up somewhere. There's a compliance requirement unique to a particular grant.
 And guess what? Someone didn't do something that they needed to do, and you had no findings on your federal grant. So that's really phenomenal news. I want to translate once more and just say that we have really smart people who work for the city of Portland, and they cross their T's and dot their I's.
 I serve on the board of a lot of community nonprofits, and so I'm very accustomed to audit speak, right? And so no disrespect intended at all, right? But I just know it's a different language than most people are accustomed to. And so I'm just trying to simplify it so that we're all following the same hymn, so to speak. Appreciate that. Thank you.
 Please continue. So on top of that, we just want to let you know that there were no limitations in the scope of our procedures. So any question that we asked, we were given an answer. Any document we asked for, management produced that document for us. I think that's an important piece because if that didn't happen, then we wouldn't be able to give a clean opinion on the statement. So I think that's very important. And again, no material weaknesses in controls. No big errors or holes in checks and balances. So with that, I will turn it back to Jim. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'd just like to keep you apprised, not so much for because you're accounting nerds like we are and you want to know all this stuff, but more so to just emphasize that governmental accounting is complex and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board has issued a lot of statements. These are complex statements and your staff will have some challenges implementing these. One in particular is the lease standard.
 I think the I believe your staff have counted up over 250 leases That's a number that sticks in my mind that may be wrong But the accounting for leases is changing and adding some complexity, so they're going to need some time and resources to implement that They may be looking at software to help with that standard to meet the complexity. That's behind it and
 So they may need some resources or some help. We're here to try to support them and as they try to get the support they need to implement that. And there's a few other standards out there. The other thing is your crew does a good job of getting the continuing education necessary to implement these standards when the time comes. We provide some training.
 Hats off to the auditor's office and Mary for negotiating with us in our contract. She asks us and actually requires us to provide some training to the city staff. And we do that each year. We have a day of training we provide up here in the Portland area. So we try to help with these. Anyway, your crew does a good job and we're here to put a plug for your support as they continue to receive the education necessary to implement these standards.
 And the last thing I would say is, you know, in the past we've commented kind of on some of the overall financial condition of the city and I believe your finance staff has done a good job of coming before you. I think Michelle will be up next and will have some comments again. Clearly the city has some challenges. And I think your finance crew has done a good job of summarizing the different areas.
 for you to focus on and will probably continue to do so. So we appreciate those efforts. Really appreciate the auditor's office and their observance of the contract and managing us. So Kari we got to work with this year in that role and she was excellent to work with and a great resource for us. And also Michelle and her team
 I think you used brand new software to put this document together this year. So anytime you have new software, that can create challenges and wow, what an awesome document that came out of that. So Michelle and her team, Ron, Ashley, did a phenomenal job with that. So hats off to their efforts and we wanna acknowledge that. And with that, we're open to questions and anything that you would like to ask of us or anything we didn't cover?
 Commissioner Hardesty, how can we do better? Yeah, you know, I think that really in terms of financial reporting There are some complex standards and I think some software. Well, we talked about leases In terms of the controls that you have a lot of it is staying on top of things I believe you'll be entering into more and more activity related to the Portland Harbor and
 and some cleanup efforts there. There could be significant dollars coming through your statements. So there may be some new types of policies or controls you may need to think about as you go through the administration of and the cleanup of the Portland Harbor and dollars that run through the city and that help you meet those commitments. So that might be an area of focus. And really just the financial challenges that the city has, even though you've, like,
 as Michelle will talk about, some of the positives, there's always unmet needs.
 Housing is a big need. I know there's a lot of emphasis. So you're getting into some new areas that maybe you haven't gotten into before in terms of helping with homelessness. And so there may be some new types of activities and internal controls that would be associated with that. That would be something to perhaps get some feedback from your staff. How are we doing? And getting prepared for the increased activity in that area, which seems fairly new. Okay.
 So that might be an area of focus. And I would just add to that, anything on the IT side too to stay on top of that because that's constantly changing. New risks come up as new systems come online, making sure those things can interface and talk to the other systems that the city has, making sure the controls within those systems are very strong and monitored.
 but also kind of looking at it from a cybersecurity risk perspective. I mean, you're always constantly hearing about new cybersecurity issues that come up and staying kind of on top of what are those latest trends and how can the city protect itself against those. I just thought of one other question. So when the earthquake happens and we're not able to go to the bank and withdraw money to do stuff, what do we do?
 Yeah, so that's an excellent. So you should again talk to your staff about what do we have? Most of our clients have some sort of emergency plan for one. There's generally backup systems for all the accounting stuff so that if there's damage here, there's generally a backup or some way to get that up and rolling. And then also through your emergency management transportation, hopefully there are plans to help the city get back.
 back up and running. From an audit perspective, we're obviously concerned about can you continue to pay bills and pay staff and collect money and kind of keep the wheels going and you should have an emergency plan. It's not always the focus of our audit but a good question to ask and maybe something you could ask of your staff after we're done.
 uh my usual boring questions first i want to thank the auditor this is really it gets to the core question about accountability and oversight people ask it all the time and i'm not sure that the the room is packed today because people wanted to hear the audit but i'm glad that they are hearing it and i'm glad they're hearing your responses to to the the primary scope of the audit did you get all the information that you asked for from city boroughs and leadership
 Yes. We did. Were there any limitations set on your audit by anybody in the city infrastructure? No. Did your final audit reflect the initial scope of your audit? Yes. Were there any serious concerns or contradictions that were raised that you've not told us about? No. No.
 Yeah, it's interesting. When we have clients who have audit committees, which is kind of a best practice, there isn't really an audit committee here. There is an internal auditor, and there's a lot of communications with an internal auditor. But often in audit committees, there's a time when management's asked to leave the room, and you're able to ask us direct questions. Yeah, we don't get to do that.
 here. Yeah, and we're out in a public setting. We just ask the questions and hope. But whether we were in a private setting or not, we would respond the same. Your crew has been, we have spirited discussions at times, but we have never felt like management was trying to hoodwink or not be responsive or
 If anything, the sense that we get from your staff is that they want to be better, and they're open to our observations and recommendations, and that's a great...
 situation for us as opposed to those that just don't want to hear anything you know bad or want to you know butt heads with us if we have an observation we've never felt that here at the city good glad to hear that i'm not surprised the focus of the audit are on material concerns were there any non-material issues that led you to be concerned that maybe did not rise to the level
 of mention in the audit that were concerns nonetheless or could lead to material concerns, notwithstanding the items that you mentioned previously, which I agree with. No. And in fact, in the one slide, we kind of categorize audit, so Keith mentioned an audit adjustment. So that's clearly a material item that we would tell management, we've got to get this corrected. But we also have a threshold for,
 for errors that we identify and we accumulate them because maybe an error by itself isn't material, but if you have a number of them, all of a sudden you could have a material problem. And we do accumulate those. We didn't have an error that we identified that was even over that lower threshold that we maintained. So it's very common to have an error somewhere. There isn't as much precision in this as we think there is.
 There are estimates, but we didn't even have an error to the level, a lower level to which we felt compelled to bring it to your attention. Okay. Was there anything I did not ask or that this panel has not yet asked that we should have asked that could potentially lead to the threshold of a conflict or a material issue?
 I don't think so, because we try to cover that too. So in the combination of what we covered plus your questions, I think we've got it pretty well covered. Good. And I think one of the advantages of using the same auditor from year to year is you can keep an eye on –
 potential issues and I assume that you are tracking that, you keep that in the file and you watch to see if there are trends on some of these other issues that could lead to a material divergence. Is that fair in terms of what your practices are? Right, absolutely. I mean that's something where, you know, Jim mentioned that we have this kind of lower level that we're tracking towards.
 And because we want to let you know if there's smaller errors that we're identifying that we can, you know, have recommendations and help the city make changes before that grows into a bigger, more material error. But again, we didn't note anything even above that kind of lower threshold. Great. This is your kind of stuff, isn't it? Why do you say that? Okay.
 I don't know, you just got that glee in your eyes. So when we got to the Oregon Sports Authority, nobody said, hey, this sports stuff, this is you. It's real. On the internal audit. It's got tucking numbers and There you go. You got that sparkle in your eyes. His wrist. Yes, all of a sudden, he's better from ear to ear. His eyes do sparkle. I just want the record to reflect that it was Commissioner Hardesty who asked the first questions and she asked the most questions about the internal financial audit. Anything else on that issue?
 I think the two of you have it covered. Okay, good. I guess the last thing I would say, again, it's important to recognize, I mean,
 Mary covered it a little bit, but we're hired actually by your independently elected auditor, and that's really a best practice. Oftentimes it's management that's hiring the auditor, and there's sometimes concerns. Does that apply pressure then? Is there undue pressure there? And so you're actually observing a best practice. It's also a best practice to have an internal auditor, and they certainly provide value. So we've appreciated that.
 that relationship and I think that's a best practice.
 All right. Appreciate that. Thank you. Great. Does that complete then the report on the financial audit? Yes. Yes. Okay, good. Why don't we dispense with this first before we get to the CAFRA? Would that work with you? I guess I'm actually introducing that. So I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty to accept the financial audit and a second from Commissioner Udalli. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udalli. Thank you, I vote aye.
 This is the 11th time I've had the pleasure to hear your report, so with each time I've had fewer and fewer questions than this time, so absolutely none. Thank you very much for your work. Aye. Thank you. Hardesty? I have to admit that I'm as geeky as he is when it comes to numbers. The truth comes out.
 This is an excellent report, and it's really going to be helpful as we continue to have these conversations about what's the city's role in funding city services. Because, as you pointed out, there's a lot of unmet need that today we cannot fund. So I appreciate you greatly, and I certainly appreciate our auditor, who has the most fabulous auditing staff on the planet. I vote aye. Wheeler.
 It's always a good idea to say nice things about the auditing staff. Always. Madam Auditor and the auditing team. And frankly, you're right, Commissioner Hardesty, and thank you very much for your leadership on this and bringing us a good audit team. I feel very confident.
 having you be our external auditors and what I hear from people is that you are both direct and you are frank and you are honest and you give us what I think is a full and fair report and I appreciate it. Happy to vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So with that, we've already read 1152. I'll just go right into my opening remarks. I'm pleased to invite Michelle Kirby, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Ashley Tuttle, Accounting Supervisor, to present the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, otherwise known as the CAFR, for the fiscal year ended June 30th, 2019.
 The CAFR compromises the actual audit financial results in the city's operations and provides information related to the city's overall financial health. Good afternoon, and thanks for being here. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. Could you slide the mic just a little closer? The microphone actually moves. Yeah, it's a trick microphone. Yeah, thank you.
 Good afternoon for the record. My name is Ashley Tuttle I'm the accounting supervisor for financial reporting with the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services Also presenting this afternoon is Michelle Kirby interim chief financial officer and bureau director today We will be presenting to you the comprehensive annual financial report also known as the capper for the fiscal year ended June 30th 2019
 We will be discussing highlights and financial trends from the CAFR, and we'll be presenting you with additional information regarding the city's long-term fiscal health. So copies of the CAFR have been delivered to each one of your offices, and if you had a chance to look through it, you'll notice it's quite thick. The preparation of the annual CAFR is an extensive project, which requires a group effort to make it a success.
 Involvement is needed from all the city's bureaus, the city auditor's office, and our independent auditors, Moss Adams, to ensure the timely and successful completion of this report. The accounting division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services is responsible for preparing the CAFR, ensuring its accuracy, and working with auditors throughout this process.
 Several of the accounting division team members are here today, and I'd like to take a moment to recognize them for their hard work and dedication to the success of this project. These are the people who make it come together. So for the past six years, study and significant progress has been made to reduce the amount of time required to publish the CAFR and ensure timely financial reporting.
 This is the second year in a row the city has published the CAFR on October 30th, which is four months from the end of the fiscal year. So you may be asking, why is this an important achievement? First of all, a major objective of financial reporting is timely financial information to ensure that it's relevant and useful for decision making. It also establishes the city as a national leader in providing timely financial information to the community and other interested users of the CAFR.
 And then in addition, preparing the CAFR in less time allows the accounting division time to focus on other reporting initiatives such as the popular annual financial report, also known as the PAFR, which was created and published for the first time four years ago. The PAFR is also translated into four languages, Russian, Spanish, Vietnamese, and Chinese for greater community outreach.
 So over the past four years, we have set a goal to get better at creating a report that's visually appealing and readable for everyone in the community, but also improving our community outreach with the report. So looking into other means of communicating the information, we have partnered with other bureaus who have a greater connection to the community to assist us in getting this information out.
 And the PAFR will be published in the next couple of weeks. One moment. Commissioner Hardesty, please. Thank you, Mayor. I'm curious. We don't send this out to the public, do we? No. So the popular annual financial report is a roughly 20-page summary of the most critical pieces of the CAFR for citizens and the community to read to get a gauge of the city's fiscal health. You're welcome. But we don't send them that either, right?
 Well, we have, so in terms of working harder to get the information out, we don't physically send them out, but we have come up with other ways. It's available, but we don't mail it to every household. Exactly. Right. Yes. Just wanted to clarify. So now we will discuss highlights of the fiscal year 18-19 CAFR. The good news, as you've already heard, is that our external auditors gave the city an unmodified opinion.
 Found no weaknesses or deficiencies in the city's accounting processes the CAFR also complies with state law and generally accepted accounting principles We received the government finance officers Association Award for excellence in financial reporting for the 38th consecutive year and we received There were GFOA award for the PAFR as well the city's bond rating for unlimited tax general obligation bonds remain it remains rated triple-a by Moody's investor service and
 So a AAA credit rating is important because it allows the city to borrow at lower interest rates, therefore saving millions of dollars per year in interest expense, and that rating was confirmed in May of 2019. Now I will turn the presentation over to Michelle Kirby for a look at some financial trends. Thank you, Ashley. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. The city has seen record revenue growth over the last several years.
 as local economic growth exceeded both national and state averages. What you're seeing here is revenue in certain categories compared to the prior year, and this information is for the city's governmental funds on a modified accrual basis. And you can see measurable growth in the following categories.
 The housing prices in the Portland area have continued to grow, which is reflected in the increase in the property tax numbers. The other tax categories, licenses and permit revenues are reflective of economic expansion in the region. Favorable interest rates, strong investment performance and a larger investment portfolio accounts for the large increase in investment earnings over the prior year.
 And while this is good news, economic indicators suggest that further growth will likely be at more moderate levels. Could I just make, before you go off that slide, I'd just like to clarify on the property taxes, because I think we all know that Measure 5 limited property tax increases to 3% a year. So presumably that 8.47 reflects new housing coming online and also perhaps urban renewal districts ending there, expiring. Would that be accurate?
 I cannot say exactly. Let me change that too. I think that that might be accounting for that because I know that we all have in our heads that...
 even if you sell your property, it doesn't adjust to the new rate necessarily. So I think that there's more to that going on. I think what's really impressive to me is the investment earnings that you're showing there, which is reflecting of, which we just passed the city's financial policies yesterday, which you presented to us on. And I think that's really significant that despite not investing in fossil fuels or any of the other egregious things that we have a policy of opposing, only investing in...
 the biggest, most responsible companies, were still getting that rate of return. So I congratulate you on that. There were several factors on that and we poked at that extensively because it is such a large increase. And so there were several factors. One is I indicated that our investment portfolio was larger. Several of the funds had balances which were part of the investment pool.
 and just strong interest rates in general over the year in conjunction with being able to make some strategic investments in corporates according to our policy. Congratulations and thank you on that. Thank you to our investment manager. Thank you.
 So while the current condition is strong, there are long-term financial obligations that must be addressed and managed. The city's facing several challenges which underscore the need for a long-range view in evaluating our financial sustainability. Escalating pension costs, newly negotiated labor contracts, and inflation are continuing to put increased pressure on the city's personnel costs.
 Strategic and consistent investments in the city's capital assets, technology, and infrastructure, including the funding of replacement reserves, is critical to ensuring sustained delivery of public services. In addition, the need to fund the city's share of certain legacy liabilities, such as the Portland Harbor Superfund and the Columbia River Levy, add to the long-term funding challenges. Thank you.
 So net position is an indicator used to help us
 assess financial stability. Over the past couple of years, we've had a number of discussions with you about the city's net position. So as a reminder, financial net position in general terms represents the net of the city's assets or what it owes minus the liability, I'm sorry, let me repeat that, represents the city's assets or what it owns
 minus the liabilities or what it owes. Net position reflects the overall net worth of the city at a specific point in time and serves as a useful gauge of the city's financial health. So as a reminder again, net position has a long-term focus and as you can see this is a mathematical equation and so some factors that could decrease our net position
 are increases in liabilities or obligations without an offsetting capital asset or capital reserve to offset that.
 Depri also another factor could be depreciation of our capital asset value artist excuse me You lost me okay I'm gonna try to see if I I was trying to use what you were talking about This is probably the toughest one we got Okay, that's right all right, so we have what we own versus what we owe so if I
 We have an increase in what we owe, but we haven't reserved for that liability that would cause a decline in our net position. And so we have unfunded pension liability? Correct. We have maintenance backlogs? Correct. Well, we'll get into this. This is kind of the philosophy. I'll tell you more about the specifics here in a moment, but yes, you're absolutely-
 I understand. It's scary stuff, but we have ways of dealing with it. But this is kind of the overall picture of what we're talking about when we're talking about net position. So here on this slide, and I know this is tiny, but the point of this is to see the trend. So this is what we call business type activities. Business type activities are primarily our water and sewer funds.
 They've always had the outlook of supporting their self-supported activities. They're based on user charges, and those charges build into their fee structure long-term obligations. So since they have historically been managed with a long-range focus on a full accrual basis, you can see here that they have a favorable trend line approach.
 going over the past 10 years. In comparison, this is a chart of our governmental activities. And so as I previously mentioned, we have governmental activities and business type activities and the governmental activities are primarily supported by taxes, intergovernmental revenues. So here's where we see our general fund, all special revenue debt and capital project funds.
 So they are managed and budgeted on a near-term basis. And while GAAP requires a full accrual or long-term outlook in the government-wide statements in the CAFR. Can I help you?
 I apologize. I was leaning over to talk to the expert about this kind of stuff. Okay. Because I was looking at the chart, and it's more money, and the line was going the other way. Yes. But I understand that this is the unfunded liabilities that I just spoke about. So the steep decline that you see right in the middle, 2014-2014,
 That is when the Governmental Accounting Standards Board first required us to put the pension obligations, the unfunded pension liability on our financial statements. And we had a particularly deep decline because of our police and fire public safety retirement plan. It is a pay-as-you-go plan.
 And so it does not have a reserve. It does not have a funding reserve. So the whole entire liability was put on our long-term financial statements. But we also now have fire and police and PERS, which means that we also will start having an unfunded liability, even though we will continue to fund it through property tax bills. We have PERS is also reflected in here.
 And so you see that big dip, which was the first year this came on board. It's still continuing to decline, as you can see, although it's starting to level off because of some of the steps that we've taken, which I'll tell you about. Well, let me back up, though, one moment. Besides the pension, the other biggest issue with our long-term liabilities and the decline is...
 is the decline in our assets, capital assets, our infrastructure assets. So we are depreciating or losing value at a faster rate than we're putting in money for new assets or major maintenance. And so going to the next slide. Thank you, Ashley. The green bar...
 is infrastructure for governmental activities. And so you can clearly see by this chart that over time the green bar has declined, and in fact infrastructure decreased 17% last year in the infrastructure investment during this past year.
 The last couple years we've seen an increase in construction and progress, which accounts for the growth in the other asset category, which is represented by the purple bar. And the largest construction project contributing to this increase is the Portland Building Reconstruction, which added seismic upgrades and received LEED Gold Building Certification. So that's what's keeping the total bar even.
 However, like you can see, the infrastructure is radically declining. So this may seem overwhelming. There are steps we can take to ensure long-term fiscal sustainability. Several of them we currently have in process. During the past year, the city updated financial planning policy, which strengthened our financial planning responsibilities.
 Capital set-aside monies are being allocated through the annual budget process. We just need to do more and the creation of a new citywide liability reserve is coming to Council next week and this will be setting up a long term citywide reserve fund for obligations such as Portland Harbor. So in summary the City's CAFR is
 For fiscal year end 2019 complies with all accounting standards and practices. The current credit ratings are reflective of the city's financial health. The city's strong current financial position has been helped with good comprehensive financial management policies and record revenue growth over the past several years. However, the CAFR is a snapshot at a point in time and future growth will be likely at more moderate levels.
 long-term financial sustainability requires a long-term focus. We've taken a good preliminary step, but we must stay the course to ensure the city's financial health remains strong into the future. And with that, are there other questions or comments? Very good. Thank you. I mean, it's an excellent report. It highlights
 the real challenge facing this council now and probably for many years to come and that is the long-tail liabilities without identified sources
 funding to address them. So the first step is identifying the challenge and then start working at it. Yeah, I would actually argue that the best recent example of that is the Parks Bureau situation. We all love the parks. Everybody in this community supports the parks. Right. But we know that our park infrastructure is aging along with our transportation infrastructure.
 and it's on us to try and figure out how to maintain it. Yes, absolutely. Good, all right, thank you. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. Motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Udalli to accept the CAFR. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udalli. Thank you for the report, I vote aye. Fritz. So I'm particularly pleased to see Everton Bailey from the Oregonian in the audience. I was thinking that this is really a good news story
 this and the previous report that we are managing the city's finances responsibly and carefully and looking after taxpayers money and ratepayers money. So thank you for bringing these reports to us. Thank you Michelle Kirby, interim financial chief financial officer, accounting supervisor Ashley Tuttle, I see revenue manager Thomas Lanham in the audience,
 previous Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Cooperman and all the staff that are here and those who are not able to be here because they're still working away. It does take a lot of careful attention to detail and I appreciate having a Mayor who does light up when we start talking numbers and indeed with the Better Portland Plan is has already made steps to invest in our failing infrastructure with returning urban renewal district money.
 that we need to do more. And I think particularly it was mentioned with parks, we need to identify a new funding source rather than continuing to rely on the two-legged stool that we've got right now. We do have more options in the city because of the licensing revenue. We got, I think it was over $3 million, I think, that we got with...
 adding the transient lodging tax to Airbnbs. So the Council has looked at what's fair and who should pay, who should benefit and those are the principles that we use moving forward. So thank you very much for demonstrating that and I do encourage folks to perhaps not read through this whole thing, but
 But to get the popular annual financial report, I do think we could probably figure out a better name for it. But it is very readable and you should know how your city government is using your money. Aye. Hardesty.
 I agree with all the accolades for the work well done. I would be remiss if I didn't say that I'm looking forward to the entire city council conversation that Tom Reinhart is going to facilitate for us so that we start talking about what are core city services that every person who lives in the city of Portland should have an entitlement to because they live here. Um,
 Our system now makes no sense to me. It's a pay as you go system and if you have a lot of money, then you spend a lot of money. But if you don't have a lot of money, then you're competing with the general fund. So the way we do it now just makes no sense. I'm looking forward to having that conversation because it shouldn't be about how much money a bureau can make or raise. It should be about what are the services we're providing.
 I look forward to having that full council conversation early next year. And I'm going to keep reminding Tom that he said he was going to help us make that happen. I vote aye. Wheeler. Thanks, Michelle and Ashley. We appreciate it. I appreciate the hard work of the accounting division to produce the CAFR. The city's accounting team should be very proud that we're recognized as a national leader in financial reporting.
 And I appreciate that while the city is healthy by many measures, we do have long-term liabilities that we need to continue to address. And I appreciate the discussion on that point. I look forward to working with the council and the city budget office and the chief financial officer and the city bureaus on both increasing our reserves and finding ways to improve our investments and infrastructure. So with that, I vote to accept the CAFR.
 Thank you. The report is accepted. Colleagues, why don't we get through the next item and then take a bit of a break. Does that suit everybody? Good. Item 1153, please.
 accept the 2017-2019 Biennial Report to Portland City Council on 100% Renewable Energy, Resolution Number 37289. As we continue to advance our collective efforts on climate, it's also imperative for us to recognize what has been achieved while we identify more that needs to be gained.
 Two years ago, this City Council took what I believe was bold climate action and passed the 100% renewable energy resolution. This committed us as a community to removing fossil fuels from the economy by 2050 in a just and equitable way.
 We were well aware at the time that this was a monumental commitment and a challenge that would require the collaboration between government, business, industry, community-based organizations and non-profits, academia, and every single one of us as individuals.
 But since we passed that resolution, awareness of the climate crisis has noticeably increased, not only for Portlanders, but for the entire world. The urgency to act now is greater than it has ever been at any point. And the truth is our carbon emission reductions have begun to plateau, and our transportation emissions have actually been on the rise for the past several years. So what have we accomplished in the last two years?
 The good news is that we have dedicated staff in every borough that continue to push hard the resolutions initiatives. We've acted on more than half the directives in the 100% renewable resolution. We have some innovative and important projects underway that you're going to hear about today from city staff and invited guests. We also have amazing partners that collaborate and challenge us to implement just solutions.
 We'll hear about local projects and state policies made possible by these amazing community partners. For example, I was pleased to see the passage of Senate Bill 98 in 2019 during the legislative session. Because of SB 98, natural gas utilities are just six months away from being able to start driving down carbon emissions by investing significantly in renewable natural gas.
 And last year, the community-led Portland Clean Energy Fund was overwhelmingly supported by Portland voters and is poised to breathe new life into many of these ongoing efforts. The Clean Energy Fund will create a whole new set of opportunities, many of which we haven't even thought of yet.
 I believe it's appropriate that we're getting this report at the end of the year. 2020 is going to be a critical year for the accelerated action and leadership around the climate. I turn it over to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff and their invited guests to walk us through the report's findings. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, members of the City Council. I'm Andrea Durbin, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you very much for your time today. This time I'm not addressing a planning issue, but a sustainability-related issue. We appreciate that very much. The 100% Renewable Energy Resolution is one of Portland's North Star policies, and successfully delivering on the commitments of this resolution is fundamental to fighting climate change.
 When this council passed the 100% renewables resolution in 2017, you established new climate action targets for buildings, energy, and transportation. Together, these three sectors account for over 80% of local carbon emissions. So while we know that this resolution doesn't address all of our emissions, it does represent the lion's share. The resolution goes beyond just setting climate targets. The resolution is intentional in describing not just what needs to be done, but how.
 The work of BPS and our partners that you will hear from today is centered on just transition from fossil fuel based energy to net zero emission systems. As we rethink our approach to climate action work at the city, we must center and lift up frontline communities, priorities and benefits. The work advancing the 100% renewable resolution is representative of that effort.
 Before we dive into the progress report, I want to provide additional context for the work in terms of our community-wide emissions. It's both a success story and a warning. Overall, we've had tremendous success reducing emissions from over the last 30 years. We've done this while welcoming 38% more people and generating 34% more jobs in our community.
 But more recently, local emissions have started to plateau around 15% below 1990 levels. And a more troubling trend is that transportation emissions have been on the rise steadily over the last several years. Transportation emissions are now 8% higher than they were in 1990. Thank you.
 Climate action is no longer a discussion about what science tells us or what models predict. The truth is climate change is here, and we know the pathway to reverse our emission trends. We need to decarbonize our built environment and transportation systems. We must increase active transportation and transit use, and we must aggressively reduce energy use across all systems, all while ensuring the priorities of our frontline communities are met.
 Portland has been a leader on climate for decades, and that responsibility requires more urgency and bold actions more than ever. I'm now going to hand it over to my colleague Andrea Jacob and our invited partners to tell you about our progress on the 100% resolution. Thank you very much.
 Thank you and good afternoon Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Andrea Jacob. I manage energy programs and policy for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I'm going to today walk us through the resolution, the goals, what it means, what the resolution directed us to do and what we've actually done to implement it over the last couple of years. So the resolution establishes two main target years, 2035 and 2050.
 The 2035 goal focuses on getting to 100% renewable in the electricity sector, while the 2050 goal is focused on transportation and heating. The resolution also establishes numeric targets for the percentage of community-wide energy needs that will be met by community-based development of renewable energy infrastructure, and I'll talk more about this later in the presentation.
 So those are some very audacious goals, but what does it really mean and what is it going to take us to get there? As Andrea said, it means taking all the carbon out of the three main sectors of the economy, buildings, transportation, and energy supply. And sometimes this is called deep decarbonization.
 And the scientific and technical community is in pretty good consensus around that deep decarbonization rests on four main pillars, and this is what's in front of you. The first pillar is to use less of all fossil fuels, regardless of what they are. We just simply must use less electricity, natural gas, gasoline. In buildings, we call this energy efficiency. In transportation, this is about reducing the need for vehicle trips and shifting modes away from cars to lower carbon options.
 The second pillar is that we have to generate 100% renewable electricity, which the resolution speaks directly to. The third pillar is to use renewable transportation fuels for all remaining vehicle trips, and that includes renewable electricity, renewable natural gas, or renewable diesel, among others.
 And finally, the fourth pillar is replacing the fossil fuels that we use to heat our buildings with renewable heating fuels. And that could include also renewable electricity or renewable natural gas. My team has started to refer to this as clean heat, just because it's a little bit of a simpler term than thermal decarbonization, which nobody likes.
 But the 100% renewable resolution is not just about renewable energy. It is about making this transition away from fossil fuels a just one and recognizing that the burdens of climate change will fall first and worst on communities of color and low-income people, and actually already are.
 Justice and equity are expressed in the resolution as a set of priorities around community-based development of renewable energy, capacity building and investment in frontline communities, utilization of minority and women-owned businesses in the development of clean energy, and hiring and training folks that have traditionally been underrepresented in the renewable energy and energy efficiency industries.
 So the 100% resolution is lengthy. I actually have copies of it if council would like a copy or is it familiar? Okay. Let me just...
 So the resolution is lengthy. There's over three and a half pages of whereases and 26 different directives. Each one of them is pretty multifaceted. So instead of going through each of them exhaustively, we try to distill them into broader themes. And these are, as we already talked about, community-based energy development, equitable workforce development,
 The expectation that city staff will engage in state-level policy proceedings, that we will engage deeply and broadly with the utility sector, that we'll focus on electrifying the transportation system, that we'll focus on our own city operations and what we can do on our own facilities and fleet, and green infrastructure and governance. And so now I'll walk us through the findings, which basically relate to these larger themes.
 So finding number one, most of the carbon reductions that we can measure in our inventory, in our greenhouse gas inventory, have come from the utility sector. We have a statewide renewable portfolio standard which is responsible for the fact that about 15 to 20 percent of our current grid mix is already renewable and we're moving towards 50 percent renewable by 2040. We have long-standing energy efficiency and voluntary green energy programs that have made their mark.
 And we can't take credit for this. This is the collaboration of a lot of partners and folks that are in the room, but we benefit from it and our inventory shows that. But we have helped innovation in the utility sector in a couple ways. I wanna mention two projects. First, the city partnered with PGE to bring a new product to market. It's called a Voluntary Renewable Energy Tariff. We had to go to the commission with PGE to get permission for this. And what this does is gets to the resolutions directive to go beyond buying just renewable energy credits.
 which are just really the environmental attributes of green energy, but not the electricity plus the environmental attribute. So it's a higher value renewable electricity product that we're getting for essentially the same price. And about 40 percent of our PGE electric load will now be on this tariff. And it's called the Green Future Impact. We hope to see this kind of program or product be available to more rate payers in the near future.
 And the second project I'd like to mention, which through oversight was not in the report, apologies for that, but is our fondly named Poop to Power project that's a partnership between the Bureau of Environmental Services and Northwest Natural, which takes waste methane from the wastewater treatment plant and turns it into renewable natural gas for transportation fuel.
 This is our single largest climate action infrastructure project. It replaces over 1 million gallons of dirty diesel annually and avoids 21,000 tons of greenhouse gases per year and generates upwards of $3 million for ratepayers. So it's a triple win project. These are two examples of how the city has helped aid the development of new clean energy markets and technologies. Thank you.
 Our second finding comes back to this topic of community-based development of clean energy. And this is a complicated topic, but in practical terms, this work for us has largely been about community solar. BPS has been engaged in building a statewide program for community solar since 2016. It represents the nearest and best opportunity for community-based organizations and nonprofits to enter into an emerging market for renewable energy development.
 Community solar is also the primary means available to us now to make the benefits of renewable energy more accessible to low-income rate payers, communities of color, and those who aren't able to install solar on our own rooftops, which turns out is most of us.
 Through our participation in the American Cities Climate Challenge, BPS established a goal to facilitate the development of at least one community solar project in Portland by the end of 2020 that is developed, owned, and operated by and for communities of color.
 We are supporting a coalition of community partners, including VERDE and Hacienda CDC, in their efforts to enter the statewide community solar development queue early next year. We've directed technical resources from the climate challenge to this effort, and our partners are poised to reserve over one megawatt of capacity, hopefully more, in this program, which makes a very small but important dent in that 2 and 10 percent goal for community-based development.
 Our third finding has to do with how city, community, and technical partners are advancing transportation electrification. There's a wealth of work happening here on electric vehicles that really deserves a whole presentation of its own, but our work on transportation and electrification and emerging mobility encompasses code-related work, which looks at the opportunities presented by the zoning code to ease the way for electric vehicles.
 We're partnering with Portland General Electric to develop EV pilot projects, including the city's first mobility hub, which will have electric car share, e-scooters and electric bike share at Southeast 8th and Stark, and the Electric Avenue charging hubs, where multiple chargers are located to offer EV drivers reliable and fast level 2 charging.
 We've also partnered with TriMet and with stakeholders to encourage and advocate to TriMet, the largest purchaser of diesel in Oregon, to transition to electric buses. And TriMet has now committed to have diesel-free fleet by 2040. Thank you.
 And finally, I think one of BPS's main roles on the transportation electrification conversation has been to ensure that frontline communities benefit from electrification efforts. We're working with our partners to ensure access to affordable used EVs and EV charging infrastructure, especially in East Portland and in areas with high densities of renters and multifamily properties.
 I'm going to skip finding four, which has to do with low-carbon transportation options, because our colleagues from PBOT are here and up a little bit later in the docket to tell us more about this one. So skipping to finding five, to speak to the directive to engage and influence state-level policy, it's...
 an honor to say that city staff have engaged in numerous legislative and regulatory proceedings over the last couple of years. The report that I submitted captures many of them but just a few to mention here we've been active in the big legislative debates around transportation funding, around statewide climate policy, carbon cap and trade. We've also worked deep in the weeds with the Oregon Public Utility Commission specifically around community solar and the future of the electric sector and we've also kept a
 close eye on the building codes conversation that has huge implications for our ability to reduce energy use and emissions in new construction.
 Finally, to speak to the range of directives in the resolution related to workforce and hiring and training and minority utilization, it's a little bit harder for us to show progress in this area simply because the city does not do very much renewable energy development as the contracting agency. So it's harder for us to move the lever here. There are certainly ways that we could do more of this, but it would require sort of changing the way that –
 things are done. Right now the utilities and private sector development is mostly responsible for developing renewable energy. So to wrap up, everything you've heard should sort of give us some hope and excitement that we are able to do things, but at the same time, it's really very incremental. It's slow. It takes a lot of staff, a lot of time to move these efforts forward, and we don't have a lot more time. So everything that we do, we must accelerate and we must amplify
 So a few of our next steps are obviously working with utilities to get there faster, to get to 100% clean and decarbonize the fuels that heat and power our buildings as soon as possible. Transportation is our biggest challenge and opportunity. We've been working in the buildings and energy sector much longer. And while it's still not a slam dunk that we can get there, we've just had a longer lead time on that. Transportation is relatively new for us.
 We already mentioned the Portland Clean Energy Fund. I think that will help with the investment in frontline communities and capacity building that we haven't shown enough progress on. Clearly the city has to walk its own talk and colleagues from OMF will be here to talk about our fleet and facilities work. And then finally, we're mobilizing to better align our staffing and funding with these efforts. The scale of the challenge in front of us in reaching these goals has not really yet been matched by the necessary resources or accountability.
 These are some of the shortcomings of this particular resolution, but we expect to change that in 2021 and beyond. Great. And before we get to a couple of questions, my colleagues, have you mentioned building electrification and decarbonization? And so, colleagues, I'd like to offer a friendly amendment, and I understand this has been pre-approved on page two.
 of the report titled Building Electrification, I'd like to amend that particular pillar. It was one of the key pillars in the report. I'd like to amend the pillar to say building electrification and decarbonization. I think that's consistent with the great work that the Zero Cities Project and Resolution has been doing and keeps the door open for innovative solutions to meet our emissions targets. So without objection, I'd like, it's just a friendly amendment. So unless there's an objection.
 I have a question. Great. Commissioner, actually Commissioner Hardesty had her hand up, then I'll get to Commissioner Fritz. I was going to defer to Commissioner Dedele if you wanted to go first. Okay, so we'll do Dedele, Hardesty, then Fritz. I wanted to mention, I was looking down at my notes, but I heard the reaction to the comment about TriMet electrifying its fleet.
 While I certainly have my own frustrations with our transit agency, I feel that it would be unfair for me not to highlight the big issue. There are 421,000 electric buses in China. There are 300 in the United States, and Portland has five of them.
 This is due to a complete lack of investment at the federal level. So once again, lots of things to be unhappy with TriMet about. But if we want to accelerate that electrification, we need to start working at all levels to get the funding for those buses. It's critical.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for that presentation. Commissioner Udalli brought up the first point that I was going to talk about, which was a tri-met in 2040. And just saying 2040 is not sufficient, right? That's just way, way...
 The planet will be dead by then, and so it won't matter that we have electric buses by then. And if I could just add, to be accurate in terms of TriMet's position, their plan is no later than 2040, and I think they're working to try to accelerate that. I think we're going to try to help them do that. Yes, absolutely. So that was one of my original questions. But my other one is I'm concerned that we're dependent on utilities now
 to get us to renewables? How does that work? Well, we'll actually have utility representatives here. And so they're the next panel and they can tell you what they're doing. And then I think you can ask them. Don't we pay more now for renewables with utilities?
 There is a premium often on green power. For the green future impact that we're purchasing our own city green electricity from, there's a slight premium for the renewable energy credits, and we're actually paying less for the green future impact. So, yes, there is a premium, but we're actually reducing that premium as time goes on. I guess that's the way to say it. I find that a little problematic.
 You know, I don't know. I just think that we're a little, we're much more creative than that, than to use the systems that have actually created the dirty systems that we currently use and expect them to get us to a clean future. So, you know, I look forward to hearing their presentation, but I'm a little concerned that we're putting all our eggs in that basket. I'd like to see a basket that says, let's see what people create.
 With a little bit of resources, a little bit of opportunity. So I just want you to know that I'm going to be looking for that in the conversations that we have later. Because I just have to say, I'm just not trusting that utilities have a vested interest in getting us to a green energy future. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for the presentation. First of all, I have a clarification with the poop to power. Wait for it.
 So yes, it's less polluting than diesel, and yes, it leaves naturally fossil fuel in the ground, wherever it comes from. But it's still burning a fossil fuel. My understanding is that it's biomethane, it's not fossil methane. It's coming from the wastewater. Yes, but it's still carbon. Is it because we're putting it into vehicles which then have catalytic converters or whatever they have?
 It's not fossil-based methane, so you can't compare it to what's being taken out of the ground. No, but methane is still carbon-based. So if we're then burning it in cars, we are putting carbon into the atmosphere.
 No? Maybe somebody from... I know that Northwest Natural is going to present, so maybe I can get some more clarification. I think that would be good. Yeah, I mean, it's certainly better than using diesel, and it's certainly better than burning off the methane that's happening at the plant anyway and not doing anything with it. So multiple benefits, and I've supported it multiple times. So there's that. And then the other thing that I wanted to just echo Commissioner Udales...
 need for support for TriMet. We did get into the comprehensive plan a policy that we seek to reduce and maybe even eliminate fares for TriMet riders. At the same, and of course it's great that we have light rail which is not running on gas.
 So I would like us to, especially next year with the long session or in the interim, be looking at how can we support TriMet to both change to truly renewable energy and also to make it so that people don't have to use those nasty rideshare companies which are not.
 efficient and are not ride shares. They are actually cars driving around constantly trying to find people to take places rather than having a really efficient public transportation system that would allow everybody to travel in a sustainable way.
 We're missing our poop to power expert, Commissioner Fish. I wish you were here. Thank you for saying those things, Commissioner. I'm feeling a little under the weather today, which makes me slightly more docile than usual, but I'm bound to get riled up by the end of this. Just conserve your strength. We've got many things on the agenda this afternoon which are really important, so...
 Thank you. All right, good. So we have some invited testimony. We do. Invited guests. There's three...
 plus panels the way I look at this. So I'll ask people to be as brief as possible because, as you know, we have a long agenda going forward. The first panel are our utility experts we have, and we appreciate them being here, from PGE, Dave Robertson, from Northwest Natural, Bill Edmonds, and from Pacific Power, Scott Bolton. Thank you all for being here. Sheila Holden, excuse me. I'm sorry? From Pacific Power, it will be Sheila Holden. Ah, Sheila's in. Great. Thank you.
 Greetings welcome. Thank you for being here. Thank you for having us. Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler, thanks so much for the chance to be here. My name is Dave Robertson. I'm with Portland General Electric. We really appreciate the city's partnership and trying to go further and faster on deep decarbonization. We spent the last several years developing our own goals around climate justice and deep decarb and we're working. It's great to have partners like you especially on the green future impact tariff and
 to move things further and faster. We set up a goal a couple years ago of an 80% reduction by 2050. That was before the latest International Panel on Climate Change report that says we've got a lot of, we've got to go a lot faster. And so for us as we look at the landscape around policy, both at the local level, at the state level, at the federal level, we have a utility system that's been built over years on
 decades-long projects and that just can't happen anymore. So we've appreciated your help with legislature, your help at the Utility Commission to try to move forward with the green tariff. And there's a lot more we're gonna need to do to keep things moving faster. I'm here today to affirm that we're with you in trying to help implement your 100% clean energy goal. We're grateful for the help on everything that you've done so far. I believe that...
 The actions that we're taking now are working to get us there, but again, as I say, we've got a great tool in the utility in that you can get us to... It's a large entity that you can get to move at scale, but we're not used to moving at scale. And so not only our own culture is a little bit slow in that, but I think the regulatory mechanisms and even the legislative mechanisms are geared for a lot slower deliberation,
 I think we have a better sense now of what we need to do and we need to have the courage to move a lot quicker. Sorry, I'm having trouble reading. So I think we talked a little bit, Andrea, Jacob did a great job talking a little bit about some of the projects and programs we have in place. One of them is our electric avenues, one out at Eastport Plaza, one downtown in the city of Portland. We're also putting them in Hillsboro, Wilsonville, Salem,
 and Beaverton, and that's just the first batch. We've got another proposal at the Utility Commission to significantly increase those. We also are working to try to work on the smart grid, and that really is what I think we're calling the virtual power plant.
 Part of the trick with all the solar on rooftops and batteries that are going to be out in the field and even electric vehicles that are grid connected is how do you integrate all that? What's the technology you need to do it? And we found even through a really cold day in March that when we asked our customers through our thermostat program to reduce energy on that really cold day, uh,
 across our system in that short time, that half hour where we really needed the help, we got 50 megawatts of help, just with the little baby plan that we've got in place right now. And so I think as we look to really build that out in the future, that's an exciting place for us to go to really enable our residents and businesses to be a part of this change that we need to see in the energy system.
 So last, I think I just want to thank you again for your help.
 I know we're gonna be coming to you asking for more help. I know you're asking us to go faster and do more. I hope with our workforce that's really dedicated to our strategy of decarbonization and electrification, we can get there and working with our neighborhoods and working with our different communities in Portland and in the metro region. So thank you again for the chance to be here and happy to take any questions if you guys have time. Thank you for your collaboration on these efforts. We appreciate it.
 Commissioner Fritz. Just a couple of comments. People might not be aware of the smart grid test that you did because it wasn't everybody that got it. My son happens to live in the area where it was a pilot and basically he got a text on his phone to say don't do your laundry at this time or you know turn the lights off. You got my son to turn the lights off. I'm really excited about this. Thank you. And you get a rebate so you know he
 If I had just realized that a bribing with a dollar or two would have done the job, I would have done it a long time ago. Anyway, the other thing is, sorry, dear. Just a moment. Thank you, Patricia. You have on here that you are supporting TriMet's electrify its bus fleet, including electric bus charging infrastructure, TriMet's first all-electric bus route, which is, do you remember which that route is? I think it's Route 58. It's from Washington Square up.
 into the Sunset Transit Center and then it sort of loops in that zone. I've
 pass them when I'm out there in the Highway 26 area, you'll see. So it sounds like you are definitely on that and are working with TriMet. So as Commissioner Udalli said, please let us know what we can do to support that effort. Thanks, Commissioner. Yeah, TriMet's been a great partner. We're meeting with them quarterly just to try to figure out how we can do the infrastructure work they need in the most rapid fashion. We've got the overhead charger at the Sunset Transit Center, helps charge the buses, and then we're working on the Powell Garage project.
 with some battery resiliency in that area as well, because I know that's where the Emergency Operations Center is. Thank you. Could you take just a few sentences to describe the Electric Avenues for people who aren't familiar with that concept? Certainly. So Electric Avenues initially started with a partnership with Portland State up at the school, and then I think they went on the building spree and needed to move us. And so we've moved it down near the World Trade Center. And what it is, it's essentially like a gas station, but for electric cars. And so you're able to have rapid charge,
 Rapid chargers there that will get your car charged in 15 to 20 minutes, maybe more like 20 to 30, but it'll get you up to 130, 35 minutes, but up to 80%, it's a pretty quick charge in 15 to 20. And then we also have some what they call level two chargers, which are a little slower, will charge you in a matter of hours. But the idea is to provide those to assure people that there's some infrastructure out there that is well maintained.
 and that we've spent time making sure is ready when they are to fuel their car. I think a lot of folks are gonna be charging at home or at their apartments. We've got a plan that's called our Drive Change Fund that's using Clean Fuels dollars
 And we've turned that into a grant program and Forth Mobility is helping us administer that. And the idea was to really work on multi-family housing and other places where you just have people who don't have a home, can't, that's one that is a single family dwelling and other places where we can help provide that assurance of infrastructure where the community members really need it and can feel confident about the purchase. Appreciate it, Dave, thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, my name is Bill Edmonds. I'm Northwest Natural's Director of Environmental Management and Sustainability. I've submitted a letter, but from my testimony, I ask that you remember two things, leading the way and leaving no one behind. First, leading the way. Each year, significant greenhouse gas emissions from dairies, landfills, and the like, are
 are released into the atmosphere. This DOE report, OTA report recently out, makes clear that together we can capture this waste, instead creating renewable natural gas in Oregon and putting Oregonians to work. For a sense of scale, all that currently wasted energy is enough to supply every home using natural gas in Oregon.
 And Portland is already leading the way. As we heard through our partnership at BES's Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant, you've made Portland a national leader on this newest renewable, renewable natural gas. Thank you, Council, and a deep thanks to Commissioner Fish. With leadership from Senator Dembrow and the City's support, this summer marked the passage of SB 98. This is the most ambitious law in the country, allowing us to purchase renewable natural gas.
 We want to be the first. Developing both renewable natural gas and renewable hydrogen provides a path to 100% renewables in the pipeline system. While we have work to do, there's no technical barrier in our way. So that's our vision and our mission going forward. We can create a model for the rest of the country. The challenge is doing it as quickly and affordably as possible. And we're up to the challenge.
 Which brings me to my final point, leaving no one behind. With nearly a third of our customers being low-income, we remain focused on providing affordable energy. We will continue strengthening our important programs like bill assistance and low-income weatherization. We look forward to working with the city, the community, and our electric partners on both sides of me, learning and building on each other's successes, leading the way, and leaving no one behind.
 Thank you. Thank you Bill. Commissioner Fritz. So let me ask you Bill my question. So I just looked it up because I couldn't remember from high school chemistry. Methane is CH4 so it's still got carbon in it. So why is it good to burn it at all? It's just the right question to be asking because methane is methane and there's in that way nothing different. But let me explain to you why there's a benefit to the climate.
 Before the renewable natural gas project, it's almost easiest to think of a dairy farm, but we'll go to the wastewater treatment plant next. At a dairy farm, there's a lagoon of manure emitting methane 24-7. That methane is a really powerful greenhouse gas, and every minute of the day, it's being emitted into the atmosphere.
 After the renewable natural gas project, you've capped that lagoon. You're capturing all of that methane, cleaning it up to pipeline quality, and putting it on the pipeline to displace conventional gas. And this full life cycle view, which is really what the planet has,
 as a life cycle view, how much methane was going up and how much is now going up in the project once the Renewable Natural Gas Project has been done. The California Air Resources Board has taken this important science to a detailed level of science where they can tell you for every different kind of Renewable Natural Gas Project, what is the carbon intensity.
 And so in some cases that dairy pharma is just talking about you get 300 times the benefit because you're capturing all that methane that is currently going into the atmosphere. It's a little complicated I'm happy for anybody who wants to spend a little more time on it to go into a lot of detail But that's kind of the high-level answer.
 Thank you. That's really helpful. And the second question is about emissions right now. So, yes, natural gas burns clean a bit. It's still a fossil fuel or a renewable fuel. So what is Northwest Natural doing right now to make sure that Oregon is leading on stopping emissions from production to my house? Great. Thanks for the question, because right now matters. We can't wait. And the most important thing we can do right now is help people use less of what we're bringing to them.
 Not every business says that, but we do. We want new customers, but we want our customers to use as little gas as they possibly can use. As an example, in 1970, our customers used twice as much gas as they're using today on a per-home level.
 And back then, they were likely to just have a furnace. Today, they might have a furnace, a water heater, a cooktop, and maybe even a fireplace. And yet, that same house is using half as much gas as it did in 1970. And that's because we're helping get efficient appliances into those homes and helping those homes be tighter. That's the most important thing, the cheapest thing we can do right now.
 I do, though, want to mention SB 98 is a right now thing. This new law is kind of like a renewable portfolio standard for the gas utilities, and we can now, more than any utility in the country, start buying renewable natural gas aggressively. Did Northwest Natural support the cap-and-trade bill? We did. Thank you. And we hope it passes. Thank you.
 Thank you so much for your presentation. I'm curious when Northwest Natural says that they provide energy assistance for low-income people,
 who are low-income people? What's the, what, what do you, who do you mean? Right. Yeah. Uh, we use the same definition as the, we work in partnership with the, uh, community action agencies and they use, uh, the state, a definition of low income, which I think is 60% below mean, mean, uh, state mean, but I may, I'm, I'll have to check on that. I asked that question because, um, the, uh,
 median income for the Portland Metro area is $78,500. And that's for a family of four. And so when we talk about helping low-income people, and we talk about even at 50% or 60%,
 we're really not helping low-income people, right? We're still helping people that are upper-middle class. And so I'm troubled that we continue to market that we are helping low-income people, and low-income people are getting less and less help, right? And so I'm very concerned about that. $700 million goes to the Energy Trust of Oregon.
 And you are aware that all of us pay into this public interest fund with the Energy Trust of Oregon. So whether you have a home or not, if you have a cell phone, you're paying into this fund, right? And the reality is that many people pay into it and get absolutely no benefit from it. It has traditionally benefited only upper middle class homeowners. And so...
 I'd like to know how that $700 million has been invested to benefit those most in need in our community. So I think I'll go back to the Energy Trust. I appreciate that question. The low-income program is different in that we operate that program strictly in cooperation and collaboration with our counties. So in this area, Multnomah County...
 gets money through our customers to operate their low-income weatherization program. Oh no, I'm sorry, I was talking about the $700 million that goes to the energy trust. Is that $130 million something different? We collect about $1.3 million for the low-income programs that gets distributed to counties around our service territory, but that is, as you say, separate from this energy trust program.
 budget and that energy trust budget were regulated by our public utilities commission to work with the energy trust and they have both a near low income program dealing with those folks that don't fit into the low income program so there's at least some program that deals with folks who can't afford to participate as much
 Your point, I think, is well taken, which is some of their programs are incentive programs that require people to participate in those costs. And that's a way of getting energy efficiency done more cheaply. But there are some equity considerations that big time, big time. My other question has to do with, I guess, try that. Right. We talked about you spent a lot of time talking about electric vehicles.
 I believe, was that you? That was not you. That was... This guy did. Are you David? Yes, ma'am. I'm sorry. Okay, David, I missed the opportunity to ask you questions. No, sorry. Yeah, no problem. But I'll come back later to you on that. Okay.
 I asked the question earlier. We have this opportunity to be really innovative, right? And what I'm hearing is kind of the same old, same old. It's just we're gonna do more of what we've been doing. I'm really trying to figure out how we can, if we all believe we're in this crisis
 How do we think outside of your box and my box and his box and her box? And how do we think differently than we have? Because when I hear partnership, I'm not seeing partnership. I'm seeing get on board to what I'm already doing.
 I guess one example of partnership is renewable natural gas is not going to come from the Rockies where our conventional gas comes from. It's going to come from farms in Oregon. It's going to come from Columbia Boulevard's wastewater treatment plant. It's going to come from food waste if we can collect it apart from the green waste. So there's lots of opportunities to partner and collaborate.
 A utility alone like Northwest Natural will not be able to get the renewable natural gas we need. We have to partner with cities and with farms, with food waste providers, with landfill owners. So there's lots of opportunity for jobs in Oregon and for economic development in Oregon from those renewable natural gas sources. It's going to be a new model where gas doesn't come from the Rockies and from Canada, but it comes from our state. Thank you.
 Thank you. Would you mind if I went back to David?
 Okay, but I also just want I want to be mindful We haven't even heard from the community panel yet, and I want to make sure we get to Sheila. She's been sitting there Thank you David, thank you mayor so I'm sorry. I was asking questions that I should have been asking you And so you talked a lot about the electric vehicles, right? It's fine and dandy but
 I live in a neighborhood where, you know, that's just not something we have, right? We're trying to eat. We're trying to keep a roof over our head. And so I am curious as to how your vision benefits folks in East Portland where I live. And what am I going to get from this partnership that we're going to have? Yes, ma'am. Great question. So I grew up in Park Rose, so.
 I know a little bit about East Portland. So I totally understand that. I think it is one of those infrastructure build-out questions that's going to take a while to do. I'm not going to lie. Sometimes when you go into a neighborhood, whether you're working on an apartment or a home, to go in and say, hey, we're going to build a whole new power line into your neighborhood,
 parking lot or into your garage, it could take a little while to do. So one of our proposals at the Utility Commission down in Salem, and we're going to need legislation for this, hopefully in this 2020 short legislative session we can get it. We've been working with Senator Beyer on this, is to enable us to just treat that like we would in our power prices, like we would normally treat any other infrastructure that we build.
 And so right now it's a special charge and that's hard. I mean, you can't afford that if you go to the PG and say, hey, could you extend the line to my house? It's an extra charge to do that. And so we're trying to put that into the system so everyone pays into that and we can help extend the line and...
 developed this infrastructure in places where uh it's people can't afford to do that right now and that that includes you know east county park grows um and other places so hopefully that pro that project will work and also the the drive change fund i might have mentioned you might have caught the tail end of that commissioner um that's uh right this year is four million dollars from the clean fuel standard and as customers generally in our service territory switch to electric vehicles we are the designated
 aggregator of the credit that comes when someone reduces a fossil fuel car and goes to an electric car.
 And we're taking those dollars, this was the first year, so we're just figuring this out. And we had fourth mobility do a grant program. And the idea was to look to provide in communities where we have inequities to really try to use that grant money for, we haven't awarded the grants yet. But I know, since my mother's on the board of Ride Connection, and she reminds me every family gathering, that...
 That ride connection is put in a grant request. And so you've got some mobility providers as well as people who have multifamily apartments who are put in. And that money is designated for those things. And so there are a couple tools that we're trying to use, Commissioner, to try to provide that infrastructure so people can, if those cars become affordable at some point for them, that they can feel some comfort that, yeah, I can plug this thing in when I need to.
 I know the mayor wants to move on, so I'll ask just one more question, but I would love to continue this conversation, David. David, maybe you and I could have a one-on-one conversation. David, happy to do that. Yes, that'd be... But my last question is really about the Energy Trust of Oregon and the $700 million that you have given to them since 2008.
 And you heard my earlier comment that was really directed at you, but I was talking to someone next to you. You did a great job answering your question. You know, it doesn't benefit those who need it most. And so I wonder how you could use your power to actually influence people.
 redirecting some of those $700 million that go to people who really don't need it to people who desperately do. Right. Yes. Thank you, Commissioner. So there are those dollars in our rates that are part of what the state set up as called the public purpose charge. And it's for energy efficiency, renewables, low-income weatherization. And so...
 The Energy Trust administers those. We don't have a seat on that board, but I do have breakfast with the Director of the Energy Trust Friday and I will bring this up. So I appreciate what you're saying and I do agree with you. As Bill had noted, there are a number of the incentives that they provide require the
 the homeowner or the business owner to actually have money to spend in the first place. And that's very difficult. And so I think they've heard this message and are trying to do more, but I will convey this discussion. And I'm happy to talk more, too. Thank you, David. I know that the governor is going to be putting together a committee in 2021. And I got to tell you, because, of course, it's set to expire in 2026, I believe. Right.
 And I see no reason why we should be renewing the Energy Trust of Oregon, quite frankly. Because, again, the people who can afford it can already afford it. The people who can't still can't. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 Sheila, you have been so patient. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you, Mayor. My name is Sheila Holden. I'm Pacific Power's Regional Business Manager. Thank you, Mayor Wigler, members of the City Council and city staff for the update today. And thank you for the chance to share how Pacific Power is moving toward a clean energy future and ways we can further our current strong partnerships to help reach Portland's goals.
 First, Pacific Power's most recent resource plan shows a marked change in direction for how the company will generate power for our customers. By 2025, Pacific Power will be a national leader in wind, solar, and storage. This will help facilitate the clean energy transition both here in Portland and across the West.
 We also know that Portland wants to go further and faster and believe we can help you get there. Our national recognized customer and community renewable energy programs continue to grow and evolve for those who want to do more.
 Pacific Power Blue Sky customers have supported 17 local renewable energy projects, including projects at the June Key Delta Community Center and the Hacienda Development Corporation. Larger customers like the Portland Trailblazers and the Oregon Convention Center have used our Blue Sky Select program to meet their own renewable energy goals.
 We believe the Blue Sky Select Model can be customized to help local governments like Portland meet renewable energy goals as well. Pacific Power is committed to working with the city and partners across the city to get us where we need to go. And that means getting everyone there, the low-income, the communities of color, our various customer classes.
 and the City of Portland. I look forward to continuing this conversation and want to thank you again for both the update and the opportunity to weigh in here today.
 Thank you. We appreciate your being here. Commissioner Fruits? I would be very interested in hearing more about the Blue Sky Select program. You mentioned that the city could maybe do what the trailblazers and the convention center have done. So if you could get me some information on that, I'd really appreciate it. I'm also going to ask you the question I asked. Did Pacific Power support the cap and trade bill?
 Pacific Power did support the cap and trade bill. We also supported the cold to clean so that by the year 2029, Oregon customers will not be paying for coal in their rates. And we also sat at the table 12 years ago when the original renewable portfolio standard law was put into place. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks all three of you. We appreciate it very much. Thanks for being here. Thank you for your time. I'm going to move the community panel next. If our Bureau colleagues would not mind, I'll hold you off till the end. So we'll hear from the community panel. Portland Youth Climate Council, Ella Schreiner is here, Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, Luvia Morello is
 and 350 PDX, Brooke Cavanaugh, and from Verde, Oriana McNara is here as well, I believe. Good afternoon, welcome. I'm having a bingo. Oriana, would you like to start?
 Thank you. I'd like to start by confirming that we still only have two minutes because all of the utilities had more time than that. As you can see, I'm not being in any way restrictive about it. I'm just being mindful of the fact that we have a heavy agenda. So make your points, but be mindful of the fact that we have a lot of other people and items as well. If everybody could also identify their name for the record, please.
 Thank you. My name is Ella Schreiner. I'm a senior at Grant High School, a lead organizer for the September climate strike, and a founding member of the Portland Youth Climate Council. I appreciate the opportunity to provide a youth perspective. When the 100% renewable energy resolution was first being discussed at the city and county, we were concerned about the lack of engagement with youth and the failure to recognize that youth, like other frontline communities, will be disproportionately impacted by climate change.
 As a result, we came to City Council proposing an amendment to the 100% Renewable Energy Resolution, which authorized the creation of a Youth Council to advise the City on climate policy. That amendment passed unanimously, leading to the formation of the Portland Youth Climate Council and to my being here today in front of you. PYCC's message today is very simple. We need bold action, and we need it significantly faster than called for in the 100% Renewable Energy Resolution.
 When the resolution was originally drafted, it set a goal for 100% renewable energy for electricity generation by the year 2030. By the time the resolution came for a final vote, corporate utilities had successfully pushed the date back by five years to 2035. Last year's IPCC report and reports issued since then have made it very clear that we don't have that extra time. So we are here to emphasize that the city and county must be working on a shorter timeline.
 We have a few specific comments that we'd like to address to the utilities who are presenting this afternoon. First is to Pacific Corp and Pacific Power. Pacific Corp, Pacific Power's parent company, is the largest emitter of greenhouse gas pollution in the western United States. That's not something to be proud of. Currently, 60% of Pacific Power's electricity generation comes from coal.
 Even though an economic analysis showed that 13 of their 22 coal units are currently no longer economically viable, Pacific Power is being slow to make plans to close most of these units. In fact, in their current IRP, they plan to keep a third of their coal fleet operating well past the mid 2030s. This means that Oregon customers will be paying millions of dollars more to get their electricity from dirty, climate-killing sources than they would from cleaner options.
 This is wrong. Pacific Power should be putting an aggressive plan in place to shift their portfolio much more rapidly to renewables, while simultaneously planning for a just transition for workers currently involved in coal-generated power. Northwest Natural. Northwest Natural likes to point to the possibilities presented by what they refer to as renewable natural gas.
 We all know that methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. So yes, we do want to capture methane from landfills and wastewater treatment plants. However, that methane should not be used as an energy source on site. Oh, that methane should be used as an energy source on site. Sorry about that. And not added into our current gas pipeline systems to be mixed with fracked gas.
 Sprinkling in a small percentage of RNG does nothing to change the reality that the use of so-called natural gas is killing our planet. Yes, it burns cleaner than coal or oil, but the tremendous unregulated leaks at production facilities and in pipelines along the routes to markets make it as bad or worse for the global climate as any other fossil fuel. As an industry, Northwest Natural needs to recognize that they don't actually have a future in fossil fuels.
 and then they need to be diversifying their portfolio and shifting their business model accordingly. It is understandable that they might not want to do this, and I recognize that Northwest Natural is influential in our local economy and politics, but the health of our planet and our futures depends on transitioning completely off of fossil fuels. And to give Northwest Natural a necessary push along the path to a new business model, the city needs to make strong demands that recognize that there is no role for Northwest Natural in our city's future.
 We need to follow the lead of cities like Berkeley and San Jose and ban installation of gas and new construction, and then incentivize homeowners and businesses to convert from gas to electric. In short, Pacific Power and Northwest Natural, as well as PGE, all need to ramp up their action, and the city needs to apply pressure to see that that happens.
 There is no presentation scheduled from TriMet in the city's 100% renewable update, but the report does recognize that our overall emissions from transportation have been rising, and we need to get people out of their cars. The efforts to decrease congestion by building more freeway lanes is wrong on so many fronts, and research has shown that this actually ends up causing increases in both pollution and traffic congestion.
 It would be far better to make our city one where public transportation is desirable for all, rather than an inefficient form of transportation for those who lack the means to travel by car. We need to be dedicating lanes for rapid bus transport, increasing our service to reach all neighborhoods, and making it the smart choice for everyone to travel by bus and light rail. Thanks to the youth who have been fighting for Youth Pass for decades, the city is slowly coming around to recognize the importance of Youth Pass.
 That would be a success that has been far too long in the making. But at this point, we need to move more boldly, and we should be seriously considering funding free public transportation for all residents. And while making public transit the best means of travel, TriMet needs to be rapidly electrifying their bus fleet, beginning with an immediate commitment to stop purchasing new diesel buses. TriMet keeps their buses for an average of 16 years, which means that the 64 diesel buses put into service this year will still be on the road in 2035.
 TriMet steps towards electrification are far too slow. According to TriMet's website, they say, and I quote, we'd love to transition our fleet faster, but that there are factors that make 2040 a more realistic and responsible goal. And as youth, we say we'd love to have a future. So one of the factors you consider should be the fact that science is telling us we no longer have time for incremental steps.
 The transition to 100% renewable energy will not be without obstacles, and we understand why politicians and corporations are reluctant to take bold action. But we're afraid of what will happen if we don't quickly move to clean energy and dramatically lower our emissions.
 We understand the economic arguments for incrementalism, and had we tackled this problem decades ago, a gradual weaning from fossil fuels could have been a reasonable approach. But that time has passed. Today's reality calls for strong vision and bolder action. Thank you. Thank you, Ellen. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Deneen O'Rourke, and I am the campaign director with 350 PDX.
 Since the passage of this resolution, the climate crisis, as I assume most of us know, has only intensified. And for many Portlanders, that intensity has been felt on a deep personal level.
 Our city cannot simply ride on some past successes and a reputation as a climate leader any longer. Climate leadership means not only putting forward bold new policies, but it requires an equally ambitious approach to implementation.
 It took us 26 years, longer than I've been alive, to reduce emissions by 15%. To stay within the latest IPCC target, which in itself is still catastrophic for millions of people around the world, we must reduce our emissions by 35% in the next 10 years.
 We need a citywide plan for managed decline of fossil fuels and a just transition for workers in these industries.
 We need a roadmap to 100% renewable energy, one that is co-created with communities of color, low-income Portlanders, tribal nations, and youth. PCEF takes us in the right direction here, but alone it is not enough to get us to 100%. The city needs to take responsibility for greatly expanding this work.
 In the electricity sector, our utilities have a long way to go to get to 100% renewables, with over 60% of their electricity still coming from coal and methane gas. This fall, when asked by Multnomah County when they plan to reach 100% renewable energy, PGE stated that they intended to transition to 80% renewable sources by 2050,
 a full 15 years after the electricity sector is supposed to be 100% renewable. Meanwhile, Pacific Power was unable to provide a direct response to this basic question. If our utilities are unwilling or unable to adhere to city policy, the city must explore other independent options for sourcing 100% renewable energy.
 And finally, I must say, I was sitting here and feeling very disappointed in the city for buying this, really what it is, is greenwashing PR from the gas industry. What is being referred to as renewable natural gas. It's a double greenwash there. Yeah.
 I thank those of you who asked tough questions to the Bureau and to the utilities. And I want us to keep working together to ensure that in any way we are not expanding greenhouse gas emitting infrastructure anymore. We are well past that. We cannot keep...
 That system is one that encourages us to keep consuming and producing more waste, keep profiting off of big animal agriculture. None of this is progress, and we should not mistake it as progress for one second. Thank you.
 So to stand a chance of meeting our targets in this resolution, far greater resources are needed. So I'm asking, will the city step up its game with the funding needed to meet the scale of this crisis? Or will we commit to failure by settling for false solutions like renewable natural gas and incremental gains? Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Yuvia Morello, and I'm here today to testify on behalf of the Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, an organization of over 2,000 statewide health professionals and public health advocates working to protect human health from the gravest threats to health and survival by striving to end the nuclear threat, advance environmental health, protect our climate, and promote peace. Thank you for inviting me and...
 this panel of community members to testify today. We have all come a long way since Oregon PSR, alongside many communities, began to work on this resolution in 2017. We are thrilled about the commitment to have community-based ownership of renewable energy generated included in the resolution. This is a step that most cities have not included, a step that begins to build community resilience and empowerment,
 one of our most sustainable and just solutions. We support that the city has included a just transition as our priority in this resolution early on. Oregon PSR and many of our community partners know that the time to end our dependence on any and all fossil fuels is now. Berkeley, California has enforced a ban of gas in all new buildings, a statement and a commitment to a better future.
 Our city can do better too. As an organization, we advocate for a healthier future for all. Our research shows current energy sources such as methane gas, nuclear power, forest biomass, and incineration of medical and municipal waste are not only false solutions, but are contributors to our climate crisis.
 These energy source examples are not only damaging our land, water, air, animals and fish, but are in fact responsible for negative human health consequences that our hardest working communities are most vulnerable to. We can do better.
 We have researched how damaging renewable natural gas and related infrastructure is, and we believe that the very name, renewable natural gas, misleads the public to believe it is a real solution to our climate crisis, when our experts know that it is not. The Sightline Institute says two-thirds of methane in the U.S. comes from fracking.
 Please make the switch and call it what it is. Fract gas, methane gas, all are accurate substitutes. So-called renewable natural gas is a red herring that cannot sustainably replace our energy needs. The city must be a fierce and committed advocate for a fair list public transit. This has been proven to increase transit by 20-60% in a few months
 that will drive down emissions. My colleagues testified yesterday with many others to make it clear to TriMet that fair hikes are unacceptable. Fairless public transit does not only support this resolution in concerns to emissions and equity, but to many of our city's goals. We can do this too, Portland.
 I want to take off my Oregon Physicians hat right now and put on my low-income person of color hat right now and share an example of why Food waste in particular is not any kind of answer to our solutions I used to work down the street at a hotel and as a baker and a cook for three years in a hotel that would get green awards every year because of our food waste and
 food waste that we as employees prepared and cooked, but we're not allowed to take home. So it is more valuable to put this food in the garbage to get green credits and renewable energy than it is to make sure that families aren't going home hungry. Or right outside the hotel, there's thousands of homeless folks that could daily eat this food.
 It was a really hard reality for me to come to terms with that every day at work I had to throw away perfectly acceptable food. Some of it just because it had a tiny blemish on it and we could not put it out on the buffet. So these are not real solutions. They're harmful solutions. They create a dependency on, as my colleague said, big farms and big waste. And that is not the transition we are looking for.
 Thank you. ORIANA MANGERA. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Oriana Mangera. I used to hear her pronouns, and I'm the climate and energy policy coordinator at Verde. For those who are not familiar, Verde builds environmental wealth for communities through organizing, advocacy, and social enterprise. We work mostly out of the Kali neighborhood and have developed an energy plan to fight displacement and build resiliency for that community.
 In 2017, Verde was one of the organizations who helped shape the 100% renewables resolution, and we are grateful for the partnership with the city and the county that was necessary to center the policy around community and a just transition. For what I hope to focus on today, I'd like to go back to the comments from Commissioner Hardesty around the question of, do we have to do this work through utilities?
 And I'm here to talk about the community-based sources that are an essential part of our goal. This idea that we can move towards a more decentralized system, that it's not enough simply to decarbonize, but that we must actually address the systemic issues that have led to this problem, that growth and extraction, and focus on more community-led solutions that are localized and support local jobs, wealth building in communities, and move away from a more capitalist and extractive economy.
 Initially, we pushed for 50% of electricity generation to come from community-based sources. As we often are, we were told we were too ambitious and that the number was reduced to 2% by 2035 and 10% by 2050. Our resolve is not lessened to fight for as much renewable energy as possible that is community-benefiting, community-controlled, and community-owned.
 For communities like those who live in Cully, wealth building opportunities have been historically inaccessible by design. The racist histories of planning and banking have left black, indigenous, and other people of color without home ownership opportunities or the capital to invest in solar panels or efficiency upgrades.
 Shared or cooperative energy projects that provide local jobs are the opportunities we need to reframe the green economy so that it serves first those who are marginalized and oppressed. This is the model that Verity has operated under for 14 years in our approach to green infrastructure and through work at the Portland Clean Energy Fund. We hope to see it as one that is encompassing for the city. Thank you.
 To be successful in these efforts, the city must accelerate investment in communities' ability to envision and act on the 2% and 10% goals. This means money not for engagement, but for community to organize itself, build projects, and to develop policies and programs that the city enacts around future climate policy. And PCEF is not the end of the systemic and seismic change needed to achieve justice. I am not the first person to name this. And it is not a suggestion, it is a demand.
 The effective and just climate policy and the success of our 2 and 10% goals are only possible if our decision-making is in the hands of those who have been most harmed historically, but who are resilient and full of wisdom.
 An example of this work, what it could look like, is the Zero Cities Project, facilitated by Verde, Opal, PALF, APANO, CCC, and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Through this space, community members have learned about buildings, energy, and decarbonization, and have built on that work to plan and lead a forum for greater community through participatory action research. On Saturday, community will gather
 information about the priorities and challenges other community members see around buildings and energy and use it to develop a resolution of policy and program priorities that we hope will be passed by this council. Participants will also help to define community-based renewable energy so that there is a clear mandate to the city about the kinds of projects that can support towards its goals. This process has been an example of the kind of strong partnership that moves us toward 100% renewables.
 I would like to honor and show gratitude to the incredible advocacy and work from the two primary staff members who have worked on this project, Vin Mason, who is here today, and Tony Lam. They are strong examples of the ethos and values needed by staff across bureaus to forward community-driven processes.
 But to be meaningful, this work must be funded fully. And this is work that takes both significant time and money. As we move into budget season, I would like to note that the sustainability side of BPS is short-staffed and under-resourced, and needs greater support from councils to ensure that it can continue to follow the lead of black, indigenous, and other people of color. Resources will also be needed to ensure that climate action planning has an anti-displacement and racial justice lens.
 In closing, I will repeat that this is not a suggestion. It is a necessity. Strong partnerships and process that are guided by values and justice is at the heart of community-based renewable energy. And we as a city cannot commit only 2% or 10% of the way. It will take full-throated, full-bodied resource supports to succeed. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all of you. Thank you. Commissioner Hershey, do you have a question? All right.
 No, I just wanted to say I really appreciated all of your testimony today and I thank you.
 try to imagine what I would have been like in high school if I had been as smart as you are today, right? It's just mind-boggling to know how committed you are to this work, and I just want you to know I'm committed to working with you to make sure that we do a superior job, not just an adequate job. So thank you. Yeah, and I also, I want to add my thanks for the specificity of the comments. I appreciate it. I've taken a lot of notes here. Thank you.
 All right, we're going to hear from the last panel, which are just two individuals as I understand it. A representative of PBOT and a representative from OMF. Thank you. And I believe it's Maddie is here. Okay, great. And Art, thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners.
 My name is Eric Hesse with the Bureau of Transportation, where I help develop and implement our climate strategies and actions as our policy planning manager. I'm also the transportation lead on the American Cities Climate Challenge that the city is participating in. Eric, I'm sorry. No, that's quite all right. Sorry if there was other information. Okay, thank you.
 PBOT is pleased to join our city colleagues and our community and business partners here today in providing counsel and update on advancing our shared climate work through the lens of the 100% climate commitment, 100% renewables commitment and progress report. As you're clearly hearing and as we recognize, our climate is in crisis and the science is indisputable and we see the effects of climate change every day here and around the world. And so it is time to take action.
 We also know that climate change does not impact all of us in the same way. Our frontline communities are most vulnerable to the impacts of the climate crisis, including severe weather, health challenges like respiratory illnesses and pollution exposure. And we recognize that the transportation sector is now the leading source of both climate emissions and local air pollution emissions, and that those transportation emissions are growing now with our growing city. We also know that we can and we must decouple that trend. Around the world, communities and governments are waking up to the reality. The time to act is now.
 The latest information from the global climate scientific community is clear that greenhouse gas emissions must peak in 2020, and over the next decade, Portland must cut our community-wide carbon emissions in half. That is much more aggressive than our current goals. We need to cut more emissions and cut them more quickly. And as was alluded to earlier, in the last 25 years, we've managed a 15% cut, so we're talking about tripling our rate of change. So we have serious work to do.
 In order to move more aggressively, we have to move faster and smarter. And to do that, we must be doing so while we address structural racism and advance equity, acknowledging that there is no sustainable future without true climate justice. Like Council, we at PBOT hear very clearly from our community, this is a priority and we cannot wait. Our strategy to get there, as is alluded to above and at a highest level, is three main parts, all of which have to be pursued through a commitment to climate justice. We have to reduce our consumption.
 We have to use less polluting energy by cutting the number of motor vehicle trips in the city in half, by making it easier and more attractive to use lower carbon modes and zero carbon modes, ideally of travel such as walking, biking, and transit, to access daily needs. We have to do this carefully in recognition of differing needs and means across our community, asking more change from those who have historically used the most and better supporting the needs of those who have been historically underserved.
 This means building out safe and attractive walking and biking facilities throughout the city and providing people with the right information and incentives and subsidies to understand and be able to use those options. We also, for the trips that do remain, must use clean energy and accelerate the transition to clean electric and other renewably powered vehicles by working with our utility and community partners who are also providing energy to understand and minimize the barriers to this transition and accelerate our action there.
 For those that have been displaced to areas of the city that have fewer safe and attractive multimodal options, we're recognizing that right now driving may be one of their best or only options to access opportunity. We must help people make those trips and as clean a method as possible even if they are driving. Finally, we can accelerate both of those elements by continuing to plan and build sustainable communities.
 in order to make more affordable, walkable, connected, complete neighborhoods available to folks so that we can meet our needs while using less energy overall and not needing to do as much transition of our energy supply, but rather meet our needs without as much energy. We also recognize we must do this work better by proactively working to prevent and reverse the displacement of our most vulnerable communities as has happened in the past.
 PBOT looks forward to working with council, our community members, and our community partners to accelerate and amplify our efforts to get a 100% renewable future and avoid the worst impacts of catastrophic climate change while ensuring access to the economic opportunities associated with a just transition, especially for our frontline communities. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Maddie Sautter and I am the manager of the Division of Asset Management, so fleet and facilities. We report up through OMF. I've been here since April and I do want to be transparent and full disclosure, I did come from PGE where I spent seven years.
 Five of those years were spent developing the asset management program for the transmission and distribution grid. So essentially preparing it for grid modernization so that they could do things like charging infrastructure, solar, community-based solutions. So I have knowledge of their operations, but I've opted to bring that experience to the city to try and help understand that.
 in facilities and fleet, how do we rebuild those organizations and specifically their infrastructure to enable and effectuate the strategic priorities of the city. So some of those are climate, some of those are resilience, some of those are equity. Ideally they're all three all together every day.
 I want to talk a little bit about some of my findings since April and some things that I've learned about both organizations. I think they're both well, I think they're both positioned to be able to do good things. So I'm going to tell you a little bit about opportunities. I will say both organizations are somewhat deficient in terms of their current resources and capabilities. But I think kind of like I saw at PGE where you have deficiency, you actually have an opportunity to rebuild and rebuild in ways that serve the public and the greater good for the long term.
 In fleet, I think fleet is our area of biggest opportunity. We have about 3,800 vehicles and pieces of specialized equipment. We have conversion plants in place for sedans, but we do not have conversion plants in place for heavy-duty equipment and specialized vehicles. They're more complicated asset classes to plan for.
 We also don't have any resources in that organization to do the kind of analysis that would create a green fleet trajectory. But where you have little, you do lots. So we recently struck a partnership with Portland State University. They're going to be coming in and doing a six-month study of our fleet to try and figure out and calculate a green fleet trajectory.
 Along with that we know the primary barrier particularly in the sedan class is for charging infrastructure So we are supporting some public-private partnership explorations to try and figure out how does this infrastructure build out? And specifically how do we do this in a way where the city isn't the only one footing the bill for things like? distribution system upgrades which are significant and
 So we are looking to craft public-private partnerships. We are also looking to convene a discussion with other fleet institutions in the region. They could be City of Milwaukee. It could be FedEx, New Seasons, Fred Meyer, but other folks who run heavy equipment all the time to understand where could we locate charging infrastructure, how could we split the costs of that. And I think there's a piece there where we could look into how do we help actually locate and design charging infrastructure so that the public can,
 plug in and we can help effectuate broader EV conversion within the public. So trying to innovate in some of those spaces. We are also looking at our fleet headquarters to understand how it can support green fleet operations at scale. I'm going to be quite honest with you that the Kirby Garage, which is where City Fleet is located, is functionally obsolete. It is unsafe for our workers and it is certainly not able to support EV operations at scale.
 That's actually not a fleet problem. That's a facilities problem. And so that's probably a good transition for me to say we're doing a risk assessment at Kirby, but we actually think we're going to extrapolate that to the entire facility asset base of the city to try and understand both the overall health of that asset base, but also how it can help support strategic goals. It's also under a bridge, which is not where we want our fleet to be. I would concur with that. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah, and on a landslide zone. So you learn something new every day.
 Fire sprinkler in 1 8th of the building and we weld. It's very exciting. On the facility side of things, we are looking to do some energy audit work. We were directed to do that. BPS is actually facilitating that for us. I will be honest, I'm a little bit concerned that a wholesale energy audit that's simply focused on energy would be a little bit myopic. I think where we're going to find the greatest energy gains are in places like Kirby Garage where we spend $90,000 a year just on electricity.
 that's a garage that should be torn down. So what I will be advocating for, you're gonna see this in my budget package coming forward, is actually wholesale condition assessment of the asset base that we can understand of the asset base, what should we be disposing of, and then what should we be acquiring? And then when we're acquiring facilities, what can we procure, obtain on board? What's the best, most cost effective strategy for us to not just have adequate working spaces, but also to help hit the climate resilience and equity goals?
 So we are looking to craft a long-range strategy for that. There are a number of resources that we're missing to be able to do that, from a software system to staff support for those types of functions in our rate structure. But that is all information that we'll be coming forward to you with in the next several months to explain the state of that asset base.
 In the meantime, though, we are looking to do what we can, where we know that we have facilities that we're going to keep, but they probably have some energy improvements. That's where we will be targeting energy audit work. But I do think that the need is actually broader than that. So these are the findings of my nine months so far at the city. I think that there's a lot of work to be done in the Division of Asset Management, but that's why I'm glad I'm the dam manager. Okay.
 Awesome. Thank you both. We appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you both. I really appreciate your conversation. I really appreciate the conversation about our fleet and how we become more forward-thinking. I know you've had conversations with Fire Chief Sarah Boone, who actually knows about electric fire trucks that actually aren't made in the U.S. yet.
 are available and I know she's bringing one. Actually, she's going to park it outside City Hall at some point so that we all have an opportunity to actually see what the future of fire will look like. I think this feeds very nicely into the conversation earlier about a citywide approach.
 as I listen today is that we will once again piecemeal things rather than looking at this as a system of changes that we must make together, right? And so I didn't have a question. I just wanted you to know that I know we've talked before, but also wanted you to know that we're thinking about that at FIRE because, I mean, we bring these big gas guzzling trucks and
 to a lot of places, right? And sometimes we need them and sometimes not. So we have to do better and we have to do better at a much quicker rate. But we will not be able to fund it all ourselves. And so when we talk about public-private partnerships, I hope that means that the private is bringing money to the public to help the public do what it needs to do. Because every time I hear public-private partnership,
 I feel like we end up on a losing end of the equation, right? So I'm, and I'm tired of that. So I want to see us actually have a real partnership that really benefits the public. Thank you both. Thank you. Thanks for the excellent work you do. Thanks to all of your colleagues in the Bureau. Director Durbin, I'll ask you to come up and wrap this up and then I'll entertain a motion. Thank you.
 And then we'll take a very brief break and it's my understanding the legislative agenda we're going to try and speed that up a bit so we can stay close to on time. Great. Well, thank you very much. Welcome back. As you can see, we have a lot of work underway.
 and Commissioner Hardesty to your point, one of the pieces of work that BPS is working on right now is to update our pathways analysis and we're collaborating with PBOT on that to really kind of lay out kind of the next set of strategies and actions that we need to be taking citywide and with our partners across the community. So we will be bringing that information back next year as well.
 Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Udalli to accept the report. Carla please call the roll. Udalli?
 Well, I was proud to help craft and co-sponsor this renewables resolution with the mayor's office two years ago. And while it was ambitious at the time, it didn't go as far as I had hoped. And as I reflect on it, I realize the reason that it felt ambitious is because it was the strongest renewables resolution any city had passed in the country. And frankly, that's a pretty low bar. Yeah.
 We now know we're not moving quickly enough, locally or globally, to reduce emissions, especially from transportation. We must go further and faster in reducing emissions to have a fighting chance against the devastating and irreversible impacts of the climate crisis.
 The current targets in our 2035 climate action plan are not aggressive enough. The latest science says we need to reduce more greenhouse gas emissions and make those reductions more quickly. So as a transportation commissioner, my primary focus will be on the transportation sector, but trust me, I'm not very good at staying in my lane, so I'll be poking around in everyone's business.
 As Eric mentioned, he actually stole half of my talking points, so this will be shorter. I had asked PBOT to just do a quick back-of-the-envelope estimate on what we need as far as trip reductions today to start meeting our goals. And it is reduce your single-occupant vehicle trips by 50% today. Okay.
 Every resident in the city who drives a car not everybody does who drives a car with a combustible combustible engine for those of us who live close to frequent transit, which is about 50% of us that Choice is going to be a lot easier than for the 50% who don't and
 And so I want to make it really clear when I talk about these measures we need to take that I fully understand that not everyone can do that today. And so it's critical that we improve and expand our transit system also on an accelerated timeline. So we need to go further and faster. We also need to do our work differently.
 PBOT is co-creating strategies with frontline communities who are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate crisis in our pursuit of transportation and environmental justice. It's not only the right thing to do, it will actually deliver the most benefit to the most people. So it's the smartest thing to do in case you don't care about justice.
 I've directed PBOT to accelerate its climate work since we know that every year counts, especially in the coming decade. So we're working on improving and expanding transit service, including the Rose Lane project. We're making biking and walking safer with improved infrastructure across the entire city.
 We have initiated conversations about how we can more intentionally price our transportation system to achieve our equity mobility and climate goals Because when it's almost as cheap to park as it is to take the bus There's there's not a lot of incentive to get on the bus I have been advocating for youth pass for the past three years and that is youth pass for all youth not needs-based and
 not contingent on being in school, but all youth in the city of Portland. And I am very excited about the recent conversations at the TriMet board level about an entirely free transit system. I'm also advocating for the passage of a potentially transformative regional investment measure which will fund bus priority projects throughout the region.
 Reaching our climate goals will require all of us working together at the local, regional, state, federal, and global level. And when I say local, I don't just mean city council. I mean the people of Portland. I mean all of you in this room and anyone who's listening. We can't do this without your unwavering activism, advocacy, and support.
 While we are simply accepting a report today, there is nothing stopping us from bringing a revised renewables resolution back in short order that better reflects the current reality we now know we are facing. I vote aye. Chris? We need to do more, and we need to do it faster. And we need to not only reduce our carbon emissions, we need to address them, which we're going to do in about 20 minutes with the tree policy. So thank you very much for being here, everybody. Aye.
 Hardesty? We must be bolder. We must be visionary. We must not allow past mistakes to stop our creativity. I believe that we have the talent in our community to help us shape our green future. And I don't believe we need to be dependent on utilities to get there.
 I am so proud to be a part of this city council. I know Mayor Wheeler has worked very hard on this resolution. I know he cares passionately about this issue. I know Commissioner Udallian, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Fish all share this sense of urgency. And so nothing that I'm saying today I want people to take as diminishing the hard work that has gone into getting us here today.
 But I am not comfortable with accepting the status quo.
 I am annoyed that certain communities are being told once again, we just got to wait for the infrastructure. We got to wait for the infrastructure. I got to tell you, East Portland's been waiting 50 years for the infrastructure, right? It's like we're tired of waiting. We can do better and we can do better on our own in real partnership, not partnership that actually sucks up public dollars for private gain. I vote aye.
 Well, thank you for everyone who testified today, including our outstanding City of Portland employees, but also our community members and our representatives from our utilities. This was a very good conversation. It opened up a lot of discussions. There were some good ideas that were put on the table, and I'm very appreciative.
 I want to also just clarify that this isn't just about energy and it's not just about the climate. This also gets to protecting our health, protecting our homes, and protecting our local economy.
 The opportunity is very clear, and we heard several people talk about creating a low-carbon city and a low-carbon economy that prioritizes frontline communities that have not only historically been shut out of the decision-making but have borne a disproportionate share of the cost.
 of the climate crisis. This is about creating climate action that's equitable across the community and it's about supporting and encouraging those frontline communities to come up with their best solutions, which they then bring to us and to the rest of the community and then we work together. I will say this, I appreciate the posters
 I saw my name on one of them and I'm just going to be really honest with you. I am going to work very hard as the mayor of this city to do everything I can in my capacity as mayor, but I will not be able to solve this crisis alone. It will require collaboration, it will require partnership,
 And it will require all of us up here to work together. And I'm going to say this. I believe we have that collaboration. I believe we have that partnership. I believe we have some great vision. And what I heard first and foremost from everybody in the room, less speeches, more action. I'm down with that. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you all. We'll take a five-minute recess, and then we'll come back for the legislative panel.
 All right, folks. Can you take your conversations into the hall, please, so that we can go back to work? Thank you. You're hired. Carla, could you please read for us items number 1154 and 1155? Accept the report on the City of Portland 2020 Federal Legislative and Regulatory Agenda and 1155. Accept the report on the City of Portland 2020 State Legislative Agenda.
 Good afternoon, colleagues. We're bringing forward two items, the 2020 state legislative agenda and the 2020 federal legislative regulatory agenda. Before I turn this over to the Office of Government Relations to discuss the changes.
 in the agendas, I'd like to make a few brief remarks. On November 12th, the council held an informal work session where Elizabeth Edwards and her very able team provided us with an overview of the agendas and their process. Council provided information