Good afternoon. Welcome to the December 15th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? No thank you. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Saltzman. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everyone. I believe we're only acting on a single item this afternoon and that is item 1417. Thank you.
 Modify area parking permit program to create new permit area type for residential areas. Expand provisions of the supplemental plan description. And integrate transportation demand management principles in accordance with the recommendations of the centers and corridors parking project. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues. Thank you.
 We first created the area permit parking program to give neighborhoods the ability to deal with the commuter parking problem. Commuters would park in neighborhoods close to the central city because parking was free and then travel by other means to their work, taking up a lot of parking in those neighborhoods, creating livability issues. Now we're seeing areas where there's a –
 There's a real crunch in terms of parking, even where there might not be a commuter problem. And in Northwest, you're seeing that although they have a parking permit district to address the commuter problem, there's additional tools that they would like to address the continuing parking demand issues. So what we're talking about today is giving neighborhoods new tools, allowing them to form a parking permit district even if there isn't a big commuter problem.
 allowing them also perhaps to limit the total number of permits. Right now there's about 9,000 permits issued in Northwest, but there's only about 4,500 on-street parking spaces. So it's getting to the point where a permit is just a license to drive around forever looking for a place to park. So we think that we do need to start giving neighborhoods the ability to limit the total number of permits issued. Thank you.
 We'd also like to give permit areas the ability to decide whether they want to apply an additional charge on top of the base cost recovery permit price. For example, a group of neighbors might reasonably conclude that people who have a garage but choose not to use it should pay a higher price, that people should pay a higher price for their second or third permit than for the first one.
 And the additional money could be reinvested into the permit area for transportation-related projects that help the neighborhood, like, for example, subsidizing transit passes or helping new residents take alternative means of transportation. I wanted to get this toolkit in place before I left.
 because, for one thing, the problems are getting greater in various parts of the city, and we'd like to be sure the neighborhoods have these tools. Also, given that we're scaling back our minimum parking requirements for new development, and as you know, I'm against minimum parking requirements, but I acknowledge that that might further exacerbate parking problems somewhere, so we should give neighborhoods the ability to do more regulation on their own. Okay.
 the effect of allowing neighborhoods to limit the total number of permits will probably be that some people move into a neighborhood and not be able to get a permit i think that that is preferable to having a system where everybody's got a permit and nobody can find a place to park and i also think that it's when people first admit it's true that when people first move in move
 they're more likely to change their transportation patterns than when they're in the same place so if somebody moves into a neighborhood and recognizes they might not have a permit they might in some cases decide hey maybe i should just ditch my car
 I think that predictability is important, and if people move in knowing they might not get a permit, they'll probably be able to live with it. So without further ado, I'd like to turn it over to the team, Grant Moorhead and Melissa McCready. Thank you. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I'm Grant Moorhead. I'm with the Bureau of Transportation, and I'm here with Melissa McCready, who is our Parking Operations Division Manager. We're going to present to you today the recommended revisions to the Area Parking Permit Program.
 I'm going to start with a summary of how the program works today. Before moving into an overview of the process that led us to these recommendations, I will then detail what those recommendations are. Before giving you a summary of the specific actions that we're requesting of the council today.
 So as Commissioner Novick noted, the parking permit program has been in place for about 35 years. It was designed to address commuters. That's a situation where somebody comes into a neighborhood, parks their car, and then continues their journey to a job elsewhere. This is not about people who live within a neighborhood district. The way it works is that people who do live or work within the neighborhood, within the permit district, are the only people who are eligible to purchase permits. People who don't are not eligible.
 It's a cost recovery program. Our current fee is $60 per year per permit, and that covers the cost of program administration and parking enforcement. You look at this map, and you can see the commuting pattern. People typically drive as far as they can without encountering a parking meter or until they encounter a light rail station, and then they'll get out of their car and continue their journey on another mode. We've had several of these permit areas open just this year along the Portland and Milwaukee light rail line.
 We have 18 of them now, and they are established through a vote of all the affected properties within the district.
 Every address within a proposed permit area receives a ballot, and the ballot goes to the address, not necessarily to the property owner. And we require a 50% response rate and a 60% affirmation, yes, we'd like to have a permit area before it's created. So it's a pretty high bar to create one of these areas. Just to clarify, when you say that the ballot goes to the residents, not the property owner, that means that renters can vote. That's correct. Okay.
 So the permits are issued directly to the residents. They're also issued directly to the businesses who then distribute them to their employees. Our city code, which has been in place in its current form since 1992, allows limits to be placed on the number of permits issued to businesses. It does not allow for limits to be placed on the number of permits issued to any individual resident, nor on the total number of permits issued within a permit area.
 So there are some limitations, some of which I just highlighted. We don't have an explicit link between land use and parking. So the permit districts, they span different types of areas. There's employment, industrial, residential areas, because it focuses on people coming in from outside. Again, we don't allow limits on permits issued to residents. So if I was a resident of a permit area and I had 10 cars, I would be entitled to receive 10 permits. We also don't
 Limit the total number issued, so we are oversubscribed in several of our permit areas. Northwest is one. The Central East Side is another example where we issue about twice as many permits as we have parking spaces. In the annual fee, the cost recovery model limits our ability to use pricing as any sort of way to influence demand. So those are kind of the key limitations to the existing programs.
 Putting all those things together, the problem that we're trying to address is well-known. Development is happening at a very rapid pace in many of our commercial areas, mixed-use areas, and that's creating parking problems in the surrounding neighborhoods that we really have not addressed as a city before. It's not really an issue that we've had to deal with. So we need new tools and strategies available to neighborhoods to manage their parking supply. The Area Parking Permit Program is one of those tools, but it needs an update in order to be effective to address this new issue.
 So moving into public outreach, this process really began back in 2013. The council adopted an ordinance that introduced minimum parking requirements for multifamily developments along transit lines. And in that ordinance, there was a directive that PBOT come back to you with revisions to the area parking permit program. So here we are. In 2014, we applied for funding from the state and we received a grant from ODOT under their Transportation and Growth Management Program.
 For what we call the Centers and Corridors Parking Project, we convened a stakeholder advisory committee in 2014 and 2015 that led us to these recommendations. The committee, when we first put it together, we reached out to all the neighborhoods and coalitions within the city, and we got a great response. We had about 30 people on the initial list of participants. By the end of the process, we were down to about 20 active members, and that, in my experience, is pretty typical for this type of planning process. Okay.
 We reached a recommendation in 2015, just about a year ago now. In addition, this has been a major part of our citywide parking strategy at PBOT. We've had dozens of meetings throughout the city with various neighborhood and business groups up until very recently. I was at a meeting just a couple of weeks ago discussing this program. We've had open houses, a parking symposium that was attended by over 160 people. We had a work session with the council, and we had a briefing with the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Okay.
 So, you know, this process, these recommendations, this has not taken place in a vacuum. We've worked very closely with the comprehensive plan team, with the transportation system plan team, projects that the council has largely implemented.
 seen through the legislative process. There are a number of other projects that are happening now that I also want to highlight that are relevant to this effort. The Inclusionary Housing Project is proposing to eliminate the off-street parking requirements that were added in in 2013. The Residential Infill Project will result in greater development density within residential zones, particularly single-dwelling residential zones. We also have the Northwest Parking Management Plan, which is part of PBOT's ongoing efforts to better manage on-street parking in the Northwest Plan District area.
 And the transportation demand management requirements for multifamily developments that were part of the comprehensive plan early implementation package. This is also, we've been working closely with that team. I was a part of that effort as well. So just to highlight specifically some of the policy directives that we do have. In the comprehensive plan, there are five policies that are relevant and that point us in the direction of more active parking management. The full text of these are available in the impact statement that I prepared for today, but I just have a list here of what they are.
 The Climate Action Plan also provides us some guidance on parking management. And the Transportation System Plan, these are not officially adopted yet. They were before you just earlier this week. But there are a number of objectives in there that are relevant to this effort, particularly around mode share goals. We have very aggressive mode split targets for the year 2035. And for the first time, we have a car ownership rate goal in the TSP.
 And that targets specifically households in mixed-use zones. We want to essentially double the number of car-free households that live in mixed-use zones by 2035. So the proposed changes. What we are proposing to do is create a second path to create parking permit areas in residential areas. And we achieve that by looking at the zoning. So residential zoning includes all residential zones, from low-density single-dwelling zones to high-density multi-dwelling zones.
 The permit areas under this new approach would be drawn to conform with the zoning boundaries that are in those residential zones. The proposal is neutral on housing type. It's all apartments and houses and duplexes and everything in between would be eligible. It's also neutral on ownership status. Renters and homeowners would be treated equally under this proposal. So it doesn't include the mixed-use zones? That's correct. And I have a map in just a moment that kind of illustrates this.
 We are also proposing to allow new limits to be set on how we issue permits, particularly allowing limits on the number of permits issued to a particular resident and allowing limits to be placed on the total number of permits issued within each permit area. The specific parameters within each permit area is developed by a group of local stakeholders called the Area Parking Committee, and I'll get back to that committee in just a moment.
 So this is the map I referenced. This shows the general zoning pattern along a typical commercial street. An actual zoning pattern would not be this clean of a line, but in orange you have the commercial zoning. Typically, the main street there would have high-frequency transit service, and it's surrounded by largely residential zones. So the permit areas would be drawn in the residential areas, which are shown in blue on this map. The committee...
 the area parking committee that develops the implementation plan for each permit area. This is consistent with our existing practice. So within each of our 18 permit areas now, there is a committee of local representatives that develop the implementation plan. That would continue under this proposal. The one thing that we're changing...
 Currently, the Area Parking Committee consists of a minimum of two members, one of which is appointed by the Neighborhood Association, one of which is appointed by the Business Association. We are expanding that to also include a residential representative from nearby commercial areas. So the Neighborhood Association, Business Association reps would still be part of the process from the very beginning. We would also be bringing somebody in from any adjacent commercial areas that has residential development. And there's a provision in here for up to two additional members, but we don't have it specified who those members must be.
 The plan that the committee develops is called the Supplemental Plan. The Area Parking Committee works with PBOT staff to develop this, and it can include any number of things, hours of enforcement, exceptions, whether it's two-hour or three-hour parking except by permit, the employee and resident permit allocations, the total number of permits, whether there's any pricing structure that differs from our cost recovery model, and anything that's sort of a catch-all other category that, you know, depending on unique situations, we may have unique provisions for neighborhoods just based on what their needs are.
 I want to highlight another point here that's very important. When we create a new permit area, we don't want to change the rules on people who have come to rely on on-street parking, even if they live outside the boundary. Commissioner Novick mentioned this in his opening remarks. So we're proposing that we would guarantee access to permits to anybody who lives in the nearby commercial area when the permit area is created.
 Future residents, you know, as these areas redevelop and densify, they might not be guaranteed access to a permit, but they would be able to make their housing and transportation choices with a full set of knowledge about what level of public services they can expect when they move into their new neighborhoods. So, summary, we want to expand the program purpose to address issues other than commuter parking. We want to retain but modify the neighborhood initiation process. What specifically we're proposing here is...
 is going from a 50% response, 60% yes, to 50% response, simple majority yes. So it's a slightly lower bar to create a permit area. We want to draw a connection between parking management and land use using zoning, allowing additional caps on the number of permits issued, and we want to authorize permit fees to be set above cost recovery with the idea being that that revenue would be reinvested into the neighborhoods in transportation programs and projects. And finally, I want to make sure that we get this in there correctly,
 We would exempt in a neighborhood that had a cap on the number of permits they issued. If they reached that cap, somebody who had an ADA permit would never be denied a permit. So that permit would not be counted against the cap. And we also would provide an exemption from any surcharges that were adopted for people who have low incomes. What's a surcharge? A surcharge would be – it could be any dollar amount that a committee –
 I'll get into that momentarily, if I may. That's their ability to set an additional... Oh, that's over and above the... Right, so above the $60, if it were, say, $100 or $120. This is a program that exists in the Central East Side.
 We have a special authorization from you and the Central East Side to have a permit surcharge. They are currently in year two, and they have an $80 per permit surcharge. So each permit is $140 per year. People who have a demonstrated financial hardship, you know, an Oregon Trail card or a housing voucher, something along those lines, they are exempt from paying surcharge, and we would continue that under this program. So the specific actions we're requesting of you today are to amend the city code, to adopt these changes as detailed in the ordinance,
 to grant administrative rulemaking authority to the transportation director so that we can continue to refine this program as it rolls out, and to authorize neighborhoods to voluntarily adopt permit fee surcharges with the idea that those funds are then reinvested into the neighborhoods. Restrictions on what that surcharge can be spent on? Yes. It's typically only on things that would affect mode split, so that would encourage non-auto use. We wouldn't want to build a parking garage with the funds, for example. Thank you.
 So when would the lack of parking be disclosed in a home sale? In a home sale? If you're selling your home and you're already maxed out in that area, would the seller be required to list on the listing that there's no parking? That there is no access to on-street parking? Yes. I don't know for sure. That might happen during the title insurance review. I would have to look into that. I think that's a detail that needs to be worked out.
 because if the goal is to either get people to give up their cars or only live there if they don't have one, it would be a very big expense to put your deposit down and then suddenly find later that there's nowhere for you to park your car. So that's something I'd like to be discussed further. Would the residents of a multifamily development get the same vote as a single-family home?
 Yes, as long as it was within the residential zone, in our zone. So an apartment or condominium project that had 50 people would get, or 50 units rather, would get 50 votes? Correct. Okay.
 A lot of those would be probably in the mixed-use zone, which would not be in the permit zone. Yes, depending on the zoning. Do you still have the RH zones? Yes, if it's an RH zone, absolutely. If it's in a CM zone, it would not. And I noticed that you said that residents in an existing mixed-use or commercial development would be able to access a parking permit. What's about residents of new mixed-use developments? Yes.
 Well, what we can say at this point is that they might not be guaranteed access to a permit. We took a look at the demand in several mixed-use areas. We had a couple of study areas, and we believe that today, if we were to adopt this and go out and create permit areas today, everybody who lives on Mississippi or Division, for example, would be able to get a permit because there's enough parking to go around, if you look at a slightly larger area. Yeah.
 But, you know, five more apartment buildings, that might not be the case. There may be just too much demand to – not enough parking supply to accommodate the demand. I'd really like to see the study that you did on division in particular because that's not what we found when we looked at division four years ago.
 So I'm interested in that. Yesterday we had a discussion of electric vehicles. What's about electric charging stations if there isn't any off-street parking? Has there been any consideration if you had an electric vehicle that you could install a charger outside on the street and then therefore have that space? So we're developing a separate electric vehicle charging policy that's not part of this study. That's going to be more global and in context of the whole city.
 Okay. And that's under development. And then if there are a lot of applications for ADA spaces, which often have the specific number on them, would that change the number of permits that you'd cap the district at?
 I think that would be up to the individual neighborhood committee. I mean, if they're deciding how many permits to have, but they know that they have to allow for permits, all the ADA permits, then they might on their own decide to adjust the number of permits based on that. And PBOT would give them an update on an annual basis of how many spots they've lost? Yes. So a committee could say we'll either reduce our cap by however many or increase our cap by however many ADA spaces we have or just not count those. They would have the discretion to do that. We would have the same result.
 But that's even more restrictive of the on-street parking because only that vehicle with the registration number can park there. Any vehicle with a DMV placard can park in a space. It tends to be directly in front of the home. I've seen actually signs that say just this license plate. There are some reserved spots where people have particular... No, I'm getting head shakes. All right. Fair enough.
 Did you have some questions, Commissioner? Yeah. So I always thought, I thought in Northwest in particular, that some portion of the surcharge goes back to the Transportation Bureau. I thought there was a split between the Area Parking Committee and then... That's for meters. The policy for meter districts is that 51% of net meter revenue is reinvested and the rest comes back to PBOT. The permits are just... Not a similar policy for permit surcharges. That's something we could consider, certainly. Okay.
 And then I guess I feel there's a bias against newcomers in this system. And we're trying to create all sorts of affordable housing opportunities in what we call high-opportunity areas, areas that are good neighborhoods, good schools, good parks. And you're in essence telling me that if you live there now, you're forever somehow vested. And if you're new, you're out of luck. And that's not acceptable. There has to be some fair way of reallocating permits. So I would suggest...
 We look at either a lottery system every couple years. Everybody's permit gets thrown in a lottery, and everybody has a chance to compete, or something else. But there has to be something fair for low-income. And it's not just low-income, but I'm thinking primarily of low-income people having a chance to park their car, just like everybody else has a chance to park their car, but for the fact that they're new to the neighborhood.
 Commissioner, actually, I think that if you're looking for absolute fairness, you are absolutely right. In fact, I was going to suggest that as an alternative lottery system. I think that it, in terms of
 acceptability within a community, having people be told that every two years they might lose their parking permit might really freak people out. So I think that it might be logical to live with a certain level of unfairness rather than that level of instability. However, one thing we could do is just give the neighborhoods the ability to allocate by lottery, or we could mandate it. But that would be an interesting political discussion to have.
 Well, I think that there's a lot of neighborhoods, as we've talked about before, where people – and you mentioned in your opening remarks, Commissioner Novick, that people have their garages. They're full with other things, everything but their car. And then they have two, maybe three neighborhood parking permits. So I think we have to get at that issue. And so I think there has to be some fair way of allocating permits. And I just don't see this as being fair. And nobody who moves into a neighborhood is ever going to ask before they buy, before they rent,
 is there an area parking permit that's just not a question that will never come up until it's too late but commissioner um if we allow there to be a limit on the number of permits then some people are going to be lined up without permits if we decide we're never going to limit the number of permits then in certain places you're just going to have people with permits driving around forever looking for a place to park because they've got a permit but there's no place to park that's the problem yeah yeah i mean i heard of that issue
 on a land use case we had not too long ago in northwest about the permits i just think there has to be some fairer way than if you're new to the neighborhood you're out of luck that's that's not fair so has did did the work the group that worked on this way all their alternatives to that a lottery i mean it just got you're managing scarcity so how do you do that we talked about
 retaining a certain number of permits underneath the cap and having that be available through some sort of lottery system to people outside the permit area. One thing I do want to address, though, is the notion of information sharing. And in the comprehensive plan early implementation package, there was a transportation demand management requirement that would apply to new multifamily developments. And in that requirement, there are both financial incentives for people to use modes of transportation other than the automobile, but also information sharing. So that would be included
 as part of that package, whether or not you live in a permit area, and if you do, not to necessarily rely on street parking. So that is something that we could, moving forward for new developments, we could make sure that that information gets out. And so what happened to the option that you did look at that would reallocate some of the permits? What we've done with this proposal is we have opted for as much flexibility as possible rather than mandating how that gets implemented across permit districts, sort of leaving it up to each individual district
 permanent area that's that's been our approach up to up till now so Grant theoretically a local parking permit committee could decide to go the lottery route correct and we have although the way it's phrased now it would only be the people within the residential zone who would be eligible for the lottery not necessarily oh okay okay explain the elaborate on that if you had a say you have a X number of permits that are available
 you cap it at 80%, and 80% of those permits are available to people within the permit area. The remaining 20% would then be available to a lottery for people outside. That's one approach. And those numbers, it doesn't have to be 80-20. But the issue here is not outside and inside the issue here, and we'll probably hear some of this in testimony from people that have wrestled with these issues in places like Northwest where we've got 8,000 permits for 4,000 spaces. The people that don't have one now or who might move into the neighborhood and expect to have a chance of getting one, I think those are the equity issues we're trying to address.
 grapple with here that if it's just sort of the parking equivalent rent control that I got mine a long time ago I'm great and not sure how that works out for everybody else so the lottery idea has some appeal to me as well for that reason you're there for a year and then you suddenly don't have a place to park and you've got to park a very long way away because outside of the permit district which at that point you may have had one or two more children and
 Exactly. I speak from experience. Well, it seems like we've got three votes for a mandatory lottery system. Well, maybe you do, but I think that's really disruptive to people's lives. Yeah, I mean, obviously, I'm looking to his small testimony. I'm concerned about only 50% of the residents can initiate and then only 51% can vote for it. So 26% of the area residents, including if the multifamily residents
 has a lot of people in it, then it could be really lopsided as to who really wants the parking permit and who doesn't.
 system and who doesn't. Commissioner, I'm actually rather disturbed to hear you suggest that people who live in single family homes should have more rights than people who live in apartment buildings. Well, I thought the deal was that you were saying that apartment dwellers don't necessarily have cars. So we either propose some parking within developments or we have to look at where are they parking now and the fact that if you've got people stacked up high, there's only a finite amount of street spaces, which is what you've been dealing with.
 So I do think we have to look at those things. It's not about apartment dwellers not being the same. It's just that the amount of street that they take up is not the same. The amount of street each one takes up is actually the same. And, in fact, the typical person in an apartment, they're taking up less space on the street in general than this person in a single-family home. I mean, to tell the...
 The proposal we're talking about here actually could theoretically in some circumstances be harder on people who live in apartment buildings in the non-residential zone. But to go beyond that and say that within the residential zone we should discriminate against people in apartments, I think that would be unacceptable. All right. Well, we've obviously got some questions.
 Some issues to work through here. Anything else you want to add? I just wanted to add that the reason why we've opted for retaining flexibility in the current proposal is that there are all sorts of creative ideas out there. People who I've spoken with about how they'd like to see the pricing structure work and the allocation of permits. So maybe you'll hear some of that during testimony. Good. We're going to need that. I just have one other informational question. I didn't hear you talk about households with driveways having a different price for on-street parking. Could you explain how that works? Right. So we, in our initial –
 work with the committee had come up with a proposal that would have charged more than the base fee if people had access to off-street parking. We sort of backed away from that, and again, in the name of flexibility, have said we would leave that up to the individual committees to determine. If they decide to have a differential price structure, then they could take that route. But if they chose not to do that, if they just wanted to retain the base fee, then everybody would pay the same amount.
 Thank you. And I just remembered another question I had, even though I said that was the last one, and that is about the business districts. Thinking of division, that the businesses need places for people to park as well as the people who live there. So how does that factor in? Because they've only got one business representative on the committee, maybe with four nearby residents. Yeah.
 So the way it works now is that the business associations are on the committee. They don't have any guaranteed allocation of permits. They come to the table as part of the supplemental plan process, and that's negotiated. In some of our permit areas, it's 100% of employees get permits. In others, it's as low as 50%. So that basic dynamic would remain. Also, from the customer perspective, I want to point out that all of these permit areas would remain permanent.
 Two-hour, three-hour, except by permit. So short-term parkers would still be able to park everywhere. That would largely remain unchanged, except hopefully there would be more parking available. And who would decide whether it's two hours or three hours? That happens during the supplemental plan process.
 Commissioner, actually, the fact that we're talking about having the permit districts only in the residential zones is in part because of the concern you raised, so that the parking in the mixed-use zones would be largely available for the businesses. Mostly, they've got the frontage on the main street and then just side streets to the next, so there's not nearly enough parking just in front of the business. Yes.
 for customers i believe that's correct they need to have access to the neighborhood for their short-term parking needs as well employee parking they typically business owners wouldn't want their employees parking directly in front so we would manage that parking on the on the commercial street for short-term use for turnover and the employees that had permits would then be able to park in the adjacent residential areas
 Okay. Other questions at this point? We might have some more at the conclusion of the hearing. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Mayor, I do want to say because of the weather today, it's probably particularly important to say that for those who plan to testify in this but weren't able to make it, the record will remain open until the vote next week. Okay. Good point. Thank you. Okay. Who do we have who would like to speak on this item? Six people signed up. The first three – oh. Chris, come on up, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, members of council, Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, appearing here on behalf of the commission. I was also a member of the stakeholder committee and the liaison between the PSC and this project. I'm here in the interesting position of expressing enthusiasm for this and also caution.
 We asked PBOT to come in and review this program with the PSC shortly after the Stakeholder Committee process was completed. That happened early this year. We followed up with a letter to Commissioner Novick and Director Treat at that time. And on the one hand, this set of policies is very much in alignment with the Comprehensive Plan. So just to give you some examples, it supports the PPP.
 The development patterns we're seeking in centers and corridors. Parking management plays into our congestion management policies, into our TDM policies. We have six policies specifically about parking management that this very much supports. So right direction. The caution is around equity issues. And we are concerned, and some of the things you've already talked about, but we're
 One, we're very concerned that using the line between residential zoning and mixed-use zoning is an inappropriate tool to guide the formation and setup of these, that a more holistic approach is more appropriate. Then, of course, that the governance of both the initiation and the ongoing operation of these should be representative of all the stakeholders involved in the process, and that
 We'd be careful that the demographics of people inside the districts and outside the districts don't look radically different, and it would be very easy to see if we use that line between our zoning and C zoning that you'd have very different demographics in the corridors than you have in the neighborhoods next to them. So...
 The Commission and the Bureau have again expressed these concerns to PBOT. I understand that there is an agreement from Director Treat that there will be some delay in implementation of this so that that can be worked out, although I understand that there's a desire to pilot some of these in Northwest, and I think we would be very supportive of that because the
 The boundary and governance issues are already in place in Northwest, and we don't have those same concerns for that specific district. But before this got implemented in additional centers or corridors, we'd want to see a hard look at those equity issues. And, you know, I would just go back to the interaction with parking minimums and say that I think I'm in line with Commission thinking on this that, you know,
 There's a much better chance of new development building the right amount of off-street parking when the rules on the street are clear and the false expectation that, sure, I can find parking on the street somewhere goes away and everybody recognizes their scarcity and the development process responds to that as opposed to government trying to pick a ratio and know what the right answer to that is. We have a lot more confidence in the market responding to sensible regulation of the street.
 Thank you very much. Thanks. Good afternoon. Hey, thanks for the opportunity to speak. And thanks to the staff and committee that worked on this policy and spent a long time on it.
 My name is Tony Jordan. I'm the founder of Portlanders for Parking Reform, and I was also a member of this committee, the Centers and Corridors Parking Committee. I think that this policy is really long overdue. If we'd had a permit policy with this mission and flexibility 15 years ago, I don't think we would have had the
 blowback, backlash in 2012 about the apartments with parking. And we'd be farther along, I think, in our mode share goals and towards our climate action goals as a city. But this is better late than never, I think, and I'm hopeful that this policy will help keep some oil in the ground and will help provide eventually for more affordable housing and provide a foundation for more sustainable policies and developments.
 At least until social and technological developments make this less of an issue for our city, and maybe in 10 years when we maybe have less demand for on-street parking. I think this right now program sends a message to developers. They can't avoid managing all their tenants' transportation needs, and it sends a message to residents that on-street parking is not a free or a personal resource anymore.
 It never was, really. On-street parking management is a critical component of a suite of policies that reduce car dependency and subsidy. And in the last month, you voted, I think, wisely to waive most minimum parking requirements in mixed-use zones. And residential permit zones, as Chris mentioned, really complement that decision. A little more than a decade ago, my friend Professor Donald Choup
 publishes book and prescribed a three-step process to reforming parking policy, which included eliminating minimum parking requirements, charging for on-street parking, and using parking benefit districts to apply parking revenues back towards those areas where the revenues are collected. And I think with this program in place and a plan to have performance-based parking in the pipeline, we're on our way to having some of the most progressive parking policy in the country, probably.
 And I think that the strength in this program lies really in the flexibility, which Grant had mentioned. In the next few years, we're going to acquire technology that will allow more options for neighborhood permitting, including monthly permit purchases and virtual permits by plate recognition. Some neighborhoods might choose to experiment with more accurate methods of price discovery to find a fair price for parking and raise much-needed revenues for street safety and transportation demand management.
 By managing our on-street parking supply properly, we can make our transportation system more equitable, more convenient for people who must drive, and safer and more affordable for people who can't drive or choose not to drive.
 And I think we really need to, the inclusion of the transportation demand management portion, which I didn't see really mentioned so much in Grant's proposal, but is discounted bus passes and things like that, is I think very smart. The residents are never going to be happy to pay a parking permit fee for something they've been getting for free. But if those revenues are being put to good use to encourage people who are able to
 to make different transportation choices and to go without owning their own car, then those who need to park on the street will have a much easier time.
 I think Portlanders want an effective permit program, and that probably includes prices that are above $5 a month That will encourage people to use off-street parking when they have it available and to encourage people parking seldomly used vehicles To get rid of them and use car share for recreation or other options for their travel So I think this is really an important first step and I encourage you to pass it I wanted to also just mention that I
 In hearing your comments and concerns, I think that there are – I shared Chris's concerns on the committee about excluding people in the mixed-use zones in these apartments. Ideally, you have a system where everyone who wants a permit has an opportunity to try and get one. But in our society – well, I mean, usually when we have a situation like that where there's more of something than –
 there's less of something than the people who want them, we use price to manage that. And there is a mechanism called a uniform price auction that is often used for this. It's used on college campuses to allocate permits to faculty. And I think it's really important
 I don't know if we could get there, but I think it really is the right way to figure out what the right price is for these. And that's a system where, for example, if you had 20 parking spaces in a zone, to make it very simple, everyone bids what they're willing to pay for a parking permit zone. You rank those bids from highest to lowest, and the highest 20 bids –
 because there's 20 permits available get the permits at the price of the lowest bid so no one pays any more almost everyone pays less than what they were actually willing to pay for a parking permit in this situation that gets one and the only people that pay
 Only the lowest bidder that gets a permit pays the price that they were willing to pay. Everybody who can't afford to bid gets locked out. How is that fair? Well, I think there are ways you can – I mean, we're creative people. So we can – like you can, for example, give a bidding credit to a low-income family. So they would have $60 of which if they bid that on the permit, then that would be applied towards their bid but wouldn't be charged tax.
 towards them. And you would take anything in this system, any of the cost above recovery would go back into a parking benefit district, which if you're using that money to do things like subsidize transit passes for people, then you're creating more affordable transportation options for people. I think that when we talk about equity and people, I mean, there is a large group of people in this city who can't afford cars. And when I ride the bus, that's a lot
 a lot of who's on the bus with me. So I think when we talk about who's really the vulnerable members of our society and who's affected by this policy, you know, we're not collecting money and extending...
 try and extend bus hours or make it possible to build more affordable housing near where their jobs are, we're focusing on a car-dependent system that, as we saw yesterday, really doesn't serve people in a lot of circumstances. So that's my opinion on this. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Rick Michelson, and I'm speaking today for your guinea pig in the Northwest Parking SACC.
 These issues are very, very complicated. Equity cuts in a lot of different ways. We're exploring a lot of options, but we need this as the enabling legislation to pursue some of those. We're looking, for instance, as an example, at maybe allocating permits to apartment building owners instead of to individual residents so there's more control that they can allocate within their building. We're looking at limiting the number of permits and capping the overall system,
 We're looking at flexible pricing and a variety of things. We want to make our system as voluntary as possible. Our goal, real goal in Northwest is to make it as easy to live not owning a car as it is when you own a car. And we want to do that through incentives, not through disincentives. We're looking at taking a bunch of the money that we're getting from permits and really helping beef up TDMs, helping give people the opportunity to use transit instead of automobiles.
 but in order to make the system work at some point we have to limit the number of permits and that means at some point somebody who would like to live in northwest and own a car can't the the trick is to how to do that as fairly as possibly and as rarely as possible um we're going to be developing these policies and i know it's sort of experimental and i'd be happy to come back to council and brief you on what we're discovering in terms of methods what works and what doesn't work and get your individual concerns about it as we're developing the program
 But step one is passing this ordinance so that we do have the tools to enable us to explore these options. Thank you. But potentially we could pass it just for Northwest where we have a system that's got some money going to the TMA and we've got an SAC, and you could figure out how to address the issues that Commissioner Saltzman and I are concerned about, about it's not just the last comers who don't get parking. You could do that, but I think –
 It takes so much work to get an ordinance through here that you're better upsetting the system, even if you want to have a moratorium on other pieces of it until later. You know, we've been trying to get this ordinance to you for over a year now. It's here. I think there's guaranteeing that it won't be implemented in other districts until these pieces are worked out.
 So my recommendation would be to pass the ordinance, but that's up to you. Thank you, Rick, and thank you, Commissioner. So actually, I should note the Director of Trade has had some conversations with Susan Anderson about these equity issues, and Leah told Susan that, practically speaking, we're unlikely to see anything from anybody but Northwest by July anyway.
 so they continue to have those conversations. I mean, I actually think it was really important to give Northwest new tools to work with as soon as possible, and I've made that commitment to try to do that when we decided against parking minimums in Northwest. If it's the will of council, I think it might be okay to say we're passing this ordinance, we're postponing implementation anywhere but Northwest until July.
 I think given the short amount of notice people have had, and the fact that it's a snow day almost for most school districts, so there might be people who were planning to come but can't because they're home with children, I wouldn't be comfortable passing the whole thing. I'd be more willing to do it just in Northwest, where we've had literally decades of discussions about this, which Rick and I have both been involved in. It's actually four decades now, but I'll give you a decade. I'm not as old as you, Rick. LAUGHTER
 I do need to briefly mention one other equity issue. When we were here last summer asking for parking minimums, the reaction from council was, gee, we're looking into reexamining them elsewhere in the city. We don't want to adopt something Northwest and then undo it. Well, now that you've made your decision about the rest of the city, which is very much what we wanted, which is having parking minimums but exempting affordable housing units and projects, we would like to put us on the same wavelength as the rest of the city. Thank you. How do you... Sorry, go ahead.
 how do you feel about earmarking or i should say splitting the surcharge revenue 50 50 city i don't i personally don't have a problem with it i mean one of our goals is to to run the whole system as a system so it's a little odd to have one set of
 price divisions for permits and another for meters. But that's how that works for TMA, right? You get half the meter and we get half. Of the meter revenue. Yeah. But it's not the same situation in the ordinance for permit surcharges. Can I – Permit surcharges. I mean, that's what we're talking about right now. Yeah. We can offer an amendment that would do that. Yes. If you want to do 51% of permit surcharge, 51-49 split, so it's the same. I have no objection.
 Can I comment on that? Sure. Which is, I think that's a mistake, respectfully. I think that if you're going, the idea of the price, the price should be set to manage the demand, ideally. I mean, I know we're not in an ideal situation here, and we can't really do that. The price would be shockingly high in some areas, and, you know, that wouldn't fly. But if you're going to raise the price, let's say you could get it to $20 or $30 a month, it's not going to be a good idea.
 It's not raising it as a revenue-generating mechanism for the city. It's raising it to manage the parking demand. And so one of the reasons that you want to give most, if not all, of that money back, the city's still going to manage the – direct the spending of it. I picture a menu of sorts like where a city – where a neighborhood could say –
 These are some, like PBOT says, here's some projects we could build that increase, that make it easier for people to get around without driving. And the neighborhood kind of gets to kind of pick some of those, but they know that money is coming back in. It makes it seem much less like a tax than an actual mechanism to manage parking, because that's why the price should be higher than the surcharge, not to raise revenue, in my opinion. Just to clarify, what this proposal anticipates is that all of the surcharge money, not 50%, 100%, will be going back to the district.
 It's just the initial cost recovery, $60, that would go to PBOT. All of the surcharge would go to the district. Well, that's what I'm talking about. I'm saying split the surcharge.
 51-49. Then it's a tax. Then the people are, neighbors will perceive that you're trying to take, there's already negative feelings about paying for parking. So I feel like if the more that you're giving the money back to the neighborhood where it's collected, the less resistance you're going to have. Is the intent to make the parking committee like the Transportation Management Association in Northwest, is there going to be in every parking district, is there going to be an ongoing Transportation Management Committee?
 I'm sorry, I couldn't hear what you said. Maybe we'll get that answered later. We'll call you back. Let's hear the rest of the testimony. This has been a good discussion. Thank you three very much. Let's take the next group, please. The first three on public testimony are Terry Parker, Alan Field, and Murray Kudish. Okay. Come on up, please. Good afternoon. I think you're first, Mr. Parker. Good afternoon. Terry Parker, Northeast Portland. Thank you.
 If the private sector were to purposely create a shortage for an essential product or service and then add a new fee or surcharge for the item, it would be considered fraud or a scam.
 Yet that's just what this parking management proposal is about. Not requiring off-street parking minimums for new multi-unit residential developments in turn creates a parking shortage. When that is followed up by adding a fee for on-street parking, it becomes a socially engineered scam. Motorists already pay for the streets curb to curb with gas taxes and other related motor vehicle fees. Additionally, gas taxes pay for bicycle and sidewalk infrastructure.
 In that one two-axle bus does as much damage to the street as 1,200 cars, motorists also subsidize transit. To start with, if curb space is to be considered a commodity, equity requires for every 18 feet where there is a curbside bike lane, the bicycle community needs to be paying the annual $60 fine.
 through user fees developed by the entire community, not just developed by bicyclists that can also vote for a gas tax. Likewise, for every bus zone and curb extension that includes a bus stop, TriMet should be contributing the same. Concern has been expressed that low-income households are being pushed out from the inner city, where longer commutes and lack of infrastructure increase transportation costs. Fifty-nine percent of low-income people drive to their workplace and many more own cars.
 Adding a fee for on-street parking is also an increase in transportation costs, hitting low and modest income households the hardest. Additionally, adding an on-street parking fee is contrary to supporting local small business, brick-and-mortar stores, local restaurants, and utilizing libraries. This is especially true in areas like the Hollywood District. The entire city must not be subject to the same parking mayhem as northwest Portland. Instead, further discriminating against...
 motorist is yet another divisive fee when they already pay more than their share of transportation infrastructure costs. Requiring adequate parking minimums for new multi-unit residential development needs to be reestablished. Portland is not Chicago. It is unjustifiable to allow the camel's nose under the tent, which could then end up as a full-blown Chicago-style parking fee and permit policy. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Alan Field. I'm on the Richmond Neighborhood Association, but I'm not speaking on behalf of them. I did serve on the Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee. So in my many years in the Neighborhood Association, parking is one of the biggest problems neighbors complain about. So the proposed amendments to the area parking program are very needed. So I'm generally supportive of the amendments. I just want to offer my thoughts on ways to improve it. And I'm going to start with the parking
 Big concern I have is on the issue of cost. The base fee will be $60, and as it was described to us, behind San Francisco, this will be the second most expensive permit program in the country. Seattle is $30, and other cities are half that. So I understand it's a $60 cost.
 to cover administrative costs, but other cities are able to do this kind of program for even half that cost. So I would ask PBOT to look into that, if that really is the cost, administrative cost, and if there's other ways to reduce it. In 2007, the cost was $35. I could just see, knowing Portland, in five years, the fee will be double, $100 to $120. Plus you talk about
 The add-on surcharges, $20 or more. I heard Tony talk about $30 a month for parking permit fees. We have an affordability crisis in Portland. It's not just housing. It's groceries. It's utilities. It's health care costs. It's transportation costs. People are getting nickel-and-dimed all over. I just think the city shouldn't add to that problem. Look for ways to make this a little cheaper and more.
 for people willing to vote in this. Alan, can I just ask, are you saying that the neighborhood parking permit programs should be prohibited from imposing a surcharge, for example, for charging more for a second or third car than for the first car?
 Because that's all we're talking about is giving the neighborhoods an opportunity to add surchargers on their own. For example, somebody should pay more for the third car than their first car. I do think because if the administrative cost is $60 and anything above that is a punitive measure to try to punish people who have extra cars. So I am opposed to that. I do like that PBOT rolled back and made the surcharge element part of a second vote. And it's a 60% yes buy-in, which I like.
 So if council does include that with the first vote, keep it a 60% buy-in requirement for the surcharges. I also encourage the city to look at the exemptions. For instance, in my street alone, there are six houses with shared driveways, but the driveways are six and a half feet wide, so no one can use the driveway.
 because with my neighbor, I can't use it, they can't use it because it blocks both of us in. I have to pull in both my side mirrors to park. No one uses it. So I just hope the administrative rules has an exemption for shared housing or look at the old-style houses where you just can't even use the off-tree parking. Also, look at greater grounds for an exemption. There should be a senior discount. There should be a discount for anyone receiving any kind of public assistance. If you're on the Affordable Care Act,
 We don't want to make Portland more unaffordable for a growing swath of people, and this is equity issues. Other areas I want to point out is I think it's an open issue. I think when you draw the permit area, it should be allowed to span a street-like division. I think currently it isn't proposed for that. And also the administration rules should specify that in the commercial zone, since people will be grandfathered in, include those block faces in the 20 –
 Block minimum count. And lastly, I just want to say in this whole committee, I just want to commend Grant for doing an excellent job at running this committee. And he was always responsive for questions by e-mail or coffee meetings. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. I'm Murray Kudish, Transportation and Land Use Chair of the Northeast Broadway Business Association since 2009. Hello.
 The city's area parking permit changes represent a major shift in city policy, and they eliminate the existing equal parking rights for residents, businesses, and customers in our neighborhoods. The system would be replaced with an ordinance that prioritizes residents and lacks critical protection for businesses and our customers. NEBA strongly feels a major modification must be made before the city council passes an amended parking ordinance.
 It's December and the busiest month of the year for businesses, and enacting a complicated revision of the area parking plan during the holidays is irresponsible as businesses simply don't have time to be here or respond to the plan. The proposed ordinance and related plans contain major flaws that require time and attention.
 We're simply asking the consideration and approval of the area parking ordinance be delayed until early next year when businesses can provide feedback and changes can be made in an unhurried manner. The parking ordinance dates to the early 80s and 90s, and the proposed changes are also intended to last for decades.
 Yet the Portland Bureau of Transportation has made no effort in the last two years to provide the business community with specifics of the new parking plans or to gather business feedback. For example, only two spots of 28 folks on the centers and corridors parking SAC represented business groups. In 2015, I attended multiple SAC meetings, had several discussions with PBOT managers. I also testified about the lack of business protections and submitted written version for the minutes.
 PBOT managers promised at that time to contact NEVA about our concerns, but they have not responded in the year since the final SAC meeting in December of 2015. PBOT has also not reached out to Portland's business districts via Venture Portland, which could have facilitated a presentation to its board, which represents districts throughout the city.
 nor do they convene a town hall meeting with neighborhood business owners, as they did in partnership with the city commissioners on other major policy issues, including sick leave, mixed-use zones, and the street fee. Access to neighborhood business districts by a variety of modes is critical for businesses in our local economy. And as most customers and many employees arrive via car, a parking deficit negatively impacts businesses throughout the city.
 Making things worse is the boom in apartments with minimal or no parking that forces residents to park on neighborhood streets. Future development and neighborhood infill will only make this crunch worse, making it even more important to find business-friendly solutions. Businesses in Northeast Broadway are reporting that customers are complaining loudly and more frequently about difficulty parking, as well as citywide congestion. Some businesses have already reported a drop in foot traffic and revenue.
 We're concerned that the proposed parking permit system will only make the situation worse, which is why it's so important that any new parking plans and the policies put as much of an emphasis on protecting our businesses and their customers as they do on neighborhood livability.
 One way to accomplish this is one that we recommended to the SAC and PBOT, is to add a basic set of policies and rules directly into the parking ordinance that would protect businesses yet work well for each of the parking permit districts. It would also save the city time and money. The details and other ideas about that are in the letter that you've been handed. In conclusion, the major changes being proposed will have long-lasting and substantial economic and personal impacts on our city's businesses,
 their customers, and employees. We're simply asking that the city commissioners work to ensure that the needs of our local economy and businesses are met under the new area parking plans and policies. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. The last two I show are Doug Klotz and Tamara DeRitter. Come on up, please. Thank you.
 Hello. Good afternoon. Back again. I'm Doug Klotz. I live in the Richmond neighborhood. I support the modifications here to broaden the scope of the available parking permit program to include overnight parking in centers and corridors. This will be a good start toward a program that will be useful in addressing the growth in centers and corridors, help manage auto storage, and allow more needed housing along transit corridors. To Dan's point.
 I think the thinking was that the buildings, the Mitch's buildings on the corridors were built with no knowledge that parking would be restricted. So the idea of having those buildings have access to the permits at first makes sense from that point of view because they were not aware. And, you know, you could argue that those buildings themselves should in perpetuity have access, but only the new buildings be restricted from it.
 But yeah, there's certainly certainly a point to be made there I think it's important though as Rick Michelson noted to get a base ordinance passed There's a lot of there's a lot of flexibility in this ordinance for city staff to to tweak a lot of things So I think the important thing is to get get an ordinance in place and then make those changes on a smaller scale with a smaller process
 I personally recommend simplifying the voting proposal so the committee doesn't have to go through two votes, but just have one vote
 on whether there's going to be a permit and then whether there's going to be surcharge as well. I know you have two thresholds, 50% and 60%, so say if you only get 50% yeses, then you get the permit. If you get 60% yeses, then you can have the surcharge as well. I am living myself on a block face that's 1,147 feet long. I wonder if blocks can be split up and still have the permit. Okay.
 35th place from Hawthorne such as clear to Harrison you'll have another feet and yeah They didn't have a parking of problem in the first four six hundred feet, but not a thousand feet away where I am So and and there's the fact that one commercial building has a side frontage on that street mean This is all exempt because it has commercial on that block face I'm thinking that the block faces might be able to split I
 But I hope that this program will pass this program so we can work on those tweaks, see how it works in Northwest, but still have the ordinance already passed with all these options in it, and we can work on it from there. Thank you. Thanks very much. Jeff?
 Good afternoon, Tamara. Hi, I'm Tamara DeRitter. I'm representing myself as the chairwoman for Rose City Park Neighborhood Association, and I am also a member of the former Centers and Corridors Advisory Committee. I am also the author of the Minority Report that was issued on December 11, 2015, to the committee and representatives for PBOT. Okay.
 in asking for clarification and concerns in regards to a number of things, including the lack of representation we had in the committee by businesses. We only had two named members of the business community, and only one of them regularly attended. So the recommendations that came out of that committee were totally slanted against us,
 the small business community by, as you can see in the documentation, there's only one representative out of five of the business community. And there is just a number of concerns. What I would like for you to do is for the city council to continue or set over this public hearing until at least February 2017 to adequately notify the public,
 which it has not done, neighborhood associations, business districts, and Venture Portland as required by the Code 3.96.050. Without proper public notification, this ordinance fails to satisfy Ordinance ORS 195.305 by restricting the possible access and use of properties to be impacted, compromising their value. So number one.
 Let's get notification. Let's make sure everybody's attentive. Also, clearly one of the first concerns is the lack of business representation. There's a concern also about balkanization of our business areas by having as little as 20 linear feet of block face in one area.
 The reason that is a problem is because it breaks up the business districts into smaller cubes, and each business will then have to fend for themselves for each individual area. It becomes untenable for small businesses to spend that much time in committee meetings just to defend their needs.
 Also, there's evidence of overflow parking as identified in the city's own report, which is the Centers and Quarters Parking Analysis Model of 2035 Conditions. The one person that did respond to the minority report was Eric Ingstrom from BPS, who
 And he did identify that the language in here shows overflow parking needs of over 552 parking spaces on street in the evening hours for Hollywood District. And that would go into the residential area. So where in this ordinance are we talking about the overflow needs in your own analysis? You need to be looking at that. This is my testimony. I...
 I sent it to you, but this is my original copy. I'll give it to her. Thank you very much. I'm assuming that, excuse me, I'm assuming you sent us the minority report in December of last year? Absolutely. I'm a bit behind. As you can gather, I will look for it. That's okay. Just bring it to the top of the pile again. I sent it by email, and I have a copy right here. Good. Thank you. Yeah, I think if you could send it to us electronically, again, that would be helpful. I will. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you both. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item?
 So perhaps you'd like to bring the staff back up? Yeah, I was just actually looking at the details in the ordinance. And in 162830 subsection C, which is on page 4 of 8, it says an area that feels adversely affected by parking and is requiring permit parking must work through the Neighbourhood Association or Business District Association
 If the area is not formally organised, it should directly contact the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement for assistance. The Office of Neighbourhood Involvement will review the request and discuss the eligibility of that area to form a neighbourhood association or business district association in conformance with the criteria evaluated. I don't know that we've been asked to do that, and it only does not keep a list of the business districts. That's the Venture Portland, and I don't believe there's a formal way of saying...
 Bless you, my child, you are a business district. So was there any discussion with Ernie about this?
 And if so, who? No, Commissioner. This chapter, paragraph, yes, is old code. It's from 1992. The only thing we're changing here is updating the name of ONI from Office of Neighborhood Associations to Office of Neighborhood Involvement. That's the only proposed change here. Well, then, no, in B, you say, upon receipt of the petition, such traffic engineer shall initiate a preliminary investigation to verify that the area meets the criteria. Wait, are you talking about in which subsection? Yes.
 This is on page 5, KB. It seems to have a – and maybe it's a carryover, but that's not how things work anymore. So that's of concern. So if there are clarifying points on ONI's procedures, we certainly would like to get those in here.
 It does seem to me, Commissioner, that these are carryovers. The only thing we're changing in relation to neighborhood associations and business district associations are the names, like the current names. But the fact is we changed how we manage business district associations, I believe, in 2009 when the Association of Portland Neighborhood Business Associations changed into Venture Portland and is now the liaison both to Commissioner Fish and to the Portland Development Commission. So that's definitely an area of concern.
 Yes, I was not aware of that. I'd be happy to work with your staff on cleaning this language up. And then what's about the question of whether parking districts can spam the arterial or the corridor rather than being on one side or the other? Currently, we prefer to have them to be contiguous areas, but there's no such requirement. That's just sort of a management practice at this point. I don't think there's any reason why we couldn't do that.
 Although, again, if the permit district is going to be in the residential zone, then in many cases those arterials would be mixed-use zones. Correct. So they would not be contiguous areas. Right. But if I'm going to park at a business, I can park on the right side of the street in the neighborhood or the left side. And so if one side has a parking district and the other one doesn't,
 And they're really one – I mean, we're actually trying to work really hard because often the arterial is the dividing line between different neighborhood associations, whereas a business district association does tend to be spanning the arterial. If you were visiting a business that was bifurcated by – if the neighborhood was bifurcated by a commercial district, and on one side there was a permit area and on the other side there was not, then as a visitor to that business –
 The only difference to you would be that there might be a two- or three-hour time limit on one side, whereas on the other side there's no time limit. Well, right. That's the issue. Yes. If you're Richmond and Sunnyside and you're on opposite sides of the arterial, or if you've got an arterial, I think in some cases Alberta runs through.
 Several different neighborhoods. Rather than being the boundary. That's a problem in terms of just the practical reality that if there's a parking shortage, and oftentimes caused by the success of the business district, yay, then it's going to flow into the neighborhood. And, of course, those same arterials are the streets that now are mostly zoned mixed use and are going to see a lot of incidents.
 So what we're trying to do here is define a community of interest. It would make sense as a voting district. So we said 20 contiguous block faces. How would we redefine that? Would we say 20 block faces that are either contiguous or divided by an arterial? Well, I think the point is, Commissioner, I know this is really important to you to try to get it done before you leave. It seems that there's a lot of questions. I have been getting lots of e-mails from folks who are not able to be here today.
 So I'm not sure that on the fly we can manage all the issues. I do want to point out, and I neglected to mention this in my presentation, that the boundaries before the vote occurs to create the permanent area, the boundaries are different.
 delineated and determined by PBOT staff working with the neighborhood and business associations. So once those boundaries have been established, then the vote occurs. Once a permit area is established, they can expand through that same voting process. So they tend to grow over time. So what's that to prevent the neighbors, for example, I won't say whether they're business or neighborhood associations, what to present them from gerrymandering the boundaries to get a particular result that they want?
 Well, all of the – everything in here is subject to PBOT's sort of input and approval, so we would not allow that sort of – those sorts of shenanigans. Well, that's another concern I have, that we're asked to pass this whole court, and then anything further will be authorized that the director of PBOT can make any changes. So I don't have a level of comfort that we've got to the right place. Commissioner, the idea here is to give these –
 self-created Parking permit areas a fair amount of flexibility as to how to manage themselves So that's sort of like a fundamental philosophical question Do we want to have something very prescriptive saying a parking permit district can only look like this Or do we want to have something that's flexible where the size of the district for example can be determined by people coming together to form one?
 Well, when we had the discussions on the Northwest Parking District, which I think we had twice in Mayor Adams' reign, administration, and then another one right away, that was a lot of what the discussion was, who's in, who's out, coming to council so that everybody had their say. I am really concerned about this because, as Terry Parker pointed out, 59% of renters own cars, and it's more likely to be the low-income folks who need their car to get to their job in another place than
 that are not going to be able to attend the meetings or necessarily even have time to look into the issues. But by that criterion, Commissioner, we should dismiss everything neighborhood associations ever say because they only consist of people who have time to come to meetings. That's actually not the case anymore, Commissioner, but...
 Yeah, we're about good. Well, so, Steve, you've got a couple of choices here. One is to continue this, and the other is to just bring it forward next week. I think you've got a lot of questions. Well, one question I have is could we quickly come up with an amendment that says, for example, that this is authorized now, but PBOT will have to come back to council before authorizing a perfect district anywhere but Northwest? Okay.
 Could I just ask another question? Have you received any formal positions from any neighbourhood associations or business districts? Yes.
 we've received uh some testimony related to this item but not in the past couple of instances do we have northwest district association saying that they want it i mean i know that rick is very connected with those but do we know from nwda well we have in north northwest is kind of a unique situation because the council has empowered the sac to kind of represent them on on parking issues and rick as the chair of the sac i believe is accurately representing their position would you mind if rick comes back sure come on please rick
 Because of all the places, knowing- The testimony that I've gotten in emails and such here. Yeah, there's a lot. So, can you help us, Rick? So, the question is whether NWDA has a position on the ordinance. They clearly have a position on getting the implementation going in Northwest. They have not spoken about what should happen in other neighborhoods specifically. So, but it's within the framework of what we're trying to do to move this forward.
 So NWDA does approve this framework for their area? Well, I'm not on the NWDA board, so I can't speak to them. But the NWDA representatives on the SAC, who are three board members, including the president. Right.
 All were in favour of this ordinance. I would feel more comfortable if there's a time for neighbourhood associations, business districts to weigh in on this. It's clearly an exciting proposal with pros and cons and maybe some tweaks needed. I'm not sure that there has been that.
 since the committee did its work? I think one of the problems is that the tweaks are going to have to be individual for each area. It's not one set of tweaks that we can do this ordinance that's going to fit Gateway and fit Northwest. What they're trying to do is set up a process to establish each of these districts so that the tweaks can take place within the confines of that process. So if there's something wrong with the way that process works, maybe that needs to be tweaked. But
 the whole point is all the districts are different and need to be looked at individually and trying to save the work of coming to council with every one of them. I think there's a
 likelihood that neighbors and business owners would want things to come to council. So, you know, just like the Northwest District, there was a lot of interest and people took a lot of time to get it right. Commissioner, the idea here is to allow for the creation of pretty small parking permit districts. And let me give you an example of where I think that would make sense. We heard a lot of concerns from people living in the division in the 30s about parking issues a few years ago.
 My dad lived four blocks from Division, between Division and Hawthorne, and I never had a problem parking in front of his house. So I think it might have made perfect sense to have a parking permit district that consisted of an up –
 people in the two streets immediately adjacent to division for five blocks each way or ten blocks each way. It's not always going to make sense to have a parking district that's as extensive as the whole Northwest District.
 So again, I'm looking back to 2012, December, when we had, I think, the second or third hearing on the Northwest District, and we basically passed something that we didn't think was right to make sure that the neighborhood and the business district got together and proposed something better. Can you see any way to do something like that with this? I guess it sort of depends on how big and complicated the district is. I think that
 One of the things that's – and maybe staff isn't going to be real happy with me saying this – one of the things that's interesting about this is that if you want to include the commercial district into your permit parking system, then you would have to do a broader study like Northwest and bring it to council because this doesn't cover that kind of mixed-use area. So I guess that's one clue to it, but this would allow the simple ones where –
 it's just the residential area or small area, to move forward without having to come to council. And I think you've got some very good people in PBOT that you can trust to implement many of these without them all having to come to council. Yeah, I agree. There's lots of good people in PBOT. We've got two of them sitting right here. The challenge is I just don't know how much communities are aware of it. Commissioner, do you know, are there any particular areas that are kind of ready to go on this? Yes.
 I know that there's places where people express some interest. Melissa, do you want to digress? Yes. I just wanted to bring us back to what exactly we're asking to be. Oh, sorry. I just want to remind you exactly what we're asking and proposing change to the existing program that's been in effect since 1992. We currently have 18 zones that we administer, and this through a parking permit program, and it's for commuter parking purposes.
 All we're proposing is that we have the ability to address residential needs from a residential perspective instead of commuters coming into the zone that residents are still able to park on their street because right now we don't have that tool, and we get a lot of phone calls. The other key pieces of this is the ability to cap permits for the entire district that a neighborhood comes together and says they want as their boundaries. And then the other key piece is for individual households, how many permits we'd allow per household.
 We're just looking for these tools that we can then use in the districts to tailor them to suit the needs that the stakeholders have come together and said. Like I said, this is not changing the program all that much. It's just allowing an expansion of an existing program with additional tools for us to do parking management.
 And I can bring somebody up to explain how it functions today if you'd like more detail. Actually, knowing that the time is going by, I'm going back to this quorum, I think. At the very least, Commissioner, I would need to bring back some amendments next week fixing what only is assigned to do. I can't do that on the fly today. So then we'd be having another first reading next week, and then it would go over into the new administration. So I would suggest that's the plan. Unless we decide to meet on December 28th. I'm not here on the 28th, so. You told me you could call in.
 My no vote, yeah, I might. So I think – I could do that if you want me to. To talk about – just to go back to your request for the code revisions in Chapter 16, I'm not really sure where the ONI code resides that got updated. Is that something different than this? It's in here. I simply was looking at this and saw that we had an old name for the Bureau, so I thought I would update it. And we're capitalizing Neighborhood Association as opposed to having it in lower case. I like that. They're very, very minor changes.
 Well, yeah, there's things that we only are assigned to do on page 4. HC, we're assigned to do something. On page 5, KB, we're assigned to do something. Right, and we can do those additional code changes that you're requesting specific to ONI separate from this. We're happy to do that and work with you on that. I don't think we can't be passing code that's not correct. Commissioner. This exists today. This is what exists today. No, it doesn't. It's all underlined.
 Unless you've done your underlining wrong. Well, like in 162830C, right now it says contact the Office of the Neighborhood Associations, and that changes to Office of Neighborhood Involvement. I'm sorry, which page is that on? Well, this is the first one you pointed out. Yes, that's page three. Page four. Currently, the law says under 162830 subsection C. Right.
 Right now, it says if the area is not formally organized, it should directly contact the Office of the Neighborhood Associations, which no longer exists. So the only point there was to say that that's the new name. It's not giving a new responsibility. It's just cleaning it up. Well, just like that has not been cleaned up, saying that neighborhood involvement must review the request and discuss the eligibility of that area to form a business association in conformance with the criteria established. We don't have any criteria established.
 We don't do that. Right, but that's existing code. I know. So that's a whole code revision we're going to do for Chapter 16. All right, then just go on page five. I think what we're suggesting, Commissioner, is that there could be two approaches here. We could do the more substantial changes to the process to establish, and then we could do another code cleanup ordinance later that is perhaps less urgent. Okay. Obviously, we've got a difference of opinion here on the council about what should proceed forward. Steve, this is going to come back for second reading. Okay.
 Well, what I was wondering is it seemed like there was some consensus for allowing – Yes, I do. I thought there was some consensus for allowing Northwest to do something. So, Commissioner Fritz, would you be amenable to amending this to allow this to go forward only for Northwest? Possibly. I agree. I appreciate the compromise. I would still want to hear from NWDA before the vote. But just, you know, changing it to only applies here rather than to the rest of the city. Okay.
 So, Steve, I understand you want to get this done while you're here. My recommendation would be we continue this, get those amendments ready, and there may be a majority of the council that wants to approve them. Frankly, even if we approve this with only the Northwest change next week and there's still flaws in it, it's going to put the next council in the same position that we got ourselves in, where I had Josh Alpert working on Northwest parking issues last year.
 for much of the first year of my time here in City Hall. So I don't think that success is going to elude us entirely here, but I do think it would be good to do some more work on this. We can probably do that over the course of the next week. The combination of what we've heard here with the cleanup that needs to be done in the ordinance and then this question of whether it should apply in Northwest only out of the gate or more places is,
 Those are issues I think we can work through, but it doesn't appear that we're going to work through them in the last few minutes of this council meeting. So my only liaison goes on parental leave today at the end of the day. I don't know that I have the capacity to be able to work on all of the changes that would need to be figured out who is going to approve new business areas within this code. So I think the only thing we could do is to tailor it that it's just in Northwest. Yes.
 and take out the bits that talk about other areas, maybe forming new business districts and such. All right. So we can continue it to next week and do that work, right? We could try, yeah. So that's what I believe we should do. So that's no objection. We're going to continue this ordinance to next week for that purpose, for the purpose of considering amendments.
 I'll do what I can. Okay, thank you. Thank you. And then we've had a request, and I'm sorry, it looks like some folks may have showed up for this item, but we've had a request to reschedule the next item, which is 1418. So I'm going to have you read that, and we're rescheduling that to next week as well.
 14-18, extend to December 31, 2017. The council approved corporate securities do not buy list. That's going to be rescheduled to 2-30, is that right? 2-30 on Wednesday the 21st? Correct. Okay. So we are adjourned until then. Thank you. Until Wednesday the 21st. Oh, good. I'm glad they've got me. That's perfect. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'll be all right about it.