Okay. Get some of the routine matters out of the way. So good morning, everybody. Welcome to the December 12th City Council meeting. Carla, could you please call the roll? Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Saltzman? Here. Okay, Madam Attorney, would you please give the statement? Okay.
 Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings.
 so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address, however, is not necessary. Thank you.
 Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The providing officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless it's otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 And if you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome.
 respected, comfortable, and safe. Very good. Thank you. And I apologize for my tardiness. I got a call at the last minute from Chair Khafre, and there was an issue that she and I very much wanted to discuss. And so I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman taking the lead here for the first few minutes. Just a couple of housekeeping items. First of all, you'll notice this morning we have an incredibly packed agenda.
 as publicly noticed on the Tuesday memo, to best allow for full public testimony. And in consideration of our time constraints today, the following items are going to be rescheduled.
 Item 1261 will be tentatively rescheduled from this morning's 9.45 a.m. time certain to January 16th, 2019 at 10.25 a.m. time certain. Again, that's item 1261. Item 1290 will be continued from this morning's regular agenda to January 9th, 2019 at the 9.30 a.m. regular agenda to,
 Item 1298 is going to be rescheduled from the Thursday afternoon regular agenda to January 16th, 2019 at 9.30 a.m. Again, as part of the regular agenda. And item number 1299 is going to be rescheduled from tomorrow afternoon's regular agenda to this morning's regular agenda to be paired with item 1285. And that's to accept a 15.
 a firm fixed price of $73.5 million from James W. Fowler, company for the design and construction of the Willamette River Crossing project. Finally, just due to the significant number of items on this morning's schedule, the fact that we also have an afternoon session scheduled and we can't run them into each other, we're going to limit public testimony today to two minutes.
 Without communications, communication slots get their regular three minutes. Good morning, Carla. Good morning. Item 1256, request of Star Stauffer to address council regarding the monopoly of Portland. Next individual, please. 1257, request of Andrea Furpo to address council regarding the Southwest Capital Highway expansion project. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Andrea Firpo. I live in a home on the corner of Southwest Capital Highway and Southwest Alice Street, and I would like to provide a comment regarding the Southwest Capital Highway expansion project, which is now at 60%.
 In a meeting with PBOT project manager Steve Segathy on October 13th, my husband and I were notified that PBOT will need to obtain a temporary construction permit for the entirety of our side yard, as well as the left portion of our front yard, which was designed by Portland Japanese Gardens landscape architect after we purchased our home in 2014.
 It was our goal during our design to beautify the neighborhood and give back to the wildlife that lives here. Our yard is heavily landscaped with Japanese maple trees, northwest berry bushes, natural rock and stone. We've also been told that our property line was incorrectly approved by the city upon construction of our home in 2008, and they will need to acquire an additional eight inches of our property long term.
 This project will not only affect my home personally, it will also greatly affect the look of this beautifully tree-lined street and the wildlife population in this historic area. We moved here from San Francisco so we could have the street and urban forest which surrounds us. We built a large koi pond and waterfall in our backyard.
 and a connecting street on our side yard, which will need to be removed for construction. I watch birds feel the trees outside my kitchen windows, which are currently planned for removal. My daughter's bedroom's windows will now look out through chain-link fencing out onto the public sidewalk and bite lanes constructed outside our home. Our master bedroom is currently sheltered for privacy and street lighting from a very large ash tree that is on the corner of our property. It will also be removed.
 The two multifamily units that are behind us on Southwest Capital Highway will lose their street parking, as well as package, mail delivery, and trash services. We'll have nowhere to pull over for the entirety of Southwest Capital Highway.
 We are consistently being told by PBOT that this project is required for safety concerns, primarily uncontrolled vehicle speeds. However, the only safety measures that have been implemented is a speed reduction to 25 miles per hour. There is nothing in the plan such as a speed drop or a signal.
 I recognize roads get widened every day. However, I implore you to please get involved. I ask for a more moderate approach that supports everyone's needs in the community, not just a city's agenda. We have crumbling sidewalks in our neighborhood that need to be repaired, and I'm told that those also cannot be addressed with this project. So I just come to you for, to be heard, because I'm being affected, my husband's.
 The homeowners around me are being affected, and we feel very unheard. Thank you for your time. Thank you, and thank you for coming in. We appreciate it. Could I get a written copy of your testimony? Sure. Thank you. Commissioner, you did. I have one. I sent it to you when I— Ms. Furpo, is your contact information—do we have your contact information? Yes.
 Yes, it's on her request form. My office will follow up with you as well. Great. Thank you. Thanks for coming in. Your garden sounds beautiful. It is. Thank you. It's got to be demolished. Maybe, maybe not. We'll see what Commissioner Udaly's, what magic she can work. She's good at these things. Thank you, Mayor. Anytime. Thanks for coming. Anytime. Next item. Next individual, please.
 Item 1258, request of Lightning Super Creativity XXIPDX to address counsel regarding domino effect topples the political establishment. Morning. Before I get started, I'd like to ask, since Star did not appear, I'd like to do my full three minutes. We'll still stay within your time frame, sir. May I? Oh, yeah. Communications, you always get your three. Three minutes? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you very much. Again, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning.
 Lightning super creativity. What I'd like to speak about is personally the personal vendetta of Robert Mueller III against President Donald Trump.
 Again, I'm asking you to wrap up this investigation. I'm asking you to do your job. When William Barr is the AG, I'm asking him to create another special counsel. You need to go into retirement. Go back to private practice. You've really missed the mark. You've missed the target. You're not even a threat to President Trump.
 Go back to your private practice. You've really failed miserably. Miserably. And again, I'm asking you to go into retirement, step away, and understand. This is a personal vendetta when James Comey got fired, your good friend. When Rosenstein and Comey signed the FISA applications to get the FISA warrant upon the unverified dossier paid by Hillary Clinton. Get real, Mr. Mueller. You're a disgrace.
 You're a disgrace to the FBI. You're a disgrace to the United States. And let the president do his job. Video, please. Thank you, sir. The dominoes will begin to fall. Hillary Clinton for prison. Make sure we have sound, sir. Thank you.
 All right. Next individual, please. Next individual, please. Item 1259, request of Don Stevens to address council regarding proposed regulations on diesel emissions for construction sites. Good morning. Good morning. I'm not Don Stevens. Don Stevens is here and Guy Berliner, my colleague, is here. Don has asked me to speak in person.
 His place. I do hope that my three minutes will have the same impact as those dominoes. It's a hard act to follow, isn't it? But I'm not sure I will. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I'm Wesley Ward. Don Guy-Berliner and I live in Brooklyn, home of the UP Rail Yard. We are members of Portland Neighbors for Diesel Action.
 We're an informal group formed almost a year ago from our neighborhood association. Our goal is to heighten local awareness of and concern about diesel particulates in particular and to encourage you, our elected officials, to act as strongly as legally possible to reduce diesel pollution as quickly as possible. We do this for our health and that of neighborhoods across Portland.
 In our work with neighborhoods, we hear real and growing concern about unregulated, toxic diesel. As a grassroots group of volunteers, we are kindling a fire of awareness to support those working on this issue at the local and state level. We know that the state has the key to a real solution to this problem, but we think an important beginning is what Portland can do.
 And without that important beginning in Portland, we may never move the needle very far at the state level. Now, well, tomorrow is the time to take a strong stand in Portland against dirty diesels at all construction sites funded by public dollars, not just the city and county's own projects.
 Someday, the same standard should apply to all large Portland construction sites as a condition of permitting. This will take continuing work and strong leadership against opposition which has prevailed for far too long. Without your leadership, the oldest and dirtiest diesels will continue to spew their toxics into our neighborhoods.
 We don't want to leave this problem for the younger generation to deal with. Thank you for the chance to speak to you today, and we'll be back with you tomorrow.
 Thank you. We appreciate it. And, gentlemen, just to underscore a couple of finer points here. Number one, we are, in fact, we did just pass a diesel procurement strategy for the city of Portland. So we're leading by example on all of the projects that we're engaged in. But you're also correct that we are preempted by state statute from actually regulating diesel beyond the
 the vehicles and the equipment that we control, and that's something that we should be working on together down in Salem. That's right, Mayor. We should loosen the state preemption as much as possible. Thank you, sir. And thank you, Dr. Stevens as well. Mr. Stevens, thank you. Next individual, please. Item 1260, request of Mary Bowers to address council regarding home forward. Good morning. Good morning.
 Hello, Mayor Wheeler and the City Council. I'm here to talk to you about Home Forward. I have spoke with from homelessness to tenants of Home Forward. As you probably know, Home Forward at one time was Housing Authority of Portland and of Multnomah County. Home Forward treats the elderly, disabled, veterans, and so on like garbage. And this is uncalled for. We don't deserve to have any benefits like low-income housing or any kind of housing.
 We are low lives. We put ourselves in this mess. And so why should we step down to your level? And why does Home Forward have property management run property that they have and they don't communicate with each other? I myself is now homeless with four cats and social security disability who has a broken foot for eight months who needs surgery.
 I was just hospitalized during Thanksgiving with RSV. I don't know if you know what that is, but it's very serious. And it takes a long time for you to get over it. I am homeless because they evicted my housemate. I went to them for housing, and all they care is, sorry, we can't help you. They have no respect or dignity for us. They need to take ADA Act classes.
 to understand the laws that pertain to us. It is really important that they take these classes. They need to take etiquette, customer service classes, to understand how to talk to us, instead of like, we don't need to listen to you, we don't need to talk to you, or they're just downright rude to us. They need to have these classes to understand where we are,
 But they don't care. And they need to be respectful and buy by the ADA Act. But they also need to buy by their rules and regulations that they put forth to us. They need to buy by them, too. So.
 That is the fourth on us as tenants. We speak up. Home Forward needs to listen and do what needs to be done, from safety of tenants to black mold. And we, the homeless, come to apply for a place, not shun us and just give us respect and listen. Thank you. Thank you. Perfect timing. And I will pass your concerns along. We appreciate you coming in and sharing them with us. You're welcome. Thank you.
 That completes communications. Which items have been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? We have 1269 and 1274. 1269 and 1274. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Udaly? Udaly.
 Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. With the pulling of the time certain item, we need to find about 20 to 25 minutes of other things. So I'm going to ask that we move 1281 into this slot, please. 1281. 1281.
 amend Police Review Board Code to implement a tentative agreement negotiated with the Portland Police Association to modify the stipulated discipline provisions. And I understand Mark Amberg is here. Here he is. Good morning, Mark. How are you today? Thank you. Mark Amberg, the City Attorney's Office.
 Did you want to give a presentation on this? Oh, yes. Sure. I would be happy to do that. This is an ordinance amending the proposed ordinance to amend the stipulated
 discipline ordinance that was passed by council back in August of this year, which that was enacted pursuant to an agreement reached with the U.S. Department of Justice under the settlement agreement with the Department of Justice as part of the city's compliance with that agreement.
 The stipulated discipline in particular was implemented to help bring the city into compliance with the accountability provisions of the settlement agreement. When the August ordinance was passed by council to...
 approved the stipulated discipline process for the police bureau. There were two or three amendments to the originally proposed amendments that were proposed and ultimately adopted by council. One of the Portland Police Association, the union representing the sergeants, criminalists, detectives, and line officers in the bureau,
 basically objected to the amendments on the basis that the city had not fulfilled its collective bargaining obligations before implementing the amendments. After discussion, and they objected to implementing those amendments, and they also threatened to file an unfair labor practice complaint against the city because the city had not bargained over those amendments prior to implementing them.
 We did negotiate with the union, and ultimately the agreement that was reached was the union agreed with all of the amendments with the exception of one provision. Excuse me.
 This is... Okay, I need you to stop shouting because you're interrupting the testimony. No, I need you to please stop interrupting the testimony. Listen, I need you to either be quiet or I need you to leave. Those are your choices. Sorry, Mr. Amber, go ahead and continue. Thank you, Your Honor. Mayor. The...
 So one provision of the stipulated, I won't go to the details of the stipulated discipline that was a process that was approved by council, but one provision would have allowed for, upon agreement of the union, the police chief and city council, they could approve additional categories of cases, types of cases that would be eligible for the stipulated discipline process. And that was one of the provisions.
 Provisions the union objected to, the original language said additional categories of cases could be approved by the agreement of the union, the chief, and the commissioner in charge. The amendment was to approve.
 remove commissioner in charge and say they had to go back in front of city council. So long story short on this, the agreement that we reached with the union was to delete that that provision from the stipulated discipline ordinance. So if in the future, if there are any categories of cases that
 the union or the city believe might be eligible for the stipulated discipline process. We will have to go through a negotiating process with the union and then ultimately make a decision by council that would need to be made on whether to approve those additional categories of cases. So the amendment is just to remove that provision of code, which is subsection J2E of the Police Review Board Code,
 Portland Code Section 3.20.140. And just to be clear, Mr. Hamburg, that still has to be negotiated then? So we're not dodging the issue, we're just moving that to a later date? Is that correct? Correct. It means that if there is another category of cases that
 Either side feels it would be eligible to be included in the stipulated discipline process. That would have to be negotiated and approved. Would this be negotiated in the upcoming collective bargaining agreement, or is this a separate issue? When would this be negotiated? It could be either one. It could be brought up as part of the general contract negotiations, or it could be brought up as a separate stand-alone bargaining issue. Okay. Thank you.
 Any questions, colleagues? Commissioner Daly. I'm just struggling a little bit to remember this item because it came before us a while ago, I think. But I believe that was my amendment requiring these cases to come back to full counsel. So the ultimate outcome of striking this language is that they will come back to counsel.
 The ultimate outcome is it would have to be negotiated with the union and come back to council for approval, yes. Okay. Very good. Public testimony on this item, Carla. Yes, we have two people signed up. Please come on up. Dan Handelman and Maggie. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and I was here in September, actually, when you passed the last amendments to this code. It was September 5th, even according to the paperwork here.
 And I'm a little bit even more confused now than I was when I came in this morning. The city attorney just said and confirmed to Commissioner Udaly that this doesn't change anything. The city council still has to approve whatever changes are made. So I don't understand why the PPA would want to get this pulled. My speculation, and that's all we have since the PPA won't come here like the rest of the community has to, to talk to you about what we're concerned about.
 is that they pulled it out because it specifically said that the parts of the code that say what things can't be subjected to stipulated discipline are pretty much permanent and off limits for negotiation. And I think that by passing this, you're giving them back door to be able to pull out those very serious discrimination, retaliation, disparate treatment, excessive force, and deadly force cases. Because now it doesn't say you can't negotiate about those.
 So I think you should be really clear about what it is that you're passing and what it is the PPA's motivation was behind this, because otherwise it just seems like you're back at square one. By pulling this out, it doesn't remove your requirement to negotiate with them and it doesn't remove City Council's final approval on it. So I would call Daryl Turner up to testify on the record about what they're trying to do with this. I also should add that last time that I was here testifying about this code,
 We mentioned a number of things that need to be amended in the Police Review Board Code that never get addressed, even though it keeps coming back before Council. One of them is in the settlement agreement, it says that the Police Review Board can send cases back for further investigation. That is included in the directive around the Police Review Board, but it's never been included in the City Code. And I don't know why. It sort of seems like
 If it doesn't get included in the code, then if the DOJ leaves town and the police bureau decides to change the directive, that won't happen anymore.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Well, to that last point, presumably if it doesn't get changed in code, the DOJ is not going to leave town because they're not going to sign off on the settlement agreement having been implemented. To your previous point, it seems to me that this just clarifies who is doing the bargaining, and it would be the commissioner in charge rather than the whole council, and then the whole council approves whatever they come up with after a public hearing. That's my understanding of what we're doing today. Well, then why didn't they change the code to say that?
 So what I'm worried about, Commissioner Fritz, is the lack of that language that prohibits bargaining around those serious cases going to stipulated discipline. That part of the code is now being removed by removing this entire paragraph. Because it says, with the exception of those things that are outlined in the previous paragraph, all these other things can be bargained about. But with it silent on that, that means they can go back to the table and say, we don't want...
 We don't want these excluded anymore. We want the officers to be able to go in and admit to wrongdoing these very serious cases without it going before the police free board. So I would recommend strongly that city council leave in the sentence that says, with the exception of what's in there, everything else can be negotiated by the commissioner in charge. I mean, you just change city council to commissioner in charge if that's what the goal is. Otherwise, I think you're being...
 tricked into something that maybe the negotiators and Mr. Amberg didn't notice. But the code already says what kinds of case investigations are... Excluded, right, exactly. No, are eligible. Right, it says what are eligible and it says what is not eligible, right? The previous paragraph that was referenced... Yeah, so why is that not clear? Yeah.
 J1, the paragraph that's referenced, is the paragraph that says what you cannot send to stipulated discipline, not the things that are not included. And we're not amending that. So if we were going to amend that and add these more egregious cases, that would have to be.
 But then that would have to come back to council to change J1. Sure it does, but I just want to make it clear that the reason those are excluded, those are the kinds of cases that are very important to the community and they shouldn't be subject to stipulated discipline. So the code was clear about it and now it's not as clear about it. I guess we maybe have a disagreement, so I think it's now even clearer. Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Fritz, I'm glad you feel that way because I feel somewhat responsible for this confusion and I agree that if they didn't...
 want to accept the amendment, we should have just reverted to the original language. That would make more sense to me. But if you feel that we're actually in a better position, then thank you, PPA. Well, let's chew on this a bit. Let's hear out Maggie, and then maybe we can have Mark come back. Thank you.
 I want to thank Copwatch for their testimony about code wording because I think this is our democracy at work where I like to think of democracy as a car with manual transmission, and we the people need to manually drive
 you know, work on it and tell you guys how we want things worded and coded. And the reason I want to compare this to federal policy 811, which is our housing policy, which was very poorly done.
 worded and written and so many things were left out of it, which left the contractors the ability to define what housing and social services would be and which is why we've got so much, you know,
 caca going on in there. And we need to have a very specific... I agree there is a possibility of retaliation happening. Like when I talk to cops, some of them want to listen to what I have to say, and others, you just see the light go dead in their eyes, and they just...
 They just hate the situation with poor people. And it's like they don't...
 feel like we deserve any rights. And I was just at the Human Rights Commission Council this past Thursday, and, you know, of course, it was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on December 10th, and I think we really need to look at the cop watch process
 you know, thing is from a human rights perspective. You know, we need you guys to protect us, not to assault us. Thank you. All right. Good. Mark, could you come on back up, please? So you heard the back and forth on the issue of stipulated discipline and the exception categories. Can you give us your perspective, please? Yes. Thank you, Your Honor. Again, Mark Hamburg with the City Attorney's Office.
 A couple of points. First of all, with regard to the union's collective bargaining rights, that's a matter of state law. And the union can always put a proposal on the table. There's nothing that prevents them from doing that, regardless of whatever code provision we're talking about. We just need to evaluate whether it's something that the city is required to bargain over or not required to bargain over.
 So that's not going to change regardless of whatever provisions city council might put into city code.
 The second point I want to make is that it should be kept in mind that this stipulated discipline process comes out of negotiated amendments to the U.S. Department of Justice settlement agreement, which basically contains the same language. And to change – if there was going to be a change along the lines of what Mr. Handelman was suggesting, even if somehow –
 was willing to go that direction, it would require another amendment at the current time, the U.S. Department of Justice settlement agreement, which would require approval of the Department of Justice as well as approval by the federal district court, Judge Simon at this point. And the final point.
 The point that I would make is that I agree with the comments that were made by Commissioner Hugh Daly and Fritz, that this actually, in my view, actually clarifies that there's taking out this, out of city code in any way, the possibility of creating an exception, another exception of a category of cases that would be eligible for stipulated discipline in,
 I believe the code is very clear at this point, particularly with removing this section. There are certain types of cases that are not eligible for discipline that Mr. Handelman mentioned, and there are...
 very specifically define cases that, a limited category of cases that are eligible for stipulated discipline. But the more serious cases, discrimination, uses of force, disparate treatment, retaliation, officer-involved shootings, in-custody deaths, it's very clear in code at this point in time that they are not eligible for stipulated discipline. And to change that would require changes
 Further action of counsel as well as amendments to the U.S. Department of Justice settlement agreement. Very good. Any further questions? Please call the roll. Hugh Daly. Well, thank you for explaining that to us.
 You know, perhaps more than any other bureau, I feel with the police, the entire council is held responsible for our policies and for the actions of the police, although the mayor is the police commissioner. And this item or this...
 This disagreement just kind of highlights a couple things for me. One is the need for the council to be engaged in these conversations before they come up on the agenda. Two is for clear legal guidance. I would have never offered an amendment if I had known it could provoke a lawsuit or that it was in violation of regulations.
 some other rule, so that would be appreciated. I do feel like the reaction of the PPA was unnecessary. As, you know, my intent was, because we are held responsible as a body for the police, that we be responsible as a body for that oversight. And so I don't appreciate the response, but I do appreciate...
 their ultimate proposal, which, as you explained, makes the policy clearer. So I vote aye. And, Commissioner, if I might, just to clarify, there's nothing unlawful, so to speak, about making an amendment. And the unions always have a right to – they choose whether to assert their collective bargaining rights or not. And in this case, the PPA elected to assert their collective bargaining rights here, but there was nothing –
 per se unlawful about making a proposed amendment. All right. Well, that makes me feel better. Thank you. I'd be happy to discuss with you further. Yeah, I feel like I could use some more information. Thanks.
 Thank you for your work on this. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for bringing this clarification, Commissioner Udaly for being supportive of it. It's, as Commissioner Udaly said, all of us are involved in police accountability and ultimately the commissioner in charge, which is the mayor, has the most, and I can't imagine any commissioner in charge, agreeing to the kinds of...
 light sentence in an egregious case as a matter of stipulated discipline. That just wouldn't make any political sense, never mind moral or ethical sense. So I'm very comfortable with this.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Thanks for your hard work on this. Appreciate it. And thank you, colleagues. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Let's do a couple of second readings until we get to our time certain. If you could call 1282, please, Carla. 1282, update solid waste and recycling collection code, add definitions, and align terminology with Metro Code.
 Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. We've heard a presentation. Public testimony has already been taken. Please call the roll. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. This is an issue that people care about. When the mayor and I did our legislative agenda town hall at Southeast Campus, several community members shared their concerns about air quality and diesel pollution, and I support this. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item...
 1292, second reading. Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Metro for participation in the sidewalk labs replica pilot test in an amount not to exceed $152,433. Please call the roll.
 You daily? Because there were concerns expressed last week, I just want to make a few closing remarks. One, I want to take a moment to remind people what this data is and what it is not. It is a detailed, full-scale model of how people travel through our region.
 It's data that can be used to augment, enhance, and possibly replace PBOT's existing data collection efforts, such as volunteer count programs, real-time data collection efforts, transportation modeling within PBOT's planning group, and pre-post-project impact studies.
 It is data that has the potential to greatly enhance PBOT's ability to understand how people are moving through our transportation system as well as if and how investments in this system ultimately impact mobility and motivate transportation choices. It is not people-specific data that in any way compromises the privacy of Portlanders. It is not designed to track, monitor, or identify specific individuals. I want to thank Michael Kerr with PBOT for his work on this. I vote aye.
 Fritz. At the hearing last week, it was confirmed that when the council adopts a privacy policy early in the new year, this will be subject to it. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. According to my watch, it is now 10.15. We'll move to the time certain items. We're going to read 12.62 and 63 together.
 And we'll vote on 63 first when we get to it. But if you could read both of those items together, please. 1262, dissolve the Socially Responsible Investments Committee. And 1263, adopt City of Portland Investment Policy.
 Colleagues, the City of Portland manages an investment portfolio of $1.9 billion that the fiscal year to date has earned $11.9 million in interest earnings, which helps to fund city programs and services. Are proposed investment policies more restrictive than what state law currently requires?
 We've chosen to not include corporate issuers involved with industries such as fossil fuels, financial services, and the retail sale of firearms, allowing only a select list of highly rated securities.
 Corporate securities provide diversification and an opportunity to earn an additional yield over alternative investment types such as U.S. treasuries and agency securities. We project that the addition of this select group of corporate issuers would potentially contribute between $900,000 and $1.5 million in additional annual investment earnings for the City of Portland.
 We appreciate the time and the effort that the Social Responsibility Investment Committee members devoted to attending meetings, studying the city's investment policy, and for providing thoughtful, objective feedback on a complex and multidimensional issue. Their participation has been critical in helping the City Council to continue its mission of promoting a prosperous, educated, healthy, and equitable community.
 In the interest of transparency, Treasury has posted the city's investment portfolio online since 2013. These month-end, line-by-line portfolio reports can always be found at www.portlandoregon.gov backslash BRFS. No, you will not remember that, but if you Google it, you'll find it. Click on the button that says Review where the city's money is invested.
 With that, we have our finance team here, including Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Cooperman here today. Good morning. I don't know who's giving the presentation. Bridget O'Callaghan. Bridget is. Great. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Bridget O'Callaghan, and I am honored to be the Treasurer for the City of Portland. Thank you, Bridget. Thank you.
 I'm here today. First, I'd like to present the investment policy. That is item number 1263. Oregon law pertaining to the investment of public funds requires the city to adopt an investment policy annually. I'd like to highlight a few points as background. Some of these the mayor covered a moment ago. The investment policy outlines the framework and criteria for managing the city's investment program.
 The city's investment policy describes the framework and criteria for investing the city's cash assets. The city's policy is written in accordance with Oregon law, which is ORS 295.135, and is brought before council for adoption annually. That is our purpose today.
 The city's investment objectives are first to preserve the principal to ensure liquidity of the funds and then to earn a market return for the city. Investment earnings make a significant financial contribution to the city's budget and to the programs and services that the bureaus provide. Investment earnings net of an admin fee to cover Treasury's operating costs are distributed to city funds.
 In fiscal year 2017-18, Treasury earned $25 million. Year-to-date fiscal 2018-2019 through October 31st, Treasury has earned $11.9 million.
 Treasury will continue to use its professional expertise and discretion to make investment portfolio decisions on behalf of the city. In the interest of transparency, as the mayor mentioned a moment ago, the city has posted our investment portfolio online since 2013. These are month-end, line-by-line portfolio reports and can be found at the city's website, portlandoregon.gov backslash BRFS.
 The investment policy before you today includes a number of housekeeping revisions that are intended to improve the clarity and readability of the policy itself. These are not material changes. Please see Exhibit A1 for a redlined version of the document. Thank you.
 The policy also contains a material change that would allow the city treasurer to invest in a select group of corporate issuers that are referenced in Appendix A of the policy, and I would direct your attention to Exhibit A2. Okay.
 We are recommending a select list of high-quality issuers be added to the eligible list of investments for the City. The City of Portland's Treasury Division's analysis began, first of all, with the State of Oregon's law pertaining to the investment of public funds.
 The state's parameters would have allowed the City of Portland to potentially invest in a universe of 35 issuers. Our proposal is much more restrictive than the state law requires. We have chosen not to include corporate issuers involved in certain industries as fossil fuels, financial services, and the retail sale of firearms. We are proposing to allow a much smaller list of these highly rated securities.
 Corporate securities provide diversification and an opportunity to earn additional yield over alternative investment types such as treasuries and agency securities. We project that in addition to the select group of corporate issuers, we would potentially contribute between $900,000 and $1.5 million in investment earnings, and these funds would be available to bureaus to fund their services to the community.
 Thank you. With that, I will answer any questions. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for your work and thank you for bringing this. Could you clarify, I'm sure we'll get some discussion about the particular securities companies that you're suggesting we could invest in. I noticed one of them is Nike, and I'm wondering why not Columbia Sportswear, why not Under Armour, why not Adidas? Yes.
 It really came down to starting with the universe of available securities under the Oregon revised statutes and then from there narrowing the list down. So they were not on the top ten. Thank you. They actually, I don't believe, have securities that would even qualify under the ORS. Yes.
 So they're just not in the investable universe, even if we wanted to. Thank you. So, Madam Treasurer and Madam CFO, I want to make sure we're speaking in a way that people watching and listening understand. Are you talking about buying stocks? No. What are you talking about?
 We're talking about the debt, the commercial bonds that would be issued by these companies. So we're not investing directly in the company. We're not taking ownership equity in any of the companies that we're investing in. We're not allowed to by state law. So debt sounds risky. Go ahead. Go ahead. Okay.
 Debt can be risky, but you manage that by the parameters you put around the program, first of all. So we are only limiting ourselves to a very select list of highly rated issuers. We also monitor those. We are requiring that the ratings for these particular issuers be validated by two independent issuing rating agencies. So – No matter which two? No.
 No, it doesn't. It doesn't presently. We're just requiring two. Typically, it's one of the top three. Okay. So the state law requires a minimum of credit rating, and we've set a minimum AA. The city's investment policy goes one slight notch lower, and we're allowing AA minus, but it does have to be at least two rating agencies with that rating or higher. So when we're talking about...
 which is that the bonds cannot be longer than three years. State law doesn't have a duration or a term limit for those securities. We've chosen to limit it to three years and under, which again limits our risk in owning those securities, and we're typically buy and hold. So the combination of a short term plus the high credit rating increases the likelihood that we will receive back principal at the time that that security matures.
 And that's how we get to the universe of only 35 names. If we didn't have that three-year limit, the universe could potentially be larger. Okay. And so just to sort of latch on to the question that was asked earlier, this isn't a criticism of, say, for example, I think somebody mentioned Columbia Sportswear. This is not a criticism of Columbia Sportswear or the business practices whatsoever.
 or their vitality as a company. It is a technical question about the kind of debt instruments that they use. Right. And they are not eligible under state law. There are no securities that they have outstanding within that three-year window. If they came out this afternoon and issued five-year debt, we couldn't buy that either, even though it might have the right credit rating for us. Great. Thank you. Any other questions? Public testimony? Okay.
 Yes, we have 11 people signed up. Very good. Two minutes each. Name for the record, please. Thanks a lot. The first three, please come on up, are Hung Nam, Adam Segal, and Will Singer. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm Hyung Nam. I'm one of the members of the Socially Responsible Investment Committee, and I'm actually quite disappointed that I contacted your office to be able to give invited testimony for longer than three minutes, and I, you know, despite multiple calls and emails, never even got a response.
 I have serious problems with this resolution. First of all, looking at your resolution... Can I do this? I didn't get your email, but since you are a member of the committee, let's go ahead and give them three minutes, and I'm sure people will have questions. Thank you. I appreciate that. Yeah, you bet. Thank you. Well, first of all, looking at the resolution, in Section 13G...
 It's that whole column that says why the change is being made, and there's no rationale there for the change being made. And I don't know if we could put that up on the screen right now, but I'm really concerned about there's a major change being made here, and I see no rationale. And it seems like an odd time to be making this change. Treasury rates have just gone up pretty dramatically compared to what they've been at, you know, near zero rates.
 And right now, investing in treasuries is financially sound and secure, whereas investing in corporate bonds is actually risky. When we talk about the three credit, there are basically three credit agencies that rate corporate bonds, and it's been well documented. They've completely failed. With the rating mortgage-backed securities in 2020,
 2006, 2007, 2008, right up until the crash, they rated many securities as AA, AAA, that turned out to be filled with toxic assets. If had Portland been invested in these securities then, we would have lost money. Same is true with Enron, which, by the way, used to own PGE. Those bonds were also rated investment grade, and they
 also turned out to be bad. And so anyway, I seriously question relying on Moody's S&P and Fitch's credit ratings to make these investment decisions. But more importantly, there's been a long public process that has led to the creation of the Socially Responsible Investment Committee, testimony from not only people in the climate justice movement, people in the human rights community, and so on, that have expressed...
 serious concern and I'm glad that you are maintaining this policy of not investing in fossil fuels and financial firms and also adding on firearms. Why not adopt the investment policy that our committee submitted in September 2016 that also added several other companies
 And really, it would have no financial impact because all these companies, their bonds are not
 don't have the requisite credit ratings anyway, but it would really do the same thing that we're doing by not naming that we're not investing in fossil fuels and so on. It's part of a national and international boycott campaigns because these do make a major impact in making the kind of change that we want to see here in Portland and in the world. So your time is up. Can I ask you a question? Yes. The
 The testimony we had prior to your testimony was these are corporate securities of three years duration that are highly rated and therefore are relatively safe. Which of the corporate securities on the list that's proposed before us, in your view, would we have lost money on?
 You know, I'm not sure about which of these that we might have lost money on, but all I'm saying is that the whole system of these three credit rating systems
 credit ratings agencies getting paid by the same companies to rate their bonds has been well documented to be a conflict of interest that has led to the failure of rating Enron bonds accurately or rating mortgage-backed securities accurately. That has led to major losses. Okay, thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for your time. My name is Adam Siegel.
 I'm with Jewish Voice for Peace, and the next few speakers are also members of Jewish Voice for Peace. And we're a member organization of Occupation Free Portland.
 More than a year ago, in April 2017, the Council voted to end investments in corporate securities as they matured. One unfortunate result of that decision was the failure to call out nine corporations, the, quote, worst of the worst, for their bad behavior. In particular, JVP believed it was important to specifically identify Caterpillar Incorporated for egregious violations across multiple, quote, social and values concerns cited in the Socially Responsible Investments Committee's
 September 30th, 2016 report. These included Caterpillar's role in Israel's illegal occupation of Palestinian lands, its violations of indigenous people's rights at Standing Rock, and its broad involvement in the extractive fossil fuel industry and direct contributions to catastrophic climate change.
 The JVP Portland does not support the blanket ban on corporate securities. We support the targeted exclusion of investments in particular corporations based on clear and explicit criteria for socially responsible investments.
 The power of such a targeted exclusion is not simply in the divestment itself, but rather in the public statement about who is being excluded and why exactly the city of Portland refuses to invest in them. This is the city of Portland's chance to influence behavior of unethical corporations for the better. Caterpillar doesn't fear the loss of one city's investments. They do fear international embarrassment and a strong public statement against their complicity in human rights violations. Okay.
 We ask that you to consider that a truly progressive city would actively choose to make use of this power. And, yeah, as a personal thing, I just want to add, I wish I didn't have to say this, but I am proudly Jewish. And there's nothing anti-Semitic about me choosing to stand for Palestinian human rights. So thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Will Singer, also with Jewish Voice for Peace. It's our understanding that the mayor's new resolution and the two accompanying exhibits is that Portland will return to investing in corporate securities, but only those issued by the companies listed in the resolution. Those companies were apparently drawn from the Multnomah County's investment portfolio. Unfortunately, they were not chosen with public review.
 We in Jewish Voice for Peace find this unacceptable because the resolution returns the city to corporate investment without socially responsible investment screen, without the socially responsible investments committee to review and make recommendations based on explicit socially responsible investment criteria.
 It's good that the SRIC recommendations are reflected in the list of corporate securities allowed by the Mayor's resolution, but that's almost meaningless without a clear statement of the basis for excluding those securities listed on the SRIC do-not-buy list. The companies excluded here will not be hurt by losing out on Portland's investments. It's unlikely they will even notice.
 We believe that Portland should do more than just decline to invest. The city can use its voice to actively call out the unethical, destructive, or exploitive behaviors of powerful corporations.
 We don't want to be quiet about our socially responsible investment policy. We want to shout from the rooftops why Caterpillar is on the list, because we want other cities, other institutional investors also deciding, hey, maybe we shouldn't be investing in mass murder, whether it's in Yemen or Gaza. We shouldn't be investing in companies that destroy the environment or cheat their workers.
 We only get that if we have clear and explicit criteria for our investments, clear and explicit criteria for rejecting companies like Caterpillar that profit off the suffering and dispossession of an entire people. Yes, at the hands of the Israeli government and military, supported by the U.S. government and our taxes. And we should not be afraid to say so. Thank you. The next three are Rod Such, Sandy Polishek, and Aisha Lorenz Al-Saeed.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Rod Such, and I am also with Jewish Voice for Peace in Occupation Free Portland. And I want to start by thanking Commissioners Udailey and Fish for inviting us to suggest amendments to the resolution. And concretely, here are our suggested amendments.
 Amendment A, formally restore the seven criteria that the city considers in making an investment so that the investment is evaluated on the basis of environmental concerns, health concerns, including weapons production, concerns about abusive labor practices, concerns about corrupt corporate ethics and governance,
 Concerns about extreme tax avoidance. Concerns about exercise of such a level of market dominance so as to disrupt normal competitive market forces. And concerns about impacts on human rights. Amendment B. Formally restore the Socially Responsible Investments Committee so that it can receive public input on proposed corporate investments and make recommendations to the City Council.
 And finally, Amendment C, adopt and release to the media the report submitted by the SRIC dated September 30, 2016. Thank you.
 And regarding that last amendment, I think it also touches on a point of why did you create the committee in the first place? Why did you solicit expert opinion on the investment? And then just completely ignore the committee's report and findings. Yes.
 It's not a good precedent for inviting citizen participation in city government when you create a committee and then you simply ignore their findings. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, I do know your name, and commissioners. My name is Sandy Palaszczuk. I live in northeast Portland. I represent 350 PDX.
 350 PDX strongly advocates that our city align its investments with its values, just as we advocate for everyone to do. Portland has made us proud with its landmark planning and actions on climate change and sustainability, most recently by banning new fossil fuel infrastructure and vowing to transition to 100% clean energy by 2050.
 Proud again when at this year's C40 Summit, Portland was recognized with an award for its 2015 Climate Action Plan. Despite these bold actions, it took over two years from our first ask for this council to place fossil fuels on its do-not-buy list.
 While we supported that action, our ask remains a straight-out resolution to permanently commit to divestment from fossil fuel investments, as Multnomah County, Metro, Eugene, Corvallis, Ashland, Seattle, San Francisco, Berkeley, Oakland, Fremont, Richmond, Palo Alto, and Santa Monica, and many other cities across our nation have done.
 The fossil fuel divestment campaign was launched in the fall of 2012 by 350.org to cut off the financing and social license of the fossil fuel industry. In these six years, divestment commitments of over $7 trillion have been made, 15% by governmental entities. The urgency of keeping fossil fuels in the ground has only grown with time.
 350 PDX urges you to recognize this urgency and return to your offices and begin the process of drafting Portland's fossil fuel divestment resolution for quick passage. It will not be difficult. There are many models to draw from. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, I'm Aisha Lorenz-Al-Saeed, member of Jewish Voice for Peace, as well as Americans United for Palestinian Human Rights and Muslim Community Center of Portland, among other groups.
 The resolution does omit the nine corporations recommended for the do-not-buy list by SRIC. This is a welcome development. However, we believe that not including clear and explicit socially responsible investment criteria in this resolution virtually guarantees that Portland's corporate securities investments will not align with the values of all Portlanders. Indeed, while those corporations listed in the resolution may have not sunk to the level of the worst of the worst...
 There are well-grounded, reasonable, ethical objections to investments, even to this short select list. It's also very telling that some major groups are united in opposing this. Thank you for this opportunity to present our views. Thank you. The next three are Peter Miller, Dan Handelman, and Maggie. Dan, do you want to start, please? I'm going to let Peter go first. Yes, please.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Peter Miller. I'm with Americans United for Palestinian Human Rights, and I was part of the campaign to engage the Socially Responsible Investment Committee on the investments in the Do Not Buy list.
 And while I appreciate that the companies that were identified on the Do Not Buy list are not a part of the investments, I have to echo sentiments that were expressed already that it would be highly desirable to keep social responsible investment criteria as part of a city policy.
 that there is a value in calling out companies for their bad behavior because that's how one of the impacts, the most positive impact you can have in declining to invest in a company. It would explain why, hopefully, they would do better in the future if they possibly can.
 I also suggest that the social responsible investment committee was a very valuable part of the city policy. The people working in that were diligent. They did a lot of work for the city as volunteers. The work was very valuable. They provided citizen input. And I would sure like to see that committee continued. One of the aspects I think the city council found onerous was the amount of time it took for the city council.
 But just like with the treasurer, you give them guidelines, and if the treasurer makes the detailed decisions on what to invest in, you should empower the Social Responsible Investment Committee to make those decisions, and you basically give them the power to make the screens not take up your time, that you have a good system there. So I think you should continue it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, I'm Dan Handelman, and I'm talking on behalf of the parent group of Portland Copwatch, Peace and Justice Works, which signed a letter last year supporting the disinvestment from corporations with bad ethics. And I want to echo all the statements that have already been made that this new ordinance doesn't seem to list the criteria of what we want to see corporations do,
 if we're going to be investing in them at all. I can't even see if the three criteria that were listed about firearms and fossil fuels listed in the ordinance itself. I'm not sure where those are written down. Okay.
 In the broader sense of things, I'm really not understanding how buying debt works, but it does seem like you should be investing in something that's a little bit less risky if you're going to invest the people's money. And if corporations have extra money to throw around and give back to corporations, they should be paying their workers better instead. And with the list of...
 corporations that are already on there and somebody already mentioned their reasons not to invest in them. We at Peace and Justice Works often work with people in the animal rights movement and several of them are well known to be using animal testing and that's something that could probably be listed as one of the criteria that you shouldn't invest in if you would let the socially responsible investment committee continue to meet and make recommendations.
 So again, you really should have a list of ethical criteria, not just financial criteria, and that's the only thing I really heard discussed here this morning. Okay, I'm united with Jews for Peace, I think, and also with the non-investment in fossil fuels. And here's how you can take it even further, is you can melt down all those...
 engines that run on fossil fuel that the state uses to get around and replace them with electric engines. Also, you can take all those fuel oil gas
 gas run leaf blowers and you can get rid of those and you can start using old fashioned sweepers with handles on them and now I know that cities and states are
 like to have people bring their latest technology, and let's face it, fossil fuel is old technology, and they like to support people by buying their stuff. But the thing is, you could put more sweepers on the street...
 and have them sweeping longer with just a simple broom handle and a broom. And the streets will get cleaner because I see these guys go around with their leaf blowers. They aren't blowing anything away. The stuff's still there when they leave.
 And I just think they're an environmental hazard. They're noisy. We don't need them. And it's a lot cheaper to replace a broom than it is one of those expensive leaf blowers that runs on fossil fuel. Thank you. The last person who signed up is Lynn Marie Kreider. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. My name is Lynn Marie Crider. I live in northeast Portland. I'm a lawyer retired from work in the public and private sectors. Well, I applaud and appreciate...
 The work of the drafters of the policy have done to clarify the 2017 policy and appreciate the city treasurer's enumeration of the criteria used to select entities listed in Exhibit A.
 I testify to raise concerns about two aspects of the proposal. Number one, the choice not to incorporate into the policy the city's 2015 resolution forbidding investment in the world's largest fossil fuel dependent corporations.
 and the choice to approve investment in a handful of massive corporations and to prohibit investment in all others without reference to any articulated guidelines for selecting entities in which the city may invest. I've submitted written testimony. I'll address only the first of my points here in this.
 2015, the city, along with the county, adopted a policy to divest from fossil fuels as part of the city's contribution to the urgent problem of global warming and climate change.
 The resolution stated that the city shall not directly invest additional assets in corporate debt securities issued by the companies on a list reference there. I suggest that the policy before you should be amended to include such language within the policy. Otherwise, what you have done is to adopt a policy –
 that fails to identify the only criteria the council has actually adopted in the past. And I believe that at the very least the council owes the staff and its advisory bodies, as well as the citizens, some confidence that you continue to abide by the resolution that you adopted previously. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Does that complete public testimony? That's all who's signed it, yes. Could we have the treasurer or the chief financial officer come back? I'm sure there will be some follow-up questions. So let me ask you this question, and we've had this conversation in private. If you stipulate general criteria, such as several people have suggested, that
 then you raise the question of which companies. If you state the companies, I think we can acknowledge that for every company you name, I can find something reprehensible about it.
 How do you balance those two? Why did you choose to specifically choose company and not adopt, say, investment in a socially responsible bond fund that has established criteria? How did you weigh those decisions? So state law does not allow us to invest in funds. We're only allowed to invest in individual securities. So whether it is a list of securities that we're not allowed to buy, which is what we tried to do before –
 or a list now of the companies we are allowed to buy, at some point the fiduciary decision is yours to approve that list. So the SRIC, when it was meeting, was tasked with coming up with recommendations. There was a reference to the time that was spent in city council meetings. I would suggest to you that...
 The SRIC came up with recommendations, but at the end of the day, it's still your decision whether to adopt or not adopt those recommendations, so the time spent in front of you will still happen. Historically, the approach was a do-not-buy list, which got controversial for various reasons.
 We've tried to take a more positive approach this time and say these are the names, only the names, that the city treasurer will be allowed to consider and have it be framed in a more positive light. And if I could touch on a couple of comments that people made. Sure.
 The fossil fuel policy that the city and the county passed a couple of years ago somewhat simultaneously still exists. So that hasn't been abandoned. That still is in force.
 Secondly, there's value in diversification. And for that reason, along with the additional income, that's an underlying reason why we're proposing adding back corporate securities as an eligible investment. In prior years when the federal government was dealing with a debt ceiling and there were questions about whether or not that even the federal government would make payment on its outstanding securities,
 We looked at ourselves and said, well, we know that the corporations will pay. So not that I think the federal government will ever not pay, but it is one of those things that's talked about when there are debt ceiling concerns and there is value for diversification in the city's portfolio. And lastly, there was also a comment about
 paying rating agencies, that the companies that are using the rating agencies are the ones who are paying for the rating agencies' work. We're in a similar boat in that we pay Moss Adams to do the financial audit of the city.
 But we trust that they have integrity and that they are independent and that they are being hired to do a job, even if that information coming back to us is negative. So there's a broader question about the payment for outside services of all of these entities and that there are other situations, aside from just rating agencies, where it is the company that is benefiting from the work that is paying for that work.
 How often does the investment policy or the investment policies of the city, how often does that come before the council? Once a year annually. Calendar year. And I presume this would be part of that public discussion? That's correct. If adopted today, this list could be reviewed by council at least annually or at your discretion certainly. You would have the control to add and subtract names from that list. Okay.
 Just so I'm clear to Jennifer Cooperman, the fossil fuel screen that you alluded to has been applied by you and the city treasurer to reach these 12 securities? Yes. So we've gone from a do not buy to a potentially do buy list. Yes.
 but you've applied the screen that we've adopted, the city and the county have, and so they would not be on the list if they otherwise didn't meet that policy. Correct, because the resolution that was passed, I think it was in 2015, I may have my years wrong, because that resolution is still in place, the one that disallowed further investment in the carbon tracker top 200. And how did you...
 that under this new investment strategy, we might have as much as $1,500,000 of additional income to invest. Go ahead. Yeah, that was really based upon looking at the current market, what's available out there. We have to recognize that even though a name may be on the list, securities may not be available for us to purchase. So we were looking at the active market today and what we might be able to purchase based upon the current market.
 And there is a limitation in state law, about a 5% limitation per name. So the assumption was made that we take the current property tax money that is coming into the city and is waiting to be invested, that we, as quickly as we can, invest that money in what corporate securities were allowed to purchase. And based on current interest rate spreads, the forecast was developed. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz. Would there be any harm when we do this next year, either putting in the resolution or in the policy about the we don't buy fossil fuels, we don't buy weapons, we don't buy other things? We'd certainly be open to that. I would like to add cigarette and tobacco products as well.
 Because that's not on the list. I mean, none of these companies are involved in that either. I think there's a way to both state our values in the policy and in the ordinance and still be clear and objective and transparent about what we are giving you the authorities to buy, but actually not telling you to buy any of these. Thank you. Any further questions? Very good. I'd like to call the roll on 1263, please. You daily.
 So this is the adoption of the City of Portland investment policy? No. Yeah, that's correct. 1263. Well, first I want to thank the SRIC for their hard work on this issue. I wasn't here when this committee formed. I only got to engage with them for a few months before council's action last year. I agree that...
 the decision to dissolve the committee and the controversy around their work was disappointing and it doesn't really serve to inspire community members to get involved with the city when they don't feel that their hard work is being valued or respected.
 And I am somewhat heartened to see that none of the companies on their do-not-buy list made it through our new proposed screening criteria. At least there's a final fitting tribute in there for SRIC.
 I want to thank the mayor and the mayor's staff, the treasurer and the CFO for their work on this new investment policy. It's a significant improvement over our past policies as well as what had been proposed last year. Our decision not to invest in corporate securities last year was actually one of my favorite moments at City Council. It was what I imagined council could or should be like. I think that...
 Well, I can't speak for all of us, but I imagine at least a few of us walked into that room thinking we were pretty clear on how we were going to be voting. But after listening to public testimony, and it was a lot more testimony than this, and deliberation, we came up with an unexpected solution, which is to simply not invest in corporate securities. That is what I strongly prefer we continue to do.
 because our investable universe, which I love that term, by the way, thank you, still includes many bad actors and few truly ethical corporations. I understand the financial benefits involved in this item. It's a significant amount of money, up to $1.5 million a year. And while a small percentage of our overall budget, it's substantial and shouldn't be dismissed.
 or taken lightly. However, I have concerns about profiting through relationships with corporations whose values are not in line with our own. What's missing from this calculation is the cost of what these companies do to our workers, to our economy, and to the environment.
 These are called externalities, as the mayor shared with me yesterday, although I am familiar with that phrase. I'm more inclined to call them collateral damage, although I think that term might be too generous because it suggests that those harmed are unintended targets, and these companies know full well the damage that they're wreaking on our economy.
 honor workers and honor environment. So to sum it all up and tell our allowable corporate securities issuer list is solely comprised of ethical, environmentally conscious corporations that treat their workers fairly. I cannot support moving forward with this plan. I vote no.
 Thank you, Jennifer Cooperman, Brigida Callaghan, for your work on this. Thank you to the Socially Responsible Investment Committee and for all the members of the community who spoke today for all your work. We all care about this.
 And we are operating in a place of huge privilege, having a billion and a half dollars to invest and a responsibility to make interest so that we can serve more Portlanders. And I was disappointed that we didn't get to the mayor's proposal last year of –
 a socially responsible investment company who we wouldn't know how they were making their decisions, but we would be confident that they were looking at all of the criteria. And that plan was rejected by the council because of the lack of transparency. So what we have here is a very transparent list of companies which probably every single one of them has been found to do well.
 practices which don't align with our values. But as I said, we shouldn't use our privilege to make a stand that may, in the abstract or even in the long term, provide some satisfaction to those who are wanting to call out particular companies to call out particular practices. Right.
 We are responsible for bringing Portlanders together and providing city services. And to have another million dollars to do that is a lot of people kept in housing or gotten into housing. It's a lot of people provided with the city services that they need desperately. And that is very persuasive to me. That is the most important thing to me is providing services to the people of Portland.
 So I do hope that when we do this next year that we will have more language that speaks to Portland's values and that obviously there will be continued review of these companies. And there is a financial investment committee within the city that looks at should we buy any of these. And that's how I believe we should be making this decision. We should be bringing Portlanders together and providing the services that they need. Fish.
 Well, this has been a good hearing, and I appreciate that both the CFO and the city treasurer have made clear to us that we have a fiduciary duty to set the city's investment policy. After listening to testimony and reviewing the materials that our very capable professionals working for the city have given us, I'm inclined to give you both the benefit of the doubt in terms of the policy change that you're proposing. Here are a couple of factors in my thinking.
 First, I like this idea of moving from a do not buy to a universe of potentially do buy. Although when I say do buy, I'm not talking about a foreign country. I'm talking about a do buy list. I think it in some ways simplifies our task, and it gives us a chance annually to revisit the question, and it certainly does not preclude us from incorporating a set of additional screens in any resolution that comes before us annually.
 Number two is I'm persuaded that this is a very conservative set of investment criteria, which will protect the city's assets. And I appreciate the mayor, a former state treasurer, engaging in a colloquy with our professional team about the difference between purchasing a bond or a security stock and the different risks.
 So it, I think, is an appropriately conservative set of investment criteria. I like the fact that it provides some liquidity to meet the city's cash needs. And if anyone who was here for yesterday's work session, whether there's a recession in a year, year and a half or not, we have some very compelling needs in our community for which we don't have the resources to fund at this point.
 and I also like the idea of being able to generate a market rate of return for a limited number of investment options. So as I consider all the factors that we've discussed at this, I think, very informative hearing, again, I'm persuaded to give the CFO and the city treasurer the benefit of the doubt. If we don't have the right mix, then in future years we can revisit this question, but I think this is a –
 This is a – I think this is a policy change which has a lot of solid thinking behind it, and I'm prepared to accept your guidance. Aye. Saltzman. Well, my preference would still be to stay where we were – where we arrived at last year, which was to not invest in corporate investments.
 corporate bonds. But I do think that there's been a lot of homework done. And I also see that the returns that can be obtained by doing this is important for meeting other city goals. And I think the CFO and the Treasurer have done a lot of good work here in coming up with a finite list of corporate bonds that we would purchase. So I'm going to support this. But my main concern, why we
 did that amendment last year was that, you know, I don't want to see the council spending inordinate amount of time debating the pros and cons of a given corporation. We have, you know, I have full respect for the corporate divestment groups and activists, a lot of respect for them.
 But I also think that this council can't become judge and jury for corporations one at a time. It's too time-consuming, and it's peripheral to what we're here to do. But I am going to support these changes and see what happens. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. I want to thank the Treasurer, and I want to thank the Chief Financial Officer for working for the better part of a year on this policy, evaluating different ideas, different proposals, looking at different jurisdictional options, and settling on what I think is actually ultimately a conservative and fiscally responsible approach to the city that also encompasses what I believe are socially responsible standards for investing.
 This will evolve with time. As was mentioned during testimony, this comes back to the council on a regular basis or as frequently as we want it to come back to the council. There was some good testimony about adopting previously existing responsibility standards. I think that will be a live conversation over the course of the next year and beyond.
 But as far as I'm concerned, this is a significant step in the right direction from where we were before. And I appreciate your hard work. I vote aye to the resolution adopted. Please call the roll on 1262.
 I just want to reiterate my appreciation for the SRIC and all the individuals that served on that committee. While I wish that we were keeping the committee intact, we have now replaced the committee with a different vetting process, making the committee somewhat unnecessary or redundant. So I regretfully vote yes.
 Fritz. Thank you very much to everyone on the committee and everybody who put such a lot of passion into this issue. It's obviously a very important one to all of us. We now have replaced the balancing with a list, and I think it's important not to...
 community members to participate with unrealistic expectations. And we did have such a lot of discussion at the council about the committee's recommendation and ultimately the council didn't go in the direction the committee wanted. I think it would be better use of community members' time to do what 350 PDX did in bringing us a specific policy on fossil fuels there.
 there may be others that we could adopt as resolutions which would then carry forward into coming up with the list for future councils. And so I encourage community members to do that. I want to join with my colleagues in thanking the members of the committee for their service. And I take to heart one of the criticisms we heard in the testimony about
 sort of asking a group of citizens to take on a task and then yanking the rug out from under them. And we have to make sure that we don't make a habit of doing that. But based on the action we've taken on the prior matter, it does seem that this is the appropriate course of action. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you, Barry. Thank you. Next item, 1264. 1264.
 authorize the Water Bureau's preferred alternatives to plant capacity, location, and filtration technology for the Bull Run Filtration Project. Commissioner Fritz. And now for something completely different. The city has been instructed to build a filtration plant due to the detection of cryptosporidium by the federal government. There's been a lot of work on that.
 to research what type of plant should be appropriate, asking the question, how big should it be, where should it be, and what type of filtration system should we have. Commissioner Fish, Commissioner in charge at the time, led this work to answer these questions, and I greatly appreciate his leadership.
 The Mayor appointed me as the Commissioner of Charge of the Water Bureau in September. It's been a fascinating three months. Thank you to everybody who's guided and informed me. And one of the first things we did was to arrange a public forum to give the community an opportunity to review the options and weigh in on recommendations. Thank you for everybody who participated, some of whom are here today.
 After receiving feedback and questions, the recommended alternatives to plant capacity, location, and filtration technology are ready to be presented. Here is Deputy Director Gabriel Solmer, Chief Engineer Teresa Elliott is available to answer any questions if anybody has any, and Project Manager David Peters. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Commissioner. We'll try to be brief. We know you have a busy schedule today, so we'll go through these slides. I will just remind you that we had a work session on a number of these same issues in August, so this may look a little familiar to you, but we have been the beneficiaries of a great deal of public outreach and information sharing, and work done since then. So we wanted to bring you up to date with where we are now.
 Thank you, Commissioner and Mr. Mayor and the members of the council. My name is David Peters, Principal Engineer with the Water Bureau, Project Manager for the Bull Run Filtration Projects. And I'll run through a handful of slides to identify what we're doing today and a little bit of background and history on getting to the point we are today.
 So we're asking the City Council to authorize the Water Bureau's recommended alternatives for the filtration capacity, location, and technology of these facilities. A little bit of history on why we need filtration. Back in 2006, the EPA developed a rule called the Long-Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule, which we know as the LT2 rule.
 And that regulation was to protect us from a microorganism called cryptosporidium. That's a microorganism that's resistant to chlorine. And therefore, in Portland, we had to do some additional treatment or find some additional methods to protect us from this microorganism. We developed a unique program between...
 2009, 2011, where we asked for a variance. Our watershed is so clean and has so little cryptosporidium that we were able to show the Oregon Health Authority that the incidence was very small. And we were able to obtain a variance from having to do any further treatment. And we operated under that variance for five years.
 And then in 2017, we had some low-level detections of cryptosporidium. We were no longer able to meet the requirements of that variance, and the OHA revoked that variance. As we talked with city council at that time about the options for treatment for cryptosporidium, the choice was made to go with filtration. Okay.
 Filtration provides us other benefits besides just making the water safer by removing cryptosporidium.
 It will make our system more reliable. So when we have turbidity events during the winter, when the water gets dirty from storms, we'll be able to continue to operate during that time. In the past, we've had to shut down our system and run groundwater during those periods. This filtration would allow us to get back to the bull run system more quickly after an incident such as a fire in the watershed.
 because we would be able to treat that water after that event. And then we may reduce the amount of chlorine that's needed, and that would have an effect of also reducing the disinfection byproducts in our water system. And filtration also helps us to respond to any future regulations that we're not aware of at this point in time. It's just a more flexible system to address those as they may come up.
 So when we were here in August, we talked a bit about our online surveys and some of our stakeholder interviews. Since that point in time, we've done some additional work with the community and continued the conversation. On November 8th, we had a community forum, which was hosted by Commissioner Fritz, and I had the opportunity to speak at that event, and we had a really nice turnout on a Thursday evening where we were competing with the Timbers game.
 We had over 30 people come out to hear about our project. Just to clarify, we got done just before the beginning of the timber scale, so I don't want people to think we have the wrong priorities. Right. So we were able to meet everyone's needs that evening. And we had the opportunity that evening to meet with several members, several water users, and several members of the community out by the site that we're choosing.
 After that event, we've had continuing conversations with the neighbors around this recommended site, and we continue to have outreach with that group also. A number of them are here today and will be presenting also.
 So we came in August. We talked about these four foundational elements that we've been working on over the past year. Procurement method was the first one where we were deciding how to hire a contractor to build these facilities. And in August, the city council authorized us to go with an alternative procurement to hire a construction manager general contractor.
 So that decision was made at that point in time. So we're here today to talk about the remaining three elements, which were the filter plant capacity, the location, and the technology. And I'll run through each of those in more detail. So in regards to filtration plant capacity, we looked at a range of alternatives for this facility. On the upper end of the range, we looked at a facility that would treat 200 million gallons a day
 And we looked at that number because that's the maximum capacity that our current pipelines would be able to transmit by gravity into town. But what we found is that the future demands are much smaller than that. We don't anticipate over the next 30 years that we would ever see anything that large. So we don't want to build a facility that would be too big and would be sitting idle a lot of the time.
 So we looked at, on the low end, we looked at a range that would be like a typical day during the summer, 115 million gallons a day. But what we found if we went that small is that when flows got higher than that during the summer, which happens fairly frequently, we would find that we would need to use more groundwater, which wasn't necessarily a positive option for us.
 So what we found through this evaluation is that a range of about 145 million gallons a day to 160 million gallons a day would meet our demands through a summer, a hot summer, in the future. And our planning goes out for about the next 30 years or so to identify that.
 So our recommendation is for a treatment plant size that would be in that range of 145 to 160 million gallons a day. The final determination would be based on the final design conditions of the site and piping as we go forward. But what that capacity allows us to do is to continue to use the Bull Run supply as our primary water supply.
 We would meet demands on most days and most years as we go into the future. We would continue to use ground water. Could you clarify that? So what happens on a day when it doesn't meet demand? What does that mean? So –
 That would mean that there may still be periods in time where we would use our groundwater system. Very good. It would still be our backup supply. So it doesn't mean we're not supplying water. Correct. It just means from the bull run system. Right. We'll go to the ground wells. Our intent would be to continue to use groundwater in a similar manner as we have in the past. Very good. Thank you. And hopefully less frequently during the winter.
 Going with this size would help us to manage the cost because this would build a facility that would match our projected demands in the future. And as we go forward, we would still keep in mind what our future beyond that 30 years might look like. So if we had to expand, we could. In terms of the filtration plant location...
 We looked at six sites as part of this detailed analysis. Sites have been looked at over a number of years, over the decades as we've thought about storage and treatment. So the six sites we looked at in detail for this study began at Headworks up in our watershed, 25 miles east of town, and kind of follow the conduit routes down all the way into town to Pal Butte.
 We looked at a number of parameters that were – we looked at a number of parameters in making this determination. And two of them kind of stood out in terms of why a site would not work. The first one, HTL, means hydraulic grade line. And that's the elevation of the site.
 And you'll notice in that first column under HDL that there are four that are highlighted in red. The first two, Headworks, Larson's Ranch, those two sit too high. So to get water to those sites, we'd have to pump all the water from our headworks into the facility. And then from there, it could run by gravity. But we'd have to pump everything.
 Roslyn Lake at the bottom, it is too low. So that means we could get water to the site by gravity, but then we'd have to pump everything out. Palbutte is part red, part green. Because we can get water by gravity to Palbutte, we have several large customers upstream of that site, and we'd have to pump a lot of water back up to those customers.
 So there's kind of two that pass that elevation where we'd be able to continue to use gravity flow even through these treatment facilities, and that was Carpenter Lane and Lested Hill. The other key criteria is on the far right, labeled as schedule. And schedule was an indicator of issues that would take time for us to work through. And so for both Palbutte and Lested Hill,
 It was an indicator for land use. Both of those sites had land use that would not allow building of a treatment facility as a primary use. And to get that changed would require significant time and effort to be able to meet. So it didn't meet from a schedule standpoint. So across the top, Carpenter Lane was our preferred choice primarily for those reasons. Thank you.
 The Carpenter Lane site gives us a site that's at the right elevation, so it reduces the amount of pumping that would be required. The property is already owned by the Portland Water Bureau. We have about 95 acres at that location. The zoning allows for the placement of a utility on that site, so we should be able to obtain the appropriate land uses to build this facility.
 and the site is large enough to allow us to create some buffers between our facility and the neighbors in the vicinity out there. What is the elevation of Carpenter Plain? The site elevation at the low point, it's about 710. At the upper end, it's about 740. In regards to the filtration technology, there are three filtration technologies that the EPA –
 would approve in a situation like ours. Those are membrane, slow sand, and granular media. We did a thorough evaluation of a number of factors that would differentiate these for our system, including water quality, hydraulics, the regulatory environment, some comparative costs between the three, and comparison to other utilities. And what we found is that
 membranes would not be the best choice because it's a high energy use. Even if you had the right elevation, the membranes would not run by gravity, and you have to pump all the water through that membrane material.
 And so it has a high energy use, high capital and operating costs. We also found that in North America, there's only four facilities that are of a size that are similar to the size that we're talking about. With slow sand, the issue is that it has, comparatively of these three, it has the poorest water quality.
 And what we found is that it would also require a significant land size and more than the land that we have available on our property. We also found that with slow sand filtration, there's only one facility that's over 50 million gallons a day in North America, and that's the largest facility in North America. Thank you.
 So overall, the granular media provides us the best set of operating conditions, gives us the most flexibility for future conditions, and will give us a good water quality. So the granular media filtration, just as a summary then, is a proven technology. It's used by many, many utilities throughout North America. It would be the lowest cost technology of the three to implement on our system.
 It's very flexible and can be adapted to any future water quality conditions that we might experience. And it fits on the filtration plant site that we have proposed. Just a summary of our schedule. We are in a compliance order with the Oregon Health Authority, which requires us to have the facility operating by September of 2027.
 We have been working in the pre-planning phase, and authorization to move forward with these recommendations today would complete our pre-planning phase, and we'll now be moving into the planning phase and put more details together about what this facility looked like and complete our pilot testing, which we have to complete for our next deadline with Oregon Health Authority of November in 2020 for submission of the pilot studies.
 So our next steps with City Council are that in summer of next year, we will be coming back asking for you to authorize a design contract. We will shortly be putting out a request for proposals for the design firm for these facilities. And then later, towards the end of 2019, we'll be back asking for an authorization for the professional services contract for the construction manager general contractor.
 So that's the conclusion of my presentation, if there's any questions. So I don't know who's in there, but what is the estimated total cost for the granular media system? So we're still using a range on that. We have not done any further evaluation of the cost. That will be part of our planning phase as we put the details together of the facility. The range that we've been using is the $350 million to $500 million. Okay.
 and what would be the estimated incremental cost to go to the 200 million gallons a day capacity? I could find that out. I don't have that number on the top of my head. I don't know. It's probably a large number, I'm guessing. But just as you were talking earlier about the uncertainty of future rules from the Environmental Protection Agency or Oregon Health Authority, part of me always says, you know,
 Build the extra capacity because you never know what's going to happen, and it's nice to have that capacity to handle situations we may not even be thinking of now. I was of that mind also. That was my question, and the answer is that if this is a modular system, we can add on to it later. So this will comply and put current rate payers at about the right amounts of money or the –
 tolerable burden, hopefully. And then future ratepayers can add on to it if necessary. Very good. Thank you. Excellent presentation. Very thorough. Very clear. Public testimony on this item, please, Carla. We have seven people signed up. The first three are Dee White, Maggie, and Brent Leathers. Thank you. Name for the record two minutes each, please.
 I've got to wait. I'll call it because I've got a graphic. Oh, okay. Very good. Maggie, why don't you start, please? Go ahead. You can start. Yeah, go ahead. I just want to say that I think that clean, safe water from a protected source is a basic human right. And I think that everyone in the nation was appalled at what happened in Detroit last
 And children, the elderly, disabled families, I think, you know, every single human being deserves clean, safe water. So whatever we can do to do it right and to protect it and to go back and fix whatever was not right or whatever, we should do it.
 That's it. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thanks, Michelle. Did you want to go ahead, sir? Okay. Thank you. My name is Brent Leathers, and I'm one of the adjacent property owners to the proposed facility. And right now that area is a dead end, quiet lane. It's agricultural land. The 10 or 12 of us that will be directly affected by your plant –
 or my age or older, we intend to retire there. Your proposed facility is a 30 or 40 acre industrial use in an agricultural area. You're about to change our neighborhood and impact our property values. We have a view of Mount Hood. Our property values might be halved from where they're at. For most of us, this is the primary
 Amount of our estate is what we have invested in our our homes, and we enjoy it there now today the bureau of course can't tell us anything about what they'll block and how tall the building will be and What the industrial services are that will supply this plan on a daily basis? what kind of Homeland Security devices will be implemented to pollute our air and and Nighttime skies or whatever that's going to look like we have no idea and
 I don't think that the Bureau's done a thorough job of considering other options like utilizing existing facilities to split this plant up They're looking at a single size facility. There's a lot of things that I don't think you're looking at Another one is the right-of-way that's going to be necessary to stretch these pipelines to the facility. I Understand that the city's got a problem and I I am certainly very you know appreciative of that
 You folks have just posed me with a problem. What you'll have to go through to get this approved is a conditional use process, and I don't mean this as a threat, but I'm in the position I have to protect myself, and I will exhaust every legal means I can to block this facility. Until it's shown to me it won't impact us. Thank you. Thank you. Dee, are you ready to go? I'm coming. All righty. I had to rewrite it since you limited my testimony to two minutes.
 I'm D. White despite the shirt can y'all hear me someone turn that off can you hit that grey button hit the grey button thank you D your time is up
 My name is Dee White. Despite assurances from the Water Bureau's communications team, public involvement for a new filtration plant has been downplayed at best. According to the Water Bureau, 1,700 anonymous people answered an online survey about plans for filtration, and 20 stakeholders were interviewed. And yet, the City serves nearly one million water customers.
 This is a photo of the only so-called community forum. There were no more than a dozen members of the public present. The rest were Water Bureau staff, public utility board members, connected contractors. This is not even close to adequate public involvement for water customers who will be footing the eventual billion-dollar bill for the next two decades.
 Because the devil is in the details, important technical memorandums describing the work are noted, but not included in the resolution for public preview. Commissioner Fripps, yesterday you offered to share them with me only after I asked and just with me. This is not robust. This is not meaningful public engagement. This only perpetuates Portland Water Bureau's false narrative of a buy-in by the public.
 Pardon the French, but Portland water customers are getting screwed. Last year, as leader, Water Commissioner Fish rushed and confused the public, the pub, and even council colleagues. Filtration was sold from Cryptosporidium, then quietly pivoted to different issues, a big one of which you have ignored for decades, proper corrosion control of lead in water system-wide. How often must we see...
 Come here begging for full disclosure, genuine transparency. In this case, the pretext was false and the process for building crypto filtration is broken. It's a betrayal of the public trust. Carla, can we pull the camera back up? Thank you. The next three are Linda Leathers, Pat Meyer, and Doug Meyer. Thank you.
 I'm a member of others, and I just want to support my husband. Okay. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. And the other last person is Nelson. I believe the last name is Dixon. Nelson. Welcome. Hello. My name is Pat Meyer, Doug Meyer. We are residents of Carpenter Lane. I didn't really expect that we would be speaking. I thought I was just signing a form, but I did want to reiterate what and support what Brent had to say. Okay.
 As long-term residents of Carpenter Lane, my husband's great-grandparents actually homesteaded the property there and owned all the property over where the water tower currently is and the property that the city of Portland bought. He'd be turning in his grave right now if he had any idea that that was going to be eventually the use of the property there.
 We are concerned about our financial effect of it on what was to be our retirement. We are concerned about the activity there on the street for safety for our grandkids. We are concerned about...
 the lack of knowledge and being able to tell us exactly what is going on. We are concerned for the residents that are all down Dodge Park that it would only make sense that the incoming lines will affect their homes. And I do find it interesting that there has been public inquiry, but it all seems to be from Portland residents and not the people that are going to be affected by this. So I just wanted to kind of state that for the record. Thank you.
 that these are people who have a rural lifestyle and will be immensely forever affected. Thank you. So she signed me up. Obviously, I wasn't prepared to say what I would have liked to have said. But as she mentioned, I grew up there. I was born and raised on that road. My grandfather built the house that I'm living in now.
 He farmed all that land where you're going to build or want him proposing to build the watershed. He's told me a lot of stories. He had a big collection of Indian artifacts that he farmed and got out of the land from there and kind of concerned about that, you know, if there was a Native American burial ground there because –
 I have pictures and everything. I don't know if that matters. But obviously just very concerned about what's going to happen to our neighborhood. Like we've been hearing from the people that have spoken so far that we are very close-knit. We all say that we're going to stay there until, you know, we retire. And just concerned with what's going to happen. And just personally wanting to be informed. And that's why I'm coming to the meetings to, you know, know what's going to happen to us.
 Thank you. We appreciate it. Thanks for coming in. Any further questions? Commissioner Fritz. I just would say, colleagues, of course, we have been talking with the neighbors and will continue to do so, and we're very mindful of the change in their environment. Since it is a 90-acre site and the proposed facility would be maybe 35 acres, there's definitely an opportunity to site it for the least impact on the neighbors, and we will certainly work with them to figure that out. Thank you.
 Please call the roll. Udeli? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for this presentation. Thank you again to Commissioner Fish for all of your foundational work on this project. Deputy Director Salma, David Peters, and Christina Nieves and my staff, aye. Thank you.
 I want to thank Commissioner Fritz and her team and the Water Bureau for their excellent work in engaging the broader community and in bringing the recommendations here today. Let's be clear, the three goals that are advanced by taking this action are it allows us to anticipate, to meet current and anticipate future regulations,
 It allows our system to become more resilient, and we saw with the fires last year and the problems with ash that that's real. And it ensures that we have safe and clean and reliable water for the next 100 years. Mayor and colleagues, I've been reflecting recently, partly because Commissioner Fritz and I were both on the K2 Newsmaker Show. And...
 I've been reflecting on the kind of a tendency we have in our community to sort of see the cup as half full. And there's a lot, obviously, that's destabilizing in our community, and it starts with the –
 the actions of our president and trickles down into our state, and then the growing pains we're going through as a city, and there's a lot that causes anxiety. I would like just to point out, though, that if you're thinking about comparable cities on the West Coast or even our peer cities nationally, we have so much to be grateful for.
 I did some traveling recently, and I was reminded once again that we have the best airport in the country. And it really makes a huge difference when you have an airport that is human scale and treats the passenger the right way. We are taking steps to protect our beloved Bull Run watershed for the next 100 years. That's an extraordinary action. And frankly, a lot of the editorial boards were skeptical that we'd actually get to this point.
 as I learned when I was running for re-election in the spring. We're about to take up a significant expansion of our transportation system through the Southwest Corridor, and we're doing planning that is going to have a significant impact on the look and the feel of our city for some time. We just passed the Metro Housing Bond, and we were told at the beginning of that exercise that it was a doomed exercise. We are, thanks to the generosity of Portland taxpayers, rebuilding our high schools.
 and making sure that people like my son will have the opportunity to go to 21st century schools. We're working with the EPA to clean up the Portland Harbor. I could go on and on. These are not bets about today and tomorrow. These are about the long-term future of our city. And I think we should take a moment to celebrate the fact that even in these perilous political times, we can make 100-year bets on our future. Bye. Saltzman. Thank you.
 Well said, Commissioner Fish. I wanted to thank the Water Bureau for the extensive work that's going to build this critically important facility. I hope if Carpenter Lane does, in fact, end up being our site, I hope we can work out something with the neighbors to mitigate the impacts of the facility on their views and livelihoods and retirement. But this is a critically important facility.
 decision for residents that, you know, outside of Portland too. We have like a million customers, I think, something like that. And it's just vitally important. I mean, water supply is, you know, too often just taken for granted until you don't have it. And then all of a sudden it's chaos, as we saw in Flint and other places. So we really value this resource we have in the Bull Run and our groundwater and the good stewardship provided by the Water Bureau and the city. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. Thank you for the excellent presentation today. I thought it was very straightforward. It was, I think, respectful and reflective of the work session that we held earlier, and the progress here is forward and it's positive. I vote aye. Resolution is adopted. Next item is 1283.
 1283, accept a grant in the amount of $824,831 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Office for Victims of Crime, and appropriate $169,917 for the fiscal year 2018 law enforcement-based program.
 Direct Victim Services and Technical Assistance Program to support the Police Bureau integrated model of victim advocacy and trafficked individuals. Colleagues, Portland Police Bureau's Sex Trafficking Unit, otherwise known as STU, has for many years worked with trafficked victims who've endured years of physical abuse.
 This grant will fund three victim advocates that will operate a hybrid model of providing comprehensive victim services to both trafficked adults and minors, allowing for age-appropriate resources for each individual victim. This funding will also allow for the services to be offered to adult victims, whereas traditionally there are very few services offered for victims over the age of 25.
 The Portland Police Bureau STU team recognizes that many of the victims they encounter are 26 years of age and above and have many of the same needs for victim services and case management as their younger victims do.
 By creating a cooperative model of collaborative response to the needs of trafficked victims, PPB will be able to create positive prosecution outcomes for victims. This is vital for the success of keeping victims engaged in needed services as they walk the journey of an often lengthy court process. Thank you both for being here today.
 Mr. Mayor, members of council, my name is Brian Parman. I'm the commander at East Precinct where the sex trafficking unit is housed. I think the mayor has done an excellent job summarizing the program and the benefit that this will bring. I think another point to take note of is that there is a
 a halftime employee included in this request who will do research to really measure the effectiveness of these services that we provide over the next three years. At the end of the day, we believe this grant will provide a sustainable advocate system for these victims and get them plugged into the services that they desperately need. We're here and available if you have any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Public testimony. Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up.
 Thank you, gentlemen. Maggie and Robert Patterson. I've read half the sky. I'm sure you all have. And it's got to be very apparent that women, girls, boys who end up being trafficked are almost certainly in precarious positions as children and are exploited as children. Right.
 Before they end up being genuinely trafficked, they're probably already in a precarious situation that we can never imagine probably being abused. So let's think about those vulnerable children who are... I'm very aware that our foster system is really dysfunctional and broken today,
 Let's talk about what happens before they get trafficked. They're in a precarious situation. What can we do to like...
 prevent, you know, get the, stabilize children or young women or boys who are in precarious situations. What can we do? How can we intervene with programs, you know, after school? I was just watching a thing on Ellen. This guy was, he put laundry...
 facilities, washers and dryers in his public school so that the kids could come wash their clothes at school because otherwise they weren't going to school. I mean just basic things like that.
 would probably really help to, you know, all the being able to wash and dry their clothes, being able to get a meal, you know, being able to talk to peers, those kinds of things. Thank you. Great points. Good morning. Hi, how are you? I'm happy to hear about this grant money being available.
 You know, the worst thing about Portland is the traffic. And it's also important to recognize that Portland is a capital of sex tourism. It should come as no surprise to anybody here that many people come to Portland just to take advantage of the sex workers in this city. So as we move forward, I hope that the mayor and the commission will consider what we can do to make sex work safer,
 Both for the tricks and the workers. That's all. Thank you. Please call the roll. Eudaly. Thank you for the presentation. It's particularly timely considering we just saw a young woman with a developmental disability who was disabled.
 raped and exploited and trafficked and ultimately killed one of her customers, sentenced to 51 years. My hope is that she will receive clemency, but my greater hope is that we can avoid stories like Syntonia Brown's altogether. I vote aye. Great. Thank you for all your work on this. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Yeah, thank you for your work, and it's good to see you. Let's get to a sustainable advocacy system for survivors of trafficking and domestic violence. Hi. Wheeler. So this is probably one of the toughest duties in the Portland Police Bureau, and I want to thank Sergeant Georgieff, and I want to thank his unit for the work that they do, and I think we're all...
 I'm grateful that you're there, that you're doing this work, that you're advocating on behalf of sex trafficking victims. And I'm very proud to support this ordinance. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, is 1284. 1284.
 accept a grant in the amount of $1.5 million and appropriate $1,065,483 for fiscal year 2018-19 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs.
 Bureau of Justice Assistance National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative Fiscal Year 2018 Competitive Grant to address the issue of unsubmitted sexual assault kits at the Portland Police Bureau.
 Colleagues, this is the third sexual assault kit initiative, otherwise known as SAKI, grant awarded to the Portland Police Bureau's Sex Crimes Unit since 2015. The SAKI 2018 grant will provide funds to retain an investigator in SCU, a Multnomah County Deputy District Attorney, and a forensics consultant, and continue the maintenance and expansion of the nationally recognized sexual assault management system.
 We've had our fifth SAKI convention and continue to advocate for the victims of sexual assault with backlog kits. This grant is crucial to ensuring justice for sexual assault survivors. Through these funds, we're seeing better evidence collection, improved investigations, and a long overdue survivor-centered approach.
 It's my understanding we have Detective Supervisor Molly Dahl here with us today, Sex Crimes Unit Coordinator Susan Lehman, and IT Supervisor Ed Arum. Welcome, and I'm not sure which order...
 you're speaking in today, so just go for it. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council Members. I'm Molly Dahl, the Sex Crimes Unit Supervisor and Program Coordinator, Susan Lehman, and Ed Arieb, our IT Supervisor. And I think you summarized well how developed we are into this program and receiving these funds to sustain our investigative and advocacy program and bringing justice to overdue victims and its implementation. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Thanks for the important work. Public testimony, Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. Robert Patterson and Diana Ogas. Come on up. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Hello, my name is Diana, and I just, I want to speak on the two item numbers that we are currently talking about, 1283 and 1284. And, um...
 I am so, so thankful that these item numbers are being addressed. This is a very, very serious problem in our city. And I just thank the council for their support to continue to create advocacies because advocacy really for survivors of sexual violence, there's not enough advocacy.
 And so to even have a part-time advocate to do the proper research is huge. So I support these ideas. I thank the council for all the hard work that they are doing on behalf of the survivors of sexual violence and domestic violence and those who are trafficked. And in regards to this, I just...
 Thank you. I really, I want the best for this. And our sex crimes units work so, so hard. And I've gone through the process over the last year and have fallen through every loophole you could imagine of being a survivor of sexual violence. The sex kits, the kits that we're talking about are so crucial, right?
 You can't file a sexual protective order if the crime doesn't happen within a 180 days. So a crime can occur through like one year. And if it's not within the 180 days, the survivor of that violence is unprotected in the city. And so to push the sex kits forward, to do the proper investigation, to bring the necessary closure and justice...
 is huge. So thank you so much. And thank you for being here and giving your testimony. I think that clarifies more than anything else anybody could have said the importance of this. So thanks for taking the time to be here and share your story with us. It's an important one. Thank you. It's good to see you again. Thank you. I'm Robert Patterson, by the way. It occurs to me that many of the victims of sexual assault come from some of our most marginalized communities. And
 undocumented citizens, the queer and transgender communities. And it also occurs to me that by ensuring that their assailants can be brought to justice, we also make these people less marginalized, more part of one Portland instead of two Portlands.
 Some of my best friends are sex workers, and I'm proud to have them as best friends. Unfortunately, right now, they perform their work in secret, in darkness, and that is a dangerous place. Portland should work to make sex work safer, and by doing so, it can provide a model for the rest of the nation. Thank you. Thank you both. Please call the roll on the ordinance. Udaly?
 Another timely topic. I think as many in this room, I was shocked to hear about the backlog of rape kits. I'm a sexual assault survivor. I also trained to be a rape victims advocate through Multnomah County. There are inadequate supports at all levels. There are confusing laws around
 statute of limitations. As we have seen time and time again in the media, women are not taken seriously. Rapists are not held accountable for their crimes. And the thought that we're not even processing kits in a timely manner is just further demoralization of victims.
 So I'm thankful for the progress that we've made in Portland and Multnomah County and that that hard work will continue. And hopefully processing these kits will result in identifying and removing more predators from our community. I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I'm really happy to see that we are getting the backlog reduced and we're getting additional resources to reduce the backlog of rape kits because, as Diana just articulated very well, it's bringing justice and closure for a lot of survivors. And it's really interesting to read the accounts, I think, in the Oregonian of the perpetrators that they're finding through these DNA work and data.
 These perpetrators thought they would never be held accountable in sometimes an open season on preying on women. So it's good to see these perpetrators ultimately being held accountable and serving time. Aye.
 Wheeler. I want to thank the police bureau and SCU for bringing this forward and finding a source of financial resources to make this possible, and I want to thank everybody who testified today. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, just a time check. It is very nearly noon. We have, by my count, at least eight items left. So I would encourage people, if they're making presentations, to provide time.
 the information that you think is most salient for the city council to know. Can you please read items 1285 and 1299 together? 1285.
 Accept firm fixed price of $73 million from James W. Fowler Company for the design and construction of the Willamette River Crossing project. And 1299, authorize the Water Bureau to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Willamette River Crossing through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority as a last resort. Greetings. Greetings.
 Greetings. Good morning. I'm Teresa Elliott, Portland Water Bureau Chief Engineer. With me is Tim Collins, the project manager for the project, and Lester Spitzer from procurement. We are here to ask for two different, as you read, we are here to ask for two different council actions.
 One is for procurements report to council, and the second is for authorization to proceed with doing property negotiations, and then if that fails to go through the condemnation process. And as soon as Carla brings up the presentation, Tim will start, and we'll be as quick as we can. Thank you.
 Good morning, Council, ladies and gentlemen. I will make this as quickly as possible since I understand we're under a time constraint. But so the question of the day is why build a new water main underneath the Willamette River? Okay.
 So here I've shown a chart that describes the interval of magnitude 9.0 subduction zone earthquakes in the recent past 8,000 years. I guess that's not so recent. And what I'd like to mention here is that the last big earthquake happened in 1700. We're 318 years from that time.
 The science, best science tells us that these earthquakes happen every 350 years or so, which puts us at a chance of 30 to 35 percent of having one of these earthquakes in the next 50 years. So that makes it somewhat likely in our lifetime and quite likely in the lifetimes of our grandchildren.
 The major thing that happens during a big subduction zone earthquake is that the loose soils near the banks of the Willamette River are very susceptible to liquefaction, and that means they will move into the Willamette River, and that will tear them apart.
 When that happens, the six crossings that we have that cross the Willamette River will most likely fail. We've done some recent studies, and they indicate that they will be damaged, and some of them will fail during a big subduction zone earthquake.
 So with that happening, the likelihood of restoring water to the west side of Portland becomes quite problematic and would be at least six to 12 months of outage, we estimate. That's very not necessarily precise, but we believe that that would impact.
 1.6 to 3 billion dollars of lost revenue in those six months. There's three major hospitals that sit in this particular zone and that would have a huge impact on how the city recovers if those places didn't have water.
 31% of the city's employment is in this area. And this impact wouldn't just be for the six months. We know from New Orleans and other major outages that this impact continues for a much longer time than that because the businesses leave the city. Okay.
 So the project challenges of building a crossing is we have somewhat complex geology that's underneath the Willamette River. We have to get below the liquefiable soils, and that pushes us into a crossing that's almost a mile long. And most of the crossing cannot be accessed from the surface by normal trenching mechanisms.
 This type of construction requires a specialized equipment and expertise, and there's only a half dozen or so companies in the country that can do this type of trenchless technology at the diameter that we need to provide average daily demand to the west side of the city when an earthquake happens. And as you know, this is a highly urbanized area, so there's not a whole lot of open space. We have to work in constrained access areas.
 And then although this limits the amount of easements, we still have some complex easement agreements to get accomplished.
 So the proposed alignment begins on the west side near the intersection of Harbor and Nado. It'll go underneath the River Place condos, underneath the river, to the north of OMSI, and then coming out near the intersection of 7th and Stevens. And then it'll come on the surface streets to hook to the west side connections after that.
 So here's a basic schematic of the geology that we're going through. So the gray is the fill that we need to avoid, and we'll go down quite a bit below the depth of the riverbank, and half of the construction will be this horizontal directional drilling. There'll be an intermediate shaft, and this will allow us to get under the obstructions such as the Markham Bridge piers.
 And then on the east side, it will be microtunneling construction. So all of this thing is about a mile long from one end to the other.
 One of the advantages of this thing is that initial concepts, we're going to have to loft the pipe over quite a long stretch of neighborhoods, and we've been able to work with the design-build method to reduce the impacts to the neighborhoods. So our thoughts on how this project will impact the neighborhoods has started very early.
 So, so far we've had two project briefings, two open houses. We presented the project to the pub in November. We've discussed the fact that we're going to need easement to the property owners. That's part of the eminent domain. And then the design-build process will involve community-level interactions from the very start of the project and the design.
 As far as equity is concerned, we have 35% of the non-specialty subcontracts have been, per the contract, are going to be minority businesses. And that turns out to be about $13 million worth of work. We've been going on this for about 20 years. So we're working. Today will be quite a good day if it happens. And we'll be moving on and making this a reality.
 So we went through a two-stage process, RFQ and RFP. With the RFQ, we qualified three teams that could do this work. We received one proposal from the J.W. Fowler Company. Their cost was a little bit higher. Well, their cost was higher than budgeted.
 So when we came to council in 2015, we had a low confidence estimate of $40 million for the construction part of the work. The current proposal is $7 million.
 It's $73.5 million to a total project amount of $90 million. We will be able to adjust the five-year CIP so that this project will not impact the rates that the people pay for their water. Okay.
 Parts of the cost influences. Construction inflation has been significant in the last three years. The steel tariffs have impacted the steel industry.
 industry modified construction which is largely related to the shaft. That shaft was not imagined early on and is to make the project work within the tight constraints that we put. They felt that that was the best way to minimize public impacts and to decrease the risk of the project. Okay.
 And then the market conditions related to the HDD contractors, they're related to the petroleum industry, which is also experiencing a lot of inflation and costs.
 So the other part of this is we're doing easements, and there's going to be six easements. Three of them will be permanent, and three of them will be for the staging area, and there'll be some on the west side and some on the east side and east.
 The other part of the request today is for eminent domain so that we can get authority to do this work. The permanent easements will be at depth and they won't impact the surface at all.
 So the design is planned to be completed sometime about a year from now, with construction complete in October of 2021, and the project closeout of January of 2022. Thanks, Tim. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm Lester Spittler, the Chief Procurement Officer. I'm going to deliver the CPO report, Chief Procurement Officer report, that you're used to hearing to supplement the presentation that Tim just did
 So you have before you the procurement report recommending a contract with James W. Fowler for the Willamette River Crossing design-build project in the amount of $73,500,000. As Tim said, the engineer's estimate at the time that we solicited was $40 million. However, the confidence level on that estimate was low. Okay.
 On December 16, 2015, Council approved Ordinance No. 187520, authorizing an exemption to the competitive low bid process and authorizing procurement services to competitively solicit proposals for a design-build approach.
 As Tim said, we did a two-step process. So the first step was to send out a request for qualifications. We received three responses. There was a committee that was representative of the project team as well as one minority evaluator. And that team decided that all three responders were qualified. So we sent the second step request for proposals to the three qualified firms. Um...
 We sent that out to them in November of 2017 with a due date of March 1st, 2018. As Tim said, we received one proposal. There was a committee that evaluated that proposal that was representative of the project team as well as two members of the minority evaluator program. The evaluation committee determined that the proposal was acceptable and procurement services issued notice of intent to award in May of 2018 and the project team proceeded with negotiations thereafter.
 The total estimated amount of the contract that is being recommended is $73,500,000. The city's standard disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor and supplier plan was issued along with the RFP. The city established an aspirational goal for state of Oregon COVID certified firms that range from 22% to 35% of the design and applicable non-specialty hard construction costs.
 James W. Fowler and their subcontractors at all tier levels have made a commitment of 35% utilization through subcontractors, material suppliers, manufacturers. 6% of that is for emerging small businesses. James W. Fowler is not a certified company. They are located in Dallas, Oregon.
 They have a current City of Portland business tax license, as well as they're in full compliance with the city's contract requirements. If the council has any questions, we're happy to answer those. If not, we're recommending that you approve the contract. I have one question on the estimate and one obviously...
 has to agree that the cost of construction has gone up precipitously in the last three years. So I get the difference between the 40 and the 73. My question is really with regard to the modified construction part of this. If you're saying about half of the $33 million increase has to do with the modified construction, you said that is to mitigate the impact on the neighborhood. Could you describe...
 what that impact on the neighborhood would be and what your thinking was with regard to why it was worth saving the
 or adding $16 million to the potential cost of this in order to mitigate the impact on the neighborhood? What does that mean exactly? Okay, so the largest piece of that was related to the slide I showed about the lofting of the pipe. So the pipe, in the HDD method, you want to install the pipe all at one time.
 So it's already connected before it goes together. So you basically have to thread it in like a straw. Yes, yes, you do. And so we don't have enough space, even with the modified method, to install all of it. But by putting the shaft in, it allowed us to, in effect, run that extra length of pipe to a connection point underneath the shaft. And so that greatly reduced the amount of pipe we had to put together on the surface.
 because we could use the microtunnel portion to string the pipe and literally it's like a storage
 to put the pipe up surface. Can I ask you sort of a dumb question? Just because somebody will eventually ask me, they'll say, why is the city council paying effectively $16 million? Is this because the pipe would be going through people's yards? I mean, is that the deal? Yes. It would have to go over their houses, through their yards, through their driveways. It's highly likely, yes. And it would impact traffic for much more. It would literally be suspended in the air? It would be suspended over the air. For a mile. It would be.
 Yeah, for about a mile, and it would go basically all the way up into the LADS addition, crossing MLK and the railroad tracks, and all of those are things that it made more sense to pay for an extra shaft and drop the pipe down in there as the storage rather than having it go underground. Okay, you've convinced me. Good. Thank you. That's what I figured, but I just wanted to make sure I understood that. Any other questions? Sorry, Commissioner Saltzman?
 I think it's implicit in what you're saying, but this will be seismically resilient, right? Yes. Okay. Any public testimony on the... Is this a report here? That is an ordinance. The second is an ordinance. So is there any public testimony specific to 1299, which is authorizing the Water Bureau to acquire permanent and temporary property rights? So this is the...
 the issue of eminent domain. We had two people sign up for 1299. We have Maggie and Robert Patterson. Hello. Greetings. I'm Robert Patterson. Access to clean water is obviously important, and I'm happy to hear that the mayor and the commission are considering this authorization process.
 Since I've been homeless in Portland, one thing that I've learned is that it is hard to find a place to pee and it's hard to find a place to take a shower. Since clean water is a public good, it shouldn't, pardon me, access to clean water shouldn't just be limited to those with homes. There need to be more facilities in this city for homeless people to pee and for homeless people to take a shower.
 Homelessness should be a protected class. I'm Robert Patterson. Thank you. That concludes public testimony, so I'll do this. Item 1299 is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. I'll entertain a motion on the report. So moved. We have a motion to accept from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll. You daily. Thank you for the report. Aye.
 This is absolutely crucial, obviously. And Director Maikstra, thank you for being here today. Thank you for worrying about this for 20 years. And I'm hopeful that we can get it done in time. Aye. Fish. Excellent report. This has been on the Bureau's capital improvement plan for a long time. And pleased to see that we're moving forward. Aye. Saltzman. Good work. Aye. Wheeler. Very interesting report. I vote aye. The report's adopted. Item 128E6.
 Accept bid of Cedar Mill Construction Company, LLC, for the City Hall Restoration Project for $4,372,700. Hi, Larry. Good morning. Good morning. Good afternoon now. I'll try to make this as quick as we can go. Thank you. I appreciate it because we have another council session teed up after this. You guys are really busy. Busy's good. Not a great job up there. Busy's good.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Cedar Mill Construction for the City Hall Restoration Project, $4,372,000. I'm going to kind of skip some of the notice of intent for this project. It was issued November 2, 2018. This report seeks approval of the contract award to Cedar Mill Construction. Unfortunately, it's 14% over the engineer's estimate.
 The Office of Management Finance Facilities Division, along with Procurement Services, worked with Cedar Mill Construction, identified an aspirational goal for the State of Oregon co-bid certified subcontractors for fire utilization of 20 percent of the hard constructions.
 There is a committed value of $1,182,819, or 27%, dedicated to achieve the city's overall aspirational goals as follows. DBE, $398,000. MBE, $220,000. ESB, $396,000. And a new category we're seeing a little more of, which I'm very happy with, is service-disabled veteran business enterprises, $168,156.
 Cedar Mill Construction is located in Tualatin, Oregon. They are not a state-certified COVID contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration. They're in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. If this council has any questions relative to the procurement aspect, I can answer those, or Randy Selick is here from Facilities Division if you have questions about the project. Any further questions? When will the project commence? Randy Selick with OMF Construction Project Manager.
 We're planning for the warm season, so May, June. It's an exterior project, so that's the intent. Good. Excellent. I'll entertain a motion unless there's any further questions. Move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. Udaly. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. The report's accepted. Item 1287, also a report. Accept. Thank you, Brandon.
 Except bit of Three Kings Environmental, Inc. For the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 project for $2,472,471.
 Good morning again. Larry Pallat, Procurement Services. Year before the procurement report, recommending a contract award to Three Kings Environmental, St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2, $2,472,470. July 18, 2018, Council approved the ordinance to solicit this project as a standard low bid. The project was advertised to the city's electronic procurement system. Notice of intent to award was issued November 9, 2018.
 And this report seeks approval for Three Kings in the amount of $2,472,470, which is 40% under $2,472.
 the engineer's estimate. There was a slight adjustment in scope, but it's still a very, very good deal. This project is a federally funded highway project, and as such, the city's standard goal of 20% COVID-certified firms for participation is not applicable. Federal projects recognize the DBE, or Disadvantaged Business Enterprise, certification only. The Oregon Department of Transportation
 is the grantor and manager of the federal funds assigned to these types of projects. And for the DBE's goal, granted by ODOT, was only 2%. It's unfortunate PBOT's been working really hard to get higher goals, but...
 Sometimes ODOT's just not terribly cooperative. Under this one, Three Kings Environmental has committed to 4.89%, so they're over double the actual goal. Three Kings Environmental is located in Vancouver, Washington. They are not an Oregon State certified COVID contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax license and registration. We're in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements.
 The council has questions relative to the bidding process or the goals. I can answer those. I do have somebody from PBOT in the audience if you have a project question. Is Three Kings the general contractor for the truck strategy improvements? Yes. Okay. Three Kings Environmental, they are the general contractor. Okay. I'll entertain a motion. Move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. Udaly. Udaly.
 Well, thank you for that. To date, the main concern with this project voiced by community members is centered around project delay. With the project now having gone through the bidding process and the current council action to enter into a contract with a low bidder, there are no foreseeable potential delays.
 The project is anticipated at this point to start construction in January. That's approximately six months later than originally anticipated, but I'm pleased we're finally on our way to getting this much-needed project done. Thank you again, and I vote aye. Fritz? Hooray. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Yeah, it's great to see the actual construction getting going on the St. John's Truck Improvement Strategy. Thanks to Rich Newland at PBOT for all his...
 blood, sweat, and tears over this. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks, Larry. Thanks to PBOT. Thanks to Commissioner Daly. Aye. Report's adopted. Not bad. Six minutes. Sounds very well done. That may be a record for you. Next item, 1288, please. Thank you very much. Amend contract with Brookville Equipment Corporation and exercise an option to procure one additional streetcar vehicle. Commissioner Daly. Oh, sorry. Okay. 1288. 88, correct. Thank you.
 My son's school was on lockout, so just getting an update on that. Everything's fine. Sorry to hear that. Sorry for my distraction. Okay. So thank you, Mayor, and I'd like to introduce Catherine Levine with PBOT. And I thought Dan Bauer. Oh, Dan, you want to come on up? Okay. Executive Director of Portland Streetcar to present on the ordinance. Welcome. Thank you. Okay.
 To date, we have an ordinance that would authorize a contract amendment, and it would allow us to add a third vehicle to our contract purchase arrangement with Brookville. Last spring, Council authorized a contract with Brookville for the purchase of two cars.
 Additional streetcars are needed to support Portland Streetcar Strong ridership and increasing service frequency. Just little factoids, in April of this year we had the highest weekday ridership ever. It exceeded 16,000 passengers a day. And from July to November of this year, streetcar ridership came in just under 2 million trips.
 We currently have a fleet of 17 vehicles, the oldest of which are 18 years old, and will need to be taken out of service for refurbishment in the years to come. So having additional vehicles would allow us to do that and maintain service. It would also allow us to increase service in the future.
 We are anticipating funding from the House Bill 2017 transit dollars. We have local support for funding. It's my understanding the actual vote for that will be at the OTC in the spring. Thank you. Very good. Any questions? Is there public testimony, Carla? Yes, we have one person signed up, Robert Patterson. Thank you. If you don't want to stay up, you don't have to. Thank you, Cameron.
 How are you? Very well. Thank you. My ex, Bray, and I used to ride the streetcars because, unlike the Macs, there were no transit officers to check for tickets. We would do this in the mornings to stay warm, to try to dry off. This morning in Portland, there are thousands of homeless people looking for dry socks. It's shameful that in a city, in a region home to Nike...
 Adidas North America, Columbia. Sir, this matter is an option to exercise to purchase an additional streetcar vehicle. It's shameful. It is shameful that in a city that houses these apparel makers, we can't ensure that there are clean, dry socks for every homeless person every day that it rains. Thank you, Commissioner. We all agree with you on that, but we're talking about something else. Thank you, though, Robert. We appreciate it. Please call the roll.
 You daily?
 Well, I am happy to support a growing streetcar fleet to meet the needs of Portlanders in and around the city. We're making a wise investment now to save money in the future. So thank you, Catherine, and thank you, Dan, and thank you to the city of Tacoma for agreeing to work with us and delivering a better price due to the higher volume than we would have gotten on our own. I vote aye.
 Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, it's great to see the growing ridership, streetcar growing use, and I want to thank Catherine and Dan Bauer and the hardworking board of Portland Streetcar, Inc., for all the great work you're doing. Aye.
 Wheeler. This is great. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1289. Authorize any intergovernmental agreement between the Bureau of Transportation and the Oregon Department of Transportation to allow city construction, operation, and maintenance of Southwest Bond Avenue under Markham Bridge and to reimburse state for associated services. Commission Daly. Thank you, Mayor.
 I would like to introduce Steve, and this is a new one for me, Sigethe? Very close. Sigethe. Thank you. Sigethe from PBOT to present on the ordinance. Welcome, Steve. Thank you, Commissioner Udeli, and good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'll try and keep this short.
 Steve Sigathy, Capital Program Manager at PBOT. The ordinance before you would authorize an intergovernmental agreement with ODOT, allowing the city to construct, operate, maintain, and allow public travel on Southwest Bond Avenue underneath the Markham Bridge, and to reimburse ODOT up to $30,000 in services they have provided and will provide, including review of design plans, issuance of permits, construction inspection, and overall coordination.
 Bond Avenue from River Parkway under the Markham Bridge down to Tillicum Crossing is catalyzing development of the OHSU Schnitzer Campus and will ultimately serve as a major north-south arterial street in South Waterfront along with Moody Avenue. We just finished up part one of the project which is building the retaining walls and fill upon which Bond Avenue will be built.
 And now, for reasons that are probably obvious in this photo, coordination and agreement with ODOT is critical to constructing Bond Avenue under the busiest roadway on the West Coast. So, finally, this is the area that this IGA is permitting. And with that, I'll take any questions. Colleagues, any questions?
 Any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have. Maggie may have left, but we have Robert Patterson. On this subject. If you don't mind, Commissioner. My name's Robert Patterson. Commissioner, if you'd let me finish earlier, then you would have heard me explain that purchasing a streetcar makes sense. That's all. Thank you. Please call the roll. Udaili? Udaili?
 Well, I'm glad to see we're moving forward with projects that will support the development of OHSU's Schnitzer Campus. This is an important step in building out the street grid in South Waterfront. Thank you for your work, Steve. I'll get your last name pronounced correct. Although, can you pronounce my last name? No, I'm just kidding. That's mean. In sympathy. Or solidarity with difficult last names. I vote aye. Great.
 friends. That's how simple the names are. People still get them wrong. Thank you for your work. Thank you for your work and thank you for the PowerPoint presentation. This is obviously the next big challenge is the middle section. I guess you would call that phase two of
 linking the built-up area of North McAdam through properties owned by Jay Zeidel and then connecting with Schnitzer. So that's going to be a little more complicated, but glad that we're moving forward with this phase. Hi. Saltzman. Yeah, thanks, Steve. Hi.
 Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks for your good work. 1290, Commissioner Daly is pulling that back, but do you have to read it? Yes, we should read the title. 1290, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements and construct a massed armed traffic signal at the Northeast 42nd Avenue and Columbia Boulevard intersection in the Northeast 46th Avenue and Saratoga Court Local Improvement District. Very good.
 And that's being returned to Commissioner Udaly's office? It's being continued to January 9th, and they've scheduled 10 a.m. time certain. 10 a.m. time certain, January 9th? Correct. Correct. Okay, thank you. Sorry for the confusion there. I did have that in my opening notes. $12.91, please.
 vacate North Hunt Street east of North Argyle Way, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to introduce Dee Walker, right-of-way agent with PBOT, to present on the ordinance. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Good afternoon. Dee Walker, City of Portland, right-of-way acquisition for transportation. Thanks, Carla. Before you today is a city-initiated street vacation request from Prosper Portland for North Hunt Street, east of North Argyle Way, as you can see on the map before you.
 So Prosper Portland owns property to the south of North Hunt Street, with the exception of one small parcel that's owned by Transition Projects, TPI. And Ferguson Enterprises owns property to the north of North Hunt Street. They've already actually sold their underlying fee interest in the street, since half the street will revert to the north property owner, to Ferguson. So they've sold their underlying fee interest to TPI.
 In preparation for the project that TPI is going to be building, an affordable housing project, so Prosper will be selling their property to TPI. Most likely it's anticipated in the springtime. I did reach out to Stephen Adcox, who's general counsel for Ferguson Enterprises, and he's confirmed that they have no objections.
 Prosper, let me see, Kent Women's Village is currently located on Prosper Portland property. It was a temporary location only, and they knew that going into the agreement. It's being relocated just down the street at the, pretty much at the corner of North Columbia and North Argyle Way. It's actually BES-owned property.
 So it's a really good fit. There's major infrastructure over the BES parcel, so it really can't be used for commercial development. So that's where the women's village is going to be relocated. It's anticipated that it will be relocated by the end of the year. Catholic Charities actually has houses available for residents of the women's village for interim use to help out during the transition.
 There's been a lot of neighborhood involvement. TPI and the low-income single adult housing organization has met with the Canton Neighborhood Association over five, on five separate occasions, presenting, discussing, and updating about the project.
 The Kent Neighborhood Association has given their letter of support. And it's also my understanding that there's a representative of the neighborhood association that's been attending weekly construction meetings. So they're really involved in what's going on with the project. As far as the street vacation goes,
 BES is requiring an easement for stormwater facilities, and you can see on the map in front of you right now, we're kind of holding this as a placeholder within North Hunt Street, but North Argyle Way is actually coming in for some street improvements. So depending on the timing of the street improvements for North Argyle and the development of the project for TPI,
 That easement possibly will be relocated outside of North Hunt onto North Argyle Way. And so we have made arrangements that we've already had BES's approval that it's okay to relocate that if it's determined that it can be moved. Okay.
 There are individuals here from the following organizations, if anybody has any questions. There is an individual from Prosper Portland, the Booking Group, who is a consultant for TPI, also the executive director of TPI is here, Housing Development Center, Catholic Charities, and Joint Office of Homeless Services. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any questions? Public testimony? No.
 They did sign up. Caitlin Burke, George Devendorf, and Deborah Kempra. Great. Come on up. I would just say, I believe I can speak for all of us in saying we're happy to answer any questions you may have, but we otherwise won't do it. Good. Thank you.
 Very good. Then this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you to all of our partners who are here in the room for your hard work on this. This is very well done. Thank you. So now we are going back to the items that were pulled from the consent agenda. There were two. The first of the two items was item number 1269.
 1269, accept a grant in the amount of $400,000 and appropriate $171,836 for fiscal year 2018-19 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, fiscal year 2018 Intellectual Property Enforcement Program Competitive Grant,
 to address intellectual property criminal enforcement in the Portland metropolitan region. And Cheryl Waddell is here. She has just stepped out. Who pulled this? Mr. Lightning did. We'll be right back. He's not here. He's not even here. Is there any other public testimony on this item? Oh, Sergeant Waddell is back.
 We don't need a presentation. Sergeant, I actually don't think we need a presentation. The individual who pulled it has left. Very well, sir. I'm sorry that you were here, and thank you for your patience. Please call the roll.
 Yu Dailey? Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much for being here for your patience. Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And the other one that was pulled was 1274. Yes. Amend H, Human Resources Administrative Rule 6.03, Vacation Accruals.
 For Bureau of Emergency Communications employees effective the beginning of the first full pay period of January 2019. And I don't know who pulled this item. To pull it because Exhibit A had a column that was wrong. Mr. Anthony, did you have anything that you wanted to add to that? I just, if you had questions about, are you offering an amendment? Substitute Exhibit A.
 So do we have to vote on that, Carla? Yes, we do, because it's a new exhibit. The by pay period was incorrect. So I move the substitute exhibit A. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz to move the substitute.
 Could you just briefly explain what the difference is? The difference was, as I came before you guys in July, I simply took those same by-pay period accruals and applied them to the BOEC structure, but BOEC accrues at a higher rate, so those by-pay period accruals were incorrect. So when the ordinance came out, some employees in BTS, EBS, who do the configurations, reached out to me and told me the appropriate accruals by pay period. So that's what the amendment was.
 Thank you. And could you identify yourself, please? Yes. I am Jamal Anthony with Labor Relations. Thank you. Very good. Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. This is on the amendment, correct? This is on the substitute. On the substitute. Okay. Thank you. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. And the substitute ordinance is adopted. Thanks, Jamal. I appreciate it. Daly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Okay.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. It's adopted. We are now adjourned. See you all at two. That's amazing we got through all that. Well done. This afternoon doesn't look so horn-rous, particularly since we pulled something out. All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, December 12, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, can you please call the roll?
 Are you Daly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions...
 A warning will be given that further disruption may result in a person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you very much for that. First item is item number 1293.
 Authorize the second amended and restated visitor facilities intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County and Metro. Colleagues, this item has to do with how we structure and spend resources from the visitor facilities intergovernmental agreement. We do not plan to vote on this item today.
 And what we'll be doing is we'll have our presentation, discussion, and then we'll move it on to a second reading next week. I'm very happy to say that we've reached a tentative agreement with the other jurisdictions. That's Metro and Multnomah County.
 In fact, we agreed on the dollar amount some time ago, and all that is left at this point is really the drafting of some of the finer points around the legal aspects of the document. I had a conversation with Chair Khafouri this morning, and she agreed that we had reached...
 an agreement on this, and she encouraged us to go ahead and have this afternoon session. And as I said, we'll withhold the vote until next week so that if there are any other amendments or changes that need to be made next week, we could go ahead and certainly do that.
 I want to particularly thank the staff at the city and in my office, Susan Gibson-Hartnett and Michelle Planbeck, both of whom have spent the better part of the last year working towards an agreement under what I would describe as very challenging circumstances. Susan, it's my understanding that you spent most of the last several months working on this basically full time. And I want to acknowledge that and thank you for your hard work on this.
 Over the last three decades, the city, the county, and metro, in partnership with the tourism industry, have worked together to maximize the economic benefit from tourism and conventions in our community.
 One of the key tools we have is what's known as the Visitors' Facilities Intergovernmental Agreement, or VFIGA. The VFIGA provides for the planning, development, promotion, operation, and management of the region's convention, exposition, trade, spectator, performing arts, and visitors' facilities, and supports broader community vitality through jobs and local spending.
 In May of this year, the city, the county, and Metro signed a letter of agreement which focused on four key areas. First of all, resilient reserves to protect the VFTA during periods of stress and allow for strategic use of excess funds that accumulate during periods of higher growth. Number two, adequate visitor development fund so that this fund can keep pace with the industry growth rate.
 Number three, maintaining healthy facilities to enhance the existing facilities like Veterans Memorial Coliseum, keeping them vital and competitive. And number four, community livability and safety to improve conditions for the community and people experiencing homelessness, improve the visitor experience, and help Portland remain a desirable destination.
 The agreement we're hearing today, while not perfect in every respect, meets and balances those goals very, very well. I want to focus a bit more about how this agreement helps us address homelessness in particular.
 Portland is an attractive destination. Those of us who live here love it. People looking for a new place to live are coming here in large numbers. And more and more visitors than ever are choosing to spend their vacations here and more and more conventions are choosing to locate in Portland. That shouldn't be a surprise. We have a lot to offer as a community. Food, arts and culture, access to transit in nature and so much more.
 But there is another side to that coin. At the same time that we're attracting visitors by the hundreds of thousands, too many are suffering on our streets without a home, many of them experiencing addiction or mental health or economic challenges.
 The best solution for homelessness is housing. And the best solution for those who are chronically homeless is to pair that housing with support services. That could include mental health services or addiction services or domestic violence support services or many other kinds of specific services to help people be successful in their housing. Thank you.
 That's why the city and the county have set an aggressive goal of creating 2,000 supportive housing units over the next 10 years.
 I'm happy to say that the city is already making good progress on supportive housing. In the last year alone, we've either opened or put in the pipeline over 500 units of supportive housing. And with the recent passage of the Metro Bond, we have a substantial amount of what we need to develop the next 500 units.
 As mayor, I've worked with all of you, all of my colleagues here on the Portland City Council, to champion more supportive housing units through the implementation of the Portland Housing Bond, active political and financial support of the Metro Bond, and the innovative work being done by the Portland Housing Bureau. We're building housing, which is the city's traditional focus. But supportive housing includes services, traditionally the focus of the county.
 This division of responsibility can lead to important partnerships and good results. Recently, the city partnered with the Joint Office of Homeless Services in Multnomah County on a supportive housing pilot to better connect housing and services. The deal on the Visitors Fund we're hearing today is another good partnership.
 Local governments and tourism industry and the tourism industry will devote nearly $60 million from the Visitors Facilities Trust account to the Joint Office on Homeless Services over the next decade. But that level of funding for support services is still not enough to meet our goal of 2,000 supportive units over the next decade.
 We heard a report in the fall that suggested services could be as high as $40 million each year. I obviously support discussing the concept of a services levy or other possible ways to fill that gap.
 Just like the Metro Housing Bond, which also included capital funding, and the constitutional amendment, Ballot Measure 102, supported by the voters in November to stretch our capital dollars further, I realize that in order to make a real difference on our streets and in our communities, we're going to need to continue to work with, in partnership, and support our partners.
 I know that the county is looking at this question and they are seriously evaluating different proposals. And I know that if the county decides to spearhead a ballot measure for supportive housing services or other strategies, I know that all of us would welcome that discussion. I know that I most certainly will.
 So on to the presentation, but before we do that, we have substitute exhibits A and B. Is that correct? Yes. Can we move those as a package? I move substitute A and B as a package. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Let's go ahead and vote on the substitute. Call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Substitute exhibits are now on the table.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. My name is Tom Reinhart. I'm proud to be the Chief Administrative Officer for the City of Portland. My team and I are very pleased to be here today. When we proposed to the Mayor that we begin this effort several months ago, maybe more than several months ago, we had high hopes that we could arrive at an agreement which benefits not only Portlanders, but the entire region as well. I am proud to tell you today that the agreement before you fulfills those initial hopes.
 It's a privilege to sit here and represent a group of people who have collectively shouldered this work together. Government Relations Director Elizabeth Edwards, City Economist Josh Harwood, CFO Jennifer Cooperman, and Ken McGare from the City's Attorney's Office have all been instrumental. Thanks as well to the many City Hall staff who played a key role, particularly our Chiefs of Staff of all the elected officials.
 I also want to recognize Jeff Miller with Travel Portland for the time and effort he and Brian Doran have invested in this work and our colleagues at Metro and Multnomah County. Finally, as the mayor said, we would not be here today without the truly amazing creativity, effort, and persistence of Susan Hartnett. She has been the key leader in this entire initiative, and I want to thank her on behalf of generations of Portlanders who will benefit in many ways from this agreement over many years to come. Thank you, Susan.
 The Mayor covered a good deal of the history of the Visitors Fund and the VDF, so I'm not going to delve into that now. We'll take any questions that, of course, any Council members have after the short presentation. Susan will go through the details of the changes that we're proposing in a minute, but before that, I want to address you and my role as CAO on two key points in this amended agreement. First, part of my role in a process like this one is to regularly ask my team, what are the risks here?
 And have we appropriately protected the city against potential negative outcomes? I am comfortable that the city's risk is appropriately protected in this new agreement, provided we keep in mind the initial premise that the system needs to be fed by visitors coming to Portland and paying these taxes.
 My team at the Office of Management Finance, through both the Spectator Venues Program and the CFO, will be vigilant to assure the city's risk is kept within acceptable levels, and we make that commitment to you as our council. Second, council has taken bold steps over the recent years to address longstanding deferred maintenance needs in our transportation, parks, and civic infrastructure. You have also made it clear you want us to continue coming up with creative solutions to make progress in this area.
 This agreement with our regional partners takes another long-needed step to upgrade and maintain our assets. In this case, Veterans Memorial Coliseum and Portland V Center for the Arts buildings, without additional taxes on Portlanders. And we want you to know we are continuing to work on efforts like this one. With that, I turn it over to Susan to explain the important changes in the amended agreement.
 Thank you, Tom. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Susan Hartnett. I am the Spectator Venues Program Manager. The agreement in front of you today is really the result of more than two years worth of work. It began as an effort to develop the strategic plan that is called for in the existing agreement, which would guide future amendments to the agreement. Okay.
 However, late last year, with our understanding about the growing urgency for the various needs, as well as the opportunity to make some immediate progress in addressing those needs, the conversation shifted from the strategic plan to an actual amendment to the IGA.
 As the Mayor mentioned, in May, the Mayor, the Chair, and the Metro President, Tom Hughes, signed a letter of agreement, which provided specific direction on these amendments, and asked that we provide them by October 31st. We were a little late on that, but not too much.
 The letter of agreement focused on the four priorities that the Mayor mentioned, and those have consistently framed the discussion. I'm going to use those as a framework for talking about the specific details.
 So, first of all, consistent with the community livability and safety priority, there are two allocations in this agreement that are dedicated to new funding for the provision of services and programs for people experiencing homelessness or who are at risk of becoming homeless and to address community livability and safety concerns associated with homelessness.
 The first of those allocations renames an existing county allocation, which is called County Visitor Facilities and Operations Support. It is now called Livability and Safety Supportive Services. This is known as the base amount. That amount will begin this fiscal year at the amount of $1,775,000, and that amount is escalated annually.
 In 2022-23, fiscal year 2022-23, an additional $250,000 will be added to that base allocation. So in 2022-23, the base allocation will have grown to about $2.2 million.
 Now to get to the goal number that the mayor has repeated to us for the total amount going to homelessness, we added a second allocation, which is called the additional livability and support amount.
 And it is done as a difference between a set number and the base allocation. So beginning next year, the first additional allocation will be the difference between the base allocation and $2.5 million, which is about $680,000.
 that will be added to the base amount next year. The following year, it will be the difference between $3.25 million and the base amount.
 In 2021-22, it will be the difference between $3.775 million in the base amount. That will be about $1.9 million by then. In 2022-23 and thereafter, the additional allocation will be the difference between the base amount and $5.25 million. And that is where it caps out and that amount escalates using CPI on an ongoing basis.
 That's projected at an average of $3.8 million per year in addition to the $2.5 million a year for the base allocation over the period until fiscal 2930.
 For the base allocation, the total over that period of time is $26.7 million. And for the additional amount, it's $30.5 million for that total of $57.2 million over that period of time. Over what period of time? From this year until fiscal 2930. I think it's eight years. Okay.
 So, just as a way of getting a perspective on this, this is the single largest program and operation allocation within the amended agreement, both on an individual yearly basis as well as over that period of time.
 Now, the bonds are more than that, but these are the allocations that are given to the various facilities and for various promotional purposes and programs that support tourism. So this is the single largest allocation that will go.
 So other healthy facilities priorities that were talked about, there are two new bond support provisions within the agreement, and this is probably the most important thing for the city. One is for a renovation project at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, and the other for a renovation project at the Portland Five Centers for the Arts.
 The bond support is set at $40 million in net proceeds, but that dollar amount is set to escalate beginning this year. And using construction cost escalation rather than CPI, which as most of you know, tends to be much higher than CPI. I think it was 6.5% this year.
 So we're trying to make sure that by the time we actually get around to these projects, $40 million is worth the same amount of money, $40 million or whatever the new number is.
 There are some limits on these bond support allocations. The VMC allocation cannot begin before January 1, 2021, and we must establish the parameters of the project by the end of 2027. But once those parameters are set, there's no limit on when the bonds can be issued. So that gives us a window of opportunity to work with our partners at the Rose Quarter, figure out what the right thing to do at the VMC is,
 put together a funding package and begin that project. For the Portland Five, the dates are no sooner than January 1st, 2024, and project parameters need to be established by December 31st, 2030, with the same open-ended timeframe for when the actual bonds are issued. Do you have a questioner? Why is that so long?
 A couple of reasons. One is it's what the fund can afford. We are, as I've said to Tom several times, and this is when he asked me what are the risks and are we adequately protected, we are loading this system up more than we ever have before. So we've tried to be careful about not overloading it.
 So the other reason I would say is that I don't think we're as ready with Portland Five as we are with VMC to actually begin talking about the specifics of a project and what that would look like.
 And I think you're probably all aware that 40 million is not enough to address the full set of needs at either of those locations. But what we think we have in this is a commitment to funds that allow us to bring a conversation to the community, to look for additional sources of funding, including potentially private contributions for both of those, which will eventually allow us to get to the dollar amounts that we actually need for these venues.
 And as you know, at the Rose Quarter, being able to have that conversation with our partners there is very vital, and the timing is pretty critical. So I'm not going to go into the details of the other facility changes, other than to say there were modest increases to many of the facility operation allocations and future increases to some of those in future years, Portland 5 being one of those.
 There's a new allocation, a modest allocation for the Portland Expo Center, which I think is very important as the Oregon Convention Center gets more booked up with larger events. At the local level, we're going to be looking for other places to hold events and the Expo Center is going to become important for that.
 Very importantly also for the city and metro is a one-time allocation of $2 million that would be in this year's allocations. And that would be to allow the acoustical shell replacement project to go forward at the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall. And in doing that, we will be leveraging $3 million in private funding.
 Consistent with the adequate visitor development fund priority, the two existing visitor development fund allocations are merged into a single allocation, really just for ease of management. There's no point in keeping them separate at this point. And the total amount is increased next year to $2.5 million. As most of you are aware, the BDF grants funds to meeting and convention planners that are oftentimes limited.
 Those grants are oftentimes key in helping us land those events. These grants have historically yielded around 27 to 1 in a return on investment, including a commitment to occupy hotel rooms, which in turn produces more taxes. And I would remind everybody that transient lodging taxes includes a 5% amount that goes directly to the city's general fund, which was about $37 million in last year's general fund.
 The total estimated VDF allocation will grow to about $32.8 million in that same period between now and fiscal 2930. And if you use that historic ROI rate of 27 to 1, that could yield close to a billion dollars in economic activity in the region.
 Consistent with the resilient reserves priority and the letter of agreement, we are maintaining the restricted reserve to assure that there's the ability to fund the programs and operational allocations, in other words, everything except the bonds, in times of economic downturn. And everything is sized to make sure that there's always money for the bonds, but sometimes if there's not enough money, it's those operational allocations that...
 that can get whacked, if you will. If you'll recall in 2009, Portland Five got none of their money. It was around $600,000, which was pretty significant for them. A new strategic reserve of $2 million is funded from the existing reserves, and it will be used for special events or unique investment opportunities that yield an economic benefit to the community.
 the one event that gets talked about the most often would be the NBA All-Star game, but there's other large-scale opportunities where the local hosting city would be required to make a financial contribution to land the event, and this fund will allow us to do that for the first time. In addition to the allocation changes that I just went through, there are a number of changes being made to the fund oversight. This is the answer to Tom about, are we adequately protecting the city's interest?
 The amendments establish new triggers and a new process that requires the existing financial review team, which is made up of the four chief financial officers. So the city, county, metro, and travel Portland CFOs make this committee up.
 They provide recommendations on an ongoing and regular basis on the adequacy of the fund to meet all of its obligations. And in a situation where they determine that there may be an economic circumstance that will not allow that to happen, they make recommendations to the Visitor Development Fund Board, which is a board made up of public and private participants,
 And they will make recommendations or decisions on ways to adjust allocations to make sure that the shortfalls are addressed.
 That decision by the BDF board will be reviewed a second time by the financial review team, and if they concur with a BDF board decision, that decision is final. If they don't, the decision will automatically be referred to dispute resolution, and the dispute resolution committee is made up of the mayor, the chair, and the metro president. So the direct elected officials...
 will be responsible for considering those changes if the BDF board and FRT can't work it out. And that decision is made by simple majority, right? That's correct.
 So a few things about this new system of checks and balances. There are now mandatory periodic reviews by the financial review team twice a year, prospectively and retrospectively. There is flexibility being built into the system that allows any of the allocations that go to programs or operations to be adjusted.
 in managing the impacts of an economic downturn. Right now, the way the system works, it simply goes from the bottom. The bottom bucket doesn't get filled if there's not enough. The one above it does. This allows us to think about different ways to spread the impacts of an economic downturn.
 There is also a built-in fail-safe measure, which will require changes to the allocations, rolling them back to the year one amounts. If the VFDF board and or dispute resolution committee cannot come to a solution that addresses the shortfall, this is the way that we make sure that the city and metro are protected in our bond payments being made.
 That's about all I have. I'm happy to answer any questions. Any questions? Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. I have a bunch of questions. I'll try to be as brief as possible. Director Hartnett, you said that the $57 million for the services side of supportive housing,
 Could be over an eight-year period. My understanding was a 10-year period. Are we just tripping over the math? I'd have to count the number of fiscal years between now and 2029. Somewhere between eight and 10 years, but it could be 10 years. Yeah. Okay. I have the same problem with fiscal years and doing the math.
 I don't know whether the following question is directed to you or to Mark Jolin or to someone else, but is the agreement clear that this is a net increase in funding to the Joint Office and therefore is additive and not a backfill? Yes.
 Yes, those words are used, new and additive, and it specifically speaks about the funds going to the joint office or any successor agency. So over time, if we come up with a different system of addressing homelessness, this allocation would go to a successor. Thank you. Obviously...
 My own preference is that the bulk of the dollars go to fund the services on supportive housing, but that is ultimately a decision to be made by the joint office and other governing bodies.
 There has been some talk of using a portion of the money to provide to buy down some of the units of the Metro Housing Bond. So ultimately, that's a decision to be made by the Joint Office? That's correct. Exclusively? That's correct. Okay. Thank you.
 There is a new reporting requirement in the agreement. So one of the things that we don't really know right now is how funds are being used sometimes. So we've added a reporting requirement, and we will be asking the Joint Office along with everybody else to share information on how they're expending these funds and how they're actually meeting the goals stated in the agreement. Let's take a moment just to focus on the three –
 programs that are going to potentially get resources. So starting with the Keller, you said that there's a $2 million-plus set-aside program
 That goes to our Lynch-Schinzer. Yeah, sorry. And that will then leverage some private fundraising and will get us now a state-of-the-art sound system. Is that correct? That's correct. I know that's been talked about over the past year, so we're going to move on that one. That's correct. Okay. And obviously the Keller has some resilience issues, and who knows if you add up those dollars. Okay.
 What's the minimum you need that you estimate you need to keep VMC in basic functioning condition, recognizing that the future of VMC may not actually be decided until many years out and even, you know,
 potentially after we embrace the Albina vision or any number of other plans for the area. So what do you consider to be the minimum you need to maintain it as an operational facility? So you might recall in 2015 we did the BMC options study, and in that we looked at three different versions. And the essential repair and replacement version of that, those three scenarios, was around $40 million. Okay.
 Unfortunately, $40 million is really not going to take care of many of the things that are needed in that venue. The number I'm using right now, which was based on that 2015 study, is around $70 to $80 million, which is kind of in the middle of the range of the three options that we looked at. The high end was at like $97 million.
 Those are the investments in things like HVAC, structural integrity. ADA, new seats. ADA. Yeah. So it doesn't in any way preclude an adaptive reuse of the facility if someone comes up with a better long-term idea that creates a sustainable revenue source. Yeah.
 Well, so I would start perhaps by saying that I think the VMC is showing itself to actually be quite sustainable. From an operational standpoint, the venue has been net profitable for the last four years, with the total net operating profit for last fiscal year being close to $1.4 million. Okay.
 And that is in part because RIPCity management has been very creative in finding new uses for the venue. And things like the Phil Knight Invitational made a huge difference last year. The year before that, the net operating profit at the venue was around $800,000.
 I appreciate that. I'm also thinking back over the last 10 years, we've had a number of big visioning projects about what's the future of the VMC. That's correct. We've had people talking about it as a sports venue. Community centers, yep. That was Doug Oblitz's vision. We've had arts. We've had health care. We've had swoosh on it. Big box retail. Rollercoaster. I guess...
 I guess the point I want to make is that
 In allocating the resources to maintain the building as a city asset, we are not precluding an opportunity that could come down in the next five to ten years where someone says, I've got a big vision and I'm willing to pay for it. That's correct. Okay. That's correct. Commissioner Fish, I do think it's important to add, when you talk about the timeline, we do believe that this commitment that the jurisdictions are making together does change our ability to have
 discussions exactly as you are identifying with key partners who have already offered in the right context to bring money to the table. So I think you alluded to this could be several years down the road. We will start very soon with this commitment at looking at options. Well, it also sounds to me from the way you've positioned it that this is going to help us in our negotiations with RIPCity as they consider whatever their options are when the lease comes up. I believe that's correct. Thank you.
 Great. I'd like to, at this moment, invite Jeff Miller. He's the president and CEO of Travel Portland. He's an important partner in all of this, and I wanted to give him the opportunity to provide some invited testimony. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, council members. As you know, Travel Portland is the destination marketing management organization for Portland, and we bring those wonderful visitors and their dollars to town to spend in our city.
 I want to start with my testimony with a reminder that the lodging and rental car businesses came forward in 2001 to fund the expansion of the Oregon Convention Center after the citizens of Portland rejected a tax measure to fund that. In their wisdom, those rental car and lodging members knew that their expanding the center would create great economic impact, not only for their businesses but also for businesses large and small throughout the region.
 In that initial agreement, other visitors' facilities needs were addressed, as well as a supportive system of investments of infrastructure and marketing for Portland as a destination. These investments began the visitors' facilities intergovernmental agreement, and I like to always emphasize that they are visitors' facilities agreements was where we started.
 Amendments were made in 2013 that further strengthened the industry's investments in Portland's success, which included the ability to build the Hyatt Regency at the Oregon Convention Center, as it is officially known.
 We've been seeing a significant increase in convention bookings for the future since we've been able to sell that. Last year, we saw increased future room nights of over 62,000 room nights, 47% increase from the year before. So very successful. That means more jobs, more taxes generated, and more money spent in local businesses. And you've heard from Susan on the summary points of the agreement, and we're very excited to see those strategic investments in Portland's cultural and visitor venues.
 When I first moved to Portland 25 years ago, a long time, I was a member of the P5 Advisory Committee, participated on Mayor Adams' visioning of Veterans Memorial Coliseum, and as the Merck General Manager saw the inner workings of P5, OCC, and the Expo. I have a passion for these venues and what they do for our community. These investments are for Portlanders first, as they are the most important customers of those venues. They help make Portland a great place to live.
 The agreement before you today shows once again how the lodging and rental car partners have stepped up to the plate with Mayor Wheeler and other government partners. I want to share our public support for the livability and safety supportive services investment. And I want to be clear, Mayor Wheeler, Metro Council President Tom Hughes, Chair Khafre, with the industry's participation, we're all champions of additive investments in livability and safety support services. Credit should be roundly shared.
 And while we are very supportive, we also expect accountability and measurements of success. One of the ten points of our recently completed Tourism Master Plan was for us to be actively engaged in making a difference in vulnerable communities.
 The county must use those additive funds to make a visible difference for those living in crisis on the streets of Portland. And as you are a partner in a joint office of homeless services, we will work with you to monitor that success on the industry's behalf. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Council, for your part in getting this agreement over the finish line. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mr. Miller, does anybody have any questions? Mr. Fish?
 Jeff, I can't resist the opportunity since you're here to ask you two questions. The first is I just got back from La Jolla, a particularly beautiful part of Southern California just outside of San Diego. I was struck by the level of street homelessness that I encountered in the downtown shopping district and the way the community adapted to that. Okay.
 About a year ago, I was in Los Angeles and learned they have two and a half times the per capita homeless challenge that we face. And, of course...
 recently in Seattle to watch my daughter run the marathon. And Seattle is a harsher city than our city because of the way the street grid is laid out and the kind of downtown structures. So the homeless situation seems harsher, frankly. So you are no doubt hearing from peer cities and from your counterparts in other cities. What are we not doing enough of to address this challenge?
 You know, I think this begins to make investments in those supportive services, but I will tell you that it's important that we separate the need to take care of our homeless population and how we address bad street behavior, as we like to call it. They're two very different things. And having supportive
 support services and services actually on the street. We hope some of these funds will be used to take care of people in crisis on the street today and get them into services as well as supportive housing. So the industry is very interested in being a part of that conversation, and our team has been working with Mark Jolin closely on sort of what is going on, and so we look for ways to partner more closely with him. The other question I wanted to ask you is somehow,
 Every once in a while, someone who is thinking of coming to Portland that chooses not to because they've seen something on TV or they've read something, somehow, for some strange reason, those e-mails end up in our inboxes. And so we get to read them. My recollection is that we're about 16 million tourists coming through the region annually now. Yes. And that's a lot of people. And where does that rank in terms of our peer groupings? Yes.
 You know, and we're very similar to the same size cities. We have the fortunate advantage of having a lot of direct service international flights. So the mix of our tourists are generally better than, say, in Austin, Texas, or cities without the kind of air service we have. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate your being here.
 And speaking of special guests, I know we do have Mark Jolin here from the Joint Office. He doesn't have a presentation today, but if anybody had any questions specific to the Joint Office, he wanted to make himself available for that purpose. You're off the hook today, Mark. Congratulations. Public testimony on this item, Carla. No one signed up. Very good. Anything further?
 This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. Just before you go, I know because our guests won't be here next week, I just want to thank everybody, the team who's been negotiating, Travel Portland, Joint Office. This has not been at all easy, even though, as Jeff said, we all agree on the goals and we're all very blessed by the tourism industry and the funds that it brings in.
 I need to mark my thanks to everybody and to note that I'm particularly happy about the allocation of money for Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for asking the question about that, because it is doing well. But as I'm going to say in my comments next week, it hosted the Beatles and Queen and Aretha Franklin. And since I'm now doing kind of my reunion, my tour of...
 aging rock bands before they stopped touring. I'm going to a lot of really big venues. I just can't imagine seeing those icons in a really intimate situation like Veterans Memorial Coliseum. And thank you to the veterans who insisted that we rename it and that we will keep it. So I just thank you, everybody. When does this come back next week? Does this come back to a time certain? I don't believe so. No, it'll just be on the regular agenda. Okay.
 So what that means is we're likely to have some people in the chambers who are here for some other item, and we'll take it up. So if I could, Mayor, I just – I think Jeff said something very important when he –
 when he complimented the three jurisdictional leaders for bringing about this deal. And we've just come off of a Metro housing bond, which showed a unique and high level of collaboration among jurisdictional partners, and it would not have happened, it would not have been successful without that. And, Mayor, I want to thank you for your leadership on this, obviously great staff work.
 working out the details and there still may be some wordsmithing given if past is prologue here but this is a great opportunity for our city and it's a prudent way of tapping some excess revenues that we have and it's going to it has the potential to do a lot of good and I think
 From my point of view, as much as I like the investments in VMC and the Schnitz and potentially in Keller, it's having a predictable source of funding for services on the permanent supportive housing side and also addressing livability concerns, which we share with many of our clients.
 our Travel Portland friends in terms of getting services to people who genuinely need them and are deserving of our support. So I want to thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Kershaw. I'd like to just also thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this. And Jeff Miller and Tom Hughes and Chair Caffori had the pleasure of serving on the VDF board for a while and on the Travel Portland board as well and really enjoyed that. It's just really amazing.
 Very interesting to learn about the travel and tourism industry in Portland and to watch its fantastic growth over the last 10 years or so. It's just amazing. But I will have to say that every time I think of the VDF agreement, I'll always think of Sam Adams. I think he probably started this as the mayor, Katz's chief of staff, started these discussions.
 That's Sam Adams right now. Yeah, really. He's like, don't bring me into this. Excuse me, Dan Saltzman's office. The commissioner is tied up right now. Chair Kofori, he'll get right back to you. Okay. I'll always think of Sam because it was, to me, it was such a Byzantine agreement with buckets. You don't refer to them as buckets anymore. I think you call them allocations now.
 But, yeah. Still calling buckets. Do you still call on buckets? Okay. Anyway, it's just I'll always think of Sam Adams both as chief of staff to Vera Katz and also as mayor in his own right when I think of this agreement. Because it was suitably complicated that only somebody like Sam could make all these parts move together. But it is a great agreement. And I'm really pleased also to see that.
 the support for housing and homelessness. It's really time for the visitor development fund to do this. And so thanks to all your members, Jeff, for stepping up on this as well. Very good. Well, Commissioner E. Daly. This is what I get for waiting to be recognized. First of all, well, I won't be here next week, so I appreciate the opportunity to make some comments on record. If I've learned anything about housing,
 spectator venues. It's that everything related to it is incredibly lengthy and complex and Susan I'm so glad I don't have your job. This agreement is 36 pages long. It has four pages of definitions.
 I've memorized all of them. I just want to say that tourism is obviously a huge and vital driver of our local economy, but it is also a driver for displacement. Really now more than ever that we have hundreds if not thousands of homes and units taken out of our rental inventory and put into the short-term rental market.
 And we hear complaints and concerns from constituents and out-of-towners about the impact our homelessness crisis has on tourism and our local economy. There's a direct correlation, direct and undeniable correlation between affordability and tourism.
 and homelessness. So this is really a vicious cycle. My hope is that we are at the beginning of a virtuous cycle by investing this money in supporting the people who...
 are the least likely to be able to get themselves housed in this market. They may have previously, we had SROs, people may have lived with friends and family who themselves are now facing displacement and unaffordability, and they are the least likely to succeed without support. So I just want to thank everyone involved.
 the mayor, Commissioner Fish and his staff, Tom and Susan, Travel Portland, the joint office, Multnomah County, and Metro. It's really exciting to see this investment, and I'm looking forward to what we're going to do with it.
 Excellent. Well, in the spirit of thanks, and I'll give a longer speech next week, but I really appreciate Jeff being here and representing Travel Portland and underscoring the fact that this would not happen without the private sector's involvement and agreement to actually use part of this to address an issue which really is important to the travel and tourism industry, just as Commissioner Daly has said.
 But I want to say my final thanks for what might almost have escaped this conversation as something of an errata, but it's really important, and that is Commissioner Fritz has been our dutiful representative on the DDF board. And I may not have this quite right, but since no one's going to correct me, I'm just going to go for it and say I believe she never misses a meeting. She is a regular presence on behalf – look at that, thumbs up all around.
 So I want to thank you for being the representative of the city council on the board and being diligent and getting information back to us and to our team who need all this information.
 You don't get thanked very often for that, but today you should. Well, thank you. And I think it's one of the only assignments that I can think of that I've had for the whole 10 years I've been here. And it's also the only morning meeting that I agreed to go to, which tells you that it's really worth going to the VDF board meeting. So thank you for acknowledging not so much my participation there because it's really fun, but my getting there for 8 o'clock. Very good.
 So, without any further ado, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thanks, everybody. Next item is item 1294, please.
 amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, and zoning map as it applies to certain existing and proposed manufactured dwelling parks, including the Fox Run mobile home, community, and family essentials. All right. So we are here today. This has the –
 a little bit of formality associated with it. It is a hearing. We're here today to work on manufactured dwelling parks. This ordinance is a follow-up to the manufactured dwelling park zoning ordinance that Council adopted last August. At
 At that time, we acknowledged that mobile home parks play a unique and important role, offering lower-cost market-rate housing, especially for larger units that can accommodate families. Because people can own their own home and only have to rent a space, a mobile home can also be an affordable pathway to home ownership for lower-income households.
 The zoning ordinance is a new approach to zoning mobile home parks designed to support the long-term stability of these parks. As part of that ordinance adoption, Commissioner Saltzman requested that BPS bring back a map change to rezone the one park that was initially left out because it is the city adopting a, and then my talking points disappear. What's the rest of that sentence? Yes.
 At that time, it is part of the prime industrial overlay, and there were some complicated industrial lands issues associated with that. And so we've taken the last four months to sort those out. You didn't even miss a beat.
 Good. Bringing back this map change. Good. So this is an emergency ordinance. An emergency exists due to the fact that Portland's continued population and economic growth have had a significant impact on rental housing, resulting in more than a 30% increase in average rents from 2011 to 2017, and consistently low vacancy rates for the past year.
 between 1.7% and 3.3% from 2011 to 2017. Manufactured dwelling parks play a small but important part in providing affordable housing, and the incentives to promote this housing type should be available immediately. I don't know, Commissioner Saltzman, if you have some opening remarks for anybody else. Well, I just want to say that I'm really grateful to Tom and the Planning and Sustainability Commission for taking this up after I flagged it back in August.
 Fox Run is probably the largest manufactured dwelling park in the city, I would believe. It's huge. And I was introduced to Fox Run when I did some meal deliveries for Meals for Kids programs.
 So I was really incredulous that somehow that was being left out of the protections we were passing back in August. And I'm really grateful that you've been able to get this back here in time for me to vote on it. Very good. So, Commissioners, the city has been approached by Louise Williams, Director of Family Essentials, a provider of transitional housing for families experiencing homelessness.
 Family Essentials has a half-acre site near Southeast Powell and 136th that they'd like to rezone to manufactured dwelling park in order to provide additional housing and services for families in need. I would like to move a substitute ordinance that adds the map amendments for the Family Essentials site in addition to the Fox Run mobile home park amendments. Can I get a second? I'll move it. Second. Second. Second.
 So we have a motion, and Commissioner Saltzman seconds. Thank you. Mr. Armstrong, if you'd introduce today's session. Sure. Just real quickly to follow up on what you said, we have two map changes today that involve both comprehensive plan map changes and corresponding zone changes. Okay.
 As you said, the first one is the Fox Run Mobile Home Park up in North Portland. It currently has a mixed employment designation, and it's part of the prime industrial area that's part of the Columbia Corridor. And that the...
 recommendation from the Planning and Sustainability Commission is to change that map designation to manufactured dwelling park and the residential manufactured dwelling park zoning and removing the prime industrial overlay from this site.
 Here's an air photo of the Fox Run mobile home park. It's up off of Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, up almost to Delta Park. And it's mostly surrounded off of Gertz Road by other industrial uses, but there is a little pocket of this park and adjacent residential uses there.
 And here's the map of the surrounding zoning. As mentioned, it's a fairly large park. It's 18 acres. It has 143 spaces, which is larger than average for the other mobile home parks in the city. It is on the edge of the prime industrial area along the Columbia Corridor. And I will say that in...
 when we were doing the comprehensive plan update, that we looked at this site back in 2012, 2013, when we were doing the industrial lands analysis. It was a really difficult decision as to what to designate it.
 because it's not the best location for housing. It is surrounded by industrial land. I think back then we had a little bit more bias towards the surrounding industrial land use. Fast forward to today, I think we have a little bit more sensitivity towards the housing needs and the difficulty that would be involved in relocating 143 families out of that park.
 To that end, you know, it is an existing development. It is an ongoing business that would make it expensive to close and redevelop to an industrial use. One of the prime purposes of the prime industrial designation has to do with access
 to freight systems, especially to the river or the railroad, which this site does not. Also, the mixed employment zoning is a little bit different. It allows for a wider range of uses, including office and retail, more so than the general industrial zoning. So there's no guarantee that if it redeveloped that we would have –
 that we would get industrial jobs and not retail jobs or even office jobs. And then finally, we did do the industrial land capacity analysis. This chart goes through that.
 and what it shows is that although we're getting pretty thin on our supply, we still meet the state requirements under Goal 9 that shows that for our industrial lands in this area, we still have a small surplus of lands and enough to be able to make this map change.
 The other site is what we call the Family Essentials site. It's on 136th Avenue, just south of Powell Boulevard. It is a half-acre site. It has one existing home on it now. It's surrounded by a mix of R5 and R2 zoning around it.
 This is another situation where in the process of adopting the 2035 comprehensive plan, it's a site that was R2, but because it was only developed or only had a single-family home on it, we, through the comprehensive plan update process, had switched the zoning to R5,
 mainly in response to concerns raised by the David Douglas School District around student enrollment and being over capacity at nearby schools. I think both in the interim, that concern on the part of David Douglas around school's capacity has lessened a bit. They've actually seen their enrollment be flat or decline in some of the area schools.
 and that there is a mix of zoning along 136 that would support changing this to the manufactured dwelling park zoning. And with that, I can answer any of your questions. Very good. Colleagues, any questions for right now? Commissioner Daly? Do you know offhand how many parks we have?
 We have 57 manufactured dwelling parks in the city. And would the residents number in the hundreds or the thousands? Those 57 have almost 3,000 spaces units in them across the city. Very good. Okay. Now we can accept testimony on these map amendments.
 How many people do we have signed up? Two people have signed up. Okay, very good. We had said two minutes to testify, but given that we don't have very many people, go ahead and take three if you need it. Garrett Stevenson and Luis Williams. Thank you. Come on up. Thanks for being here. Name for the record, please. And the microphones slide around. Usually about six inches or so is about right. Thanks for being here.
 Good afternoon, mayors and counselors. My name is Garrett Stevenson. I'm the pro bono legal counsel for Family Essentials. And it looks like I've got a bit of an echo going on, so I'm going to move this even farther away from me. We, as staff mentioned, this is really an adjustment to...
 some of the broad strokes, zone changes that happened during the implementation of the new comprehensive plan. I was actually contacted by Small Business Legal Clinic and Luis Williams, who is the Director of Family Essentials,
 was a client and the reason why the family essential site is before you today is because louise williams acquired this site with the intent of developing a transitional housing project with 10 units on it which was consistent with the zoning at the time she acquired it
 It just so happened she acquired it in the one gray period of time during which there was no way she could have participated in the decision to rezone that property, but also she acquired it after the notices had gone out. So she acquired the property after all the hearings had been done. However, the first time she learned of the new zoning on the property that would prohibit this project from going forward.
 was, I believe, in March saying that the zoning would become effective in May. So we decided that we would try and work with staff to see if we could resolve the issue. This is a really neat project. Family Essentials is something that Luis is going to talk more about. But essentially what they do is they provide –
 extremely necessary housing for families who have been in and out of the family services system
 programs and they provide a stable place for these families to come together and rebuild themselves, recover from whatever issues they've been having. Almost all of these units will have children in them. The idea being that they receive subsidies in order to stay in these units until they're on their feet again. And what I would stress and what was stressed to me is that
 These are families on the edge of homelessness. So these are not folks that have any ability to go out and find other market rate housing. This is a very specific sort of laser pointed type of program to help these folks out.
 I really want to thank staff in working with us to find a solution to this. Specifically, I want to thank Leslie Lum in the Planning and Sustainability Department and Tom Armstrong. And then I also want to thank a number of your own staffs, particularly Matt Grum, who's Commissioner Saltzman's staff.
 Marshall Runkel, Sonia Shmansky, if I'm pronouncing that right, and Amy Rathfelder. Everybody seemed to come out of the woodwork to help me, which from my perspective is somewhat unusual, and I really do appreciate it. So with that, we really do support the change of this to the new RMP zone.
 I'll just note that while there is some difference in the allowable density between RMP and the old R2 zone, when it manifests on this site, it's the question of one or two units. So this is not a situation where the neighbors are going to see anything effectively all that different, nor is it a situation where a developer could go in and build something radically inconsistent with the neighborhood. The way we look at this is it's a
 a well thought out project that is well along its way to being ready to go and this will really facilitate it. So with that I'll turn it over to Louise. Thank you. Appreciate it. So my name is Louise and I'm the director. I've worked in social work for the past 15 years and after obtaining my master's degree in 2015 is when I started Family Essentials.
 So of all the agencies I've worked at, the biggest barrier to success for families is housing. So at Families Essentials, we provide transitional housing and service coordination so that families can obtain the resources needed to be sustainable over a longer period of time. While there's a growing effort to create more affordable housing, families are in need of
 support to address the trauma of homelessness, really. So having that support while accessing resources and having a safe place to live is all within the best interest of the family.
 Our transitional housing also allows tenants to build skills in terms of following the guidelines of a lease and paying rent. A lot of our families come from homelessness. They're living in cars or their children are in foster care, and so they haven't had a stable home for a long period of time. And so getting back into the swing of learning how to maintain a household are skills that they need prior to going into housing.
 the regular market where landlords are less forgiving when it comes to lease violations. So this year, with this new site that we recently purchased, we've only had three residents. We have two currently living there right now, but we've had 100% success rate. So all the families that have come through Family Essentials have left and went to permanent housing. So...
 We're requesting to be added to this mobile home project to really just increase the opportunities for families to be stably housed.
 Great. Thank you both for your testimony. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. One housekeeping item. Legal counsel has informed me that the substitute was actually filed as the ordinance, so it is not necessary for us to take two votes. We'll just vote on the ordinance, which already encompasses both sites. Is that correct? Very good. Thank you. We'll have staff come up. Any further questions of staff? No.
 Very good. That concludes our hearing then. The record is now closed. I just have one question, and that is, has the neighborhood been informed of this change for the Family Essentials site?
 Yes. We sent out a notice of this hearing to all property owners within 400 feet of the site, which is the normal quasi-judicial process to do that, as well as the Neighborhood Association. Thank you. And I assume nobody else has any ordinances or, excuse me, amendments at this point. Very good. Please call the roll. Udailey. Thank you.
 I want to thank everyone who worked on this item. I'm really pleased that the city is getting out ahead of what could be a next round of displacement of thousands of vulnerable residents. When mobile home parks are sold or redeveloped, entire communities can be displaced in one fell swoop.
 Mobile home parks are largely hidden from public view by design. This was how we planned our cities, and this is the case around the country. So I think many Portlanders would be surprised to learn that we have 3,000 mobile home spaces in the city, which constitutes housing for several thousand residents, I'm going to guess.
 While it's an affordable housing option, it's fraught with challenges, especially when residents are forced to move. They don't just have to move their belongings. They have to move their actual home. And despite the term mobile home, these homes aren't built to be mobile anymore. They're mobile on the way to the parking – to the park.
 They are incredibly expensive and difficult to move after they've been lived in. There's a great segment on the podcast, 99% Invisible, on this that just came out, as well as a recent article on CityLab. I'm just kind of fascinated by this little arena, housing arena. So, of course, I am very pleased to vote aye.
 Prince. Well, thank you for the work that you do at Family Essentials, and thank you, Tom, for the work that you do. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Wheeler, for coming up with this. Who would have thought that people would be asking to join this? We were a bit nervous, and yet now I think it's...
 actually a bit worrying. Have we made it to did we miss something in terms of it? But we didn't. We set it up so that it would be good for everybody and I appreciate that the fact that two more communities want in validates that. So thank you very much. Thank you Dan for flagging one of the two issues and thank you Tom for your good work. Well thanks again Tom. I appreciate your work on this. Thanks to the Planning and Sustainability Commission and thank you Mayor. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Good work, everybody, on this. There was something I just want to call out that was provided in testimony, which I really appreciated hearing. Did you notice that somebody from each one of our staffs has been very actively engaged in this? This is, I think, a really great example of people coming forward from the community, people like Tom who are leaders in our city infrastructure and our city bureaus,
 And the city council staff's working together collaboratively to help find a really good solution. So this is a really great way to end this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. So guess what, colleagues? For the first time in the history of the world, we are 35 minutes ahead of schedule. The next item is a time-certain event. So we will take a recess until 345 p.m. Yeah, that's amazing.
 All right, good afternoon, everyone. We are now back in session. Carla, we have two items left, but could we please read them together? Could you please read item number 1295 and 1296? Okay.
 Yes, 1295, amend property tax exemption for multiple unit housing development code and inclusionary housing code to extend the current inclusion rate and fee in lieu for affordable units until 2020. And 1296, amend inclusionary housing code to extend the current inclusion rate and fee in lieu for affordable units until 2021. Director?
 Director Callahan, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioner, Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. Due to the lateness of your council session this afternoon, we're going to get right to the guts of the matter. And we do have a PowerPoint for you if you have any questions, but we thought we'd make this very simple for you this afternoon. So as the mayor said, we are here, the council clerk said, we are here to ask your permission to extend the current sunset
 for a lowered inclusion rate outside of the central city for an additional two years. As you may recall, when you passed the original inclusionary housing program, you set a lowered inclusion rate in the neighborhoods outside of the central city at 8% and 15%.
 for units at 60 or 80%. We believe that the program is showing signs of working in the neighborhoods and that the market is still adjusting to the program, and we believe the market needs additional time to adjust before we would ramp up from a 15% to a 20% requirement in the neighborhoods.
 In addition, we'll also be doing a series of additional refinements to the program starting next year with a work plan for looking at a variety of different areas to make sure that the program is calibrated correctly to adjust to the market realities. And so I have both Matthew Schibold and Tyler Bump here with me. If you had any questions for us and otherwise, I would. What comes after the word from on this recommended action?
 Well, that's a good question. I think it would just be a period. I think from is a little bit of an additional word, but thank you, Commissioner. Congratulations, Commissioner Fish. We were seeing if everybody was really paying attention to this presentation. Why is the pause this important?
 probably a longer than necessary pause. We're here to respond to any questions that you may have. That was the PowerPoint. That was the most economical PowerPoint we've ever seen. You know, if she hadn't added the extra word, we could have cut half the time out of this. So we have slides if we need them to help answer any questions you might have. But at this point, we would conclude our presentation. Good. All right. Is there any further discussion, any public testimony on this item, Carla? No.
 Oh, wait. Wait, wait, wait. Thank you. I just wish I had awards to hand out for the best and shortest presentation ever. That's what I like about Shannon. She doesn't mince words. She says, I'm going to keep this short and to the point. I was raised by Commissioner Salzman professionally, so you all know that I know the value of a short and succinct presentation. Okay.
 I show three people have signed up. Very good. We have Robert Patterson, Tim O'Brien, and I believe it's Blue, BLU. Come on up. Hi, everybody. Good afternoon. I'm Robert Patterson. I wish that I had caught more of the earlier presentations, I guess, because it's a matter that's close to my heart. Okay.
 Gosh, you know, I had never been homeless before moving to Portland, Oregon. And while this, in many senses, is a great city to be homeless in because there are a number of world-class services available to homeless people, it is nevertheless a challenge to be homeless anywhere, I imagine. Okay.
 When I say that homelessness should be a protected class, what I think of is the many times that I've been arrested by the Portland Police Bureau for trespassing only to have the charges dropped the next day. That happened to me last night, actually. I still need to go out to the property and evidence warehouse to pick up evidence.
 the property that was taken from me during that arrest. In fact, the majority of arrests made in this county are of people that are homeless, even though the homeless population of this county is only 3%. That reminds me of Jim Crow-era Mississippi, and Portland deserves better.
 Mayor, why do we arrest so many homeless people? So I've been very patient. As you know, this is related to inclusionary housing. You were here this morning. You testified on numerous things. Can we stop the clock while he's speaking? Well, you asked me a question. The testimony is supposed to be germane to what we are actually talking about, and we're not talking about that. We're talking about the inclusionary housing extension.
 Why does the city arrest so many homeless people, Mayor? That is not what we are here to discuss. And if you'd like to take that up, we can take that up in a different time. Sir, every time I try to go to your office, I find the door is locked. You are in violation of our council rules. You are wasting other people's time. We'll take a recess. Sir? Yes. Let's go. Some leaders show leadership. What was that, Mayor? Okay.
 This winter, somebody's going to freeze to death. What? What's that? Good job cutting the camera, right? Carla's a pro at this. She's been through it once or twice. I think our open signal folks are getting very good at it, too. We're back in session. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, council members. My name is Tim O'Brien. I'm a local developer here in town at a company called Urban Asset Advisors. Appreciate you taking the time to hear this. I actually think the recommendation that Shanna made is a good one.
 I've currently got two projects that actually just recently broke ground under your IZ program. Actually very much support it. I think there's a lot of social benefits to the program, mixing low income with market rate. And both those projects, for the record, are actually underneath the ramp-up period. So we're doing 8% at 60% of median income on those projects. Yes.
 So I think, you know, as I think you probably are all aware, just keep in touch with the market. There are a lot of headwinds right now to development in general. IZ is one of them, but it's one of many. Hard costs, interest rates haven't gone up. So I guess I'm just going on the record saying, hey, I think this is a good idea.
 I don't think we couldn't do a project right now even with these lower rates, quite honestly, just because of what's happened with interest rates and hard costs. But I think we all can agree that the pipeline right now is not what we want it to be in the city for what we know to be our future housing needs based on our rate of growth, job growth, and population growth. So I would encourage you to –
 pass this. I've talked to some of your staff as well about just making sure, and some of you actually, about keeping tabs on this program and relating the different percentages and impacts it has based on other factors in the market that might be headwinds and encourage, you know, what you're doing right now, which is, I believe, semi-annual reviews of success of the project, pipeline, and just keeping track of it and making sure that we're encouraging housing. We've
 We don't want to be in a situation where we were seven, eight years ago, severely under shortage of housing and rents going through the roof. And I think we're seeing all right now the impacts of just the market supply and demand situation.
 We've delivered a lot of supply over the last eight years, and that supply is now coming into the market. We're seeing rents stabilize, and actually in many cases, a lot of our projects, actually, rents are going down. We're giving concessions. So I think that cycle worked. Anyway, I think that's it. If you have any questions for me, please. Thank you. Commissioner Salter. I'm just curious to know where the two projects are that you are working on.
 using the inclusionary zoning for? You bet. So we built a project in Multnomah Village. It was our kind of phase one, and the second phase is inclusionary zoning just right on Capitol Highway across from the community center there. Oh, yeah. That's 39 units. It's the old gas station site. Yeah, right, right. And then our second one is out on Division 33rd right by Pok Pok. We built, again, a phase one that was not inclusionary, 30 units, and actually this will be 54 units that will have the inclusionary units in it.
 So, yeah, both of those have broken ground here in the last two, three weeks. Thanks for being a leader. Yeah, hi. I don't have a question as much as a request. If you could just share your secrets with your colleagues in the industry who are struggling to make these developments pencil out. I know...
 Things are changing. It might not be as easy as it has been. And I have. I've actually spoken on the subject in many. I usually only speak at industry events, but I definitely am very supportive of my compadres in the industry. Actually, it's a very collegial group of folks. It's just great to hear from a developer who embraces inclusionary housing. I think some developers see it as a penalty or an impediment, and we have an obligation to,
 to make sure that there is adequate affordable housing that meets our actual demand. And developers benefit from all the public dollars that we invest in our city, in infrastructure, parks, whatever. So I wish more people kind of took your view.
 Yeah, and I will say part of it is, you know, I'm a local developer. These are private individuals that are investing in this project. The returns are not the level. We also do institutional investments. We do some larger scale stuff like the Grand Belmont at the Bridgehead.
 It doesn't work for large scale. It wouldn't have worked even two years ago when we first signed up. So there's going to have to be some other adjustments over time as we calibrate this thing and get it to work. But, yeah, and I would say at least most of the developers that I know definitely are happy to embrace it and use it. But it does – I mean, the returns are low enough where it can't attract outside kind of institutional capital. It's going to get a lot of quantity done.
 I mean, these are pretty small projects, obviously, on the scale that they could have been. But, yeah, I think it's really good as a city that we're doing this, and I think it's just finding that sweet spot of how do we deliver these units and how do we subsidize them just enough to help them get and keep their returns to get them done but not over-subsidize them, right? Yeah.
 Great. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Excellent. Any further questions? Very good. We'll take up the ordinances in their order. 1295, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you, Director Callahan and your team. Thanks to everybody who's worked on this. It's really great to get to 4 o'clock on a long day and know that we've got a housing bureau that has things organized and under control. Thank you. Hi. Fish. Hi. Seltzman. Thanks, Director Callahan and your team. Hi. Wheeler. Hi.
 Inclusionary housing is a new tool that we have in addressing our city's housing crisis and fostering diverse neighborhoods now and for the future. Okay, we've got an issue here. We'll take a recess. We're back in session.
 By linking the development of affordable housing to market rate housing, this program ensures that as Portland grows, people of all income levels will have the opportunity to live and thrive here.
 Since its implementation, the city is committed to closely monitoring the inclusionary housing program and making adjustments as needed to ensure that it's working to create more workforce housing and supporting the smart growth of our city. It's clear from today's presentation that the program is working in our neighborhoods and that the market is adjusting.
 The backlog of projects vested prior to the adoption of the Inclusionary Housing Program continues to move through the permitting process.
 Post-inclusionary housing projects in the permitting process are also increasing. Potential projects continue to enter into the early assistance program. Extending the lower inclusion rate outside of the central city supports the positive momentum we're seeing and allows the necessary time needed to make incremental program refinements. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. 1295, please. Or excuse me, 1296. Call the roll. You daily?
 Well, I'd like to thank everyone that I didn't thank on my last very brief vote. I'm a little distracted and stressed out right now. But I believe in inclusionary housing. I'm pleased with this action we're taking today. I'm interested in conversations down the road, both within City Hall and with the industry, to see if we need to...
 visit the equation, but for now it seems that it's working and we're getting units built and that's very exciting. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Thank you everybody who has worked so hard on this. We appreciate it. It's good progress. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned.