All right, good morning, everybody. This is the December 19th morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. Please call the roll. Thank you. Good morning. Udailey? Fritz? Here. Bish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary.
 Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify and less otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. And when your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. And if you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you. All right. We have communications first up, three minutes each, name for the record. And I'm assuming that the first three individuals who appear to be speaking on the same subject would like to come up together. Is that correct? Oh, excellent. Very good. Go ahead and read their names, Carla. 1304, a request.
 of Amelia Salvador to address council regarding announcement of the recipients of the Portland Immigrant Statue Award 1305 request of Hanen to address council regarding Portland Immigrant of the Year Award and 1306 request of Joe Rossi to address council regarding introduction of award recipients of the Portland Immigrant Statue Award. Excellent. Thank you all for being here. We appreciate it.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. We're here this morning to recognize and acknowledge the recipients of the Portland Immigrant Award. The Portland Immigrant Award is an award that honors the Portland immigrant statue, which is located at the intersection of 96th Avenue and Sandy Boulevard at the intersection of the 205.
 The Portland Immigrant Statue was commissioned in 2011 and is a bronze statue on site the Traffic Island. And it's there to honor immigrants that come to the city of Portland. Every year since, we have awarded the award to a recipient.
 Yes, I just want to say about the project, we award it every year to an immigrant, and the project is in commemoration of Portland's gratitude towards our past, present, and future immigrant citizens. I think this is a unique project because it has the ability to unite everybody in our city, whether your ancestors immigrated here, whether you immigrated here, and in future generations, we're hopeful that we'll still have the influx of immigrants that make our city great.
 It's unique in that aspect. It's also unique in time and aspect that it's relevant throughout all time. And like Amelia said, every year we award it to a citizen who best epitomizes the statue. The statue is the window in time when the immigrant arrives and he's walking into his opportunity to engage in America. And everybody
 In their past, President of Futures had that, somebody in their family have that relevant to them. It was also a really great project. It was privately funded. It's one of those arts projects where it's a grassroots effort, and it really united the Park Roads community on our centennial year of 2011. And I see three of you that were on city council at the time, and we just want to say thank you for that. All right. Good morning.
 My name is Hai Ninh. I'm one of the project directors. And my role was primarily external in reaching out to the community to solicit nominations. And then that was the first phase of the project. And then the second phase was to bring it back to...
 our voting committee. And this year there was a tie, so we're excited to be able to share and recognize two outstanding individuals. The first individual that I'll ask to come up is Hussein Albiati. He is a professor.
 Talented artist, community activist, and a business owner out in Hillsboro. Mayor, may we have our recipients come up to have acknowledgement? You may. We'll suspend the rules without objection. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you.
 I just want to say real quick. Can you speak into the microphone? If you could identify yourself for the record. My name is Hussein Albiati, and I simply just want to say that we all stand on shoulders of giants to build our futures. And I stand on my father's shoulders, and I simply want to say thank you for his sacrifice to be able to come to this land and do something with this opportunity.
 And for that, I'm grateful. So thank you, and I'm excited for what we could build in the future. Beautiful. Thank you. Congratulations.
 One last item. I think, oh, go ahead. Okay. And the second co-recipient for 2018 is Justin Huang. He is also a community activist. He was also a 2018 candidate for state representative and the founder and owner of Joy Teriyaki. So may we also have Justin come up and provide some remarks. Thank you so much.
 Hi, my name is Justin Hwang. First of all, thank you for having me here today and giving me such a reward. And like Hussein told everyone, I'm a Christian.
 Without our parents' sacrifice, I wouldn't be here, and I wouldn't have a chance to have this great education in the state. So all I tried to do was their hard work is not going to waste. So that's what I'm going to keep doing it, and hopefully I could be a great asset for the community, and hopefully I could be a great standard for other immigrants as well. Thank you. You are. Thank you. Thank you.
 One last quick item. I had somebody ask me a while back, like, can we have an artistic marquette of our statue? We commissioned this with the community to, like,
 Is this what we want to do? We had different versions. We made this, and then out of this became the big statue. On the behalf of the community of Park Rose, historic Park Rose in our neighborhoods, and the project team, we'd like to offer this. It's a commemorative edition statue. Somebody in your office can put it on their desk, and when people from other countries come visit, you can tell them that Park Rose is the host community and Portland recognizes immigrant contributions from all countries.
 Thank you. Joe, tell us when the ceremony is because I think you do a formal event, don't you? Yes, we do a formal event on site of which all three of you have attended that were a part of the team. We did it just previously, and we wanted to come here just to announce the winners. So we do it every year in November. Great. We'll find a place of honor for that. That's going to look great in your front office.
 We'll find a great place for it. Thank you so much. Thank you. Would you mind doing me a favor and just hand that to Michelle, who's back there, and we'll take good care of it. Thanks for coming in, and thanks for starting us off on such a positive note. We sure appreciate it. Congratulations to your award winners. Well done. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 1307, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding answer to a question. Morning. Morning. Morning.
 Well, I hope you all know by now I'm not a guy that wants to bitch all the time, but I respect your position and what you guys do. But for 25 months now, again, it's more of a political, unelect people mission I'm on. Commissioner Udaly, she stated that she couldn't help me with my problem, and the only problem I have is she doesn't answer my question. Amanda, thank you for responding to an email here last week saying,
 Uh, you said you didn't know the facts of the case, but there is no case I'm citing to. I just want an answer to my question, and it just seems like we're just kicking the can down the road. Mr. Mayor, 191 days ago, you ordered Michelle to set up a meeting with the city attorney of the police department. Why wasn't that done? She should be fired for not following up with your orders.
 Dan, have a nice time off. I understand that you probably deal a lot with kids. Some of the missions that I'm on in the future is to help kids out. Mr. Fish, I like your park commission position. Maybe next year we could sit together and see how we can put together maybe an idea for a waterfront park for the kids. That's all I had. Other than you probably want to know what this is. This is a medical safety device just approved by the FDA.
 It will go to parks, police, fire, medical emergency people. It incinerates ZAPs, hypodermic needles, so you don't have to pay that expensive medical waste. And I just wanted to introduce that to you. It's just coming on the market. Excellent. Thank you. Interesting. It's good seeing you, Sam. Thank you. Have a good and happy holidays. Thank you. Next individual, please.
 Item 1308, request of Scott Moore to address council to thank the commissioner for years of leadership on the Portland Children's Levy. Come on up. And by the way, while you're coming up, this is Commissioner Saltzman's last Wednesday morning session of the Portland City Council.
 So thank you. For the record, my name is Scott Moore. I'm the executive director of Ethos Music Center. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for allowing me to be here. It's very exciting. I know many of you from my previous roles that I've held, but it's good to address you on behalf of the entire Ethos community. I want to say on behalf of everyone that Commissioner Saltzman, you have our heartfelt gratitude for your work
 years of groundbreaking leadership in the creation of the Portland Children's Levy. And you knew years ago, I feel like you've probably always known, that a society will be judged by how it treats its children. And your vision and your leadership on the Portland Children's Levy has changed so many kids' lives. And I want to thank you for that.
 I'm proud to say that Ethos has been a partner with the Berlin Children's Levee for nearly 15 years now. This partnership allows us to run our Music Corps program, which is our after-school music education program. I should back up and say Ethos Music Center, if you're not familiar with us, we're a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing music access to kids who otherwise wouldn't have it.
 Our Music Corps program operates in 14 schools this year. We run after-school programs in coordination with Sun School Sites, and we're providing opportunities for music education that kids just wouldn't otherwise have. This year, we were also, thanks to the Portland Children's Levy, able to offer 90 summer camp scholarships to kids throughout the city so they could come in and do a week-long, full-day music summer camp. And we're hoping to do that again this year.
 Each year, this program allows us to serve between 400 and 500 students each term in our after-school programs. This is in addition to our in-house private lessons and our rural program that we run. A study that was done with Portland Public Schools a few years ago shows that students who've gone through the Music Corps program show increased...
 They show improvements on standardized testing as well as behavioral benchmarks so that we know that music education really is working. It really is improving the lives of kids who go through it. But we also, aside from the numbers, we know that...
 music really does have the power to change lives and build communities because we see it on the faces of the kids that we serve every single day. It gives students the ability to, it gives them creativity, critical thinking, a lot of skills that are desperately needed. And I just wanted to read a couple of quotes from our students when we asked them how their music classes make them feel, Commissioner Saltzman. Playing music makes me feel good because it makes me feel confident. That was from Nia.
 Kayla says, I used to be scared of performing. Not anymore. I love it. Fatima says, singing makes me feel like I'm a celebrity. So we know we give these students the opportunity to perform and to develop their skills, and it gives them confidence and the ability to express themselves creatively and fearlessly. And just really quick.
 I wanted to present you with a ukulele on behalf of the Ethos community as a thanks and a token of gratitude for all of your help. It's signed by many of our students, so you can see all of this, but I do know that you'll have to wait to actually get this until you're a private citizen. So I'll hold onto it, and in January, I'll hand it over to you along with a lesson interest form. We do private lessons for adults too. So if you wanna come in and take ukulele lessons, we'd be happy to have you.
 That's awesome. I just want to thank you, Scott, and keep doing a great job. Ethos is a fantastic organization, and I really appreciate the work you're doing to help our kids every day. And thank you for the ukulele, and I will cherish that. And he really will probably need those lessons. So we'll hold this spot for him. We're happy to give them. Thanks for coming in. Thank you. Consent agenda, which items, if any, have been pulled? Carla?
 Item 1322 and item 1330. And 1330, please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please, 1309, and could you also read it with 1310? Aye.
 1309, accept the City of Portland 2019 Federal Legislative and Regulatory Agenda.
 Item 1310, accept the City of Portland 2019 State Legislative Agenda. Colleagues, on November 15th, we held a work session with the Office of Government Relations to review and discuss drafts of the City of Portland's 2019 Federal Legislative and Regulatory Agenda and the 2019 State Legislative Agenda.
 The priorities identified in these agendas align with some of the most complex problems Portland and other cities are working to address. We have Elizabeth Edwards, Nils Tilstrom, Eric Knoll from the Office of Government Relations here to present the updated versions of both of these reports for our consideration. And Director Edwards, I understand you're going to start us off today. Is that correct? That's correct. Very good. Jump in. All right.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fritz. For the record, Elizabeth Edwards, Director of the Office of Government Relations. My team and I are very pleased to be before you today to talk about the updated versions of the state legislative and regulatory, the 2019 federal legislative and regulatory agenda and 2019 state legislative agenda. We've updated the titles. As the mayor referenced, I'm joined this morning by Niels Tilstrom, our Federal Relations Manager, and Eric Knoll, our Associate Administrator.
 What I'm going to do is quickly walk through how we got here and discuss the events since the work session. And then I'll go through the individual agendas, starting with the federal and then the state, and talk about each of the changes that have occurred. And as always, feel free to interrupt to ask questions, and there should be plenty of time at the end for questions as well. So the long road to building this agenda, to building both the agendas, is...
 It started back in June for the state and August for the federal side. And we put out a call for issues to the bureaus and offices. And over the course of the summer and fall, we vetted concepts both internally and externally. We worked with subject matter experts. We worked with legislative and congressional delegation leaders, other local governments, key stakeholders in the nonprofit and business communities. And all of that work led us to the drafts that we presented before you on November 15th.
 So since, and I would note we've posted those drafts on our website since the 15th. Now, since that point in time, we've previewed the federal agenda with our congressional delegation back in D.C. in late November. We have gathered additional feedback on our state agenda over December legislative days. I can't believe it's already the middle of December.
 And we held an Advocacy 101 in Town Hall event in late November with Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Wheeler. And I want to pause for a moment and talk a little bit about the Advocacy 101 in Town Hall event and some of the feedback that we received. So...
 We began that evening with an overview about legislative process and got everyone on the same page. And then we had a fantastic panel discussion with Senator Michael Dunbro, Representative Diego Hernandez, and Advocacy Director of the Coalition of Communities of Color, Jenny Lee. And they provided fantastic feedback for attendees about how to effectively advocate at the state level.
 Once that panel wrapped, we shifted to the legislative town hall, and the attendees received raffle tickets. They were called on one by one to provide input. There were also note cards for folks who didn't feel comfortable speaking or who had additional comments to provide. And Commissioner Fritz's office then collected all of that information and distributed it to the council. We've reviewed that, had discussions with council offices.
 and have incorporated some of the feedback into the drafts. And as we go through the two drafts, we'll highlight those items. Okay.
 So with that, since we're going to touch on those specific changes one by one, I'm going to turn first to the federal side, and I'm actually going to let Niels take over from here. Thank you, Elizabeth. Mayor, Council, my name is Niels Tillstrom. I'm the Federal Relations Manager in the Office of Government Relations. The report before you is similar to the draft that was considered in the work session, and as Elizabeth stated, includes the feedback that was provided.
 by your offices subsequent to that session and then other feedback from the town hall. This draft is also available on our website for public review. There are eight priorities in the 2019 Federal Legislative and Regulatory Agenda draft.
 Leading with the affordable housing, addressing homelessness, and investing in mental health and addiction services. Also included in the city's priorities for the coming year are ensuring the protection of immigrants, providing for resiliency, continuing the Portland Harbor cleanup, supporting federal investment in transportation infrastructure, and addressing climate change.
 There were a small number of changes to the agenda following our work session. In the priority section, there were edits to the providing affordable housing item to include a specific reference to Medicaid waivers.
 In the policy position section, there were two changes. We added a policy position that was titled Next Gen Emergency Communications Grant Programs to assist the Portland Bureau of Emergency Communications in identifying potential federal funding opportunities for systems and facility enhancements.
 And then finally, we edited an item, the Willamette River Restorations Project, to be retitled as the Lower Willamette River Environmental Dredging and Ecosystem Restoration Project Study and include language regarding the legislative history of this project. And at that point, I'll turn to any questions you have on the item.
 Colleagues, any questions? Let me just say, Mayor, the last thing you referenced was on page 12, and thank you for adding the Lower Willamette River Environmental Dredging and Ecosystem Restoration Project Study.
 There are probably three people in Oregon, and if you ask them, what's a WERDA project, could answer the question, because it's a fairly obscure part of the federal government. But Portland has been a conspicuous winner in getting funding through WERDA, W-R-D-A. And we're looking forward to doing Tryon Creek, the next salmon sanctuary project. So thank you for adding that to the policy position and putting some meat on the bones. Thank you, Commissioner.
 So we can move to the state side if that's not to rush anybody. Very good. All right. So I'm going to go ahead and get started.
 I want to acknowledge the good work of Eric Knoll on helping to develop the state agenda, and also Dan Eisenbeiss, who's our state government relations manager, and Stacey Cowan, who's our state lobbyist. They're not able to be here today, but they also put a tremendous amount of work into developing the state legislative agenda. So similar to the federal side, it's very similar to the prior version you saw back in November. The top priorities for the state agenda are affordable and stable housing,
 followed by mental health and addiction services, healthy environment, public safety and accountability, resilience, local funding and authority. And these priorities remained unchanged. I will also note during the town hall, at the very end, attendees had an opportunity to vote on what –
 items they felt were most important. And healthy environment and affordable and stable housing were at the very top of the list, followed closely behind by mental health and addiction services and public safety and accountability. So those items that were priorities for the city seemed to align with the priorities of the attendees at the town hall.
 Now, on the policy position side, there were a small handful of changes. First was the addition of an educated workforce for a strong economy under economic development. That's on page 12. This came out of the discussion before council and was also strongly supported at the town hall conversation as well. The next is the removal of the nondisclosure of 911 audio tapes, which will need a little bit of additional work before moving forward.
 After that is a small addition to the auto theft policy position on page 16 that further clarifies the disproportionate impact on low-income Portlanders of auto theft. And finally, there were two changes to the transportation section. First was adding a reference to e-scooters. That was based on the conversation here before council.
 And next was a new policy position on jurisdictional transfer. This was added based on the feedback that we received at the town hall and follow-up conversations with council offices. And that's on page 18. I have a couple of questions. Please, yeah. I just want to make sure.
 I assume it is implied in this legislative agenda that we would continue to work with the county and others to secure funding for zero to low-income housing. I mean, that is an ongoing effort through our housing bureau, and I just want to make sure we continue to prioritize that. I believe that is in the agenda, but I wanted to clarify that. Yes, absolutely, Mayor. And we are working with Multnomah County...
 on their request of the legislature around mental health and addiction services. And so we still have a good collaboration there. And I will seek your continual guidance during the legislative session to know when and best how to plug us in, how to plug me in, and how best to help move that joint and important legislative agenda item forward. You mentioned just cause.
 The auto theft loophole, it sounds like we now have a legislative champion in Salem, in Jennifer Williamson. Is that correct? And Representative Jeff Barker, who's the chair of the House Judiciary Committee. And Representative Barker, of course. Thank you. And we thank them both for their leadership and will continue to support them in any way we can. I had sort of – oh, and with regard to our environmental issues,
 and you mentioned that the environment filtered up to the number one item at our town hall meeting. Obviously, we just passed our diesel procurement policy here for the city of Portland, but we're still under a broad statewide preemption around diesel policy, and I assume we'll continue to fight to have that preemption lifted. That's correct. And diesel was actually one of the items under environment that rose up to the top. Okay.
 Also related to that was EV infrastructure, which is included under the healthy environment priority as well. Mayor, if I could, should I just clarify? In past years, we've had a blanket statement of objecting to preemptions. Do we have that comprehensive list? Is that the similar approach this year? Yes, Commissioner. It's located under local funding and authority, which is the final priority position. So that's page nine. Page nine. And...
 I mean, we've been pretty consistent, regardless of what people may feel about how we exercise local authority, we've been pretty consistent about saying we shouldn't be handcuffed in terms of taking these issues up. And that looks like a pretty comprehensive list of issues that we object to the preemption.
 And I'm sure there will be more. No doubt. Well, I actually have one. And I think it might be worth having a discussion. And that is the zoning code that the Speaker has said that she wants to preempt cities over 10,000 from having single-family zones. We are already working on the residential infill project. We may choose to do something in some areas. I don't believe that the state should be telling us what to do.
 So if you could add that onto the list. So I would object to that. We haven't taken that issue up. Well, that's the point. We don't want the state telling us. But first of all, it hasn't happened. The Speaker has simply said it's on our agenda. Two, we haven't had a public conversation about it. And we haven't even had a council conversation about it.
 our local piece of that, which the Planning Bureau is working through. So I would object to adding anticipatory preemptions. I would certainly welcome a discussion about the Speaker's proposal, if and when it becomes a legislative action item. But I don't think we should give it away.
 get in front of that until we understand what's in play. How does that jive with what you just said about local preemptions? Because the Speaker hasn't put legislation on the table, and we don't know what is being proposed. And I think actually it's disrespectful to her to anticipate that she's going to do something. I think we should wait for her to do it, and then we can amend our legislative agenda.
 Could I ask one more question? I know we have a blanket statement with regard to police accountability, and I think we all support police accountability. The question I have is regarding legislation that I know has previously been introduced, which is specific to discipline and arbitration related to public safety issues.
 specific to police officers. Has legislation been introduced this year with regard to that issue? Legislation will be introduced this year with regard to that. And I want to make sure that when we talk about officer accountability in a broad sense, that includes our ability pending seeing that actual legislation, our ability to potentially support that legislation.
 Absolutely, and the intent of this language is to capture that on page 7. Thank you, and I figured that I just wanted that clarification. Thank you, Director. Any further questions? Well, I just wanted to thank my colleagues and thank you for including a policy position on improving the foster care system. This really is in such a state of crisis that it demands a hands-on response from every government. So thank you.
 Appreciate having the City of Portland resources there to help work on important packages that I predict will be introduced to improve resources for foster parents as well as other issues related to kids aging out of the foster care system. So thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Could our team remind us and by extension the public of what the calendar is? So we're about to adopt.
 pretty bold agenda, both in terms of priorities and policy positions. And then we're going to unleash our crack team to go out in D.C. and Salem to advance this agenda. Could you remind us what the calendar is? You're reading my next notes. This is perfect. Thank you, Commissioner. So we'll be back in Salem next month for organizational days. Those are three days when committees will meet, similar to legislative days, but it's also when we'll see live bills. So that will begin on January 14th.
 What's different this coming session is that the legislature has actually moved up the start time. So it used to be that we would have organizational days. We'd see the first round of bills. And over the course of a long session, we typically see around 2,800 bills. The first big lump is ballpark 700 bills coming in. And so we'd have two to three weeks to review, send those out to bureaus and council offices for the first round of input. This time around, we'll have organizational days on the 14th.
 And then we'll have the start of session on January 22nd. So just a week later, there is no downtime between organizational days when we first start seeing bills in the beginning of session. Session will run constitutionally. It's limited to 160 days. And part of the reason why the legislature moved it up was so that they could complete the entirety of that time before the 4th of July holiday. So right now it looks like June 30th is the constitutional sine die. It's when they have to be out.
 Um, on the federal side, we'll be heading back to DC at the end of January, uh, as well to do some lobbying, some Hill visits, uh, some work with agencies and work with, uh, leaders from across the country that are, um, coming in for us conference of mayors. So we'll be, uh, off like a shot in the new year.
 Very good. I will entertain a motion to accept the report. So moved. The federal legislative and regulatory agenda. We have a motion and a second. And I'd also like to put the state legislative agenda on the table. Second. I mean, so moved. I have a motion and a second. Carla, with regard to the federal legislative and regulatory agenda, please call the roll. Fritz? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, first of all, for doing the town hall with me, and thank you to the 75 or so people who came to it. It was really an excellent input session, and I appreciate that you have adjusted the agendas to reflect what we heard. So if anybody's interested in that, you can go to the blog on my website, and I've got it nicely highlighted like you put it, colour-coded as to what was already in there and what was not.
 added, et cetera. So it's really clear. Thank you, Neil Solstrom, for your work on the federal agenda and for all the cross-country travel that you do. And I really feel good about having our delegation in Washington, knowing that they will do the right thing to the best of their ability in these challenging times. Thank you.
 Fish. I want to thank the Office of Government Relations and our superb team of professionals who every year outperform in a very tough environment. I want to thank the Mayor and Commissioner Fritz for leading the town hall and soliciting additional public feedback. I want to thank you, Elizabeth, for the changes you've made to strengthen both agendas. And I look forward, along with my colleagues, to being tapped.
 strategically to do some meetings with legislators either in Salem or Washington or both. Thank you, as always, for your good work. Aye. Seltzman. I just want to thank you in advance for all the long hours. You're going to be working over at least probably the next six, seven, eight, nine months. So we know how hard you work in Salem and in D.C. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Well, first of all, I want to say that I appreciate the great work that you've all done on this, and I appreciate our federal lobbying team in Washington, D.C., as well. I'm hopeful that the next Congress will prioritize more investments in housing, particularly very low-income housing and infrastructure. Local governments, of course, have been bearing the brunt of disinvestment since the 1980s. The support for low-income housing through HUD has declined by nearly 85%.
 And that means that the city has been prioritizing these efforts to meet the needs of very vulnerable people in our community. And so we certainly look forward to a more productive partnership with our federal partners to help those in our community and, frankly, communities all across the nation who need that support to be successful in their communities.
 The city is going to continue to meet the challenges put forward by this administration, including the stripping of environmental protections, governing clean air and water, removing protections for the most vulnerable members of our community, and retreating from the global threat of climate change.
 Finally, I'm very eager to continue to work with the EPA and other parties around the Portland Harbor Superfund cleanup. Commissioner Fish and I have expressed to the EPA how important it was to provide as much certainty in the process as possible and facilitate other parties stepping up to the plate. We also need an open and transparent process that encourages strong community involvement.
 and we're very supportive of the EPA's effort to get things moving as quickly as possible. I'm pleased to vote aye on this agenda. The report is adopted. With regard to the state legislative agenda, Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Yes.
 In addition to thanking Elizabeth Edwards again, also thank you to Eric Noff and Mayor Weaver and Michelle Plumback for participating in the town hall. I need to call out my staff, Claire Adamsick, Cynthia Castro, Christina Nieves, Mi-Sung Kwan, and Yosemite Curio, who worked together really well to pull it all off, and I was really happy with the engagement that we did there. Very happy to be supporting...
 Many of the same priorities as the League of Oregon Cities, which I serve on the board, there are over 200 cities in Oregon. Many of them are small, but some of them are larger than 10,000. And I know that their number one priority is to avoid preemption of local authority, that we have different cities in Oregon and we have a common desire for our communities to make decisions that most affect us.
 Really happy to be working with Multnomah County as well. Dr. Sharon Mayen's done a great job on mental health care services. That also is a high priority across the state, as is affordable housing, that everybody is really struggling with houselessness and how to help. And it's good to be united in that.
 Thanks to everybody for your work. Let's do some more.
 And all of us believe quite strongly that this is going to impact our work on homelessness and housing issues. And we want to continue to support additional investments in mental health and addiction services. As I just mentioned, we're eager to stand as a strong partner in addressing environmental issues and carbon emissions and air toxics.
 There are many other priorities for the city, some of which we have not talked about, that are equally important around seismic resilience, public safety, local funding, and as Commissioners Fritz and Fish mentioned, authority.
 These challenges are taken up every day by us here, but they are bigger than we can solve alone. And so it's very important that we develop these partnerships. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and the Office of Government Relations to change policy, acquire funding, and fight off preemption to help Portland to continue to be a livable, vibrant, safe, and economically prosperous community for all.
 Very pleased with the work that you have all done. And I vote aye. The report is adopted.
 Colleagues, we're a little bit ahead of schedule, so I'm going to shuffle things around. Could we please go to — I think maybe Elizabeth wants to speak. Oh, I apologize, Elizabeth. Sorry. No, I just wanted to say thank you all so much for your leadership. I look forward to tapping each of your talents down in Salem and in D.C. as you're available, and looking forward to pursuing this ambitious agenda on behalf of the city. Well, as they say, Elizabeth — and by the way, you've just done an exceptional job in the last couple of years in your role.
 Planning is everything. Plans are nothing. So let's see what we can execute on. Could you please call Item 1336? Commissioner Fritz. Mayor, I have to – Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm just noticing, Laura, John, and I neglected to thank you for being such a major part of this, both the federal and the state agenda. I'm very happy that our Director of Tribal Relations is really helping us understand the need to protect tribal sovereignty. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Item 1336, please. Authorize the second amended and restated visitor facilities intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County and Metro. Colleagues, this is a second reading. There's already been a presentation and testimony. Any further discussion? Carla, please. I thought we were setting this over. I thought you were bringing this back to your office. I'm sorry. I apologize. I apologize. I am actually...
 Not reading the right statement. Thank you for everybody staying on the ball. Colleagues, I'm referring this item back to my office. I'll read the following joint statement into the record. This was prepared by the three principals in these conversations, the President of Metro, Tom Hughes, Chair Deborah Kofori from Multnomah County, and myself, the Mayor of City of Portland, on what is the VFIGA. Quote,
 We had a substantive and productive discussion, this was just on Monday, about how the Visitor's Facilities Trust account can deliver improvements across our community. We agreed on the tremendous opportunity before us to make an investment in homeless services and also to modernize our visitor facilities. This is a complicated intergovernmental agreement, and we will continue meeting in the new year to finalize additional details.
 and arrive at a revised visitors facilities trust account agreement that helps us to improve our visitor venues while providing critical support for the people living in our streets. That is the joint statement we issued, but I want to personally thank Metro President Tom Hughes and Multnomah County Chair Deborah Kofori for continuing this conversation and agreeing to carry this into the new year.
 It is a very, very complicated issue, but I am hopeful that we can reach some sort of a mutually agreeable resolution on this. So I am going to refer this item back to my office. Thank you. Item 1340, please. 1340, vacate North Hunt Street east of North Argyle Way subject to certain conditions and reservations.
 Colleagues, this is really truly, honestly a second reading. Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, 1341. Okay.
 Authorize the Water Bureau to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Willamette River crossing through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority as a last resort. Second reading, please call the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. I have to say, I thought this report was really, really fantastic, the presentation that was given. And if people did not have a chance to see it, I encourage you to go back and look at it on video. It was fantastic.
 fascinating just from the perspective of the scale and the complexity of trying to do large capital construction projects like this. So if you're looking for the greatest hits at the Portland City Council, I thought it was one of the more compelling this year. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1322. 1322 was pulled off of the consent agenda, and we'll take it up right now.
 1322, amend relocation policy to allow relocation assistance for executive and hard-to-fill positions in a lump sum of up to $10,000 and utilize the approved relocation vendor to enhance the onboarding experience.
 and maximize utilization of funds. So Commissioner Fritz had requested that this item be pulled. I'll turn it over to her, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I believe the Bureau of Human Resources has an amendment to the title to reflect what's actually in the policy. Very good. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning. For the record, I'm Ashley Grendy, Workforce Recruitment and Training Manager for the City of Portland.
 Per Commissioner Fritz's comment, we are amending the title to amend the relocation policy to allow relocation assistance in a lump sum of up to $10,000 and utilize the approved relocation vendor to enhance the onboarding experience and maximize utilization of funds.
 Ultimately, what we're seeking is to increase the relocation maximum from $5,000 to $10,000, implement the utilization of the approved relocation vendor, and provide a lump sum to the relocation vendor to organize relocation for new hires. So I move the amendment to delete the words for executive and hard-to-fill positions.
 We have a motion. So just to be clear, this amendment is designed to make this benefit available to more employees than simply bureau directors and senior executives. Is that correct? That is correct. Which is the current policy. Right. So it's to keep the current policy. I'll second that. We have a motion and we have a second. Any further discussion on the amendment? No.
 Please call the roll on the amendment. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Clarification from legal counsel, I assume at this point, I would move it to second reading as amended. Is that correct? That is correct. Thank you.
 But now that we've amended it, it has to go to the next reading, does it not? No, it can be voted on. I'm sorry, I misunderstood the question. Yes, you may vote on it. Very good. Call the roll. Thank you for the clarification. Public testimony? Public testimony on this? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Public testimony on the amendment. Thank you. I didn't have a sign-up sheet, so. Who would like to testify on the amendment? Mr. Walsh, come on up. Come on up, sir. Come on up, sir. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Waltz. I represent Individuals for Justice. We're not sure about this amendment. Would someone please explain it to us? It means that any... It's not limited... It's not limited only to the executive and hard-to-fill positions. It's any... If the commissioner in charge and the bureau director want...
 believe that it's necessary to pay relocation costs for any employee who's moving from elsewhere to here. That's what it does, because it was under the which is the current practice. Okay, the amendment makes it more palatable.
 because you're not excluding it to the upper rungs of executives, and you're including the employees, which is kind of nice. So if, for instance, Commissioner, you wanted to hire somebody in New York and they couldn't afford to fly out here, you would reimburse them.
 the way it works. Is it okay if we have a back and forth? Let me ask this question. Is there anything in the ordinance or the amendment that answers the question what happens when this person gets here?
 And you decide what? You decide yes or no? No, this isn't for the job interview. That's a different process. This is when the job has been accepted, the person is moving here, and human resources will actually provide. It's not even a reimbursement. So you're going to hire this person? Yes.
 Yes, we've hired the person, we've got a signed agreement, they're moving here, and we will now have a company that will move their stuff for them. So kind of like when I was in the Federal Service, that's what they did in the Federal Service. If they transferred us, they would pay the expenses. Correct. So we're finally into the 19th century as far as the city of Portland, when everybody else was in it a long time ago. And this is a clarification to you that it...
 It's for the non-represented. The people who are in unions have the rules that are in their contracts. So this is for the non-represented staff.
 Okay, these are all the questions that were asked about this. We were a little bit confused exactly what you were doing, and your amendment even confused it more, even though it made it better. And we like that. If you're going to hire employees and bring them out here and moving expenses, we like that.
 We don't like it if it's exclusion of executives. And we're a little bit nervous about that, but we'd like your amendment. So we fully, the way it is being presented, that we would endorse this as a good idea. And let's see how this works. You might want to revisit it down the line someplace and see how it's working and maybe tweak it.
 The federal government has been doing this for about 100 years. I mean, this is not new stuff. So you could just mimic what they do. I mean, I moved around in civil service, I think, three times to Hawaii and back and stuff like that. So it's not unusual, and it's a good idea. So congratulations on this item. Thank you. Good morning, sir.
 Yeah, I'll go. I'm totally against this. I believe that the city of Portland should look within the city of Portland for people to leave bureaus and work. I don't think we should be looking at, in other areas, and paying $10,000 for people or giving them $10,000 for moving expenses to move. Also...
 The other issue I have is it's per person. Well, what if the city hires a married couple? That's $20,000 right there. So we need to look at hiring within the city of Portland. I'm sure for every position the city of Portland has, there's someone in the city of Portland qualified to work that position. I mean, Portland's huge. And the outlying areas...
 So they have a lot of people that are qualified. There's no reason to pay someone moving wages if they're from Oregon City. And you got, like I said, you got Hillsborough, Oregon City, Vancouver, places like that. There's more than enough qualified people there.
 to do anything in the city of Portland. We don't need to go New York, Chicago, Cleveland. We don't need to bring more people into the city. We have a housing problem. What are you going to do, throw Portlanders out on the street so you can bring someone in from another area? That's not cool at all. More and more Portlanders are being misplaced. They're winding up on the streets because we've got...
 people from other states that are buying up the stuff, buying up the properties and building stuff up. And to hire someone from California or New York or Florida to come here and do a job that someone from the city of Portland can do is ridiculous. And that's what I have to say about that. Very good. Thank you. Good morning, commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridge Crain-Johnson, maybe I should say Charles Bridge Crain-Johnson 2.0 or something like that. But, uh,
 Generally good. As Mr. Walsh noted, it's a standard practice. I think that for a government that's supposedly trying to be transparent and maximize disclosure, it's weird that we would have a process where we determine an approved vendor
 And then we're scared to say their name. I understand in the legalese of the language, maybe the vendor could be changed during the term. But it's interesting that we have an approved vendor who's going to channel these $10,000 amounts, but we don't want to say who approved vendor is. You think they would actually ask us to say their name as part of their agreement or reduce their price if we said it so that they could be recognized as the premier relocation services vendor for Portland.
 The other thing that I thought was a little weak is the mandatory budget disclosure page, which is down there around seven or eight of the PDF for the impact statement. You know, it talks that the amount could vary from $7,500 to $10,000. But the bigger picture is when us as citizens in the media get all contentious about whether Ted Wheeler is having an awesome term as mayor or a terrible term as mayor, one of the issues that comes up is the ability to fill positions. Right.
 And to analyze the budget impact of this, we really need to extrapolate how many, ideally, if we filled every position, how many people come in, so what's the maximum number of $10,000 moving reimbursements we might be exposed to.
 And of course, just the general number, you know, we can look through the Oregonian past issues and find people complaining, but we shouldn't be hiding that. We should just say that in today's competitive low unemployment market, the city is eagerly seeking to fill X number of positions. If we gave every one of those people $10,000, it would total out to such and such. You don't have to do that to pass this so that we can fill these positions, but I think it would have been reaching the highest bar of public disclosure and good governance.
 Thank you. Okay. Any further testimony? Very good. Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Colleagues, we have one other item pulled. I understand staff is here for item 1330. And if staff is here, if you could come up. In the meanwhile, I'll start this off. The Department of Homeland Security provides financial assistance to selected urban areas,
 Through the fiscal year, this is through their Urban Area Security Initiative grant program. This is a program that assists urban areas to build, sustain, and deliver capabilities necessary to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism or from natural or other human-caused disasters. We've been accepting these grants since 2003.
 We accept these grants on behalf of a broader area of the community that includes TriMet, the Port of Portland, Multnomah County, Clackamas County, Washington County, Columbia County, and Oregon, excuse me, of Oregon and Clark County in Washington. This is what's known as the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization, or RDPO.
 The Department of Homeland Security designated Portland as the core urban area in the state of Oregon. Therefore, we are the ones who apply for this grant on behalf of everybody else. Again, the key use of this is to allow the RPDO to coordinate, plan, execute trainings and exercises, procure equipment to respond to, and recover from natural disasters.
 and acts of terrorism, there is no local grant required for the receipt of this federal grant. I don't know if there's anything else I missed. Mayor, I should read the title first. Get to the title. Thank you. Sorry, Carla. I jumped on you again. Sure.
 1330, except the fiscal year 2018, Department of Homeland Security Urban Areas Security Initiative grant in the amount of $2,353,665 from the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to enhance emergency preparedness through planning, training, and equipping of emergency responders in the Portland urban area. Thank you.
 Then what I said. Fill it in right here. Anything else I forgot? No, I think that's an excellent summary of the request. If you have any questions, I'm happy to respond to them. Great. I don't know who pulled this, but we'll take public testimony. Robert West pulled this. Very good. You can go ahead and have a seat. If there's any further questions, we might call you back. Thank you.
 Yes, I have issues with us accepting any kind of money from Homeland Security. There's usually something, or from the federal government, because usually something that's a little hidden that people don't know about. And like, for instance, Portland staying in the Joint Terrorist Task Force, which I'm totally against us being involved in that anyway, but...
 But, yeah, we should not be accepting the money from the federal government. We should not be accepting money from the federal government for other counties. We are responsible for that money. And if something happens, a computer glitch or whatever, Portland could be held on the hook to these other counties for that money. So I'm totally against us accepting any kind of money whatsoever from the federal government, and I wanted to bring that up.
 Very good. Good morning. Good morning again, Commissioner. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And while I strongly agree with what was put forth about the idea that
 We really don't need to be, essentially have no business being part of the JTTF. There's no explicit tie here. Whatever wink-wink nod-nods the mayor might get exposed to as he deals with federal law enforcement positions is a different version, but we want our money back. When I say that, what I mean is that all this money is created by Oregon taxpayers, so that is why, even though DHS is a
 bad construction from federal times when they were under stress way back in the Bush II days and really a great federal government would restructure DHS along the pre-911 lines. We can always take their money. We have Tracy Reeve and 40 other great attorneys to make sure that the strings and whatever agreements are matched. So
 Obviously, this is a yes vote to take this chunk of money, have it available for safe communities, but also to always be mindful of ways to disentangle ourselves from a federal government that had its issues under Obama and certainly things haven't gotten better in the last couple of years. Thanks. Thank you. Any further questions, colleagues? Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Time certain, 13-11, please.
 Appeal of Northwest District Neighborhood Association and Tony Schwartz against Historic Landmarks Commission's decision to approve Block 162 Apartments, a five-story plus residential development at 1727 Northwest Hoyt Street.
 Colleagues, for the record, I've reviewed the entire record. You'll recall that I came a few minutes late to the first part of the hearing, including the portions that I missed on November 29th. Staff needs to make a minor change on page 10 of the findings, so Carla's distributing a page showing the change.
 It would be my intention now to move that the council deny the appeals, uphold the decision of the Landmarks Commission, and adopt the findings with a revised page 10, as you have before you. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 The ordinance is adopted 3-0. Legal counsel, is there any further action we need to take on this appeal? No. I do not believe so. Very good. Thank you. We've got the backup attorney coming flying in. I have a voice behind my head. All right. And according to my watch, it is just rolling over to 1035. Please read the time cert for 1035, which is item 1312. 1312, authorize agreement with Lloyd BID, Inc., for program management in the Lloyd Business District. Okay.
 So, colleagues, we have Tyler Wallace from Revenue, Hank Ashforth from the Ashforth Company. He is also the chair of the Lloyd ESD. Wade Lang, who is from American Asset Trust, he is also an ESD board member. And Bob Dye from the Lloyd Center, also an ESD board member. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners.
 My name is Tyler Wallace. I'm the tax division manager for the city's revenue division. The ordinance before you today will renew the current contract between the city and Lloyd BID to provide transportation, landscaping, and security services to the Lloyd district. This renewal is for an additional five years. This is a sole source contract as there are no other potential provider of the services with the experience, expertise, and capability of Lloyd BID.
 We have three members of the Lloyd Enhanced Service District Board here to give an update on the district at this point. I'll turn it over to them. I'm available if you have any questions for revenue. Perfect. Good morning. Thank you very much. Hank Ashforth, I'm chair of the...
 The Lloyd BID have been since its inception, and I'm executive vice president for the Ashforth Company, owners here in Portland since 1995. Briefly, I want to start by saying thank you. First to you, Dan, thank you for your service to this city. Portland certainly is better off and in a better place because of your hard work, so thank you for that. And I look forward to seeing you on the other side for sure.
 And also thank you to Ted and Amanda for representing us.
 recognizing us in the spirit of Portland Awards most recently. It is because of our work with Right to Dream, too. We value that completely because that's what we do as a neighborhood improvement district or business improvement district. We want to solve and create solutions for complicated problems. So thank you for that.
 What we'd like to do is just a brief view on the Lloyd ESD and what we've been up to lately, our accomplishments over the short and long term. I've got the board there. You see this is our area, really the river, the Banfield, 15th to the east and up to Broadway on the northern boundary.
 In a quick overview, we were started in 2001, the second ESD formed in the city, and something we're proud of. We affect 125 properties, 99% assessment compliance. We generate $475,000 a year.
 and $5.5 million since our inception. No small piece of change at that. We do have sector partners. Also, we thank you, the city and Metro, the Convention Center, City of Portland, Bonneville Power. I'd like to thank the state, but the state has chosen actually not to...
 invest with us, something that hopefully maybe we can work on getting 100 percent compliance in the future. We're very involved in Holiday Park. We put a million dollars to work in Holiday Park. We'll talk about that later. And economic development initiatives that we're working through are creating 4,000 new jobs. We've got about 22,000 in Lloyd right now.
 2,500 new apartment units. There are roughly 1,000 or so as we speak. Goals to be accomplished, an 8 to 1 jobs to housing ratio. We're about 20 to 1 right now.
 and a half a million square feet of new development that would be net zero and no additional use to our grid on energy and other resources. So a brief overview. We've had a long and successful track record as a public-private partnership. In fact, we've had a long and successful track record as a public-private partnership.
 We were a public-private partnership before it became a buzzword. And we really do take it to heart because what we get from our neighborhood, we want to leverage with you, the city, and other agencies out there to deliver programs. So obviously the Spirit of Portland Award was amazing.
 It was part of that. But we do have partnerships on public safety. And really, since 1990, we've had a neighborhood policing program that has been in place. We're going to talk about that a little bit more in detail later. Go Lloyd is a partner with Lloyd, the city, and TriMet. Holiday Park, we're partnered with Lloyd and the Parks Bureau.
 And Right to Dream, too, certainly we're partnered with you, the city, our eco-district, and Lloyd itself. This is what we look like as far as in an org chart arrangement. As you can see, there's Go Lloyd, and it's our district attorney program, the community association, and Lloyd Eco-District, Holiday Park Program, and Holiday Street Maintenance.
 In a little better definition, Wade is going to help me out here and put some details on this, but GoLloyd is our transportation management entity. As I understand it, one of the first, if not the first in the country to
 We have a focused promotions piece and a marketing campaign. We are known as Lloyd now. We've dropped the and we've dropped the D word. I'm going to get penalized if I say the D word. So refer to us now as Lloyd and everyone will be happy. Yeah.
 Holiday Street maintenance I mentioned. The eco-district is truly a triple bottom line specification working at a neighborhood level. The community association is neighborhood to neighborhood, neighborhood to city. And our DA program, as I said, is public safety, which is core to our neighborhood.
 So what do we get for all of this? What do you get for all of this? How are these dollars leveraged in the programs that I mentioned here, the six there from district prosecutor on to branding and other promotions?
 We leverage about $1.27 for every dollar that is collected, so almost 30 percent there. And truly, where it's leveraged the most are in transportation and security. So I'm going to hand it over to Wade, and he'll give you a better description of the programs and services that we've been offering for the past almost 20 years. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Wade Lang, Vice President, Regional Manager for American Assets Trust. I serve on the Board of GoLloyd, the Board of the ESD, the Board of Holiday Park Partnership, the Board of the Lloyd Eco-District, and some other things I can't remember. Thank you.
 So Go Lloyd, as Hank said, it's a transportation management association for the neighborhood. And they have been a tenant in one of our properties for a long time. They provide...
 Alternative transportation options. They have a store. They have a resource center. They connect people with commuting options. And they have, over the years, 50-plus events to promote alternative transportation throughout the neighborhood. We contribute $275,000-plus annually to transportation projects, transit trackers, Sullivan's Gulch Bridge, and so on.
 reduction of Noma Boulevard from four lanes down to two lanes. Those are some of the things our dollars went for there. And then the universal transit pass program, which has been exceptionally well received and very popular within the neighborhood. The Lloyd Eco District, again, Hank mentioned that, the triple bottom line efforts that the Lloyd Eco District does around sustainable issues with business and with residents. They
 One of the things that we're really proud of is the Energy Star reporting program through the city that is a requirement now. Lloyd Eco District started that prior to it being a mandatory requirement.
 And we have about 98% of the businesses in Lloyd reporting to the eco-district, our portfolio managers, Energy Star information. And we meet on a monthly basis as a community to talk about opportunities for energy savings. We're also working on waste reduction as a community. And you are all aware of our work with Right to Dream 2 through the eco-district, which has been a tremendous asset to our neighborhood as well.
 The Lloyd Community Association is really the recognized neighborhood association for Lloyd. It has for the longest time been a business association, but now it is truly a neighborhood association with a residence committee. We're working very closely with the residents and the businesses in the community to tie everything together in a cohesive kind of a way to get things accomplished and keep people informed.
 And then our focus promotions, Hank again mentioned our branding, which finished up this year. We used Watson Creative, a Lloyd business, to create a brand for Lloyd. And you will see it as you go through with the banners on the light poles and the logos that are on doors and windows and the businesses throughout Lloyd. And we've created a website now for people to utilize information from that.
 And then one of the most important things we did, and we did this a long time ago, is create the Neighborhood District Attorney's Office. So Multnomah County provides us with an assistant DA, and we have partnered with them, Portland Police Bureau, businesses, and residents to create our Lloyd public safety meetings. And this is really where community policing was really explored and developed.
 and really, really worked. We've done a lot of work around that since then. We meet monthly, and it's a big meeting. We have a lot of participation in it, and that is truly one of the cornerstones of what the Enhanced Service District provides to the neighborhood.
 And it's important because we do watch what's going on not only in the neighborhood but around the city, and we get information from the police bureau about what activities are going on. We track that, and we really try to work collectively as a neighborhood with the city, with the county, to help mitigate issues that are adversely affected.
 the businesses are adversely effective as well as the residents. And with that, Bob Dye with Lloyd Center has kind of a more personal perspective on some of that. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Bob Dye, General Manager of Lloyd Center. I also sit on the boards of the Lloyd Enhanced Services District, Go Lloyd, the Lloyd Eco District, and I am President of the Holiday Park Partnership,
 and also a committee member of PSEP. Some great things happening at Lloyd Center. Most recently, we launched our Lloyd Local Initiative, which we brought out for just about every vacant space that we've been working on. We brought out local locations.
 vendors, local artisans. All of our Christmas leasing, our holiday leasing for this period was focused strictly on local retailers and artisans. It's really a great program. My People's Market has a store represented there as well. In addition, on our future projects,
 As has been announced, we have our Live Nation venue, which will be going up on the third floor of the former Norsham's building. Concurrent with that will be our Northeast Multnomah and 9th Avenue Plaza remodel and our Regal Cinemas buildout on the east side. That being said, the challenges that we face.
 It's no secret Portland has become increasingly recognized on the national media for the protests and other unrest. These national and local conversations have resulted in economic consequences demonstrated by a number of conferences that have withdrawn from hosting their events at the venues in the Portland area. Recently, the Doubletree Hilton...
 lost a booking that was worth over $40,000 in net revenue. The reason given was a concern for the safety of their conference attendees. And there's never a conversation, at least over the last few years, that we've had with a potential tenant or a tenant renewing that doesn't include
 the narrative or the optics seen nationally. We're having to defend that routinely. On average, localities with populations of at least 500,000 employ 20.07 police officers per 10,000 population, according to FBI data. Looking at the U.S. Census Bureau, Multnomah County's population is 807,555, which equates to 1,671 police officers per 10,000 population.
 We currently have, I believe, 925 sworn officers. Now, while our law enforcement officers are working tirelessly to keep our community safe, and we love the work they're doing, we support everything they're doing, they are severely outnumbered. In fact, Oregon is ranked 48th in the nation in having the fewest law enforcement officers per capita. The strain is felt in the Lloyd, which has two full-time police officers dedicated to the entire district.
 Comparatively, the Hawthorne Business District has two full-time police officers covering, we believe, about six city blocks. The biggest thing affecting us currently is ORC, or organized retail crime, which has become an epidemic. And these professional shoplifters, also known as boosters, are in the mall every single day and often will return to the mall the same day after being arrested.
 Case in point, we had a booster hit a store last week Monday, stole an outfit from a store, assaulted a security officer. That was on Monday. On Tuesday, he came back, shoplifted from Macy's but was caught and was arrested. Came back in Tuesday night to shoplift again. Security intercepted him.
 Asked him to leave. He became verbally abusive and then assaulted one of our officers and then the police arrived and he was arrested. He then arrived back Wednesday and Thursday and Friday. And he has been in the mall Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week. And that's one. Last week, our surveillance picked up a large group of youths at Holiday Park who encircled an individual who appeared homeless.
 encircled him, started taunting him, then attacked him, and then attacked him again, pushing him out into Multnomah Boulevard right into traffic. Now the traffic stopped. Our security went out to try to assist. A week after that, an elderly woman was, and she was 81 years old, was circled, same thing, taunted, harassed, and she was injured.
 A week after that, a 76-year-old man, same thing, had a group that encircled him, assaulted him, and then stole his iPhone that he had purchased at the mall about 20 minutes prior. That was later put on a local website for sale. Now...
 Lloyd Center, law enforcement and other stakeholders have worked collaboratively to address these issues through community policing efforts. One such example is our innovative neighborhood district attorney program, which was addressed earlier, which has been recognized nationally and provides a model for neighborhood coordination, cooperation and proactive approach to community safety. Lloyd Center has also partnered with the NAACP to develop a program to educate youth
 on the impact of shoplifting that it has not just on businesses but on employees, some of the employees that live in the very neighborhood. While these programs have proven successful, we need further assistance in helping to keep the community safe. This will not happen without the presence and participation of the Portland Police Bureau, which has needed the staffing levels of the resources to do their job to the level that we need.
 We respectfully request that you reconsider the overall budget of the Portland Police Bureau. Now, we also recognize and applaud Mayor Wheeler for his efforts to improve the police bureau, including what we feel was a courageous decision to bring in an outsider, Chief Daniel Outlaw, to lead the bureau, as well as the forming of PSEP, the Portland Committee for Community Engaged Policing, which we hope will have a lasting effect.
 on bringing law enforcement and community together. And Mr. Mayor, your participation in the two public meetings to date is not lost on the community and is very much appreciated by the committee. Finally, we request that we all work together with Mayor Wheeler on a program that respects the right to peacefully protest, but ensures the safety of our residents and guests, and respects the boundaries of all, so that we may avoid images,
 shown nationally of innocent people being blocked from driving home or to a store or to a hospital or being attacked because they disagree. And then, again, these images being broadcasted locally and nationally. It is hurting our community, our businesses, and ultimately will result in jobs lost. Thank you.
 Thank you. So just as a point of information, we have 90, nine zero vacant police officers positions right now. So it's not the budget. There's a national challenge in being able to hire police officers and we're competing with people all over the country. As you may have seen earlier, we've just expanded our ability to provide relocation assistance to people coming here. So...
 So we are aware of the challenge. It's a matter of getting the positions filled. And we appreciate your efforts. Absolutely. I think that's the main message here is –
 We appreciate your efforts. I hope you want to – you should recognize what we're doing as well, and you certainly have done so with that, with the right – our work with the Right to Dream 2 folks. We want to deliver the message to you that we are engaged at a neighborhood level, and safety is a huge part –
 of the baseline services that we provide. Without that, we don't get the job growth, the extra $4,000 jobs, which we all know adds to city revenue and just outright, you know, Portland livability. So we are for working with you. We are a partnership. We know that that exists.
 Our real ask here was really to deliver the message of what is happening in our neighborhood and ask, again, of your assistance. You will get it. We will roll up our sleeves. We create and solve problems creatively and just want to continue the partnership that we've fostered over almost 20 years to come.
 Thank you again for your time. And any questions that we have a little bit of time, we'd be happy to answer that if you'd have them. Thank you for your presentation, colleagues. Commissioner Fish? Two things. One, Bob, when you gave some data, and I think it was very helpful to have some comparative data, you used some national data on police per capita.
 But then you compared the national data to Multnomah County. And I just want to be clear, we don't actually police a portion of Multnomah County. We just police within the Portland boundary. So let's sharpen that data so that we get the Portland only and not include that part.
 We've lost the fight in terms of incorporation. Right. We're not going to blend Multnomah County and Portland anytime soon, but there's a big chunk of Multnomah County that, as you know, you already know this, that's sheriff's patrol, not police. So that may change the number a little bit. Your point is well taken in terms of some of the quality of life crimes and how we get upstream on them. I...
 couldn't help, as I was listening to the excellent presentation, make a little plug for something. My office is working with Restore Oregon to find a home for the Jansen Beach Carousel. Hank, maybe as a child you remember that. But it was lost and then found, and now it's being restored. It's probably going to end up near the Rose Garden. It may end up near OMSI.
 It could end up in the Lloyd District if someone thought, you know, with appropriate investment it was an amenity. But we've got this historic carousel that's looking for a home. I just put it on your radar, and Restore Oregon is leading the way in restoring it, and then it's looking for an appropriate home. Okay.
 It's a family-friendly activity, and I'm not sure where the best location is, but Lloyd would certainly be a contender if there was that interest. So no need to respond to that. Just wanted to have it on your radar. I like Lloyd. We have experience. We're chuckling because we have experience with a carousel in Lloyd. For sure. And thank you for your presentation. Commissioner Fritz. I enjoyed watching all three of you twitch when Commissioner Fish said the D word. I support your changing the term to just Lloyd.
 like other neighbourhoods and business districts have just the name. And I want people who may be watching at home to recognise Lloyd is a fabulous place to visit and shop. It's been my favourite, the Lloyd Centre has been my favourite mall since I got here 32 years ago. And in fact, I shall be shopping there later on today. So, yes, all over Portland, we have some challenges. All over this country, we have a lot of challenges. And it takes...
 who want to go shop and invest and play, populating a community to help make it safe also. And I think we all appreciate the efforts of Black Male Achievement and others for assisting in your patrols. But thank you for providing the programming at Holiday Park that has...
 returned it to the community? Yeah. We have a ways to go there, but we're working on it every day. And really, these two really do Yeoman's work well.
 And, again, a coordinated effort. As I said, a million bucks has been put into the park already over the last number of years. Four years. Yeah. And a lot of volunteer time by 1145 and others. It is a terrific place to be. Yes. And it has been and will be. So thank you very much for all that you're doing. And I was very impressed at all the boards that you're on. You go to as many meetings as we do, I think it sounds like. It's very incestuous over there. Yeah.
 But we all have a focus, and the focus is a community effort, community-wide effort to make it the place exactly to shop and live and work and all the rest of it. Mayor, I have one more question. Commissioner Fish. Hank, I forget whether you said it was the state or the federal government that has been reluctant to join the BID. Which one was it? Yeah, it's the state office building. Okay.
 So you have – and even though you have a 99 percent compliance rate, the state would bring you to 100 percent? Sure. Yeah. But if – Actually, it's been so long since they paid, we really kept them – we've stricken them from the list. Yeah.
 Maybe that's a conversation we can have offline about it. Sure. Because clearly they get, they reap the benefit of the investment. There's no question about it. And if you're at 99 percent compliance, it doesn't sound like their contribution would be that substantial anyway. Well, it's a fairly large office building that would certainly add to our services, absolutely. Thank you. And it would be priced right along like the rest of the office building.
 improvements in the neighborhood. So, yeah, we'd love to have dialogue. We'll take it to Salem. No question. Thank you. Very good, gentlemen. Thank you. And I want to just underscore my thanks to you for working with E.B. Mondinay and the NAACP and having a very collaborative relationship there and finding space for them in the mall. I think that was a good step forward. And working with the youth specifically regard to some of the issues in Holiday Park. And I want to encourage you to continue.
 to engage in that community conversation. We very, very much appreciate your partnership. We'll be there. Thank you. Thank you. So, folks, we are not even on the regular agenda yet. We have at least ten items by my count after this. We're going to have two minutes of testimony of all items going forward. How many people do we have signed up for this item, Carla? We have seven. Very good. Please call up the first three. We'll take it from there. Our Robert Patterson, Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, and Maggie.
 Good morning. Good morning again, commissioners. Uh, for the record, Charles Bridge, Crane Johnson. And I think it was commissioner fish who made the point about, uh, per capita policing and, uh,
 I appreciate that diligence, and I hope that all of you, whenever we have these struggles about neighborhoods asking for policing, and especially when it's in the context of the business, I think it's kind of a shame that I haven't worked harder with Dan Handelman to give you some cheat sheets. Because the first thing you need to know is that all policing data is skewed because New York City has a huge, highly funded police,
 double the national ratio police number. So that should almost be thrown out. We should compare it to peer cities at around 600,000. Also, it's silly to talk about policing numbers without having matching crime data. So if the Lloyd District is actually having less crime per citizen, not necessarily less crime per dollar of economic activity, but less crime per dollar of economic activity,
 Our police resources should be encountered where individuals are having the most trouble actually suffering violence or property loss. So definitely, and they have their own district attorney's office. I'm sure with a little bit of goodwill on everybody's part, we can increase safety. And especially that weird, you know, the weird thing of repeat shoplifters.
 that really talks to the structure of our society. If we have people who are getting released on conditional release that they don't go back to the Lloyd Center and then we're not managing to get the district attorney's office to flag those people to have an extended holiday that they qualify for for contempt of court,
 that's where the problem is, not in the budget of the city of Portland. No amount of budget activity by the police commissioner or anybody can fix that sort of problem. And really, the Lloyd Center, as the Ashforth gentleman mentioned, is not really even an area of problems. It's an area of success that we're trying to hone. It was great to shop there during the holidays with many of the spaces filled with artisans.
 local people who normally couldn't make the threshold of mall rent. I don't know if Amanda had a chance to shop there in the past 30 days, but there were great people there. So let's work on the positives without thinking that it's really in any way connected to the police department's budget. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 I guess I want to talk about the discriminatory behavior of the private security companies. When I was at Fred Meyer, there was an obviously mentally ill guy who comes there frequently, and the security guys there were talking about how much they hated him after he left because
 And then they proceeded to have a conversation about what long guns they owned and the caliber of bullets they used in them and wanted to sell and the long guns they wanted to buy and the caliber of bullet they would need to use for them.
 I find that very offensive. Also, Pioneer Square, the security officers there dressed very similar to state troopers. I think that's wrong. They put their...
 mall time, way down at the bottom of the glass in white, where in tiny, tiny lettering where nobody can read it. So I had security coming up and talking to me after I had bought an ice cream and was sitting at a table reading a book to tell me I had to leave. I had no idea they closed at 8 o'clock. 9 o'clock is usually about the time's.
 malls tend to close. And I just think there's this elderly, disabled, transgender, there's a lot of discrimination by these private security companies. I forgot to say thanks Everbright in China, EBUSA in Dallas for your local investment. Next three are Dan Handelman, Diana Ogaz and Joe Walsh.
 Morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with the group Portland Cop Watch. And we participated in a news conference a few months ago that was headed up by the people working on a homeless bill of rights.
 And it was about business improvement districts and how they create their own kind of mini fiefdoms and create laws that are exclusionary and generally focused on people who are houseless. I was glad to hear the only mention of houselessness in that presentation was really about the unfortunate houseless person who seemed to have been attacked by people. And there seemed to be some compassion for that person from the business people who came up here. Well, there was also their support for Right to Dream, too.
 Okay. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. But my point is that we say frequently, and specifically around the BID here in downtown Portland, that it shouldn't be that people with more money get more attention from law enforcement, that we all pay taxes and we all get treated equally. Chief Outlaw was interviewed in Street Roots, and she said there's no difference in how things are enforced. But my understanding from reading the paperwork, and I kind of didn't read it in as much detail as usual, but –
 is that there's some kind of facility that the police are allowed to use to write their paperwork that the Lloyd Business District gives them. And it's like if a rich person set aside a room in their house and said, I want the police protecting my neighborhood more, so why don't you come here and write your reports? It really isn't appropriate to build that kind of special rights for some people because they have more money.
 And moreover, I'm glad that Mr. Johnson already addressed the issue about spending more money on more police because that's not necessarily going to solve our problems. The U.S. government spends all our money on the military, and this is partly why we don't have money for housing or jobs, and that's why people commit crimes. And certainly it's this council's responsibility to make sure that we're –
 not overspending on law enforcement. And I'm glad, again, Commissioner Fritz pointed out that we have empty positions at the police bureau. We also have these unarmed officers that are hopefully going to start doing more than just push paperwork around, but maybe could also help people like
 The folks in the Lloyd District. Yeah, and if I could... Or Lloyd, excuse me. Yeah, if I could... Yeah, Lloyd, go Lloyd. $5 in the jar. If I could just say, yes, the PS3, the Public Safety Service Coordinators, will most certainly be in the community. And so thank you for reminding us of that. Morning. Good morning. I just... What's your name, ma'am? Oh, I apologize. My name is Diana. And I am part the...
 The Holiday Park is pretty much my backyard. I frequent this area on a regular basis, walking from my home,
 through Holiday Park to the Lloyd Center. It's one of my favorite places. I see so much life and so much of Portland and even people from Washington, you know, traveling to just be a part of this community. In the summertime, I see all the things that Holiday Park has to offer its community. However, since winter, it's been lacking. And...
 With the people who are currently out of place, who are homeless and don't have places to go, Holiday Park is a desirable place for a lot of reasons. It's close to public transportation. It's close to the Lloyd Center, which is a place of warmth. There's all sorts of things that it can offer. And so with there being a...
 challenge on filling spaces for law enforcement to help I noticed that as the the Lloyd ESD was going over their efforts of what they were doing for a community I wonder if maybe they can look at their budget to perv provide for those who are misplaced because in the summertime there is a lot of
 that they offer a community, but the wintertime is really when it's crucial. It's when it's needed. And, you know, there are so many financial efforts that Lloyd ESD is providing, and I think that instead of looking for more money for the police, I think that we can look within, work together, as they said, and work together as a community to make room.
 Also, I just wanted to say that the carousel from Jansen Beach, I remember that, and I think that Holiday Park or Lloyd Center could really benefit from the carousel. So thank you for your time. Thank you. Morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I was really struck by the –
 just outlandish information that was presented to you. And even Commissioner Fish picked up on the data that was used, 600,000 versus, what is it, 800,000 in a county that we have now. That's a huge difference, you know, and that was done on purpose. That was a lie.
 You were lied to, but it was a great report, wasn't it, Commissioner? That's the thing that drives us crazy. You sit here and they lie to you, you know they lied to you, and then you turn around and say, that was a great report. No, it wasn't. It was bullshit. That's what that report was. That last presentation by the man who's now sitting on the committee that you guys appointed is telling you lies.
 That anecdotal stuff that he talked about, the guy being arrested over and over and over again, and his conclusion was, get more cops. Well, the guy was arrested over and over. The cops must have been there. So what are you going to do with more cops? Are the two cops that are going to watch it go to a movie?
 You spread the cops so thin, and today you're taking up another issue that you want to spread the cops out even more. So stop it. Do the data. Don't listen to these people who lie to you. And you know it.
 This business, Lloyd, I was supposed to go there to pick up Patty some seeds candy. I'm not going. They lost a customer because they're liars. Mr. Walsh, your time is up.
 Your time is up. And I just want to say... Get away from me! Excuse me. I just want to say, I think in this chamber, while I'm presiding officer, we are not going to impugn people or assume... They're liars! That's your opinion. That's my opinion, and I'm allowed to say it. I don't believe they're lying. You are a liar! I don't believe they're lying, and that's not what the data shows. You are a liar! No, you're out of order, and you're going to be asked to leave. What?
 What? He's got to do it. We'll take a recess. You do it. So, folks, the way democracy works is you're not going to always hear your opinion reflected at these microphones. And when you come to the day when all you hear at these microphones is your opinion reflected here, then we have a serious problem with our democracy. But the way it's going to work...
 is we're going to listen to what people have to say. When they're at the microphone, it is their time to speak what they believe, and it is your turn to listen. Then when it's your turn to be at the mic, you can do that without making personal attacks or questioning the integrity of people who you disagree with. That's the rules of the chamber. Good morning. We have two more people who have signed up. That's fine. Robert Patterson and Mimi Gurman. Come on up. Okay.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity XX1 PDX. Wait a second. That sounds like a new one. I was waiting for you to catch that. Now, the issue I have on this is, number one, is that to make it very clear on where this revenue comes from, I understand it's a percentage off of each property owner that joins this BID, but you can correct me if I'm wrong on that. Issue number two is that
 I have a real problem with somehow a DA being in this type of agreement almost as a personal DA of this group. And I have a big problem with that. I like that separation of power. I don't want somebody to have that influence over a DA to maybe point at somebody and say, a little bit longer next time, a little bit longer. So I have a big problem with a DA in a neighborhood saying,
 that is being almost represented as their DA. Big issue to me. Issue number two, a lot of those people being released, as you know, the police are filing the reports, they run them through, they run them back out. We're at overcapacity at the Multnomah County Jail.
 They're offering early release right now, forced release. That's a big debate that I got in and said, you need to notify the victims of who you're releasing early. And I had a big problem with them doing that. The other issue I have on this is that we're dealing with a bunch of rich property owners. And I almost put a bet on that Mr. Ansforth or whoever he is bought old Seymour Durst properties.
 Maybe I'm wrong. And he can update me on that, which I had a discussion with Seymour on those properties in Lloyd. So the reality is this, is that do we want to give control of these neighborhoods to certain very wealthy developers and property owners? Because that's what I see. And why don't we just use neighborhood associations to do the same thing because you're already paying them too? This is a double pay. And I don't like what I see here.
 I have a big problem with that DA, and I want to know who that DA's name is, and I want to talk to him. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I have a problem with somebody from PSAP coming up here and using this table as a microphone for issues that should be in front of PSAP as a public meeting. I don't think that it is in any law-abiding rule, ordinance, or whatever of the PSAP department
 committee that they are allowed to come here and speak as an individual for issues that should be in PSAP. So I think there's a conflict there. I don't know all the rules of how PSAP was set up, but he just used this platform as a way to deal with issues that would normally come in front of PSAP regarding cop behavior, well, regarding, in his case, wanting more cops in the neighborhood.
 And he used this as a platform. That's a big problem. So already, PSAP has had what? One and a half meetings? And we have somebody lobbying for PSAP from PSAP at this table. And nobody's calling it out. Well, I am.
 I think that, you know, it should be looked at. And, Dan, I'm speaking to you, too, because I don't know the rules, but I know you will. That somebody's got to look into that. And if he has just overridden his allowance to, or whatever it is, his rule to be sitting on the PSEP committee, I am in favor of him having to leave the PSEP committee for what he's just done. I think it's a big, a really big problem that he just...
 took his white male privilege PSAP power and brought it here for another issue and had you all listen to him and perhaps give him what he wants when that should have been brought up to PSAP.
 That's first. I second what the woman who testified earlier was saying. I am in favor of them using their money to help our houseless population survive out on the streets, preferably inside. And if they need more cops over there, give them G4S from here because they're useless. There's no need for it. And they can go over to Lloyd Center. I think that'd be a great place for them. Thank you.
 Mayor, President of the Council of Saltzman and Commissioners, my name is Robert Patterson. How are you guys doing today? Mayor, thank you for your words a few moments ago. While I am firmly in favor of agitation, there's no room in the political process for personal attacks or hate speech. I think of Plato's Athens as a place where, as a place where in a public forum,
 Citizens could meet to discuss issues of the day. And that forum was, in a sense, Athens' living room. With all due respect to Pioneer Square, in my opinion, the true living room of Portland is Lloyd Center.
 As we move towards 2020, an important mayor's election here in Portland, but also a presidential election that will shape the future of this republic, I call on young people to join me at Lloyd Center and at malls across Portland and across America to find a place at the table for voters under 30 in the next election. Thank you. I'm Robert Patterson.
 Thank you. Okay. Very good. Does that complete public testimony? That's all who signed up, yes. All right. Very good. Any further discussion, colleagues? Did you want to speak? You didn't sign up on that sheet. I did sign up on the sheet. Your name's not on that sheet. Come on up. If there's some mistake and you'd like to testify, come on up. You know, this is a foreign country. I don't understand. I signed up on the sheet out there.
 This is the item we're on, but you can speak. He's letting you speak. You can come up. Come on up. Good morning. My name is Jim Wittenberg, and I guess this town hasn't become too big and powerful for me anymore. I moved to the Lloyd Center area in 1998. I've never heard of Gold Lloyd or whatever that is.
 Dan, I appreciate your serving on the council and taking care of... The quote was by Hubert Humphrey, and it was, it's how you treat your young and your elderly people. We forgot that part. I guess I'm now an elderly person. I'll be 80 years old next April 13th. And I fell recently, and I was in the hospital for... at a rest home for over a month.
 Dan, thank you again. I appreciate it. Nick, I think I was in Washington, D.C. when your dad was there. Was Hamilton your father? 68 to 94. Yeah. I moved. 94. He died in 96. Okay. He left Congress then. I was in the Congress in 19, I mean, in...
 69. You overlapped a little bit. Yeah, I worked for John Conyers back then. They served together on judiciary. Oh, good. I thought so. He did a great job. I also met Nelson Rockefeller back there at a urinal one time.
 I'm really sad. I guess I have a relative of... I have a relationship with Portland. I joined the City Club in Eugene last week. They took my $75 and put it in their pocket. So I've been to a couple of their meetings. So I guess I'm no longer a resident here, so I won't bother you anymore. But, you know, this was a nice town in 1963 when I moved here.
 I was behind the hospital, Providence Hospital. I had a pharmacy across the street from the hospital for three years. And I don't know what's happened to it. It's a bunch of stuffed shirts get up here with ties on and tell you stuff. I've never heard of them. I've lived in the Lloyd Center area since 1998. I don't know who they are. What is ESD?
 I don't get you people anymore. You don't represent me. You represent those guys. Very good. Thank you. Your time is expired. Thank you, Jim. Appreciate it. Colleagues, I have one comment to make. I want to give you some data, and you can come to your own conclusion about what this data is. We have, as was stated, about 924 sworn officers. Our population is 650,000.
 Denver has a population of 680,000. It has 1,500 police officers. Seattle has a population of 724,000, so about 75,000 more people than we do. They have 1,300 sworn officers.
 San Francisco has a population of 884,000. They have 2,108 sworn police officers. Those are facts, too. You can make of it what you wish. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading, and I want to thank those from Lloyd, Go Lloyd, who gave their presentation today. I appreciate what they do in the community. Next item is...
 We move to the regular agenda, item 1332, please.
 conditionally exempt the creation of certain mass shelters and short-term housing facilities from parks and recreation, environmental services, transportation, and water system development charges. And colleagues, we will have presentations today from Sarah Fee Allen from my office, Matt Wickstrom, and Mark Jolin. Mark Jolin is, of course, the Director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services between Multnomah County and the City of Portland.
 After they give their presentations, we'll have some invited testimony from Stacey Bork. TPI rose back from Catholic Charities. And I'm not sure who's starting today. I'm starting. Seraphi, very good. Thank you. Name for the record, please. City Council, my name is Seraphi Allen, and I am a policy advisor to Mayor Ted Wheeler. And it is my great pleasure to be before you today.
 System development charges fees play a critical role in expanding and providing services in Portland. However, assessing these fees on new shelter space can limit the ability to create them when shelter space is badly needed. Over the past two years, the Mayor's Office has worked with many public and private partners to expand access to shelter and increase the numbers of people moving through shelter into permanent housing.
 I would like to thank all the Bureau partners, and especially Matt Wickstrom from BDS, for coming together so quickly and working with a nimbleness that is not usually expected from government for addressing this challenge. Waiving SDC fees is one tool City Council has available to address our housing crisis and need for shelter access. I would now like to pass this off to Matt Wickstrom, and thank you for hearing us today.
 Hello, I'm Matt Wickstrom with the Bureau of Development Services, and I'll just quickly go through a presentation about what we came up with for the SDC waivers for mass shelters and short-term housing. The issues that we came across, Sarah, if you mentioned the first one, is that SDC charges can be a significant portion of the overall cost of new shelter space.
 There is a current SDC waiver. It's applied to mass shelters, but it's not applied to short-term housing. I'll get to the distinction between those two in just a second. And then the current SDC waiver requires a 10-year minimum operating period. What we're seeing is shelters right now that don't always have that 10-year minimum lined up. They may be seasonal or they just don't have a 10-year lease period.
 The difference between a mass shelter and short-term housing, and this waiver would apply to both, is that mass shelter is a structure with one or more open sleeping areas. Individual sleeping rooms aren't provided, and a mass shelter is operated by a public or nonprofit agency. For mass shelters, you could picture the foster shelter.
 Uh, short-term housing is a structure with one or more open individual sleeping rooms. And it's also operated by a public or nonprofit agency, uh, for short-term housing. You could, you could picture Kenton women's village. The, like I said, the current SDC waivers are applied to mass shelters that provide shelter for a minimum of 10 years. Uh, what the proposal is, is SDCs would be waived for mass shelters and short-term housing projects. Um, with, and the should say, uh,
 With confirmation from the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Can we go back for a second? There's a big difference between operating agreement and confirmation. Yes, and this is a typo in the presentation. I'm sorry. So you're saying there's no – on the one hand, we're saying it doesn't have to be 10 years. Now you're saying it doesn't have to have an operating agreement. It just has to have confirmation? So is that – well, Mark, I'll wait to your presentation, but let me be clear. I want to –
 There has to be a clear public benefit, and there has to be a clear trigger. In an operating agreement, we can verify. Confirmation gets a little squishy, so I want to know just how that works. So the process that we had laid out is that the Joint Office of Public Services would provide SDC bureaus with a letter saying the shelter has confirmation.
 SDC bureaus would calculate but waive the SDC fees. Joint office would be responsible for tracking the shelters, receiving the waiver and the amount. And then the joint office would notify SDC bureaus if the shelter was no longer operating. This is intended to give you a snapshot of the,
 the SDC fees that are assessed of shelters. And keep in mind that different bureaus assess fees differently, and there's different types of projects where different fees would be triggered. So this is really just a snapshot of what we've seen so far. In addition to these, there would be
 likely the Willamette Center would be requesting the SDC fees waived. And then there's Right to Dream 2 and Hazelnut Grove, which also could come in with permits and request those fees to be waived as well. The ordinance proposal is to amend Title 30 to create a new section for SDC waivers for mass shelters and short-term housing. It would amend Title 30 as well to remove the current references for mass shelters waivers
 from the section that it's currently in, which is waivers for affordable housing. And then there's an in order to align codes, there are minor amendments to Title 17, Title 21, and Title 30. And the ordinance has been structured as an emergency ordinance. And that is the end of my presentation. So I'll provide my prepared remarks and then come back to your question, Commissioner. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Commissioners, my name is Mark Joel and I'm the director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services.
 I'm here today to express my appreciation for the SDC waiver measure you are voting on today. I want to thank the Mayor's Office for initiating this effort and for the partnership with the SDC bureaus and the Bureau of Development Services.
 Since the declaration of the state of emergency, we've opened more than a dozen year-round and temporary shelters in this community. We've both more than doubled the number of publicly funded year-round shelter beds available and more than doubled the number of people who benefit from emergency shelter each year. Last year, it was approximately 8,500 people.
 But as Matt said, we don't foresee our need for shelter diminishing. We are in the midst of several projects to upgrade the quality of our permanent year-round service-enriched shelter capacity, and we anticipate additional ones in the future. We also expect to continue to look for temporary and alternative shelter opportunities in partnership with the faith community, nonprofits, the business community, and our neighborhoods.
 And shelter is not something that requires government sponsorship. We have a variety of privately run shelters serving a wide range of need in our community, including year-round, seasonal, and alternative shelters. Given the urgent need, we want to do everything we can to incentivize these privately led efforts. The waiver proposal you have in front of you will reduce the cost of shelter development, whether publicly or privately led.
 As you saw from Matt's presentation, these costs can be substantial and a significant deterrent, especially to faith communities and nonprofits that are seeking to create or improve shelter capacity. As importantly, this waiver creates a streamlined process. In fact, as we have moved to create shelters, the public interest in advancing those projects has been strong enough that the SDC bureaus have often ultimately granted waivers of the fees.
 but seeking waivers from each SDC bureau for each project is a time-consuming staff and resource-intensive process that often slows projects down. This proposal eliminates that complexity and will allow shelters to be created more quickly. The proposal before you will be one more important tool in our efforts to address the crisis of unsheltered homelessness in our community, and the Joint Office welcomes the opportunity to play a role in the implementation of this new tool. I thank you again for your consideration of this proposal.
 So, Mark, could you talk a little bit about this mechanism of confirmation versus operating agreement? And I'm guessing that the old rule about 10 years and an operating agreement was in part designed to make sure the cost benefit was amortized over a period of time, and the operating agreement was a way of verifying that there was a relationship. How would you envision the confirmation process working? Sure.
 So I'm going to let Matt take the first run at it because I'm not clear that an operating agreement was part of the 10-year waiver either. Oh, that was just a typo? Yeah, an operating agreement isn't currently required. Okay. So how does the confirmation process work?
 So I think this is something that we will have to work out in terms of the formal process. What we would expect is the presentation of a desire to move forward with the shelter. In fact, most shelters in our community are going to have our involvement actively in multiple stages, including as a funder. So we expect that in the vast majority of situations, there would be an operating agreement. We have the ability to verify that a shelter is going to be open and is open and operating as planned.
 I think what we're trying to create is space for those community led efforts that don't necessarily require our funding or an operating agreement with us, but where we know that provider is out in the community and is delivering shelter services. So how we, how we document that, this will be a new process, but clearly we'll need to have some very specific mechanisms in place. So I have obviously great confidence in, in how you work that out. And I'm,
 I'm sure I'm restating the obvious, but I would think that a letter addressed to the director and the commissioner in charge simply notifying them that this is being triggered, describing the project, making the request so it can be acted on, is a good place to start. And then we can fine-tune that over time.
 Absolutely. And I think we'll have the record of application for permits and so forth that have come forward that have triggered the SDC conversation. So I think we'll have a good record to verify that this is, in fact, the intended use and be able to monitor that. This proposal says that the burden is placed on the Joint Office to do these notifications, including if the entity ceases operating as a shelter. Do you have adequate resources to undertake that responsibility? Absolutely.
 We will undertake the responsibility. We'll have to look at what the actual administrative impact is. The current volume of shelters is not that high, so we don't anticipate that this is going to be a big body of work for us. But as it becomes clear what's necessitated, we'll have to look at our existing budget for shelter operations and potentially seek whatever additional support we need. Okay, thank you.
 Yeah, operationally for us, because we are in the lead on a lot of these shelter projects, there will likely be a net benefit in terms of our capacity. If we're not having to pursue individual SDC waivers for shelters, we can put that time back into the monitoring activity as well. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, further questions? Does that complete the presentation for this panel? That's correct. Very good. So we have some invited testimony. Thank you, all three of you, very much. Stacey Bork is here as well as Rose back.
 Thank you for being here. Good morning. I'm Rose Bach, the Director of Homeless and Housing Services at Catholic Charities of Oregon.
 As you may know, we operate a variety of services for people who are experiencing homelessness or for people who have left homelessness, including the Kenton Women's Village. The Kenton Women's Village has been a very successful alternative shelter model, and we have a very strong relationship with the neighborhood in the Kenton neighborhood. The neighbors are very involved in the village. They volunteer at the village and share in the village's success.
 I know that you, Mayor Wheeler, were visiting about a month ago, and at that time we let you know that 18 women had moved into permanent housing, but as of today, 20 women from the village have left long-term chronic homelessness and moved into permanent housing. So we're very pleased about that.
 At Catholic Charities, we believe very strongly that small alternative shelters are a very good model for people who are not successful in larger shelters. The sense of security and privacy that women have at the village, as well as long-term intensive case management, has really proved to be a key for folks to move on out of homelessness. People have secured jobs, started small businesses, left domestic violence relationships.
 and sought recovery from addiction and mental health disorders through their work at the village.
 We at Catholic Charities are actively pursuing additional alternative shelters like Kent and Women's Village, but we believe that the system development charges are prohibitive, and applying for individual waivers really impedes our ability to be nimble and flexible and to start new sites. So we ask that you would approve the waiver for shelters and support additional villages like Kent and Women's Villages moving forward. Thank you for your time today. Thank you. And I just want to say how impressed –
 I am with your work and how impressed I was with the women at the Women's Kenton Village. And I really appreciated their hospitality. It was nice of them to invite me in and show me not only the village and the programming there, but invite me into their homes and see what they're working on. And I just have to say I was so impressed.
 that there was a microenterprise going on there as well. And so there were two women who were taking economic control of their lives and becoming entrepreneurs and delivering a product which I thought was fantastic. So I appreciated it so much. Absolutely. Thank you. We invite all of you when we move to the new location in January to come. We'll give you all invocations. Thank you.
 Hi, thank you for having me. I'm Stacey Bork, Senior Director of Programs with Transition Projects. Thanks for bringing this important change forward. Over the last three years, Transition Projects has opened 13 shelters in 13 different locations, including permanent, winter, and temporary shelters, all with the support of this council and the Joint Office of Homeless Services.
 All of our shelter expansion has been intentional and strategic, striving to meet both the emergent needs of people sleeping unsheltered tonight and providing stability as people transition back into housing. Last year, transition projects provided safe sleep for more than 3,700 different people and helped more than 1,000 people return back to permanent housing.
 As you know, our budgets to open new programs are small, the timelines are often short, and the demand is critical. These are life-saving services. Everything we do to speed up and make the process more efficient matters most to the people who are in crisis and need the services today. Thank you.
 Your support of this waiver allows us to dedicate our energy and our resources towards getting people safe inside and back in housing. Thank you very much. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions for this panel? Thank you for your great work. Public testimony on this item, Carla. We have seven people signed up. The first three are Robert West, Robert Patterson, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Two minutes each, please.
 Yes, Mayor. This is Robert West. You received an award, I believe it was two years ago, for getting the veterans off the streets. And I'm finding more and more people are on the streets. I think that the city should waive any fees of these shelters and stuff. These shelters shouldn't have to be burdened with the fees and stuff. If you notice, there's been – there's homeless all over the place. Yes.
 We've even had homeless protests outside where an individual got assaulted and robbed and was brought into City Hall for first aid just to be kicked out by security because the person was not injured on City Hall property. And then when the police decided to deal with it, which was over an hour later, the guy that was pepper sprayed actually had to walk four blocks to,
 speak with the police, which I thought was totally disgusting. Um, and, uh,
 Also, a couple days ago, they had a protest out back by your car in which a number of homeless protesters – Mr. West, is this testimony going to focus on the matter at hand, which is the SDCs for the shelters? It is. Okay. If you could get to that part of the subject, that'd be helpful. Okay. Homeless protesters were shoved by your G4S security guards. Okay.
 We need more shelters. We need more places where homeless can go. We don't need the homeless ticketed. There's a homeless dude that was out in front of City Hall that got a citation, a criminal citation, for camping in front of City Hall. Now, that's a shame, Mayor. These people can't afford...
 these tickets, and you guys ticket them, they don't show up for court, and then your SS goons go arrest them. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, again, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And obviously, any step we can take, especially when it's just around...
 what's in this case sort of bureaucratic, moving money from the left hand to the right hand since it's the city and the county that generally fund most shelter while we're working at getting more local people, especially high wealth local people, aware to the deep philanthropic need. Can I just correct you? Yes. We're not moving money. Oh, no. We're waiving a fee. But if we didn't waive the fee, it's really just moving money from... Because...
 it's not like they're collecting rent from these homeless people. Any SDC money, where did it come from? From the Joint Office of Homeless Services or Catholic Charities. Now there we maybe do have a private funder. But anyway, vote yes to delay these SDC fees. But I think that
 I was glad the Mayor made some clarifications about city size and police force size. We also need to look at the fact that there's just no way that if one of the previous testifiers said that they housed 3,000-some unique individuals and they got 1,000 people into housing, that there's much of an overlap with that Venn diagram. If you look at the rate of churn in the people that leave TPI shelters,
 without attaining public housing, we still have a serious crisis. This is not default TPI. It's a problem with the real estate market. But waive these SDC charges and look also to broaden the source of philanthropic individuals and organizations that can open up some temporary space so that we don't have thousands of people outside when it's 32 degrees. Thanks very much. Thank you. Morning. Hi. I'm Robert Patterson. Gosh. Hi.
 I've been homeless in Portland for coming up on three years now, three and a half years. And I understand that shelters are an important part of a solution, not just to the problem of homelessness, but the problem of freezing to death. However, I'm also a gay man. And I understand that many shelters, not all, but many shelters are inculcated with a
 with a prison culture that is intolerant to sexual minorities. I also have a religious faith that runs outside of the norm, and again, I understand that some shelters, not all, but some shelters, are intolerant of alternative faith pathways, shall we say. While I support this exemption, I would hope that the Commission would add a caveat here
 that all of these shelters be able to demonstrate how they plan to have a secure space for sexual minorities and for minorities of faith. I'm Robert Patterson. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Maggie, Tom Kemper, and Homer Williams. Morning. Hi. I would like more than two minutes, thank you. Thank you.
 I think that delaying these STC fees can be a good thing if you're trying to improve the deliverance of homeless.
 Services or improve the services themselves because federal policy 811 just lets the contractors decide what is a social service. So inside Salvation Army, there's a housing advocate, but there's no housing advocacy going on.
 I explained to you earlier about the MRSA, the bed bugs, the lice and the kennel cough and we're up on beds now and there are some people moving out however
 Bar 15 next door, they're apparently still mad that we've asked them to keep the noise down to a reasonable level. Now, I grew up across from two major military installations. I understand what ordinance practice sounds like. I can feel the ground shaking and the windows shaking. And so when...
 Bar 15 is doing their blasting from their speakers and their drums, and it sounds exactly like that. And we have on my floor about a dozen schizophrenics, and they walk back and forth, and they talk to themselves. And then when I go down and I'm sitting like literally this close, because we're all
 We are all sitting side by side with our chairs touching, and I'm eating my ramen because they won't use the kitchen that they donated to feed anyone. There's a woman who's schizophrenic who's sitting next to me who's been up all night, and she is sobbing. And I don't mean crying a little. She is sobbing endlessly because she's been up all night and because it sounds like...
 an active war zone because bar 15 is going boom, boom, boom all night long. Okay? It's torture. That's torturing disabled people. Okay?
 You know, this city attorney could do something about this. There's no disability rights lawyer in the disability rights office. Otherwise, you guys would have had a class action lawsuit. Because ultimately, it's the city's responsibility to, you know, be in charge of that. Thank you. Okay? Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. Homer Williams, Oregon Harper of Hope. Hello.
 Somebody had mentioned the private side getting involved in this, and I think this is a really good example of getting something done where there's a significant financial contribution from the private side, and then in conjunction with transition projects in the city and their help,
 both on an ongoing operation in Prosper, Portland, and the state of Oregon, all contributing to this. And so I think that we all recognize the need for shelters, and it's going to continue to grow, as we know. And finding ways to provide these is most important. And this is a big step in making it financially viable for people.
 the private people willing to make contributions and to help manage the cost of building these things. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Hi. My name is Tom Kemper. I went to Homer about a few months ago and said, what can I do to help with the homeless issue? He said, great, take on the navigation center. So I'm the project manager and owner rep for getting the navigation center built.
 As you know, that project is a 100-bed shelter planned right by the Broadway Bridge on land that's being leased from Prosper, Portland, to the city, to Oregon Harbor of Hope. We hope to start construction in January.
 The lease is less than 10 years, and that's why this modification to the waiver of fees is really critical to get the navigation center built. It's being built substantially with private donor funding. And so it's – I mean, it is, as Homer noted, it's a public-private partnership to address a very serious issue that we have strongly urged
 your passage of this modification to the fee ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Does that complete public testimony, Carla? That's all who signed up. Very good. Any further comments or questions? Commissioner Fish? Nope. Please call the roll. Fritz. I appreciate the collaboration of all the partners who've made this happen. Aye. So when we waive systems development charges, and we're talking about waiving, not deferring.
 We necessarily shift costs. Homer, you don't have to stay here, by the way. I mean, you're welcome to. We charge more for those seats. We shift costs onto other classes of users. And so we do this advisedly. We do this carefully, particularly when the utilities are included in what is being proposed. Thank you.
 I have some hesitation about the action we're taking today, but on balance, I think it is in the public interest, and therefore I support it. Aye. We're trying to get Commissioner Saltzman. This is an emergency. Yeah, no, we're stalling. We're stalling. Is it your time? Where's Lightning? Does he have any more videos? We have more testimony.
 Why don't you go ahead and can she continue to call the roll until, and we won't take the final vote until Commissioner Saltzman. Let's take it out of sequence. We can go to you and then Dan when he gets here. I would recommend just postponing the calling the vote. Okay. Why don't we do this? Have you received word from Commissioner Saltzman? Your staff went to find him. I've been commenting.
 Why don't we just put it off for one item? Yeah, why don't we do that? Well, we have one item where I have a statement. Here he is. He's been found. Commissioner Saltzman. Good. All right. Continue the roll, please. Saltzman. Saltzman. It's your vote on the SDC. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Last year, for the first time, more Portland residents were counted sleeping in shelters than sleeping outside. Despite good progress, Portland still has a very urgent need for additional shelter beds and shelter options for the people in our community.
 System development charge fees play a critical role in expanding and providing services in Portland. However, assessing these fees on shelters can actually limit our ability to create them when shelter space is so obviously needed. The city's SDC bureaus, the Bureau of Development Services, and the Joint Office of Homeless Services work together on an approach to waive SDC fees for these shelters to
 provided they have confirmation with the Joint Office, and we had that conversation today. Waiving SDC fees is one tool the City Council has available to address our housing crisis and need for safe and habitable shelters. I want to thank Matt Wickstrom for the presentation and your fantastic work in bringing all the SDC bureaus together and creating what ultimately was a very collaborative process. Thank you for that.
 I also want to thank Mari Moore from the Water Bureau, Sarah Huggins from Portland Parks, BES, Rich Eisenhower from Portland Parks, and the Portland Housing Bureau, all who worked tirelessly on this effort. Again, as always, I want to thank Mark Jolin for his excellent stewardship of the Joint Office, and I want to thank Sarah Fialan from my team for recognizing this issue and working hard to get it resolved.
 I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all for your hard work. Next item, 1333.
 a waste collection access and opportunity program and authorize exemption as a class special procurement. Colleagues, as you remember, when the City of Portland adopted its citywide racial equity goals and strategies in 2015, these goals included committing to an effort of increasing opportunities, especially around contracting,
 The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has spent the last year and a half looking for ways to bring greater access and opportunity to underrepresented contractors, specifically in the waste collection industry. It's particularly difficult for minority-owned, women-owned, and emerging small businesses to gain entrance to capital-intensive industries like waste collection and construction.
 In the construction industry, the city has already developed the Prime Contractor Development Program, which allows certified minority and women contractors to compete in
 within the program for contracting opportunities of up to $1 million. The program also provides ongoing technical assistance and educational opportunities. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has worked with procurement services to develop an exciting proposal for a similar program in the waste collection industry called the Waste Collection Program.
 an access and opportunity program, which is what we're going to hear about today. I'd like to turn this over to Arianna Sperry from BPS and Lester Spittler from the Procurement Office to kick this off. Thank you. Can you hear me? Okay.
 Thank you so much, Mayor and City Council. I'm really pleased to be able to present today with Lester, as he and his team at Procurement Services have been awesome partners in helping us map out this approach. So, at the core of this effort is equity, which we as a city have identified as an important value.
 And we've also identified that creating more access in our contracting opportunities is a critical component to advancing that work. The Waste Collection Access and Opportunity Program provides us with a concrete step that we can take to move toward our equity goals. So how did we get here? In August of 2017, City Council directed BPS to launch a review of our franchise system, governing collection of residential garbage and recycling programs.
 And for the first time, we were directed to use an equity lens in our review, not only in terms of diversity of workforce, but also company ownership. One of the first steps was to identify the barriers facing minority-owned and women-owned companies. We interviewed stakeholders, and we heard about lack of access, including access to capital, and lack of opportunity, like the opportunity to build relevant experience.
 And though all service providers face these barriers, these barriers are amplified for minority-owned companies due to historical discrimination and inequities. Ultimately, we concluded that the most effective approach was to broaden our look to all sectors of the waste system and identify steps we can take over several years to create access and opportunities for capacity building.
 So last October, we shared with you our Waste Equity Work Plan that lays out the work BPS will take to advance diversity and equity in Portland's waste collection system. You'll recall that multifamily was our top priority, and it still is. We're working to scope that effort right now and convene an advisory group early next year.
 The next top items in the work plan relate to city procurements for waste collection from trash cans in the public right-of-way and from city-owned and city-managed offices and other facilities. Implementation of these items is moving forward first for several reasons. First, the city is the customer in these two procurements, so we have more flexibility and control over the procurement approach.
 The public trash program is slated to expand significantly, going from about $600,000 per year to over $2 million per year by 2022. So there's a big opportunity there to make changes in how we do things. We're expanding into business districts across the city in phases, starting in East Portland this spring. The public trash program makes sense as a stepping stone for new service providers because it's less capital-intense.
 There's just one line of service, so there are fewer collection vehicles to purchase. Also, the city owns and maintains the trash cans, which is another investment the contractor doesn't have to make. The waste collection contract for city-owned offices and facilities is currently about $900,000 per year. And this contract is big enough that only a few large companies have the capacity to bid on it.
 BPS plans to work with procurement services and the participating bureaus to restructure the contract to create more access and opportunity for a broader set of companies. Having just a small pool of interested and capable bidders has also been an issue with the public trash solicitations. So another benefit of this proposal is that we can grow the pool and build the capacity of new potential service providers.
 When we approached procurement services to discuss the best way to provide more access and opportunity for minority-owned and women-owned companies in our public waste collection procurements, Lester here suggested BPS use the existing model of the city's Prime Contractor Development Program, which directs smaller construction contracts to a pool of vetted and pre-qualified vendors.
 The program is available to minority-owned, women-owned, and emerging small businesses that have been certified by the state Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity, which is also known as COBID. The Prime Contractor Development Program also supports companies in their growth by providing operational and technical assistance.
 So BPS is proposing to develop a similar waste collection access and opportunity program and direct future procurements for waste collection from public trash cans and city offices and facilities through the program. We'll work with procurement services, other city bureaus, and potential service providers to develop administrative rules for the program. The first procurement would be for public trash collection in East Portland next spring.
 And when the existing contract for waste collection at city facilities expires in August of 2020, that work would also be directed through the program. To do all this, we need authorization for a class special procurement exemption, which Lester can speak to. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners.
 So the procurement action before you today is authorizing a class special procurement exemption. So Portland City Code allows City Council, acting as a local contract review board, to authorize a special procurement if it meets certain criteria. Number one, it can't result in favoritism or diminished competition. And it should result in substantial cost savings and public benefits.
 So we feel like this class special procurement exemption is going to do exactly that. As Ariane mentioned, the State Certification Office of Inclusion and Business Diversity certifies companies, and they face the greatest challenge in entering this market because it's very capital intensive.
 So what we're proposing to do is take these opportunities and compete them amongst a sheltered market pool of vendors, if you will, that are vetted and pre-qualified through the program. And those contractors or vendors will be the only firms that have access to those opportunities. It's very similar to the prime contractor development program that we have today.
 So we're currently working with the state to pull the certification certified companies to see who would be interested in this initially and who might be interested in expanding their operation to pursue these opportunities in the future. We will continue to work with them to pull that pool of vendors to promote this opportunity and to continue to grow the pool of vendors inside this sheltered market, if you will.
 So to reiterate, BPS is seeking direction to develop a new waste collection access and opportunity program. We're also seeking authorization for a class special procurement to direct city contracts for waste collection from public trash cans and city offices and facilities through the new program.
 And we're seeking immediate authorization in order to meet our commitments to the East Portland community to begin providing public trash collection services by next spring. And that's all. Very good. Colleagues, any questions on this item before we take public testimony? And we also have invited testimony as well. Oh, very good. Thank you.
 Just for the record, my name is Nate McCoy, Executive Director of the Oregon Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors. Thank you for having me today, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm struck by the presentations earlier today because I see so many parallels in the discussions around honest contracts.
 opportunities within workforce development and homeless crisis that we are all facing and the housing issues and you're going to hear from me today about how I'm seeing the dots connect between all of these presentations. I won't reiterate what Ariane did but I want to acknowledge BPS and some of the procurement staff on their leadership over this last year to ensure that we were setting the right tables with the existing haulers as well as
 potential new minority and other women new entrance into the system. We were along the way reminded of some case studies from 1950 that showed pretty blatant discriminations of African Americans and other minority haulers who were more or less just froze out of these industries. And to fast forward to today to have a discussion with you all, for any politician I think you would clamor to a win-win scenario and I think that's what we're presenting today.
 What I really want to spend my two minutes extra on is really talking about the back end process. And I think the back end process is by far the most important, given your approval today, which is to establish this equity working group, which will really wrestle with not only how to expand the pie, but how to expand that workforce development.
 And what I'm hopeful of is, you know, say the same people that we worked with over the last year with all the current haulers, um, we've saw some commitments. You know, we've had conversations about donated trucks to ensure minorities and other youth have opportunities to learn hands on, uh,
 in accessing CDL driver certificates. You know, we're talking about grants that Metro is offering to this industry to ensure that, you know, we keep an ample opportunity for the youth. You know, we're also talking about how do you ensure that new entrants can buy a business or start a business and capitalize equipment.
 So what better way than to the city to sponsor a program in which people can get that needed capacity, that technical assistance, that access to everybody in the hauling industry accessing these young people to get into these jobs.
 I mean, to me, there's not a better program and process that I've seen the city ever undertake. We talk about public benefit. We talk about community benefit. Today, you have both of those in one. So what I would like to say that on top of that is, Mayor, me and you sat in a meeting yesterday.
 with work systems where projections show that there were 17,000 opportunity youth, they called them, those young individuals who have graduated high school and aren't employed or not employed in living wage jobs and aren't going to college. What better access than construction? What better access than hauling? What better access than all these major agencies doing infrastructure development in our city? Okay.
 We've got to get a head start on this, and I'm hopeful that the city will partner with Metro, ODOT, and on top of that, we've got two major housing bonds underway.
 What better way than to start talking about multi-housing in these industries, affordable housing? These are new market opportunities, including city facilities, that we have the opportunity to address and make sure that there's an inclusive environment for all those individuals entering these new markets. I mean, I just have never seen anything that's coming together this quickly.
 this will. And I'm begging you guys to really make sure we approve this. And on top of that, appoint staff to be a part of this working equity group because we're going to need some real leadership to support the stakeholders as well as the staff that are doing this hard work. So please grant
 the opportunity for these special procurements to take place so that we can move into the real work of ensuring that we are getting the young individuals, even some of the homeless population involved in getting a job that will be sustainable for the next 20, 30 years.
 So thank you for the time today, and I just hope that we can rustle up in this next new year with some innovative ways to work together. Thank you. Thank you, and Nate, thank you for the hard work you put into this. You've been at this for a long time, working very hard, and I agree with you. Whenever you can bring a win-win to the city council, that's a really good thing. So thank you.
 Does that complete, Arianna, the provided testimony? Yes. Very good. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have four. Very good. Two minutes each, please. Thank you. The first three, please, coming up are Robert Patterson, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and Maggie. Hi, everybody. I'm Robert Patterson. It occurs to me that classism often masquerades as racism.
 And while I understand the importance of programs that allow minority-owned businesses and woman-owned businesses access to capital and access to contracts, I am mindful of the fact that also there is a population of poor whites that have been historically marginalized.
 denied access to capital. And I would hope that the Commission not forget them as well. And one more thing. I'd like to invite everybody to join me on the steps of City Hall today at 4 p.m. where I plan to make an important announcement regarding my political future. I'm Robert Patterson. Thank you. Thank you, Robert. Good morning.
 Good afternoon, Council. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And I just want to say thank you, yay, nice job. The only thing is it would be even better if somebody had moved to amend a one-year review so we can talk about the excellent progress we've made so people that have actually experienced success on this program can come and talk about the difference it's made in the community. Thanks, y'all. Thanks.
 I'm all for equity. And if you can get rid of those fuel-run blowers and hire more street sweepers, instead you'll employ more people. And I think it's good that there's...
 going to be those 157 units that are going to people who are employed in minimum wage jobs over on the side. But what about supportive housing? Let's talk about supportive housing. Let's talk about the fact that you've divided people
 who are going into housing because they have minimum wage jobs and they're getting into these units, and then, again, segregating people who are very, very disabled and putting them in these horrible, horrible shelters with, you know, all these problems. So I would like to continue that conversation. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Last person to sign up is Beth Vargas-Duncan. Come on up. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. I'm Beth Vargas-Duncan, the regional director with Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association. And today I'm speaking in representation of the Portland Haulers Association Association.
 As you know, Portland haulers provide the residential solid waste and recycling collection services within Portland. Every hauler providing residential collection service in Portland is a member of the Portland Haulers Association. All members are committed to working cooperatively with the city's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff to provide safe, modern, and efficient waste collection services that include garbage, recycling, organics collection, all at reasonable rates.
 The Portland Haulers Association members value and support equity, diversity, and inclusion. PHA members have been working closely with BPS staff and the Oregon chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors and others to identify effective initiatives, building our commitment to diversity in the workplace, and providing new opportunities for minority and women to gain added experience in solid waste management services.
 During the franchise renewal discussions in December of 2017, last year, PHA members introduced the idea to use city facility and public trash can contracts as a method to create new opportunities quickly for minorities and women-owned companies in waste management services.
 We remain committed to supporting this initiative and concept, as well as working with the Waste Equity Advisory Group on all other ways to effectively create more opportunities for minorities and women, while also continuing to provide the standard of service expected from the city.
 We remain committed to enhancing diversity training within our companies and have hired a consultant to help us do so. As you consider this ordinance, please know PHA members are invested as partners with Portland as we move forward. Additionally, there are many factors behind a hauler's control that can impact costs, operations, and the logistics to delivering the service.
 I'll just end saying we bring a strong record of commitment to advancing this next phase of work to increase the opportunity and reduce barriers for new entrants at every level in the waste management industry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your partnership. Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. It's really great to see that your planning sustainability and the haulers and everybody else has been able to come back so quickly in this step towards equity in the waste hauling business. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 This seems right to me. We're currently expanding the number of public trash cans. We're obviously, as a successful city, experiencing more trash downtown. To create a preferred vendor procurement process to give MWESB firms a foothold around this particular part of our business, which is fairly substantial, I think is the right move. I appreciate the presentation, and I'm pleased to support this. Aye. Saltzman.
 I also appreciate the very good work. I think Mayor Wheeler's call for more trash cans throughout the city is having not only the intended effect of getting more trash off the streets and into the cans, but creating business opportunities here for minority and women and emerging small businesses. So it's a great idea. Appreciate the Portland Haulers Association being on board with this as well. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. Well, as we heard from the BPS representatives in testimony, this ordinance is a step in the right direction regarding equity priorities here in the City of Portland. I would
 I believe that the Waste Collection and Opportunity Program is going to create openings and more access for waste collection amongst these COBID-certified firms. And this is exactly the kind of innovation that allows companies to break into capital-intensive industries such as the ones we're discussing today. I'd like to thank everybody who worked on this program.
 process, including BPS. We had Arianna Sperry, Jill Kolek, Bruce Walker, and the rest of the phenomenal team that they have over there who've dedicated time and resources to ensuring that we prioritize these equity goals and create opportunities that did not exist before.
 I'd also like to thank Amy Rathaloran in my office for her work on this, as well as our colleagues in all of the council offices who worked for some time to move this along. I'm very excited to see the results of this program going forward. And I, of course, want to thank Sarah Fee Allen, who continues to do great things in our office as well. So I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. We'll move on to Item 1334. Thank you, everyone.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Department of Transportation for state real property cleanup services not to exceed $2 million annually. Very good. And I'm going to pass this on to our panel. Sarah, are you kicking us off today? I am. Very good. I'm going to create another chair for a couple people. No worries. A couple chairs for folks. No worries. A lot of collaboration here. Thank you.
 Representative, how are you today? Good. Excellent. Thank you for being here. It's always good to be here.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. City Council, my name is Serafie Allen, and I'm a policy advisor to Mayor Ted Wheeler, and it is my great pleasure to be before you again today. The item you are about to be walked through is the result of hundreds, if not thousands, of community conversations, phone calls, e-mails, outreach on the streets, media stories, internal
 stakeholder meetings, and a true effort by government to be responsive to the livability concerns and the humanitarian crisis playing out on our streets. One of my first assignments in the mayor's office...
 two years ago, was to gather all of the major property-owning jurisdictions within the City of Portland, including our internal property-owning bureaus, ODOT, Union Pacific Railways, Multnomah County, and others, with the purpose of discussing how we've standardized managing our property with a baseline understanding that we do not currently have enough affordable housing or shelter within our region. Cleanups are not the answer to solving homelessness. Housing is.
 However, it is also our duty as government to maintain our property for the public health and safety of everyone within the City of Portland, both those that are housed and unhoused. What you will hear before you today is another step in the process of reducing the impact of unsheltered homelessness and improving service connection citywide. I would now like to pass this off to Representative Reardon. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, it's always good to be before you, and this is my, I think it's the third...
 activity I've done with the city. Very proud to be working with you on things that directly affect our community. So for the record, I am state representative of House District 48, which includes Lentz, Palahersk-Gilbert, Springwater Corridor, I-205, and I'm excited to be with you today testifying in favor of this agreement between the city and ODOT, and I know it's and appreciate the amount of hard work that's
 gone into this. I did carry the bill during the 2018 legislative session that helped establish a framework for this, and as I told my colleagues on the House floor, the bill was about removing barriers so that governments can work together. This is a tough issue. How do you...
 How do you maintain a good environment on the trails and on other public properties and do it in a way that really cares for those that are unfortunately living on our public property? So how do we take care of those but also have respect for the people that are trying to do business and raise their families within a community?
 It's not an easy situation. My passion for this issue comes from my constituents who reached out to me constantly and also as I traveled the trails and the roads myself.
 I started asking around last year to find out what the City of Portland and others were doing to address the public health and safety issues. And what I discovered was that different parcels of land were owned by different governments, and they had different approaches to engaging with campers and cleaning the sites. And in large part, it was due to legal requirements.
 So my bill, House Bill 4054, was an attempt to address those barriers in statute that hampered the city's ability to coordinate with the Department of Transportation for cleanup and maintenance of property. I feel strongly that the city is best qualified and most capable of doing any trail maintenance work and doing it in that way that is, like I said, respectful.
 Resolving these differences paved the way for this IGA, the Intergovernmental Agreement, and allows the City of Portland to provide consistent services for properties within their boundaries rather than the frustrating patchwork that currently prevails. I also want to note that the bill comes with important sideboards, including details on how and when notice will be posted, requiring any agreement to include protocols around severe weather and impact reduction.
 Finally, the bill also has a five-year sunset, so it really is a true pilot approach to this complex challenge. Thank you for moving ahead with this important partnership with ODOT, and my constituents and I are eager for this pilot program to begin. And Commissioner Salzman, it's been a pleasure working with you over the years. I'm going to miss you on this council. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler. Thank you, Representative.
 to piggyback on Representative Reardon's comments. My name is Elizabeth Edwards. I'm the Director of the Office of Government Relations for the City of Portland. Just to speak a little bit to the legislative history, House Bill 4054 was part of the City of Portland's 2018 legislative agenda. We worked very closely with Representative Reardon, who was our champion, and we're very thankful for the good work and time and effort that he put into this legislation on all of our behalves.
 The purpose was to help the City of Portland and the State Department of Transportation work better together to provide for more consistent management of public spaces within the city where people are living outside and litter is accumulating. Over the course of the short legislative session, which is constitutionally limited to 35 days, we worked feverishly with ODOT,
 the Oregon Law Center, ACLU, legislative leaders to try and find compromise. We have folks on many different sides of the issue. And ultimately, I'm proud to say that the bill was passed unanimously in both chambers of the legislature. So the good representative touched on some of the framework. I think another one of my colleagues is going to go into a little bit more detail. But I would note the City of Portland's posting notice was 24 hours to seven days.
 The departments was 10 to 19 days, except on those locations where it was posted as no trespass, in which case it was 24 hours. This moved to 48 hours to 10 days is, in many instances, a doubling of the length of the notice requirement.
 And also, as the representative noted, this is a pilot. It starts, the bill becomes effective on January 1 of 2019. It runs through January 2nd of 2023, which is part of the reason why the parties were getting together over the interim so actively to put together this IGA in time for the effective date of the bill to take advantage of the pilot period. So with that, I'm happy to answer any questions, but mostly here for the legislative history. Thank you.
 Thank you, Elizabeth. My name is Lucas Hillier, Mayor Wheeler and Counselors. Thanks for having me up here. I work for the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm the Program Manager for the Homelessness and Urban Camping Impact Reduction Program. Before I go any further, I want to thank Jonathan Lewis and Katie Lindsey on my staff for the hard work that they put in over the last year to get this over the finish line. And I'd also like to thank OMF Management, Carmen Merlot, Tom Reinhart, Elizabeth, Serafie, Kristen Dennis, and our colleagues at ODOT,
 I will now share with you what this IGA is, how it will work, and why I believe it is beneficial for all members in our community. This IGA shifts responsibility for campsite cleanup, where we collect, inventory, and store personal belongings on ODOT properties within the city of Portland, from the State Highway Department to the Homelessness and Urban Camping Impact Reduction Program.
 Throughout the growth of HUCURP, the Homelessness and Urban Camping Impact Reduction Program, pursuit of impact reduction interventions that do not always require the removal and storage of personal property has been a central focus. Over the past two years, we have observed quantifiable decreases in the impacts of unsanctioned encampments on city properties using these strategies. An example of an impact reduction intervention that has helped produce these results is the Clean Start Program.
 Clean Start is a homeless-to-work program that consists of a total of five trucks with two employees each. They are dispatched to respond to every report received by the city's one-point-a-contact system and are usually able to do so in 24 hours. They engage with folks in encampments, collect trash, debris, distribute trash bags. In the wintertime, they pass out hand warmers, and in the summer, they pass out electrolyte packets and water. They also pass out street routes, Rose City resource guides.
 Additionally, they provide HUCRP with an objective risk assessment of the conditions on site on which we decide if further intervention is warranted. This IGA will allow these successful strategies to be deployed on ODOT properties in the city of Portland as well.
 This will provide consistency across the city for neighborhoods, service providers, individuals experiencing homelessness. Today, folks whose property has been collected on state highway rights-of-way is stored just outside of Oregon City in an ODOT facility. With the passage of this ordinance, all property collected during a campsite cleanup within the city of Portland will be stored in inner southeast Portland just two blocks away from an Orange Max line.
 Elizabeth spoke to the posting consistency, the posting timelines, 48 hours to 10 days. As written, this IGA sets out a phased-in approach over the next six months. Phase 1 will include I-205 areas of 82nd Avenue, Highway 26, West Little Amit River, and the I-5405 Beltway. Phase 2 will bring I-84 and McLaughlin Boulevard into the fold.
 And then phase three will include the north and south sections of I-5 and all other remaining ODOT rights away. ODOT will reimburse the city for this work. Specifically, they will be providing $140,000 for an additional Clean Start truck. Our group is already bringing another truck online. So with this truck and the truck we're bringing online, we'll have a total of seven trucks working throughout the city.
 They will also contribute $11,250 annually for the storage warehouse. That's 15% of the total. And contribute $86,250. Again, 15% of the total.
 for the cost of city project management time, we'll be able to provide our property-owning bureau customers a bit of a rebate at the end of the year to make up that difference. The remaining $1.76 million will cover time and material costs for cleanups. Funds not spent will stay on ODOT's balance sheets. We'll be billing them monthly. Thank you.
 In summary, this IGA will create consistency, increase transparency, and deploy a successful tiered intervention strategy throughout the city. Thank you, and I look forward to your questions.
 Mr. Hillier, I think you have one of the hardest jobs in the city, and I want to thank you very much for the way that you do it, and with transparency, the communication weekly reports to the council and anybody else who wants them responding to constituent concerns. So thank you very much for your work. Thank you. If I could ask a question, Lucas, and I'm sorry to put you on the spot here, but you mentioned that this will create funding for one more truck plus the additional truck that we've already agreed to. Can you tell us a little bit about Clean Start Project?
 Yeah, Clean Start originated out of a program in the Housing Bureau, part of the high-intensity street engagement program. So Cascadia subcontracted through Central City Concern. We were borrowing that truck so often that the – Sally Erickson thought it would be a good idea that we get our own –
 And so we did, and it's just continued to grow and be successful. So there's folks that are coming out of the criminal justice system, recovering from addiction, and formerly homeless that are out interacting with folks. And these are waste hauling trucks? They're big flatbeds, yes. Big flatbeds. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate that. Good afternoon.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Ted Miller, Regional and Maintenance and Operations Manager for ODOT. Thank you for your time and attention today with respect to House Bill 4054. I am here representing ODOT in favor of the House Bill and the agreement that the City of ODOT have been working on.
 On February 15, 2018, House Bill 4054 and its amendments were passed authorizing the Department of Transportation to enter into an intergovernmental agreement for the purpose of removing certain personal property and locations within the city's boundary owned by the department.
 Over the past few months, the City of Portland, ODOT's Director Matt Garrett, Department of Justice, Regional One Management have been negotiating the agreement and working out many of the details to give this program its best chance to succeed. As of December 19th, the City and ODOT have agreed to enter into an IGA and a three-phased approach that will transfer responsibility of personal property cleanup to the City beginning January 1.
 I want to say thank you to the Mayor's Office, Office of Management and Finance, the City Attorney, as well as ODOT Director, Region 1 Management staff who worked tirelessly to come to agreement. Also, Rep Reardon, thank you very much for your representation and your bringing the bill forward. Our ODOT team looks forward to working with the City and providing a smooth transition period. We will work to continue to ensure this partnership leads to improved coordination.
 a higher level of consistency, and improved livability for the community and our houseless individuals in need. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Miller. First of all, Ted, it's nice to see another Ted. It gets rarer and rarer by the day. We really appreciate ODOT's work on this and the partnership. Thank you. We appreciate it. Very good. That completes the panel presentation, and thank you for that. Any questions of the panel before we move to public testimony?
 Public testimony. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? We have nine people signed up. So, Mayor, can I do a housekeeping matter? Commissioner Fish. We've already agreed that council will run until 1 o'clock and then we're breaking for lunch. That's correct. We've got the likely casualty of that is going to be the state of housing report. That's correct. We are going to move that. And I believe your offices have already been consulted. So we're going to move that to the end of the time certain this afternoon. Okay.
 I can't stay that long. So I won't be here for that. Any chance we can do it at the beginning of the afternoon agenda? I can't stay past 5 o'clock today.
 Well, we've got lots of problems here, but we've got nine people signed up. Every item we're getting five, six, seven people testifying. Mayor, most of the testimony has nothing to do with the item. And we've got one of the casualties here is that the state of housing report, which is probably one of the most important things on our agenda, is now getting moved around. I have to leave at 410 for a doctor's appointment. Commissioner Fritz won't be here, so I don't know what –
 I hereby decree the creation of the 27-hour day. Let's do this. Michelle, could you work with our staffs while we're completing this item, and let's see if we can get to a good solution on this. And if we have to move some of the other programs, I'm happy to do that. We'll sort it out. I appreciate that, Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 And folks, when you are testifying, could you keep that in mind? Let's really stick to what the subject area is and try not to be repetitive with other people's testimony. So please call the first three people up. They're Joe Walsh, Robert West, and Susan West. Good morning. Or afternoon, sorry. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. It's an absolute pleasure to talk to you again. Thank you.
 Let me see if I understand this. You've done such a wonderful job of sweeping the people on your property. You want to go to the Department of Transportation in Oregon and do it on their end and get $2 million for doing it. Do I have all the variables? I mean, that's basically what you're doing. You're spreading the wealth. Not only have you...
 Taking people's stuff for years when we begged you to stop it. And every time we give bedrolls and we give gloves and hand warmers and your police department go and steal it or your subcontractors steal it or throw it away. Now you want to expand it into the state of Oregon by the Department of Transportation and get two million bucks for it.
 I got that right? Please correct me if I'm wrong. I hate being wrong. Am I lying? Nobody's saying anything, so I must be telling the truth. Or you just get away until I finish, Mayor, and do your little Trumpy stuff, where you comment afterwards and not let anybody respond to you. Is that what you're going to do there, Trumpy? That's what you are. You're a Trumpy.
 And every time I go home and watch MSNBC, my mouth is open. Good afternoon. My time is up. Your time is up. Good afternoon. Okay, my name is Robert West. Don't just come near me. And I wanted to bring up the fact that you guys are using positive fascist cleaning to clean up these homeless camps. People are not getting their stuff back. Even when the city goes in there with...
 Inmate slave labor, they still don't get their stuff back. Right now, there's a group of both conservatives and liberals, cop watchers, and we're getting together and we're basically asking the mayor to resign because the lack of care that you have for the homeless, the fact that the police are not doing their jobs...
 and people are being assaulted on the streets. You're allowing riots in the streets during protests. No other city's having, Seattle's not having that problem. And Seattle, a couple weeks ago, had a protest where both sides were armed. Mayor, you need to resign.
 Okay, this is not your main testimony. I'm interested in your opinion, but it's not related to the next item. So unless you're going to get back to the testimony, you're done. My opinion is that the city does not need to get into an agreement with ODOT to go clean up ODOT property because it means the city will decide, well, okay, we don't care about this camp, but we'll hit this camp over here on ODOT property.
 You know, ODOT property is ODOT property. I don't like the city getting into any agreements with anyone, whether it's a government or a private organization, to decide who the city wants, where they want, and how they want. This administration has been continually hammering against the homeless community
 and you've got a huge homeless population that have camps all over the place. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, good afternoon. I'm Susan West here from Friends of River Place. We're a very large... Your testimony is done. It is now her turn to testify. Stop interrupting her.
 Sorry. We're a very large group of caring, compassionate volunteers that have been cleaning up. Excuse me. I'm sorry. Mr. West, you got your say, and now it's her turn to have her say, stop interrupting or leave. Those are your options. Sorry. Please continue.
 Friends of River Place has spent the last five years putting in thousands of hours of efforts to keep River Place clean and safe. It's been under siege for years, as you know. And for a week, for instance, last summer, we had 30 car break-ins, a lot of OHSU patients' cars broken into. We continue to have people selling drugs on the street there. We're not a very rich community, 6.5%.
 Major restaurants have gone out of business and are still empty down there.
 And we have adopted ODOT, PBOT land up around the international school and done landscaping for crime prevention, planted things, cut back invasive species because they're so unsafe for children. It's an area there where PSU and OSU students go through. And we have more tourist rooms, five hotels there, where we have innocent tourists walking through very dangerous public lands.
 So we see the light finally, and you are the light at helping clean up the streets and make it safe for the elderly children and the rest of us. And in the past, when we worked with different agencies, they would say, that's not my property, I can't do this, I can't do that, which you all know. So we're tremendously in support of anything where you save money and time
 and work together with agencies so that we can have clean and safe. I have got support here for this from the Human Access Project, which I sent in to Carla, I think it is, and the International School is here, and we're kind of under siege, forgotten little area. Thank you for all your help and parks in the past and the future, and we're totally supportive.
 Thank you. I feel supportive of you. Appreciate your being here. Thank you for your time. I think if your patience waits all this time. The next three are Robert Patterson, Dan Handelman, and Alyssa Vinsonhaler. I believe it is. Mr. Patterson may have left. We'll go with Mimi Gurman. You didn't sign up. The mayor will have to let you know. Dan, do you want to go ahead? I'm Dan Handelman. I'm a cop watch. And, okay, I'm going to say some positive things first. Okay.
 One of the good things about this is that the state is not subject to the Anderson Agreement that the city is. This means that state lands are now going to have to comply with those regulations about making sure that people's property is stored properly.
 I did not realize that there are storage facilities in Oregon City and that now people's stuff will get moved somewhere closer than that. But that being said, you know, sweeps are not the solution. You're spending $2 million of state money. Why don't we use this money for porta-potties and dumpsters and weatherproof storage lockers? And why don't we set up more villages like Kenton Village with this money so that there are people who are –
 being allowed to camp on these properties and they can do it safely and they can do it cleanly. It just doesn't make any sense to me to spend it taking stuff that people are deciding whether it's garbage or whether it's somebody's property. And unless it's the person themselves, that shouldn't be being done. I'm also a little concerned. I mean, yes, it's nice that we're hiring people who are in recovery from central city concern, but you end up pitting people against each other. So if somebody's
 something that's valuable to them gets thrown out, then the other person who decided that and picked it up and threw it away is now going to get into an argument with them about whether or not to throw it out. And I don't think that's a great plan. So it's nice to hear some compassion being expressed by the people who came up here. And it's, again...
 There's a lot more things that can be done without pushing people around when, as we've acknowledged in other agenda items earlier today, there's nowhere for people to go. And just as a last note, Mr. Mayor, I really wanted to testify about the report earlier today, and I really would like you to reconsider your policy about not taking testimony on reports. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Alyssa Benson-Haler. I am... Oh, sorry. Cool. Okay. So I don't have much to say on this except that I think it's horrible. I think it is. I've been homeless. My family has been homeless. My entire last year of high school, I was homeless. Okay.
 And homeless camps, they do sound bad. They really do. But that's the only community that a lot of these people have. And if you hire these crews to go through and clean them up, I mean, what are you doing? You're just pushing people out even further. You're pushing families. It's not good, I guess is what I'm trying to say. The $2 million also could be used on something better. It really could. I think this is a waste of money. And I – oh.
 Anyways. Anyways, yeah. Where else? Oh, right. Also to mention about that guy up front the other day. Yeah, the criminal citation. I think that that is pretty messed up. The homeless man house out front of City Hall. Where else am I going with this? Yeah, I don't know. I think this bill is messed up. Or not a bill, but agenda. I think it's messed up. I really do. Hmm?
 If it wasn't, again, for these – I mean, I've driven my dad back and forth to – from these – even when I had a home finally years later, I drove him to and from such camps like that. And that's the only way he could have survived in the cold out there. And hiring crews to go out there and clean up people's things and throw them away just pushes them out even further. We created this issue, and I don't think it's the right way to solve it, I guess is what I'm trying to say. Well done. That's all I got. Yeah.
 Hi, my name's Mimi Grumman. I was reading all of the details, and I...
 I read the whole thing, and Section 2 is what stopped me. And it made me recognize that language is really important. Language is part of our problem. We don't use language. We use language as a deflector, and we deflect against what's truly going on. We deflect against humanism by creating language that deflects from real issues. Section 2 is what I'm talking about here. There are...
 Okay, the council declares that an emergency exists because it serves, this is the first part, an urgent public interest to eliminate the multiple jurisdictional challenges. Okay, an urgent public interest. I am the public. Houselessness, homelessness, people out on the streets are in urgent need. It doesn't express that. What it's talking about in Section 2 is that the urgent public need is for jurisdictions to,
 so that they can all work together to do what? To sweep what this other woman just earlier referred to as the streets. The streets aren't being swept. People, humans, are being swept. They're being disenfranchised, continued to be disenfranchised from all services every time this happens. They're being kept away from can recycling places
 So they can't do that. All of their belongings are taken. So they can't have those. This goes on and on, and it's all in Section 2. And what I'm asking you to do is not vote on this today, but continue to look at the language of this and locate a more humane answer than $2 million for sweeps of human beings.
 There's nothing in Section 2 that is actually compassionate, although there is predictability. The predictability that the people who I know in St. John's, it's just about Christmas, are going to be swept right before Christmas. It happens every year. They were swept right before Thanksgiving. That's predictable, but it's not compassionate. The language is important. I'm asking you guys to just put this on hold. I know that you're not going to. And ask yourselves, why am I, unpaid, volunteering...
 Thank you. Thank you. Your time is up. Your time is up. Thank you. Thank you. And if you were here earlier, you would have heard testimony on that.
 David Potts and Charles Rich Crane Johnson. Nick, I'm going to cut the day at work just to testify today. So I get that your schedule is important. So is my day at work. So is this. Mimi, your time's up. Thank you. Cut your time's up. Woo! Burn. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm David Potts, president of the Lentz Neighborhood Livability Association. Thank you, Mayor and commissioners, for allowing me to speak.
 The citizens of East Portland have been waiting for action on unregulated campsites since September 1, 2016, when the city swept the homeless population living on the Springwater Trail into our neighborhoods. The official comment of a previous administration at the time was, everything went smoothly, everything was quiet, and went according to plan.
 We have watched as each of the latest encampments on ODOT property is allowed to grow until it becomes a health, sanitation, and safety hazard for our neighbors, and ODOT is finally forced to post the property. We've talked to campers who laughingly refer to the latest cleanup as housekeeping and watched them move from ODOT property onto city-owned property until the next city sweep of their new campsite.
 At that point, they can move back onto ODOT property to avoid the hard choice to make a change in their lifestyle. This whack-a-mole approach clearly is not working for the citizens of Portland, housed and unhoused alike.
 House Bill 4054 makes it possible for the city and ODOP to adopt an intergovernmental agreement giving the City of Portland authority over the multi-use path, allowing enforcement consistent with city-owned property. I strongly support the adoption of the IGA by the city as a first step to getting homeless population out of tents and into humane housing, whether that be treatment, transitional housing, supportive housing, or any other type of housing.
 or permanent housing. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioner. Again, Charles Bridger. Frank Johnson. And I commend the man beside me for his optimism. But since we haven't talked about creating actual safe, hygienic places for these people to live...
 I'm worried that the problem that he and his neighbors are so concerned about is really not going to be very much mitigated. We'll have the same people living outdoors, generating the same amount of trash, but we'll be a little bit better about picking it up and getting it to the waste transfer center, where I sometimes volunteer over by the tank farms. So...
 You know, there's been a huge legislative process and a lot going on to approve this money, but I think that even with today's earlier agenda item, and eventually the kicking in of the housing bonds, we're really just doing a nut-shuffling game and doing a slight bit of cleanup. I think that
 would have been a nice time to have the anecdote because we're talking about the ODOT people that had to put boulders under the 205 bridge and now all we're saying is that when that happened we would have sent a little team of our cleanup people instead of their cleanup people. I don't want to say a lot about the circumstances of this issue because I've never personally been in a sweep to experience the difference between ODOT as super tyranny and torture and the city is not so torturous and a little bit less tyranny but
 We haven't said any of that's really going to stop or that any of these people are going to get connected to permanent housing. So it does seem like in the short term that's not really the best investment of $2 million, but it's not coming out of our money and the ODOT's willing to pay. So let's turn down the notch a little bit on what these people are experiencing. Good luck, y'all. Thank you. Is that complete testimony, Carla? That's all who signed up, yes. Very good. Colleagues, do you have any questions for the panel or for staff? Please call the roll.
 Thank you, Mayor, for doing this. Thank you to Representative Reardon and the Government Relations Team for doing it. The impact assessment on this ordinance is one of the best I've ever seen, and Sarah Fee Allen and Lucas Hillier, I hope you'll post it to the Mayor's website because it really explains why this is a good thing to do and the process that you use when you are assessing which camps need assistance and how you help the people who are there. So thank you very much for your work on that. Aye. Fish.
 So this is about, as someone who previously testified said, this is about having more consistent rules and enforcement.
 And since I had a lot to do with the Anderson settlement, let me say that the rules that were worked out with advocates at the table are the rules that now apply, and they did not apply when ODOT was enforcing its rules. So whether you agree or disagree with the underlying policy, this IGA ensures that a consistent set of rules, which are based on a judicial settlement,
 with advocates at the table are applied, notice requirements and other things that are very important are consistently applied and enforced throughout the city. That's a positive.
 I want to thank Representative Reardon for his leadership. We're fortunate to have him in the state legislature. In my role as commissioner in charge of parks and Bureau of Environmental Services, we have a lot of projects we're working on. Jeff is tireless and accessible and does a great job, and we're just grateful to have him as part of our delegation. Hi. Saltzman.
 Well, I also want to thank, I don't know if Lucas Hillier is here anymore, but I'm also a big fan of his. Oh, he is? Okay. I just wanted to thank Lucas and Serafie Allen for their work on this and ODOT.
 And Representative Reardon for carrying this in the legislature. But, you know, most of all, I want to thank Mayor Wheeler for really bringing to a successful conclusion one of those tough nuts to crack that has been around for the 20 years I've been here without any resolution. And people, particularly in the Lentz neighborhood, being really frustrated with the –
 potpourri of governments that have jurisdiction in their neighborhood and the frustrating answers they would get and the lack of a consistent response on many issues. So I think we're making a step forward here with this legislation to provide consistency and provide a uniform set of standards for which these decisions are made and executed. Hi. Wheeler. So as we've heard today...
 You already had your turn. Now it's mine. As we've heard today, there's significant camping activity on ODOT lands within the city and different rules, timelines, and resources provided by ODOT, and the city creates significant livability issues for everyone. Adopting the City of Portland's approach to maintaining ODOT properties within the city's boundaries would help to address all of these challenges.
 There's three notable advantages to the city's approach. The first is the transparency between the city, people experiencing homelessness, social service providers, and the general public. It's beneficial to all involved to bring ODOT property under the city's procedure so that there's an efficient and consistent approach to camp cleanup notification periods, enforcement practices, and property storage policies across Portland.
 I want to thank Mr. West, please, seriously. I want to thank... We'll take a recess. No, you know what? You're walking on everybody else's opportunity to have a say because you think only your opinion matters. That's not the way democracy works. Why is that? Why do you run like a little coward when protesters want to ask questions? Okay.
 You don't want me to answer that in public, I assure you. Okay, we are back in session. I'm sorry for the interruption. It's beneficial to all involved to bring ODOT property under the city's procedure so there's an efficient and consistent approach to clamp cleanup notification periods, enforcement practices, and property storage policies across Portland. I want to thank ODOT.
 particularly Director Matt Garrett, Region 1 Director Ryan Winsheimer, and Ted Miller, and again, Ted, great name, for their dedicated work over the past year to find an agreement that works with all parties. I want to especially thank Representative Reardon for his hard work on this and carrying the bill through the legislature, House Speaker Tina Kotek, and the state legislature for passing House Bill 4054, which helped us reach this important point.
 I want to thank the Oregon Law Center, the ACLU, Transition Projects, JOIN, Free Hot Soup, Janus Youth, Catholic Charities, Operation Nightwatch, and other partners for your participation and feedback throughout this entire process. I want to thank Elizabeth Edwards, our Government Relations Director, for getting it across multiple finish lines.
 Linda Law, who I am told is Serafie's favorite city attorney for the hours and hours of legal time that was put into this. Lucas Hillier, Kate Lindsey, and Jonathan Lewis, excuse me, from the Office of Management and Finance. You three have what Commissioner Fritz described, and I agree, as some of the toughest jobs in the city.
 And I commend you for your thoughtfulness, your humanity, and the care that you bring to this important work. And lastly, I want to thank Sarah Fial and Kristen Dennis from my team for your hard work on this well. One final thought.
 When people come to testify on these issues, please understand that just because we are talking about a particular issue or a particular strategy doesn't mean that's all we are doing. And particularly around this really thorny and complex issue of homelessness, we've been working on a whole host of fronts, from prevention to improved shelter, which we talked about earlier today, to innovations, we talked about that earlier today with the Kenton Women's Village,
 to services like mental health and addiction services that people need to get off and stay off the street, to our strategies around transitioning people into housing, to our strategies to create low-income and affordable housing, to the conversations we've had as a council around permanent supportive housing. This is just one piece of a much, much bigger strategy to help solve this problem that I hope
 everyone in this community is unified in agreeing is urgent, is important, and that we must work together to solve. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Colleagues, question for you. I've had Michelle running around trying to solve our time problems, and here's what she has told me. So we have a couple of options with regard to the housing report. Okay.
 This afternoon, as you know, the agenda is very, very busy. We have commissioners leaving, apparently starting at 4. Tomorrow, we could put it at the beginning of the agenda, but commissioners Udailey and Fritz are absent.
 And we have an imperative that we must hear the report by the end of the year. House Bill 4006 required jurisdictions to hold a hearing in 2018 on the causes and interventions on severe rent burden and housing affordability. So we're using the report presentation to fulfill that requirement. So we just need to figure out where we're going to put it and what compromises we're going to make. And, Michelle, I guess we could hear an abridged version more quickly this afternoon.
 It's an important report, though. It is. I don't mind missing it. Can we move the time certain at 3 o'clock and substitute that for that? I would suggest that that would be a good thing to do. Commissioner Udaly is not here. Can we just take the parking permit surcharge guidelines, put that over to our next two weeks from now, and just put the housing bond in?
 I don't know enough about that particular ordinance. Commissioner Fritz does? I think the thought was to do it with... I think the council is supportive of that. Okay, good. And Commissioner Saltzman obviously was just the transportation commissioner, so he speaks with some knowledge on this. Is this Commissioner Fritz? So let me just add that the reason Commissioner Daly scheduled it was so that she could acknowledge Commissioner Saltzman's work on this. So please consider your work acknowledged. Thank you.
 Awesome. So, Michelle, can we do that and get out whatever proper notifications are required? We'll simply substitute that. Very good. All right. So for staff people in the room, we're on sprint time now. Can we go to 1335? Ted, I'm actually leaving at 9 o'clock. Okay. So can we talk through strategies? Staff for 1335, how urgent is this?
 We can move it to a different – Can it wait until after the new year? Okay, good. So 1335 then. Can you read it and we'll move it? Yes, 1335, authorized limited tax revenue funding bonds through December 31, 2021. Very good. And we will have further public information on that.
 Let's see. The housing report we've discussed, 1338 and 1339. Can you tell us about the – or can we move those to the new year? Sure.
 Actually, you know, Commissioner Daly asked me to introduce both these items. I can do it probably real short. Can we stick around for three more minutes and do both of these, Commissioner Fish? Sure. Okay, 1338 and 1339. Could you read them together, please, Carla? Yes. 1338, authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the East Portland Access to Employment and Education Project through the exercise of the city's
 eminent domain authority and 1339 authorized the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Northeast 55th Avenue to Northeast 57th Avenue and Northeast Killingsworth Street LID project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. So colleagues, 1338 is a transportation project that involves bicycle, pedestrian and access to transit improvement
 focusing on multiple corridors in East Portland. It includes things like sidewalk infill, ADA-compliant curb ramps, and pedestrian and bicycle crossing improvements. 1339 provides much-needed transportation improvements in the Cully neighborhood, and I think we've heard about this LID many times by Andrew Abbey. It's very successful. Okay.
 and this infrastructure will include newly constructed streets, curbs, sidewalks, and stormwater management facilities, as well as street trees.
 Marty Maloney is here if you have any questions. Yeah, definitely. Just real quick. So the agenda item is just to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for both projects, for the property rights for both projects. And all affected property owners have been let know about the need for the property rights as well as that we were having the readings today. And have any of them expressed concern or objections? No, not for this, no.
 Very good. Carla, do we have any testimony, first of all, for item 1338? Robert Patterson signed up for both of these, and I think he's left. I do not see him. Do we have anybody else signed up for 1339? He was the same one, I think. All right. Please call the roll on 1338. Fritz. Brilliant presentation. Aye. Fish. Aye. Selksman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1339. Thank you so much. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Again, thanks to Andrew Abbey for all your great work on Northeast 57th. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And colleagues, because it's Dan's last Wednesday morning session, would you have the honor? We are adjourned until what? 2 p.m. 2 p.m. Okay. Awesome. Thank you, Dan.
 Are you ready, Carla? Yes. This is the Wednesday afternoon, December 19th session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udailey. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Wheeler. Here. Good afternoon.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good. Thank you. A couple of little housekeeping items. Item 1344, to adopt the Area Parking Permit Surcharge Allocation Guidelines, has been scheduled for a time certain this afternoon at 3 p.m.
 At this morning's City Council meeting, which as it turned out was very long, Council discussed moving the State of Housing Report, Item 1337, which was scheduled for the regular agenda this morning, to the 3 p.m. time certain slot this afternoon in place of Item 1344. We have confirmed with Commissioner Udaly's office that we're rescheduling Item 1344 to January 9th,
 2 p.m. time certain. And that will, of course, be noticed in the usual way. All right. So without further ado, Carla, could you please read items 1342 and 1343? Yes. 1342.
 Results of financial audit of the City Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for fiscal year 2017-18 and related communications. And 1343, accept the City of Portland Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Very good. Welcome. Thank you for being here, Madam Auditor.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, and we are here today to present the results of the annual audit of the City's financial statements. Our financial statements are important resources for community members, taxpayers, investors, and decision makers to understand what fiscal shape the City is in at a moment in time.
 Once management has prepared the statements, federal law, state law, and city charter require an independent audit be conducted to determine if the public can reasonably be assured that they fairly represent the financial position of the city. Moss Adams, a licensed municipal audit firm, conducted this audit, and my office oversees the city's contract for its services.
 Before I introduce the team from Moss Adams, I'd like to acknowledge principal management auditor Fiona Howell-Earl from my office, who manages the contract. And now it is my pleasure to introduce partner Jim Lanzarota and senior manager Keith Simovic from Moss Adams to walk you through the results of their audit.
 All right, thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to kind of close out the audit process. Probably the last piece is our report to you on the results. So today, Keith and I would like to, again, briefly remind you what it is you hired us to do. And, of course, you want to hear the results of the audit, so we'll talk about the results of the different deliverables that are part of that.
 There are some required communications from an auditor to an oddity, and we've done that in writing to you, so we're not going to go through all of that. But maybe just mention a couple highlights in that, and we just would entertain any questions actually any time. But when we're done, if there's something you think of that you didn't ask us already, please feel free to do that.
 So what did you hire us to do? When I think of our audit of the city, I like to think of it in about five different phases. And again, you've heard us talk about this. The first phase you're pretty familiar with. It's that independent verification of the process.
 financial information that's included in these statements. So that independent verification comes in many forms, looking at source documents, talking to your bankers, talking directly with your legal counsel, really digging in and verifying the information that's here.
 A second phase, though, is obviously this would not be, the accuracy of this would not be possible if your staff didn't have what we call internal controls in place. What are those checks and balances that management uses to improve the accuracy of this? And we have an obligation to assess those controls and tell you if there are weaknesses in that. So that's a second phase.
 You know, you are an Oregon Municipal Corporation, and the state says to auditors that if you're going to audit an Oregon muni, you're going to test its compliance with about seven or eight different laws. And the couple that take the most time or the most intense would be your observance of all the laws regarding budgets. So how you adopt the budget, the whole process to have budget committee meetings, public hearings –
 And then after it's adopted, the administration of that, the changes. If you made changes to the budgets, did that all occur according to the applicable laws? So that's an area. The other is procurement. All the public purchasing that you do, there's some very prescribed laws that govern that. And there's a number of other areas, deposits and investments, insurance or risk management programs, those sort of things. So we have a report on that.
 A fourth phase to your audit, you receive a number of federal grants. So you've got some prolific grant writers here at the city, which is good to help provide services. And when you receive federal grants, there's a requirement of your auditor to do what we call a compliance audit. So did you meet the compliance requirements that come attached to those federal grants? So we'll talk about that.
 And then finally, a fifth element is
 This is your financial statements and you're very fortunate that you've got staff that have the experience to put this together. We don't draft the financial statements. So our role is a technical review of that. Obviously, is it consistent with the audited numbers? And does it have all the bells and whistles that are required by the applicable standards? So those are kind of the services that we provide. And I should mention that not only do we do the city audits,
 But you also are responsible for Prosper Portland, formerly Portland Development Commission. We audit the financials there. The Police, Fire, Disability, and Retirement Fund, we audit the financials there. And then we used to do work for Hydro, although that fund is – or some special work there, which we no longer do. Jim? Yes. Just a question. Yes. You've identified the five phases of your work. Yeah.
 has been
 Any of the applicable law that governs what you are doing in terms of reviewing our financials changed in any material way in the last year? Absolutely. In fact, the city implemented one very significant standard this last year. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board is responsible for putting standards out there that governments follow in putting these statements together. And they've issued 90 statements now.
 I think since we've worked with the city, they were on about number 35. So they've issued a lot of standards in the time that we've been working with the city. The one that was implemented this year is GASB Statement 75, which provides accounting for other post-employment benefit programs.
 and that required the city to put more of a liability on your books for the pay-as-you-go or the unfunded portion of that benefit that you provide employees. It added over $50 million of additional liabilities to the city's books this last year and changed the disclosures associated with that. So that was a very significant change for the city.
 But that change, you're not worried about that, you understand? That doesn't mean that we're $50 million worth worse off, correct? No, it just changed how you reflect that in the financials. The underlying situation was there prior to the accounting change, correct? Thank you. But that was the result.
 Well, let's talk about the results since we're kind of getting there. What you want to hear from us is that we do all this work on the financial statements and we're able to come to what we call in technical terms an unmodified opinion. So our opinion on the financial statements required no modification. In layman's terms, we call that a clean opinion. So that's absolutely the best you can get. That's what you want to hear from us.
 and that's exactly what you achieved. So we're able to tell that this is materially correct and it has the appropriate bells and whistles required by the professional standards. You know, it only takes me a minute to...
 Get that out, but it takes your staff all year, a lot of people doing their day-to-day job to get this right, and quite a process at year end to put this document together. And so it's a testament to the work that they do, and we really appreciate that.
 I mentioned internal controls. We have an obligation to assess those, and we did that, and we tested your internal controls, and we identified no weaknesses that are of any significance that we need to bring to your attention. So again, that's another favorable result. So good checks and balances used here by the city to improve the accuracy of this document.
 In terms of the state legal compliance, we had no non-compliance findings. And again, that's a great result, I would say, among our client base and throughout Oregon. You will often find things like over-expenditures in the various funds. You've got a lot of funds that you use to track the activities of the city. So to have no over-expenditures is quite an accomplishment for you.
 We have one thing we are required to report. It's not a noncompliance issue, and that's that you had three funds that ended the year with a negative fund balance. And those three funds, they ended up there, again, because of accounting conventions or accrual accounting, not because you have a problem in your budgeting or handling of monies. Those are strictly reporting issues in terms of how the statements go together. Okay.
 On the federal grants, I should tell you that we're actually not completely done with our testing of the city's grants because of a snafu on our end. There was one additional program which required testing, and we didn't get that done when we were in the field, so we're still doing work on that. We ended up testing five programs.
 the Home Investment Partnership Program, the Emergency Solutions Grant Program, a Prosper Portland Union Station Program, and Edward Byrne Memorial Grants. And then finally, a FEMA grant is the one that we missed initially that needed to be tested, and we're still in the process of testing that particular grant.
 But of the four that we've completed and in the work we've done so far on the FEMA grant, we have no noncompliance findings to bring to your attention and no internal control matters to bring to your attention. So that's a great result. You have almost 34 million federal grants that you received, and one of those is a relending program, that home investment program,
 You have $66 million that you have received and lent out. So when you combine the two, that's $100 million worth of grants. And we tested a good chunk of that $100 million in the programs that I mentioned to you.
 With that, Keith, maybe help me a little bit with some of the highlights of the required communications. Sure. So outside of the reports that Jim just went over, the other deliverable that we issue at the end of every audit that we do is call our communication to those charged with governance. It's required by our professional standards to come to the governing body of every organization that we audit and communicate certain items about how the audit went.
 Whether we found anything or not, we still have to issue this letter and let you know if we ran into any difficulties in performing the audit, if we had any disagreements with management, if we found any errors, if there were any major control deficiencies, material weaknesses, significant deficiencies. Those are the types of items that would be communicated in this letter so that city council could look at that, work with management to come to a solution on how to address those control deficiencies.
 If you take a look at this letter and you're reading through it and you think back to last year, you might say, well, this looks very similar, but that's all very good news, and that's exactly what you want to hear. Just as Jim mentioned with the clean audit opinions, no compliance findings...
 this letter is going to echo that as well in terms of how everything went. And I think one important thing to know is that when we talk about, hey, there weren't any difficulties encountered or there were no disagreements with management, I think that goes back to that there weren't any scope limitations with respect to the audit. So every
 question that we asked of management and the staff, every document that we asked for, we were given an answer. We were provided with that document. We felt that management and staff were transparent overall and that we were able, there weren't any hindrances in our ability to finish the audit on time.
 One thing that will be different that you'll see in this letter, if you compare it to last year, is we actually did issue it a little bit earlier than in the past. And I think if you look back, this may be the earliest, at least in recent history, that we could see of when this CAFR was completed. And that's kind of moved up each year. So this one was even, what, two days earlier than in the past?
 So incredible effort by the management and the staff here to put this thing together. It takes a tremendous effort, as Jim said, to get through that process and to get us through all of our procedures as well. So hats off to management and staff that had their hand in this process. You won't see that we noted any material audit adjustments in that letter. That means that as we're looking through internal controls and we're going through and doing our procedures,
 We can tell that everyone's kind of gone through their own internal audit process through the internal controls in place to make sure that the information that they're giving us to audit independently has already been cleaned up. So we feel very good about the controls in place and that management and staff have good checks and balances to make sure that what they're giving us has already gone through their internal processes. So we're not finding material errors or adjustments through that process. Thank you.
 And then finally, as Jim said, we didn't find any material weaknesses in internal controls. That would be something where we felt that there was such a gaping hole or lack of internal controls that something significant or material in terms of errors or fraud could slip through the cracks without being identified. So overall, a very good letter and good news with issuing this earlier than it has been in the past as well.
 So with that, I would really just make sure that we're giving you a chance to ask any questions that you might have. Well, Jim, let me start. Obviously, your role is not to opine on some of our policy decisions. Sure. So you're not here to say, boy, that was a dumb idea to do this or that or how we formed our budget or the like. It sounds to me like you have a set of procedural and substantive legal requirements that you vet,
 Some are in the nature of checking to make sure we've followed the form, and others are substantive. And occasionally you dig deep into some funds to see whether our accounting is correct and we're managing money. Despite the fact that you have given us this clean – let me make sure I use the language you did. Unmodified is the jargon. Unmodified. Right.
 But it's a clean bill of health in a sense. You're saying that the team did a great job putting together these documents, and you have found no deficiencies. Is there anything that you have identified that still should be on our radar so that we continue to be vigilant? Is that a fair question, even though you've given us a clean bill of health? Yes.
 Absolutely. You know, one challenge that is not new to you on the governmental side, governmental activities side of your operation, so forget about BES and water for a moment, but those things that don't have a charge for service, you're dependent on property taxes or other types of taxes, you know, you continue to be challenged in a couple areas.
 Thank you.
 So that continues to be a challenge. And then also the benefit programs that you have, Oregon PERS and your other post-employment benefits, the liability is growing faster than the contributions can keep up with benefits.
 And those are challenges. What I'm pleased to tell you, though, is that you acknowledge that. I think with the CFOs that you had that immediately passed and continued with the current, programs have been submitted to you to try to address these challenges. And I'm sure Jennifer will be here and Michelle to talk about some of those challenges.
 One of those on the capital assets, you've got a number of programs which you implemented to try to put some money away. So when you do eventually need to cut checks, you're working on that. And you can ask Jennifer how you're doing on that. There's always opportunities perhaps to...
 to step that up. It's a challenge to do because to the extent you do that, that's program you can't put on the street. So that's why you have folks like Jennifer and Michelle on staff to advise you on whether you have sound programs in place to address those kinds of challenges. And I think when you think about these two categories that you've raised, one is how we maintain our capital assets, right?
 and two is how we manage post-employment benefits, particularly in a PERS context. I guess there's some satisfaction we should take from the fact that we're in a very big boat with lots of other municipalities that are struggling with the same issues. So this is not unique to Portland, but you're flagging it in terms of trend lines with the assumption being that we should be thinking about how to get in front of some of these.
 Absolutely. You know, you're challenged because your budgets and the budgetary basis of accounting is cash or near cash, and they're one-year increments. But yet these challenges go multiple years. Your capital assets, I mean, the average life of an asset at the city is probably 10 or 15 years. You've got some that are 40-year-lived or 50-year-lived, so you're not cutting checks every year. So how do you take a one-year budget –
 one-year increments, and make sure that you're taking care of these long-term assets. And that's where you really need to rely on sound fiscal policies to address those types of challenges. One final comment. Commissioner Saltzman's not here. Hopefully he's coming back at some point. Yeah, he's coming back. Hasn't taken an early exit from the council. But I think it was under his watch that we instituted –
 a program at the city where we build in the O&M with every new capital asset, every new park we put online through the Parks Bureau. So for years we would build parks but not build in, set aside the funding to pay for maintaining the park. And that, over time, contributed to a huge gap. Now we have a policy that says when the park comes online, we build in the O&M into the five-year forecast.
 I learned the other day right on – thank you, Dan. That's quite an entrance. Right on cue. I just – as I was reflecting on your comments about wear and tear and reinvestment, I actually learned the other day in a briefing that our policy does not mandate setting aside of O&M. It is – it's encouraged, but we don't actually have a policy that says thou shall –
 And I'm raising this because we're about to become the budget committee. And the way I view this is it's really a requirement. And frankly, and I say this against interest, if people have qualms about setting aside O&M for new assets that we put online, then they should object to us investing in the new assets to begin with. Wow, that's refreshing. And Steve Novick used to do that and sometimes got sideways with his colleagues. But actually, intellectually –
 That is going upstream and saying I object to the expenditure because I don't agree with the companion investment. But I hope to remind my colleagues of your admonition during budget time because as we open new parks, I think we have an obligation to invest in the operating dollars to maintain them. Excellent. Good point. Thank you. I just have to chime in on that. It's not just as simple as do we invest.
 Can we afford the new park? It's can we afford to keep maintaining the old ones as well? So it's when you're looking at all of the issues about who has and who hasn't and who needs to be funded in a better way. That's, again, part of it, and that doesn't show up, unfortunately, in your audit. I'm very glad to hear that we have an unmodified. Unmodified. Unmodified. Clean opinion. Boy, is that inspiring or what? Yeah.
 Could I ask you some questions? Yeah, please. And these are all standard questions, and you're familiar with them, but I feel the need to ask, and then we're going to hear from the city's financial staff, and I'm going to ask them the reverse of a couple of these questions. Did you get all the information you requested? Absolutely. And was the information that you requested provided to you in a timely manner? Yes, absolutely. Did you have time to complete the audit per the original scope of the audit work? No.
 Yes, with the one exception is the testing of that federal grant, which was really our snafu. When we came out and did the assessment about which programs we needed to test, we actually made a mistake in that. But outside of that, the financial audit for the city, for Prosper Portland, for the FPDNR program,
 So those all happen right on cue. We have quite a list of benchmarks, as you might imagine, to manage this audit process. A lot of those benchmarks are on the city's website.
 side of the table to accomplish and they met all of those milestones in fact many of them were done early and so we were able to issue on october 30 a day ahead of time of the plan and if it were up to the city we probably could if we could have done a little faster on our end they could have accommodated probably a date sooner than that
 So they did, they just knocked it out of the park in terms of, and I want to tell you too that this was an interesting year because you look across the street, the Portland building was not available to us to use. You scattered city departments all over the city.
 we normally are able to reserve a room in the Portland building to bring our team in and to pounce upon you to do our work. Still have the room. It's a little chilly right now. Yeah, it would have been a little airy. So what we did is we huddled up in our Portland office. We took over a conference room.
 We were nervous on a couple fronts. Would we be able to get out to all the city departments and meet with people? Would they have the time for us? Their lives are kind of torn up as they're in intermediate facilities. And I would say that it went off without a hitch. I couldn't have been happier. I was concerned, too, our people would be picked off. When my fellow partners walk down the hall and they see someone –
 that can help them get their projects done, would they be picking them off and say, hey, Keith, come work on my project. And I'm happy to say that everyone honored just because we were in the office. They weren't picking off our staff to do their other client work. So we were able to focus. So the fact that we didn't have the Portland building to host our team was not an impediment at all.
 And your crew just did a phenomenal job of preparing, even though they were maybe somewhat discombobulated from what their past history was like. Good. I'm very glad to hear that, and I want to thank our city employees for being accommodating to what was obviously a fairly new and hopefully unusual set of circumstances. Did anyone impose –
 any restrictions on your work in any way? Absolutely not. That's a great question. You know, that's where Keith mentioned, gosh, if we're asking questions and people are not giving us responses, they feel fishy, they're not giving us the whole story, we would want to bring that to your attention. And we've never experienced that here at the city. Did you uncover any material examples of conflict of interest? We did not.
 Are there any material weaknesses that you identified in terms of internal controls? None. And great. That's it. Those are my questions. Well, I guess the only other question the mayor, out of modesty and neglect, did to ask is what grade would you give the mayor for running the process?
 I think you all do a pretty phenomenal job, and I don't know how your staff could do the job they do without the leadership that comes from the folks in this room. And thank you for the compliments, but I also want to acknowledge that you've signed a material statement of independence. Could you explain a little bit for the public what that means? We know each other. We've all worked together. You're here every year.
 but there is an independent auditing function. Can you explain what that means to be independent? Yeah, you know, I heard it. Interesting. So here's an analogy I heard for the first time. I don't know if you're foodies. I'm like a foodie wannabe, or if you've ever heard of critics that come in and they write reviews, you know,
 If when you hear a review of a restaurant or whatever, you want that person that writes that review to be completely independent of that restaurant. I mean, what if it was a brother or a sister or a husband or a wife or or the owner of that business that made their own meal, ate it, wrote up the review and then sent that out?
 When it comes to an audit firm, you need your audit firm to be independent of management. We can't have biases or we can't have pressures from management that might make us look the other way or not be as thorough in our work or if we have a finding to not stick to our reporting of that finding. So you don't want those pressures to be inherent.
 So there's this concept of independence. So we can't be part of management. We can't be holding assets at the city. We can't be the ones that are preparing these books and then turning around and auditing them. So there have to be these firewalls of certain types of activities and duties for us to be able to come and do our work objectively and report the findings without pressures from management involved.
 Jim, we read all the time about independent auditors that fail in the corporate setting because their relationship is either too cozy with the board or because they don't want to lose their position as the board.
 as the auditor for which they're paid handsomely. How in these municipal settings do we guard against that? Well, and you've got a great setup here because we're not hired by management. So probably one of the best things that you did was yours, and I don't know when that happened or if it's always been that way by charter, you have your internal auditor hire your external auditor. Right.
 and that's independent of management. So I'm sad to say in Oregon, a majority of governments, it's still management that's hiring the audit firm. But for the city of Portland and most of the clients that I'm responsible for serving, it's generally the independent auditor that's responsible for hiring the external auditor. So you have that buffer between the external auditor and management. So just to clarify that for the public, you're referring to the auditors
 city-wide elected independent auditor who has no particular reporting relationship whatsoever with the city council or the bureaus that you are auditing? Correct. Do you audit the auditor's bureaus? We do not in our firm, but that's a good question. And, in fact, there is peer. I think you are subjected to peer reviews. So this report doesn't include the functions within the auditor's office? Correct. Correct.
 Thank you. Yeah. Good questions. And I think I can infer this, but I want to ask it directly. Was there any weakness that you identified or any area of improvement that you would recommend with regard to the management that you did work with in order to make these audits more effective in the future? Yeah, good question. You know, we always try to come up with ideas, and we do have a few areas of improvement that we've,
 reported to, for example, Prosper Portland in our delivery of the audit there. But, you know, it's difficult here. You've got a good crew and they do a really good job. So we did not have any substantive observations for improvements with our audit of the city. When you made recommendations that were non-substantive in terms of improvements, what was the reaction?
 You know, I would say there's a great relationship here. Your crew is not – they do not shy away from the audit process, and I think they embrace comments from us or at least suggestions and ideas. The other thing is they're very consultative. We get an opportunity to work with your crew on the implementation of new standards –
 Most of the time we're talking about the new standards long before they're applicable. They seek our ideas in terms of the documentation we're going to need to do our work. They also seek our input in ways to implement those. But then they also are going off and getting educated in those new standards and do a tremendous job of already being informed when the time comes to implement these. So we have a good consultative relationship, which I think helps.
 with either identifying ideas and or implementing ideas. Thank you. I appreciate it. Madam Monitor, is there anything more? No. I think that wraps up our presentation, and we can turn it over to management to present the CAFR. Very good. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Do we need to accept their report? Why don't we go ahead and do that? Let's put the report on the table. Commissioner Fritz? Let's accept their report. Second. We have a motion and a second. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 All right. At this time, we are going to invite up our city management team. Jennifer Cooperman, who is the chief financial officer, and Michelle Kirby, who is the city controller. And they're going to present the comprehensive annual report for the fiscal year-ended program.
 June 30th, 2018. And just to clarify, the CAFRA compromises the actual audit financial results of the city's operations. It provides information related to the city's overall financial health. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of City Council. For the record, my name is Michelle Kirby and I'm the Comptroller and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. Thank you.
 Also presenting today is Jennifer Cooperman, Chief Financial Officer and Bureau Director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Today we'll be presenting the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, and we will be referring to it throughout as the CAFR, C-A-F-R, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
 We'll be discussing highlights and financial trends, and we'll also be presenting you with information regarding the city's long-term fiscal health.
 The preparation of the CAFR report is quite an extensive project, and it requires a group effort to make it a success. Involvement from all city bureaus, the internal auditor's office, and our independent auditors is necessary to ensure the timely, successful completion. Then the Bureau Accounting Division says,
 has the responsibility of preparing the CAFR, ensuring the accuracy, and working with the auditors throughout the process. The accounting division team is here today, if you were wondering who this big group is behind me. I'd like to take a moment to recognize them for their hard work and dedication to the success of the project. This is the accounting team. Thank you. We'll suspend the rules for a moment. Thank you.
 These are the people who really make it come together. Four years ago, we established a goal of reducing the amount of time to publish the CAFR. You've been hearing about that for the last several years.
 And you heard about it today from Jim Lanzarota. We've made steady, significant progress. And this year's Capra transmittal date of October 30th marks the earliest it's been produced in recent history that any of us can research or remember. So it establishes...
 the city of Portland as a national leader in providing timely information to the community and to other interested readers of the CAFR. So I've been asked frequently, how did we do it? And we've been able to do this by working more efficiently and by diligently executing some process improvements.
 Our five keys to success are highlighted here on the PowerPoint slide. Frequent, regular communication, adequate planning, optimal use of technology, good project management, and then continual process improvement. After every year, we go back and recap what went right and wrong and continue to tweak the process.
 So you may be asking why we're making such a big deal of this and why it's important. Well, first of all, timeliness is a major objective of financial reporting in that it ensures the information is relevant and useful for decision-making. In addition, it allows this team here sitting behind me time to do other reporting initiatives, such as the popular annual financial report.
 also known as the PAFR, which Jennifer is showing you here, the little abbreviated summary version that was created for the first time, published two years ago.
 Last year, we took it a step farther and translated the report into Russian, Spanish, Vietnamese, and Chinese for even greater community outreach. And I'm not aware of anywhere around the country that is doing that effort. And we performed this in partnership with the Portland State University business student volunteers who are very excited to be working on the project with the city of Portland. Thank you.
 So we will now discuss the highlights of the fiscal year 18 CAFR. The good news has already been shared that our external auditors gave the city an unmodified or clean opinion, found no weaknesses or deficiencies in the accounting processes, and in addition, the CAFR complies with state law and generally accepted accounting principles. Thank you.
 We've received the Government Finance Officer's Award for Excellence in Financial Reporting for the 37th consecutive year, as well as this comparable award for the PAFR, now that we are producing a PAFR as well. The city's bond rating for unlimited tax general obligation debt remains rated AAA from Moody's Investor Services.
 So I'm now going to turn the presentation over to Jennifer Cooperman. Could I ask a question, please, before we move on? Yes. So you mentioned Moody's AAA rating. Would I find similar ratings from the other agencies, Standard & Poor's, Fitch, or anybody else? Jennifer Cooperman, we use S&P to rate the city's BES securities. They're double-rated. Otherwise, we're using only Moody's. Got it. Thank you. All right.
 And is AAA the highest? Yes. Yes. Okay. So we're going to look at some financial trends now. So stepping off from where Michelle left it regarding the city's unlimited tax general obligation debt rating. Is there supposed to be something on the screen, Carla? Yeah. You don't have it. We've got it out here. There we go. Thank you. Sure. Sure.
 So I wanted to, as we spend a few minutes now talking about some observations regarding the city's long-term fiscal health, I wanted to make an analogy before we get started, and that's looking at the city's fiscal health as compared to an individual when they go to their primary care provider and get an assessment of their physical health.
 When you go in and visit your practitioner on an annual basis, as we are advised to do, they will take various measures. They will look at your weight. They'll look at your blood pressure. They'll look at your blood sugar numbers. They'll look at your cholesterol. All of these are meant to be different facets of your physical health.
 and you may be in great shape. You may be a top runner. You may have climbed Mount Everest. You may have done a lot of things, and I have no personal knowledge here, but you may walk away and be told that you have high cholesterol. And that's...
 What have you heard? No, I didn't say anything. Nothing. You're just in my line of sight. That's all. Just making a point that – It was the ice cream. It was the ice cream. I'm sorry. I like ice cream.
 But you may be in great physical health, but one measure, one aspect of your physical health is something that you need to pay attention to. So as we look at the governmental fund balance for the city, this is a graph showing our five-year trend. This is meant to be a picture of 2020.
 Our governmental-only funds, so not including our business enterprises, BES and water, looking at the general fund, our special revenue funds, our debt service, capital project funds, et cetera, it's a nice increasing balance over the last five years, and that is a measure of healthy health. If we want to –
 go to the next slide, and we move still staying with governmental activities. This is the net position figure that Jim referred to earlier.
 And these are the same funds as the previous chart, but on a full accrual basis, so we're looking longer term. We have longer term obligations that are now included here. And as we've talked to you for the last handful of years, this is a declining trend. This is that one aspect of our financial health that we want to be paying attention to.
 We talked briefly about some of the components that are leading and contribute to this negative trend. We talked about FPD&R. Wasn't that a change in the federal accounting rules that we had to book it differently, and all of a sudden around – I think it was around 2014, and all of a sudden that –
 That number went negative quickly. Correct, and that was a reporting issue. It wasn't that anything financially changed regarding FPD&R at that point, but that a liability that had previously been in the footnotes got moved to the balance sheet, and so it was a huge reporting change that occurred in 2014. And if we showed you a 10-year slide, you'd see that change more dramatically. The OPEB GASB change that Jim mentioned a few minutes ago,
 similar, taking an obligation that we have and continue to have, but moving it so that it becomes more apparent in the balance sheet. I'm looking at you, so you can tell me where I go wrong. Yeah, I'm listening. We also talked about capital assets, and the wear and tear in our capital assets is exceeding the investment in the assets that we are making. Sure. So, we're going to go to the next slide.
 Some of the things that affect our declining net position are pensions, benefits, labor contracts, and other liabilities that are increasing. We've had some discussions about that in our long-term planning discussion.
 increases in bonds payable with no offsetting assets. So when we issue bonds and take the proceeds and give it to the county for the Selwood Bridge, or that the asset gets booked on Prosper Portland's balance sheet rather than the city's, while the debt is staying on the city's side. And non-cash expenses like depreciation that are larger than the investment that we are making in those assets.
 There is also a reference to the PERS expense and the way we are making our full contribution to PERS every year. That is a standalone city policy that we have. But the way that the PERS program is currently structured with a collar –
 the contribution that we are making is less than the growth of the liability that we are assuming. So there are some structural issues that are impacting the prior chart and why the net position trend is down. And...
 We do have some strategies to ensure our fiscal stability longer term. We've had some previous discussions about regular reserving and increasing our commitment to infrastructure investments, and I do appreciate, Commissioner Fish, your suggestion that we use the word shall in certain places that we perhaps have not previously so that we are actually making O&M and other contributions to our assets.
 We could be taking some one-time money and allocating it to long-term liabilities. We could be looking to sharing costs with some of our partners, whether it be the county or other regional partners, and a general awareness and commitment to funding these long-term liabilities and obligations that we have.
 So, in summary, as you've heard from all of us, the city's CAFR complies with all the required accounting standards and practices. We have an unmodified opinion from our external independent auditor with no audit deficiencies. We do have a growing governmental fund balance for our city funds with a AAA bond rating.
 The CAFR does represent a financial snapshot at a point in time. We do know that there are some aspects of our business and financial activities that we do need to keep an eye on and make a commitment to address in the future.
 We have been a city for over 150 years, and we've weathered a lot of financial storms. There will likely be more. But with the policies and practices and leadership that we have in place, I'm convinced that we will continue to avoid financial impairment or other concerns. Great. Commissioner Fritz?
 And it's my understanding we've had several conversations about financial responsibility, which Commissioner Saltzman led, and it's my understanding that you have adopted those by administrative rule. Is that correct? The council directed me to work on some financial policies, which we are this close to finishing, that will be brought back to you. They will? Yes. Thank you. Yes, absolutely. Jennifer, one of my –
 pet peeves is the way we use language in government to mask things. You know, we have a process that comes to council pretty regularly where we talk about waivers of remonstrances. I'm still not sure what that means, but it's a good thing when they're waived because we can go forward. But remonstrances, I mean, it's just not a word that people usually use. If I went home tonight and Patty said to me, you know, how's our relationship going? And I'd say, well, I would say it's unmodified. Right.
 I'm not sure it would have right the I'm not sure that would be welcome nor would the full audit I mean I kind of like clean bill of health what since we're going to be asked about this and we're going to be talking about this how would you like us to refer to the results that we got today is it clean bill of health is it some combination just unmodified leaves me a little
 It just seems to me unduly, I mean, it's the language of the profession. I think for the average person, it probably doesn't communicate as much as we would like. I like clean bill of health. I think that that's easily recognizable, whether it's you going to your medical practitioner for yourself or your doctor.
 or the organization with Moss and all of the work that this team does, I think that that accurately and understandably conveys where we are. Thank you. Sure. Could I just ask you a couple of follow-ups? We heard the financial auditors for the financial piece of this give us that clean bill of healthy and modified recommendation. Were there any disagreements that you were aware of?
 No. What was your reaction to the audit? Was that pretty much what you expected it to say? Absolutely. I'm on the short list every year when the auditors come in. What do you call that interview? I call it the fraud interview. What do you call it? That's fine. Call it that. Okay. In my prior position as treasurer and as my current position as CFO, I'm on the short list that they have to come visit with me, closed door, one-on-one, early in the process.
 to say, how are things? Anything come up in the last year that you're worried about or that seems odd or that you want us to know about or that's just, you know, what should we know about? And I didn't have much to talk about this year. I don't even remember what we did talk about.
 new software that we're going to be implementing for producing the CAFR.
 So we go through that process. I'm honest when there is something that I'm concerned about, but there really wasn't anything of significance this year. I think we've done a really good job, all of us, of raising the awareness of the city's financial health and financial condition and financial activity in the city. I think it's helped. Quite frankly, it's helped that we have a mayor who comes from this world
 And you've listened to these presentations, all of you, for a number of years, and you can speak to the auditors just the way you did about what they're doing and why. And we dive into a level of depth that I don't know that many municipalities do.
 so you take your fiduciary responsibilities quite seriously alright let me ask you a tough question I asked them the same one so turnabout is fair play how would you evaluate the external auditors did they do what you expect them to do
 Yes. We've been pushing them with our speed up of our process. We've been pushing them to be able to take our material that much more quickly. We'll continue to do that. Fantastic. I appreciate hearing that. Thank you. So just curious, we use different numbers to describe the all-in process.
 city budget. We're a municipal corporation. We have a general fund. We have lots of transfer payments and everything. What's the high-end number we now use? We are now... I use a $5 billion number. We're a $5 billion municipal corporation. And so...
 one of a handful of the most important things we do every year is we get an outside audit to determine whether our financial controls are adequate. Yes. As we manage $5 billion. Yes. And we got a clean bill of health. Right. And that's been a recurring. We've had that for a number of years. Although I do remember during my tenure,
 There were times we got some tougher love in a management letter with some areas of recommendation for tightening our controls or doing a better job of managing funds and things like that. But that's a big deal, right? I'm just trying to think of all the things that we're responsible for. Because if it wasn't a clean bill of health, that's a big blemish on the city. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 And it isn't just $5 billion of cash. I mean, it's a whole $5 billion operation, right? All the assets, all the people, all the processes, all of the investments and activities that we do. It's a big entity. So the $5 billion refers to revenue or expenses or both? You're the one who came up with the number. I'm going to get back to you.
 Okay, thank you. I was wondering about that. Yeah, I don't think it's... Very good. Any further questions? I'll entertain a motion. Move adoption of the report. Second. Commissioner Saltzman moves adoption of the report, and Commissioner Fritz seconds it. Please call the roll on item 1342, the results of the financial audit of the city's comprehensive annual financial report for fiscal 2017-18 and related communications. Fritz. Yes.
 Well, thank you, Moss Adams. In addition to this being your assessment of us, it's also our assessment of you as to do you give this information in a clear way? Do you explain it in ways that both experts and non-experts can understand? And so I really appreciate that.
 And I would say that we are financially responsible because of the checks and balances we've set up. We have the city budget office. We have the chief administrative officer. We have the chief financial officer and the treasurer and the controller. We have each one of the five of us are in charge of bureaus where we get weekly –
 and sometimes more often than that, reports on how is the budget doing. We dive into the smallest, tiniest little fund within a bureau and ask what's the money being spent on. As Parks Commissioner, I was briefed on we may have a trouble with ending fund balance. We can't go negative, as was mentioned, so we're going to borrow and then pay it back to make sure that we don't do that.
 And so I take that responsibility extremely seriously. I know each of my colleagues does, and I'm glad to know that I'm responsible for the bureaus I'm in charge of.
 and so is each one of my colleagues. And then collectively we're responsible as well. And so those checks and balances are in our commission form of government system with our great bureau directors as well because they know that they are truly the administrators of the bureaus. We help with the vision, the guidance, the direction. And so I am not at all surprised to hear that we're doing so well, and thank you very much for all of your work, everybody. Hi. Fish?
 And I couldn't help but think as you were making your respective presentations that you're going to complicate the task of yet another generation of people who now want to make the case that we should change our form of government and are in search of some reason to do so. And it's usually been such. It's been an argument in search of a problem. And if the results were not unmodified, then it seems to me it would have been fair game. But it –
 the financial oversight of our city is strong. That's the message of this hearing. And I'm very pleased that structurally we have it set up so that the auditor does the hiring. I knew that, but to have it explained again and to have it actually explained in the context of that being different than a lot of other municipalities, I'm...
 I think it gives me added sense of confidence in how we've structured that relationship because management isn't hiring you, and that problem seems to dog corporate America of management being too close to their auditors, too cozy a relationship. Thanks to our financial team, the folks that you identified earlier who do all the hard work. Thanks to our CFO, our deputy CFO. By the way, at one time we didn't have a CFO.
 And there were a number of us which fought like hell to put the CFO back in and felt that a city of, if you say, $5 billion, we'll use that number or another number of assets, should have a chief financial officer. And I think history has proven that to be an important and wise decision. Thanks to Moss Adams for their presentation. And I will say that.
 The benefit of being on council for a number of years is there's a familiar pattern to these, but it still is a complicated subject matter to communicate. And I think one of the things that Moss Adams does so well is the way they present, and they take complicated things and reduce it to things that the rest of us can understand. So we're grateful for that. And I'm just proud of the results, really.
 We often get nickel and dime for all kinds of things around here, and here it is. This has to be one of the most significant functions of government, and according to our independent auditors, we got it right. We got a clean bill of health. So I think we can be proud of that, and I think the public can have additional confidence in their government because of that. So I'm grateful for that. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Madam Auditor and Moss Adams, for another great presentation.
 A great audit, and thanks to the accounting division and our CFO and our controller for the popular report. And next step, get it down to one page. Then you'll really be popular. I'm sure you can do it. Anyway, it is a very useful tool.
 And I think it was Ken Rust that started the popular annual? Excuse me? It was during his term, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so I wanted to just – We all had the idea, but, yeah, it happened while he was here. But it happened during Ken Rust's tenure, yeah. Which is because he kind of pointed towards reducing the amount of time on the CAFR, so it allowed us more time to work on the PAFR. Well, good job. Keep winning those awards. Thanks. All right.
 Wheeler. Well, thank you. I want to add my thanks to everybody. Thanks to Moss Adams for, again, doing a very thorough evaluation of our financial situation. I want to also extend my thanks to the accounting division to produce the city's CAFR and for
 everyone in our city who's done this not only in the past but also this year and doing it in apparently record time. So thank you. I'm sure a significant amount of additional work went into that. The city's accounting team should be very proud of the fact that we are recognized as a national leader in terms of how we report our financials to the public.
 I want to thank Madam Auditor as well. Without your leadership and the guidance of your division, we wouldn't have the same kind of independence and collaboration that we have, so I want to acknowledge you and thank you. And I want to underscore something that the Chief Financial Officer raised, which is that while I appreciate that the city's financial condition is very healthy,
 by many, many measures, we do have a negative trend in our net position that we must continue to address. I feel that we have an obligation to do that and not just keep pushing this trend into the future. I look forward to working with the council, CBO, CFO, and the city bureaus to increase our reserves and our infrastructure investments of the long term and chip away at that net financial position.
 And with that, thank you, everybody. It was a great report, interesting back and forth. I vote aye. The report is adopted. Please call the roll on 1343. Fritz? I also think we need to think of a better name than that popular annual financial report, something like where the skeletons are buried or where your money goes, something that would really make people happy.
 Want to turn even five pages, Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you also to Tim Carroll, my chief of staff, who is my numbers guy in the office. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Court's adopted. Next item, we have moved 1344, and in its place we have inserted 1337. Please read 1337. Accept the State of Housing in Portland 2018 report.
 I left my diet coke in the refrigerator. One moment, please. We have Shannon Callahan and Matthew Scheibold are going to make the introductions. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioner. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. Thank you for prioritizing this report this afternoon. I am here today with Matchable to present the fourth annual Comprehensive State of Housing Report.
 which is designed to provide update data on both the current housing market and the Portland Housing Bureau's progress towards our strategic initiatives. Before I turn it over to Matthew to present an overview of the summary of our findings, I'd like to thank and acknowledge the work of the staff at PHB, especially Bamaal,
 Raj Bhandari, and as you can see behind you, for those not on camera but in the room, the staff, some of the staff who worked on compiling this data, David, Victoria, Martha, Michelle, and Emily. I'd also like to thank the staff who worked to achieve the results that you see in this report, which really is the work of every single one of our 70 plus employees at the Bureau. I'd now like to turn it over to Matthew to give you a summary of findings of what we have discovered this year.
 So, members of council, Matt Schnapple for the record. So, first taking a step back looking at the citywide view, you know, the city continues to grow and in recent years at a slightly more accelerated rate.
 We are seeing record numbers of market and affordable units opening, but we need additional units to keep up with both population trends and trends in affordability. And unfortunately, we do continue to see increases in disparities, not only amongst low-income Portlanders but communities of color, and I'll talk a little bit more about that, that require more resources and more programming for our fellow Portlanders.
 So looking at population, we're the fifth largest city on the West Coast with our growth up to 1.5% annually. A large portion of that growth since the year 2000 has been with communities of color. Of the roughly 91,000 individuals that have moved to Portland or the increase in population, about 22% are from communities of color.
 We're currently at around 620,000 people and around 260,000 households.
 While we are seeing increases in our median incomes, I think you all have had reports about increases in the median incomes. There are disparities in incomes, and incomes are not growing evenly across the board. While median incomes are growing for white households, for communities of color, they're stagnant or declining, and I'll talk about that more in a bit as well. As you can see here in the slide, and it's in the report as well,
 The median income for renters is around $37,000 per year, when compared to owners, it is $83,000 per year.
 And if you look at it by race, white and Asian households are around $60,000 per year, and other communities of color are around $32,000 per year. And so we see significant disparities in income for communities of color. Communities of color are also disproportionately renters in our city and struggling with affordability.
 If you look at the housing stock from 2002 to 2017, we continue to see high levels of production. In fact, in 2017, it was our highest production in the last 15 years with 7,300 new units. Looking at rental affordability, we know that rent increases have gone up by about 75% since about 2005.
 This is a graph of annual rent increases quarter by quarter. And so you see that the average rent increase from 2010 to 2017 is around 4%, but we saw several years where rent increases were 6% to 8% annual rent increases. And that is starting to slow down. The rate of rent increases are slowing down with the average at around $1,400 per month.
 When you're looking at rental affordability,
 we have a number of households in our household profiles that are completely priced out of the market. Zero to 30% AMI households are unable to afford in any of our 24 neighborhood analysis areas, as well as the average single mother household, black household, Native American household, and Pacific Islander household. Since our first report in 2015, we have seen significant declines in affordability for many of our household...
 profiles as we continue to grapple with the housing affordability crisis in the city. So when you say single mother households, is that opposed to a single parent household? The numbers are roughly equivalent for a single mother or a single parent. Single mothers have slightly lower incomes, so we use them in our profiles. Okay.
 Looking at the current need, if you look at renters across the board, about 50% of renters are not cost burdened in the city and about 50%, 49% are cost burdened.
 Of those renters that are cost burdened, 22% are considered cost burdened, which means they're paying more than 30% of their income toward rent. And 27% are extremely cost burdened, which means they're paying more than 50% of their income toward rent. And if you're curious about numbers for households...
 We look at, you know, we specifically serve households at 80% AMI and below, and there are about 31,000 households at 80% AMI and below that are extremely cost burdened. So that's that 27% category. And around 21,000 households below 80% AMI that are cost burdened. So that's that 22% category. Okay.
 If you look at home ownership affordability, most neighborhoods now have a median home sales price of over $400,000. And at the Bureau, we're looking at prices of between $300,000 to $325,000 as probably affordable to the average Portlander. But I would note that that's not affordable to communities that have disproportionately low incomes.
 The overall median price in 2017 was $406,000. And we've seen an increase from 2011 to 2017 of about $150,000 in the median price.
 I would also note that the most significant increases in price have been in the Lentz-Foster and 122nd and Division neighborhoods, which Lentz-Foster has seen an increase in price of 113%, so over doubling.
 from 2011 to 2017, and 122nd End Division has increased by 90%, so almost doubling over that same time frame. And so we're seeing East Portland neighborhoods, their home prices are rapidly escalating toward the citywide median price. I mean, obviously with Lentz Foster, there's the Urban Renewal District. What would be prompting the high rise in cost at 122nd End Division? Yeah.
 For the home prices? Yeah. You know, it's just the overall hot market. So there's nothing – There's nothing particular about the neighborhoods. That's just an example. Well, the only thing I would note is that they were very affordable in 2011. The prices were much lower in the $100,000 to $200,000 range. Okay. So compared to other neighborhoods –
 people seeking a more affordable purchase price may have been incentivized to look in those neighborhoods. And so while the dollar amount is not as – growth is not as significant as other neighborhoods, the percentage changes. I went to the Foster Winterfest the other day, which was an event hosted by Venture Portland. Drove around a little bit and also went and visited some small businesses. And one thing that struck me was –
 the interesting variety of home styles in a relatively close-in neighborhood that had been historically affordable in a place where we're starting to make big investments, the transportation investments, streets, sidewalks, other things. And then you look at what are some of the businesses that are coming in. They're very interesting. They're not dissimilar from some of the businesses you're starting to see on North Williams, right?
 and their businesses in response to the buying power of what's happening, you know, north and south.
 And so it's going through tremendous change. But there's a nice stock of homes that have been historically undervalued, and it's still relatively close in. So it strikes me as one of those areas that is going to see enormous pressure on home prices. Yeah, I think you're right. In reflecting on the report this year, I look back on our first report in 2015, and one of the home ownership data points that jumped out was that –
 There were six of the 24 neighborhoods that immigrant households, households foreign-born as the census designation could afford to purchase in, in 2015, and that number has dropped to zero in this year because of both incomes and the median prices. So I think those neighborhoods were some of those six neighborhoods that were affordable. So yes. Yes.
 So with that, that's kind of a high-level overview of the report. It's, again, similar trends as our last report around both renter and owner affordability. But we have made great progress with our programming to try and address the affordability crisis. And Shannon is going to walk through some of our progress with our strategic initiatives. Thank you, Matthew. Thank you.
 This year, we are going to talk with you about five of the Housing Bureau's strategic initiatives. The first is the Portland Housing Bond. Since voters passed the Portland Housing Bond, five projects have already been identified, three of those in just the last six months, totaling more than 630 units completed or in progress under the bond to date.
 By the end of 2008, we were nearly halfway to our initial 1,300-unit goal as promised to the voters. And next year, we'll be working with our oversight committee to expand bond production with the new leverage opportunity granted to us by voters with their support of a constitutional amendment.
 Just to give you a few examples of what this progress means for Portlanders, at 105th and East Burnside, which opened this fall, with the coordination of our joint office partners, we've moved families and children directly from our streets and shelters into stable homes.
 At the Ellington Apartments, which was the first bond purchase under Portland's Housing Bond, we now house 263 children in affordable family-sized homes, providing them with the stability they need to succeed in school and beyond. And we've been able to stabilize and secure renters at the Westwind Apartments, adding professional 24-hour on-site management and support services for the residents. Thank you.
 Of the bond units planned to date, 44% are for incomes at 30% or below, and we are nearly two-thirds towards reaching our goals for 300 units of supportive housing.
 The North and Northeast Neighborhood Strategy was established in 2014 by and for the community. The strategy prioritizes families and individuals with generational ties to North and Northeast Portland for new affordable housing opportunities, both in rental and in homeownership. And we work to stabilize long-term community residents with home repair programs.
 With this strategy, the city acknowledges and works to correct the impacts our actions have had to gentrify the neighborhood and displaced residents. Thank you.
 As of the writing of this report, we have opened or planned for the opening of more than 501 new rental units, well above our goal, with two new buildings opening just in the last few months. The Beatrice Morrow on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is welcoming new residents, like a young woman and her daughter who have been couch surfing for more than two years, whose generational ties to the neighborhood go back for decades.
 and the Charlotte B. Rutherford, whose namesake is an esteemed community activist, a formal civil rights attorney, journalist, and administrative law judge. By the end of this year, we will have supported 500 low-income homeowners with a combination of grants and loans to stabilize them in their homes. And we have worked with our oversight committee to establish clear and measurable goals to achieve more than 110 homeowners with this strategy.
 I'll now turn to inclusionary zoning. Our inclusionary housing program, which went into effect in February of 2017, successfully creating affordability in the private market throughout our city.
 In the first 18 months, the program has already created in process in private developments 362 affordable units and 43 projects, to be exact. If we had invested public resources to subsidize these units, it would represent approximately $32 million in public investment. We also were keeping a close eye on the program, making refinements with city council in real time to adjust to market realities.
 Our next strategic initiative this year is the supporting housing goal established by the city and the county to create 2,000 new units of supportive housing by 2028. Since that time, we've collaborated with the Joint Office, other local state and community partners in unprecedented ways to create new supportive housing units. The result is that we already have more than 500 new supportive housing units opened or in progress by 2021, including
 This also has spurned us to partner in the First of Its Kind initiative, braiding funding for services and capital with the Joint Office, Multnomah County Health Department, and Oregon Housing and Community Services to create a replicable, cost-effective, a cost-efficient model to integrate supportive housing into the development of single-room occupancy units. Director Callahan, just so that we can read this page, which is taken from page 112 of the report, it says,
 Just would you remind us, how do you reconcile the goal of 2,000 new units by 2028 and what's in the box that says 1,483 units by 2028? Okay.
 Commissioner, I think what that's indicating is what the progress we've already made thus far. So the two numbers before that add up to 2,000. So that's trying to show we already have 162 units since we've reached that goal already operating as new supportive housing units. And then there's 355 plans by 2021. And the goal left to achieve is 1,483 units. I see. I see that. Thank you. So that's a countdown for us. Eddie?
 I didn't read it that way, but that's the obvious way to read it. So thank you. We're keeping a thermometer daily at our office with how many supportive housing units we're creating. So can I second Commissioner? I don't think it's entirely clear. So in future publications, can we maybe find a different way to present that data? Absolutely. Now that you say that, it's really obvious, but you sort of have to say it first.
 Absolutely. Great, thank you. I missed it, for what it's worth. So is that joint city-county-state notice of funds availability? Is that on the streets now? We have already convened an internal and external review committee, and the mayor, the chair, and the Oregon Housing and Community Services are about to make their final recommendations. We expect an announcement. So there's already been applications submitted? Mm-hmm.
 We were very impressed with the pool of applicants, and we're excited for, I think, what lies ahead for this project. Well, Dan's going to have a little extra time. It's not too late. Thank you. The Rental Services Office. I don't know. Trying to keep me relevant. This year, the Portland Housing Bureau also launched a Rental Services Office to provide information on landlord-tenant, fair housing laws, coordinating legal aid services, and supporting tenant protections. Thank you.
 We are now assisting close to 200 individuals a month through the hotlines, walk-ins, and emails. And the City Council has passed a rental registration requirement ensuring we'll have accurate information on all rental properties in the City of Portland.
 We've also doubled our funding for legal assistance and education services. And in early 2019, we expect to make an announcement to provide legal assistance and enforcement for fair housing violations. Say, can I just make a quick comment on the Rental Services Office? You know, some people asked a question of me the other day, why isn't it up and running as conceived?
 And I just want to be really clear with people. The bold vision will take us several years to get to because it requires sequential planning and sequencing, and frankly, sequencing of the funding to actually get us to the full vision. But we now have six people employed in the rental services office. They are actively engaged in fair housing issues. They are overseeing the rental services commission. They're in the process of...
 standing up the important work around the rental registration program. So I don't want people to believe we blew that off. We've not blown it off. It is, in fact, up and running in its first part of the sequence, and people should fully expect that to come to full fruition.
 Yes, and as this indicates, we are open for phone calls. We have walk-in hours, and we accept e-mails at any time that anyone has any questions. We are generally there for them during the work hours, I should say. Very good. Thank you. And then finally, to review our 2018 production.
 By this year, through a combination of all of the products that we offer, including direct subsidy, inclusionary zoning, and then the old, what was known as multi-program, we will have reached heights of new affordable housing this year, topping more than 800. This brings the total number of units in our regulated portfolio to 14,400 units.
 Though we don't have exact figures on the rental market, we have estimated 125,000 units in the rental market. If that is indeed the case, 12% of all rental units in the city of Portland would be regulated by the city of Portland as affordable housing.
 In real terms, the number of units that we opened this year means housing for approximately 1,800 Portlanders. So we've looked at the size of the bedrooms that we're offering and extrapolated who's living there. That means the 800 units are actually providing homes for 1,800 Portlanders. We are excited that we have new units in all areas of the city, including high-opportunity areas, connecting residents to jobs, transit, and the amenities they need to survive there.
 and thrive. Next year, we expect to increase our affordable housing production with more than 1,000 new units, welcoming families. And here are just a few of the highlights of the buildings that have opened this year or are expected to open early next year. Vibrant, that you will see in the lower right-hand corner, is actually the property once known as 14th and Raleigh in the Pearl District, which is... I was going to ask you that question. Where's Vibrant? Yeah.
 Vibrant is the property formerly known as 14th and Raleigh that will be especially prioritized for homeless families leaving the homeless family system and receiving great services and affordable housing with Innovative Housing, Inc.,
 It's a very tall building. You can't miss it. If you're on 405, you'll see it very plainly. Commissioner Fritz? That slide really shows what Commissioner Fish refers to a lot, is that affordable housing doesn't have to be ugly housing, that these could well be designed by the highest highfalutin developers. They're really nice. And some are. The one there at 105th and Burnside was actually designed as market rate housing in 2005.
 Oh, that's right. To acquire it. That was great. Actually, Commissioner Fritz, during my tenure as housing commissioner, we toyed with the idea of doing an RFP, trying to figure out how to structure an RFP where we emphasize high design elements at a low cost and challenge the architect community because we were hearing from the Brad Klofels and the other homegrown talent that they wanted to take a crack at trying to do something innovative.
 The last time we thought of doing something innovative like that was a Frank Gehry project that Howard Shapiro championed that was once upon a time contemplated for the Pearl. Unfortunately, it was a budget buster. It cost so much to have a star architect, and the cost of materials and everything made it infeasible.
 But I've often thought, particularly with all the talent we have locally, if we challenge people to come up with high design at a lower cost, whether it's using modular or new components, new materials, whatever, I think we could even push the design envelope further.
 And Bloomberg did this. Bloomberg had a design competition for a lot of the public buildings that New York City invested in. And I think the bar could even be higher if we could figure out a way legally to do that, again, without driving up costs, because it would have to be coupled with show us great design at a bargain basement price. Thank you, Commissioner. That's a very good idea.
 That actually concludes our presentation on the State of Housing Report this afternoon. We'd be happy to answer any questions or delve deeper into any areas of the report that you'd like us to. I have one question. Commissioner Fish. So Commissioner Udaly can't be here, but her office and my office in reviewing this material had a similar question, which is we track lots of demographic – lots of – you include a lot of demographic information in this report. Right.
 But where it's a little thin is information on people experiencing disabilities and how they are treated by the marketplace. Any thoughts of how we could beef that up? So we –
 So the Census Bureau does have some data on individuals experiencing disabilities, and their estimates are around 80,000 individuals in the city of Portland. And they break that out by what disability individuals are experiencing. I think where we have been short on data is around the stock, and that's something we've had conversations. Around the stock? Yeah, housing stock. The units themselves. How many accessible units are there? Correct. Correct.
 And so we have been in conversations with Commissioner Udaly's office, and she has talked to us about the possibility of, once the rental registration system is in place, about getting better information on Type A and Type B units or fully accessible units. Well, I would second that. And the two areas that I'm interested in is, to what extent do people experiencing disabilities generally have access to an accessible unit,
 And then in light of the work we're doing around Age-Friendly Portland, how are older adults faring? Right. Because many of the things, many of the kinds of improvements that we're talking about that make a unit accessible make them more accessible to people with disabilities, older adults, and the like. Absolutely. And I would be interested in working with her and you folks to see how we can refine that data going forward. Sounds good.
 And by the way, Shannon, thank you very much for doing a whole page on supportive housing. That's a new feature this year. Actually, I think it's two pages. It's two pages. So we won't let our environmental friends know how much paper we used on this one. But it's two pages on supportive housing, and that's an innovation in this year's report and much appreciated.
 And then, Commissioner, this report does contain some new data that our team pulled together. I wanted to point it out to you. We did not highlight it today, but I think it does.
 does answer some questions around communities regarding age-friendliness, and it has to do with multigenerational households. We really tried to pull out some information for you on pages 18 and 19 and start to track the multigenerational households that reside in Portland and trends that we're seeing. We are seeing greater rates of multigenerational households in Portland, and so this is something I think you should expect from,
 to see us expand on and maybe a good place to address some of the issues around age-friendliness next year. So we'll be happy to share that and talk with you about that more, Commissioner. Thank you. Is that a positive or a negative? Does that mean more people are doubled up, or does that mean people are choosing to live with their parents or whatever? Yeah.
 It's for the multi-generational, it's the same family. So people living with either the next generation or the generation before that. So it's different than doubled up. It could be doubled up. We can't say with certainty whether it is a cultural element to the family, that they live multi-generationally, or if it's an affordability issue. It's likely a combination of both. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 I find it interesting that the median house, I appreciate all the demographic information. It's really helpful and the way you've presented the material. The Native American folks, the median income has gone down, but the home ownership has gone up.
 Is there any – what's the explanation for that? There's a fairly large margin of error due to the population size in the city of Portland. So for Pacific Islander households and Native American households, we can see a little bit more of a swing in the numbers and the margin of error because of that. We don't put the margin of error bars on here, but it is slightly larger for those households. Right. Okay.
 I found this chart that you gave of single-family production versus multifamily production really telling. You can see how little development of anything there was during the recession, but then the massive increase in multifamily development over the last two years since Milwila has been in charge.
 but very little growth in single-family households. So that, coupled with the multi-generational issue, I didn't see anything in here about accessory dwelling units. Is it possible to put something about that in in the next report?
 Yes, we can break that out. It's in with the – I believe it's included in the single family. I can confirm and get back to you, but we can break that out. And I think the one comment I will make on the earlier point, when you dive into the multigenerational data, you'll find that most multigenerational households are in single-family homes because it breaks it out by housing type where multigenerational families are.
 and we still are not seeing single-family unit permitting above pre-recessionary levels. Right, right. Yeah. That's troubling. Very good. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion. Move adoption. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll, Carla. Thank you.
 Fritz? Well, I appreciate that this is in paper because it would take a long time to download from PDF, and it's also really educational to read through it. So thank you for doing that, for providing copies to our offices, and thank you for your work. Mayor Wheeler, you are making progress. We are making progress, and this is very clear documentation. And the numbers don't lie. Aye. Fish? This is the third version, fourth version? Fourth version. Okay.
 of this report, and it seems to me it keeps getting better and more comprehensive. There's a treasure trove of really important data in here that helps inform the decisions we make. You know, we're making progress, but the analogy that I keep coming back to is from a Disney film, and that's with Infantasia.
 with the folks in the basement, the brooms and the mops in the basement, furiously trying to dig out as the floodwaters come into the building. We know how to build strong partnerships and deliver multifamily affordable housing. We know how to tackle problems that are in front of us. What we can't do is we're not smarter than the market, and we can't.
 We don't have any control nationally over the supply factors, and the supply factors are going to get more and more acute, more and more challenging. The mayor spoke this morning about the need for a more robust federal partner. There are limits to what we can do locally, and that's why we have to be careful about setting expectations.
 making progress, adding new units, doing everything we can, but Portland can't solve the national housing crisis. It's going to take more than Portland, but I am pleased that we're doing our part. Thank you for your excellent work. Pleased to accept the report. Aye. Saltzman. Good report, and thank you, Director Callahan and Matthew and all the other Housing Bureau staff that worked on this report.
 I guess my two parting thoughts are as follows. One is be relentless on inclusionary housing. As I've said recently in several forums, inclusionary housing will produce far more affordable units over the long term than any bond measures will. So stick at it, and the results will be there. And then as Shannon and both the mayor know, I'm
 We have one of the purposes of the housing bond is to invest in intergenerational communities to support raising and adopting foster kids. So intergenerational communities have a lot of positives for older adults, for foster kids, and so I hope we'll see some of those in the next report. So please vote aye.
 Wheeler. Great thoughts, Dan, and I certainly look forward to taking up that conversation. I think it's a very important one. First of all, obviously, I want to thank Director Callahan, and I want to thank Mike, Matt, sorry. I've only known you for 10 years. At any rate, Matt, thank you. Excellent report. I appreciate that. And I want to thank the entire Housing Bureau staff for putting this report together, this report.
 The report gives data to what many of us have noticed for a long time, and for many people in our community, it gives us data to back what they just know to be true in their day-to-day lives. Portland continues to grow. We are now the fifth largest city on the West Coast. Young, educated people continue to join our city, but overall Portland's wealth is unevenly distributed, and many of our historic residents are struggling to make ends meet and pay the rent. We all know that.
 And while the last two years did see historic housing production levels, we still don't have enough affordable homes for everybody who needs them in our community.
 So as well as reporting on the market conditions, this year's report does a particularly good job of giving us insight into the strategic initiatives and focus areas that are going to drive the Housing Bureau's work both in the present and in the years ahead to address low-income Portlanders and I would even argue very, very low to zero-income Portlanders.
 This report had some really great highlights. We brought 146 units to the northeast Portland area under the northeast neighborhood housing strategy with 370 more units to come.
 We have over 350 affordable units that were already permitted by the Inclusionary Housing Program as of September, and that number is expected to rise precipitously. And our affordable housing bond has already purchased 634 units of affordable housing. That's roughly half the housing that was promised by the bond.
 in its first seven years. So in my estimation, we're way ahead of schedule there. And with the voters passing both the regional housing bond and the accompanying constitutional amendment, we have the opportunity to get even more leverage out of that opportunity.
 And so while there is certainly much more work to be done in providing every Portlander with a safe, affordable place to call home, the Bureau and the city have obviously not been idle. We have approached this issue with passion. We've approached it with data-driven solutions. We have used innovative financing tools, and we have a sense of collective urgency to address this important issue.
 In pursuing its strategic initiatives, the bond, the inclusionary housing program, supportive housing, the North Northeast Housing Strategy, the Rental Services Office, the Joint Office of Homeless Services, the multi-program, and other efforts, the Bureau is working hard to move us closer to addressing our city's affordable housing needs. So I want to thank all of the staff assembled here. This is a collective representation of your hard work as a team.
 and I personally want to thank you for it because it remains one of,
 if not the top issue that the people of this city are concerned about it, and you are jumping in with both feet. So thank you for that. Thank you, Cupid Alexander, from my office, for always keeping me in the loop and working well with the housing team to make sure that we're all on the same page and that we're working with the entirety of the city council to push our collective agenda forward. I vote aye. The report's accepted. And we will take a recess until 4 p.m.
 All right, good afternoon. This is the Portland City Council. We are now back in session. Next item, please, Carla.
 Item 1345, accept the Oregon Sports Authority's annual report on national and international sports marketing activities and event recruiting services. Colleagues, the city contracts with the Oregon Sports Authority to provide sports marketing and event recruitment services to bring major sporting events to Portland, including to city-owned venues such as the Veterans Memorial Coliseum and Providence Park.
 This annual report to the City Council is a requirement of the City's contract with OSA. The City's contract with OSA is managed by the Spectators, Venues, and Visitor Activities Program at the Office of Management and Finance.
 Let's welcome Jim Etzel, Oregon Sports Authority CEO, and Doug Oblitz, Oregon Sports Authority Board President, to present the fiscal year 2017-2018 OSA Annual Report. Thank you, gentlemen, for being here today. And ladies, welcome.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Doug Oblitz with the Oregon Sports Authority. I'm thrilled to be here. And before I get into my extensive remarks, I do want to thank the mayor and the city council for its ongoing support of our activities. And I also wanted to call out the work of the city's representative to our board, Susan Hartnett, who I hear is retiring.
 and has really done an outstanding job in representing the city and helping us through our mission.
 So with that, I want to call attention to the fact that just one year ago, Jim Metzl, to my right, was sitting behind us as our new CEO, and he has now been on the job almost a year, and OSA is a different organization as a result. A lot has happened in the last year. Jim has firmly taken the reins of the Oregon Sports Authority,
 We've completed a comprehensive strategic plan for the organization. We've tightened up and enhanced our relationship with both Travel Oregon and Travel Portland. We've worked to engage our board of directors in our mission and also reached out to our over 170 corporate members to get them more engaged. We've embarked on a rebranding effort, which isn't quite done, but we're continuing.
 along with the pro bono help of the Wieden & Kennedy Agency. And as many of you are aware, we continue to pursue the chance to completely rethink Portland's marathon and to make it a world-class event, including the possibility of hosting the men's and women's World Championship marathons as part of Oregon 21, the World Track and Field Championships, which come to Oregon in August of 21.
 And also near and dear to my heart, we continue to grow and make sustainable the Tracktown Youth League, which has provided free track and field meets to over 2,000 kids this year in 15 cities statewide and an incredible championship meet at Hayward Field. And that event and those activities with kids just continues to grow, and we will be in a few more cities in the coming year.
 I am a lame duck, along with some other people that I know, with my...
 Sorry. Oh, the Jordan to me? The Jordan to me? Yes. That was such a subtle look that you missed it, but I got it. You got it. Thank you. I just have a few months left on my two-year term. It's been a great run. I've never been more excited about the direction of the Oregon Sports Authority. I think we're on a great path forward, and we look forward to continuing to build our relationship with the city in the coming years. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to our CEO, Jim Etzel.
 Thanks, Doug. First, I just want to thank, for your time, interest, and support of our organization, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, our city liaisons, Susan Hartnett and Carl Lyle. We really appreciate everything you do to back our mission. You know, Doug touched on it just completing my first year. Super excited about the opportunity and the potential of this organization, the past history. I knew Drew for 22 years. Drew's still very much...
 checking in on us. We had a great transition. I'm a lifelong resident of Portland. I was away for a few years, my professional career, but started an agency here and have been a long time member of the Oregon Sports Authority supporting its mission. Also was a board member 15, 16 years ago for a couple year term. So an organization very near and dear in my heart and I'm super passionate about the direction and future of it. So
 I'll try to be pretty brief and to the point as we move through this.
 It was really a remarkable year. Before I jump into it, I kind of want to recognize our staff who are critical to any successes we have. Seated behind me is Meyer Freeman, our COO, a 19-year employee of the organization. To my right, Alex Rudd, and also behind me, Lauren Elgy and Kate Johnson. All are very passionate about the mission of our organization.
 Jumping into the report, I'll move through it pretty quickly because I know we have a 10-minute timeline here. And as we wind up, if you have any questions or want to go back to anything, please feel free. First off, the events that we held in this 2017-2018 budget cycle and hosted, the highlight had to be PK80. The Phil Knight Invitational celebrating his 80th birthday was the...
 Hands down the greatest college basketball tournament in the history of the sport. Sixteen teams, some of the biggest names in collegiate sports. We drew 118,000 spectators to Moda Center and Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
 It was a great way to showcase some of the improvements and renovations that happened in Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Economic impact of $6 million. The event was televised on ESPN every single game, 32 games, which was remarkable exposure for our community. Excited to report that plans are underway for PK-85.
 And even before then, there will likely be a PK invitational that would be a four-team doubleheader that could be, as soon as two years from now, happening on an annual basis. And every five years would be the big one. So that's very exciting and a testament to the success of the concept. Okay.
 We also hosted last February the U.S. Synchronized Figure Skating Championships in VMC. This, while not a huge spectator event, we averaged probably between 1,500 and 3,000 spectators a session. This was a key event for us with Travel Portland. It brought 5,000 visitors, out-of-town visitors, to Portland in February, a slow time for our hotels and restaurants.
 U.S. Figure Skating said it was the most successful synchronized U.S. skating championship in history. Economic impact was $2.4 million. For the 20th year in a row, we hosted the Little League Softball World Series at Alpenrose. This event, if you follow Little League at all, both baseball and softball,
 It's growing in immense popularity. Williamsport, with the Little League Baseball World Series, is televised. Almost 40 games are televised on the ESPN platform. The great thing about this event for Portland is...
 that we went from seven games televised to 27 games nationally televised this past year on the ESPN platform. And this is one that a lot of other communities around the country go to Williamsport and try to pitch the merits of their communities to try to draw this away from us. But just met with them recently, and they're firmly here for a handful of more years. But we want to do everything to make sure that it stays here and is part of the tradition.
 Event bids for the future that we were involved in this past year, the 2021 and 2022 National Association of Sports Commissions Symposium, which we're a member of. We submitted that bid in conjunction with Travel Portland, Grand Prix of Portland. That was more of a sustained conversation. Thank you.
 working with stakeholders at PIR in the city that Drew Mihalik undertook starting 11 years ago with a few visits back to Indy to keep Portland on the radar as a possible return of the sport to Portland. And as we saw, Commissioner Fritz, a huge success. Yeah, I was a huge success. You were there. You were having the trophy away. I was a huge success at that. Did you win? Actually, there's a stoplight about 10 seconds afterwards. But, yeah.
 It was really fun. And actually, it's interesting that when I'm out in the community, that's one of the things that people come up to me and say, thank you for bringing the IndyCars back. Yeah, I think it was a tremendous first year that exceeded expectations, and I think there's nowhere but up to go. And I know Travel Portland was thrilled with it. Labor Day is really the only slow weekend of the summer, and there was a 7,200-room night lift over that weekend directly attributed to the race. Nice.
 And Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler, I think it's coming for two more years, so you'll each get a turn of doing the green flag. It's really fun. We also bid with Travel Portland for the 2020 National Veterans Wheelchair Games.
 We are in the final throes of formalizing this agreement, so this looks like a win. It's the largest wheelchair disabled sporting event in the world, and we expect 6,000 room nights and 700 veterans coming to Portland, Oregon. There's a lot of fun things that we have in mind to celebrate them and their accomplishments and competition.
 We continue to pursue an NBA All-Star game bid for Portland. The Blazers really are the lead on this, but we step alongside and from behind to support in the ways that they ask us to. We went to Los Angeles this past year as part of the bid effort. We didn't win in this cycle, but the Blazers are very optimistic, and our chances continue to improve, especially with all the hotels in downtown Portland coming online. Thank you.
 Also the 2022 NIRSA, which is the National Intramural and Recreational Sports Association, 3,000 recreation professionals, mostly from universities around the country, coming to Portland in 2022, successfully bid for that.
 And as you're aware, we have submitted our bid for a bold vision around the Portland Marathon. We think this is the opportunity to create the next sports franchise for Portland. Future events.
 This February, we are hosting the 2019 NCAA Women's Regional Finals in Portland. This is the first of two consecutive years. We have three out of the next four years in the bid cycle. We are hosting NCAA basketball competitions.
 we have a year off in 2021, but then in 2022, we have an opening round men's game. We're the city. We're the only city to receive three tournament years in this four year cycle in the country. So that's a testament to what we've done in the past. And it's something for us to build on. We see a real opportunity around attracting someday a women's final four here. We think it's a perfect fit way. Women's athletics are supported in our community.
 And with the success of Oregon State basketball in women's NCAA competitions, we're
 We also see the opportunities for NCAA Final Fours in volleyball, Frozen Four in hockey, and the possibility that we're already working on with University Portland and the Timbers and Thorns to host NCAA Final Fours at Providence Park in men's and women's soccer. So exciting opportunities. Projected economic impact on this is three million. I think it's also worthy to note we put together a local organizing committee that's led by a lot of our business leaders that have
 enthusiastically jumped in, so we think we're going to be able to demonstrate why we're the perfect site for future competitions. 2019 USA Softball Men's National Tournament, Delta Park venue, another city venue, 1,200 to 3,000 visitors, and we helped Portland Metropolitan Softball Association land this bid.
 both with ancillary support and financial support. From a franchise update,
 Obviously, we had nothing to do with it, but we loved it that both our soccer teams made it to the championship match. I think a great testament to them. But around Major League Baseball and the opportunities there, the Portland Diamond Project, we have helped in numerous ways, both from the city side and from Portland Diamond Project, in trying to facilitate conversations, whether it was at the Port of Portland or putting together an independent panel to provide feedback on...
 some of the inner workings of sports franchises. We're working closely with Susan and Carl on driving the conversation to see if it's a possibility with the new Lincoln High School facility, if that could be a little bit bigger in vision. That could include Portland State, but also be a home for OSAA championship events and other events that we could pursue if we had an urban...
 that was 6,000 to 7,000 seats or larger. So it's an interesting conversation, and I have to commend all the parties that are involved. They're very committed to seeing if this can be brought to reality. Community Impact, Tracktown Youth League. We've expanded this, again, this past year from 13 events to 15 events. We had 2,300 participants statewide. This is really a neat one to observe,
 Alex and Lauren and Kate execute this 15 events in 40 days around the state, quite the road show. We introduced one more meet this year to Portland, but we have the events at Roosevelt and David Douglas High School, and it was very purposeful where we located those in our community. Street Soccer USA is another favorite. We helped launch this chapter in Portland, the first chapter outside of New York.
 It provides accessibility to soccer for homeless youth or those in danger of being homelessness. We're also looking at potentially hosting future regional or national championships here because of the success of this. And we've expanded the programs both in East Portland and Southwest Portland community centers.
 Finally, through the Oregon Sports Awards and the Play It Forward Fund, this is a grant program for community impact funded by Nike and Providence through the Sports Authority Foundation.
 We also have a number of what we call MVP club donors, about 12 individuals that step up. So far we've impacted $45,000 of grants, $5,000 grants. All these are geared towards non-profits with budgets less than $700,000 annually that
 get kids physically moving and keep them moving. We also have a program where we recognize high school and college athletes who show sustained commitment to the community to be role models and work with these charities to get these kids active. And we present the top high school and college winners with scholarships. And we expect our impact through this cycle to be close to $70,000. Thank you.
 That is our report, and open to any questions you have. Very good. Colleagues? Well, thank you. I think it's provocative, and I want to make sure that we continue to move forward and exploit any opportunities that are out there. I guess I had sort of one question as you were going through the presentation, other than the obvious question of was that guy playing football with a cast on?
 Yeah. The – and can you actually do that? But the question of women's athletics, and I really appreciate the fact that you have seen that as a niche that we are in a really good position to be able to build upon our leverage, but
 And maybe you could clarify a statistic that I have heard, and I don't know honestly if it's true, but if it is, it's something worth stating here. I have heard that the Portland Thorns is like the most viewed women's sports franchise in the world or some iteration of that. Can you tell me what the statistic is? The Thorns are the model professional sports franchise for women's sports no matter the sport. Yeah.
 basketball, soccer, anything. They lead the world in attendance for a franchise in women's sports. And so they have traveled around the world trying to help other communities lift the profile because they're seen as a model. So why are the Thorns so successful in Portland? And what does that say about the community? And how do you use that to leverage some of these other opportunities that
 around the women's final four in basketball or other sports? Well, if you look at historically, the community has supported women's sports very strongly, going back to high school state championships in basketball, not just the Portland community, but when the championships were held in Salem, standing were only crowds down there and at the Child Center. Then you look at the college soccer at the University of Portland,
 led the country in attendance for 12 straight years, routinely drew on average over 4,000 fans a game to college matches at Merlo Field. That set that Clive Charles started. That set a tone, the success of Oregon State women's basketball and the way they draw fans. I mean, they both draw 7,000 to 9,000 fans a game. I think it's something that's in the DNA of basketball.
 our community here and how they embrace women's sports. You know, it's interesting that
 that young girls drop out of sports at a rate seven times higher than boys do. I would like to dig into those statistics in Oregon because I bet you we're not at the national average. We're doing much better than that. And I would be interested just how all of these dots are connected. Can you connect that to public health outcomes and other disparities that might exist? Sure.
 And I would like us to think broader about this. I understand your mission and what we have charged you to do speaks to travel and tourism and economic multipliers and all of that. But it also speaks to a lot of other broader community and civic issues.
 objectives that we have, not the least of which, by the way, is civic pride. And so I hope we think about how to work with other institutions maybe outside of just the sporting arena and start talking about some of these other outcomes. This is a huge employment opportunity, all these different sporting opportunities and sports franchise opportunities.
 Chai is, you know, we're looking for pathways to education and job training and employment, particularly but not exclusively for young people in our community. And every one of these things look really exciting and interesting to me. So I just hope we can think broader about how to do that. Absolutely. I have just a quick comment on that. You know, we think –
 We aren't leveraging what we have here enough. The successes in women's sports from a spectator standpoint, participation standpoint, but also...
 We're the global epicenter of the sportswear and sports footwear world. What Portland designs, 80% of what the world wears was designed and originated in Portland, Oregon. And we need to put a stake in the ground and how we leverage that for job growth. I mean, there's 800 companies in the universe around Nike, Adidas, and Keen, and Nike.
 and on and on and on. And that is an asset, this community, that we can look to leverage. We're exploring it in conversations about creating global conferences because everybody around the world wants to come and listen to the conversations
 the brain trust that's in our community. And it's something we own and we shouldn't let go of. And we're looking for creative ways to leverage that because it does lead to job growth and community benefit in so many ways. And I think sports, as we all know, um, unifies our community. It's one thing where we put our differences down and look at our passionate fan bases around the Blazers and Timbers and the Thorns.
 and it's a cross-section of our community all coming together for one good. So everywhere we can leverage that, we're going to try to make this a better place. That's awesome.
 One quick anecdote. In our Tracktown Youth League Championship meet at Hayward Field last year, we had over 400 kids from around the state participate, and I got to hand out the awards. And I looked over, and there was a young lady who had come earlier in the day to watch the last day of the NCAA Women's Championship, which they were given free tickets to.
 see the meet before we held our meet. And I looked over and she was getting ready to go up on the award stand to get her award and she was practicing making the O. And she had seen the University of Oregon women doing that on the championship stand at the NCAAs and she was practicing. And I didn't actually notice but Alex told me after the fact that she did indeed do that up on the stand. So if we inspired one young lady, you know we can inspire a lot through the programs we're doing. That's awesome.
 I was curious, are we too small to host a Final Four in men or women's basketball? We're not too small. We can definitely host the women's Final Four because it's held in arenas the size of the Moda Center. But the men's Final Four is an unattainable goal at this time unless they have a philosophical change right now because –
 They go to communities that have large dome multipurpose stadiums because they try to put 60,000 to 70,000 people in the building, which only about 10,000 of them are good seats. But everybody likes to go. But everything else is attainable. College wrestling, do they have – is that something we've ever pursued? Is there an NCAA tournament? Yes, there is an NCAA championship. We haven't targeted that yet, but that's something that we could definitely work with Oregon State and possibly Portland State as a host. Okay.
 deal, we can explore that. We want to do the, we're looking at the ones that can bring the most economic impact to start with, and then we can kind of build from there. What's interesting, for instance, around the volleyball championships for women's volleyball in the NCAA, it's not just the Final Four, but there's over 2,000
 youth players that come from all around the country in to participate in tournaments around the community at that time. So that fills up a lot of rooms. And also the National Coaches Convention would happen. So that would bring in excess of 1,800 attendees that would fill up the convention center also. So there's interesting ancillary deals. Same thing with men's and women's soccer. The coaches conventions happen at that time. And with women's soccer, there's an elite youth girls tournament that would come along with the women's Final Four.
 Thank you. Do we know what the leverage is if there's an event in Eugene around track and field? Do we know what the residual benefit to the greater Portland community is? Does somebody measure that kind of economic impact? Yeah, I don't know if we have precise numbers, but what we know is that most of the visitors for the Oregon 21, the World Track and Field Championships, their gateway will be a PDX. And so we're –
 quietly working right now to make sure that Portland is at the forefront of that event, and that when people come through Portland, there's going to be something really great for them to either participate in or go see. And those plans will emerge over the next year or so. But we're working closely with Oregon 21, and in addition to the marathon event, which we're actively pursuing, we're trying to bring additional events, including a
 potential convention that they hold as part of the IAAF championships, which could occur at the Oregon Convention Center. So we will be fine-tuning those numbers and understanding more about the total number of visitors that will occur, and we can report back on that. Very good. But at any rate, we should be cheering for any sports opportunity in Oregon that brings people in, right? Yes, absolutely. We should be doing what we can to help leverage those opportunities. Yes, and because of the other –
 tourism that exists around our state, the coast, the gorge, the mountains, central Oregon, what we see and what Travel Oregon and Travel Portland see is people that come for events here often put shoulders on it and they go because they always want to come to Portland or Oregon and this was their opportunity or excuse. And now that allows them to go to the coast and see something they've always wanted to do or the gorge or the mountains. So those are things that we're trying to spread the benefit of that visit.
 beyond just being at the site. So do we have that level of coordination now around the state on these types of events? Are we all communicating? Are we sharing ideas and information? We meet with Travel Portland every month. We probably talk to them multiple times every week. Same thing with Travel Oregon, not quite as frequently, but we're in contact with them every month. And we're starting to look at ways that we can work and align together to make
 you know, really achieve mutual goals, but take them another notch or two up the ladder than we currently are at. Fine. Yeah. Very good. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll.
 Thank you very much for your work the Great Parks Commissioner Charles Jordan said that parks are more than just fun and games similarly sports is more than just fun and games there's 7200 hotel nights over Labor Day weekend for the IndyCar and when I asked, when I was giving my little speech on stage I asked people to raise their hand if they were from out of town and pretty much everybody was from out of town although there was still, as I say, a lot of people stopping me in the grocery store saying do it again, do it again so it's
 And it is fun in games. You know, at the end of the day, you watch a game and you forget some of the rest of your troubles, at least for the duration of the game. And I appreciate that. Hi. Saltzman. Well, I wanted to just, you know, thank the Oregon Sports Authority. I think you do a great, fantastic job in being sort of the point of contact and point of going after events. And they do serve.
 our economy and our civic pride. Well, when we, when we have these events here, I'm very excited to hear there may be future PK tournaments. That last one was incredible. And so I just, I hope there's more things like that. And thanks Doug. Let's for your long-term enthusiasm around sports and athletic athletics. So please vote. I Wheeler.
 I want to share my thanks. And, Doug, I also want to appreciate your leadership and your guidance and some of the tremendous vision that you have.
 imparted on us and the rest of the community over the years. I know you're not going anywhere, so you'll still be here and you'll still be actively engaged. But I want to thank you for the formal role that you've played. And I want to thank your entire team in the OSA for the great work that you do. I vote aye to the report's accepted. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Happy holidays. Thank you. Yeah, you too. All right. Last item of the day. Item 1346.
 Proclaim December 19th to be the day Portland honors the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. The Portland Human Rights Commission works to eliminate discrimination and bigotry, to strengthen intergroup relationships, and to foster greater understanding, inclusion, and justice for everyone who lives, works, studies, worships, travels, and plays in the city of Portland.
 The Human Rights Commission has recently set goals to increase its engagement with the community and with City Council. As the Commissioner in Charge of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I'm delighted to be working more closely with the Human Rights Commission again. My staff are working with the Commission and community partners on amending city code around religious belief and non-belief. That work will be coming to Council next year, and I greatly appreciate your leadership in that request, which came from a community member.
 Tatiana Elehade from the Office of Equality and Human Rights and members of the Human Rights Commission will introduce our proclamation on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the principles that guide this commission's work.
 Great. Thank you so much. For the record, my name is Tatiana Elejalde with the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I want to take a moment and recognize the human rights commissioners that are here with us today for this special day. So can you stand if you are able and those that are here? Yes. Sonia Marie Lycum. And then when we each speak, they can say their own names. Hi there. Thank you, Tatiana. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Koivu, and I'm here as a human rights commissioner. We are here as human rights commissioners for the city and the community of Portland. First of all, we'd like to thank Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Saltzman for inviting us here today on the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights.
 As you probably already know, many of us wear multiple hats in our community and have different touch points in our communities. But as human rights commissioners, we play one of our most vital roles as advocates for human rights, policy advisors for the city, and liaison for our most vulnerable community members. Thank you.
 Part of that means centering and uplifting the voices of our most impacted community members, such as during a public comment, a process that the Commission highly values. As you mentioned earlier, Commissioner Fritz, one of our most recent successful collaborations is the application of an equity and human rights lens.
 as the City of Portland's recent work on the Non-Religious Belief Ordinance Amendment, which enhances the protection of those who do not have religious affiliations and beliefs, as well as to those who do. We thank you for listening to our concerns and the recommendations of the commissioners and taking those recommendations to heart and making movement in making Portland a more inclusive place.
 and that there's still more work to be done. We can do better. We can listen more. We can open our hearts and our government to changes and practices and policies that will make our community a safer and better place to live and to visit. The Human Rights Commission believes that having a home and a house and a chance to live where they choose and how to live is a human right. We believe the right to assemble peacefully is a human right.
 We believe the access to safety and justice, regardless of the color of our skin and our immigration status, is a human right. And we know that we can do this together. We look forward to your continued leadership and our partnership in enhancing the work of the Human Rights Commission. Thank you.
 I also want to take a moment to thank the mayor and city council for your increased engagement with the Human Rights Commission. The HRC plays an important role in applying a human rights lens to policy and advising on promoting and protecting the human rights here in the city of Portland. They bring the human rights concerns of community to your attention and look forward to doing so on a more regular basis.
 And now I'm going to pass it off to our commissioner who will read the proclamation today.
 Hi, thank you for being with us today on this occasion. My name is Chris Wallace-Caldwell, and I'll read the proclamation and just want to point out that while there's some historical gravitas and weight to this, there's also current context. And as we go through, there's articles referenced from the city of Portland that we make that link to for the declaration. Thank you.
 Whereas we who live, work, study, worship, travel, and recreate in the City of Portland recognize that a culturally vibrant community is built on equity and inclusion,
 And whereas on December 10, 1948, the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a document that continues to be a call to action for the city of Portland to meet its obligation to promote, protect, and model a praxis of governing that employs human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you.
 And whereas we acknowledge with humility that the present city of Portland exists on the lands of the Multnomah, Wasco, Cowlitz, Cathlamet, Clackamas, Benz of Chinook, Tualatin, Kalapuya, Molaya, and many other tribes and the indigenous peoples who made their homes along the Columbia and Willamette rivers.
 And whereas we acknowledge with gratitude the past and present internally displaced people, enslaved people, immigrants and refugees to our community, who by their courage, creativity and resourcefulness have built up and enriched the physical, cultural and spiritual environment of our common home.
 And whereas the City of Portland acknowledges the illegitimacy of white supremacist movements and historical racial discrimination that has plagued our collective experience, and whereas the City of Portland is committed to protecting and improving the lives of all our community members and strives to eliminate all forms of discrimination, because such discrimination poses a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of our community, we humbly acknowledge that we have much to do.
 And whereas the City of Portland acknowledges the structurally and systemically oppressive institutions that impact people, we aim to alleviate this harm through policies and practices that affirm the need for collective liberation of all people who thrive in our city.
 And whereas, in accordance with Article 1, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the City of Portland recognizes the right of all people to self-determination and political and economic agency, we aim to model our policies and practices to affirm this belief.
 And whereas, in accordance with Article 2, the City of Portland affirms its sanctuary city commitment that protects undocumented people from federal enforcement of harsh detainment and deportation policies, regardless of legal strategies used to attain citizenship.
 We continue to acknowledge the need to prohibit the denial of social and economic benefits and discrimination against people based on race, religion, color, national origin, English proficiency, gender, age, and disabilities.
 And whereas in accordance with Article 3, the City of Portland recognizes the lives lost and the families who have been directly impacted by the use of force against unarmed civilians from law enforcement as a direct threat to the collective experience of human rights for all being acknowledged in practice.
 And whereas, in accordance with Articles 13 and 19, the City of Portland recognizes the rights of all people to freedom of movement and expression and to not be unnecessarily surveilled. And whereas, in accordance with Article 16, the City of Portland recognizes the need to affirm gender diversity and the importance of inclusive acts that do not privilege cisgender people over people who may be gender nonconforming or transgender.
 And whereas, in accordance with Articles 1, 5, and 25, we do not accept public or private acts of disregard and contempt that present as cruel, inhumane, and degrading treatment, and that outrage the conscience of humankind in the City of Portland for our communities of color—
 Members of our community who are houseless, indigenous, internally displaced, immigrant, refugee, asylum-seeking, transgender and LGBTQ individuals, people living with different mental and physical abilities, those who are poor and experiencing poverty, women, youth, and aging, and families impacted by incarceration and the re-entry community in the city of Portland.
 And whereas, in accordance with Articles 20 and 21, the City of Portland affirms people's constitutional rights to peaceably assemble and to protest against human rights violations and violators. And whereas, in accordance with Article 17, we affirm every community member's right to own property and to be housed. Thank you.
 There's more. Yes. There's more. Yes. Whereas the city of Portland reaffirmed its commitment to human rights in March 2008 by establishing a Human Rights Commission whose work is guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
 Whereas in accordance with Article 6, the ideals of equality, justice, safety, inclusion, and respect set forth in the Declaration remain unfulfilled promises for many members of our community, including practicing our own constitutional promise of equal protection under the law.
 And whereas in accordance with Article 29, to be truly universal, the rights set forth in the Declaration must be respected, protected, and fulfilled by and for every person in the City of Portland without exception.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, do hereby proclaim December 19, 2018, to be the day that Portland honors the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We call upon everyone who lives, works, studies, worships, travels, and recreates in Portland to step forward and defend the human rights of everyone in our community –
 and especially our most vulnerable community members, lest we sacrifice our collective humanity. Together we can and must make the ideals of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights a reality in our city. Thank you very much for bringing this forward. Thank you. Could we get a photograph up front with you? Thank you so much. Thank you. It would be great if you want to.
 Are you our staff or photographer today? I'm a photographer today. That'll work. Can we all go get a photo? Yes. Go get up here. Take a picture of Kofi and taking a photo. Okay. We'll take a few. One, two, three. Okay. One. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks again. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for your service and thank you for helping. Well done, Hope. Nicely done. Thank you, Commissioner. Very nicely done. Thank you. So I have an important announcement. Thank you.
 Tomorrow, we will be meeting at Thursday. Tomorrow. Thursday. That's funny. 2 p.m., it will be Commissioner Dan Saltzman's last meeting with the Portland City Council. So we hope people will show up for that. And Carla, I believe we've completed our business for today. We are.
 Just one second. I unfortunately cannot, well, not unfortunately because I'm going on vacation, but I will not be here tomorrow. So, Commissioner, I just want to say on the record, it's been a real honor and a pleasure to work with you, and thank you again for all of your service to the city. Thank you, Commissioner. I believe you're going to be doing the gaveling of us out for your last Wednesday afternoon. Last Wednesday afternoon session. Okay, we return until tomorrow at 2 p.m. All right.
 Well, you could just be the ceremonial gaveler. Part-time job. You can wear a wig. I'll get a gavel at home and I'll listen to it and I'll watch it and I'll do it. So you're taking off tomorrow? Tomorrow? I'm leaving tonight, yeah. Oh, you're leaving tonight? Yeah. Well, have a good time. Thank you. It's been a pleasure. Thank you.