This is the December 11th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Are you Daly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Hardesty? Wheeler? Here. And colleagues, as you're aware, Commissioner Fish is...
 Home and he is more than a colleague He is a good friend and I wish him rest and healing during this time and I want him to know because he's probably Watching and keeping up with everything we're doing That I am thinking of him and his family and his professional staff here at Portland City Hall So Nick, we're we're all thinking of you and we wish you were here. We'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. I
 Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on.
 When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. First up is communications. Carla, call the first four people together. Thank you.
 Item 1129, request of Kate Cook to address council regarding safety issues on Northeast Clackamas Street. 1130, request of Ann Taylor to address council regarding safety issues on Northeast Clackamas Street. 1131, request of Adrian Hung to address council regarding safety issues on Northeast Clackamas Street. And 1132, request of Ross Montana to address council regarding safety issues on Northeast Clackamas Street.
 Thank you and good morning. Good morning. I was told that I need to ask you if it's all right for someone else to take my time up as speaker. On the same subject? Yes. This is somebody you know? Okay. I ordinarily do not allow it. I will allow it in this circumstance today. Thank you very much. You bet. Thank you for being here. Please have a seat. Or if you want to pull up an extra chair, you're welcome to do that. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Kate Cook. Good morning.
 I don't know if I can pass them out. Yeah, if you hand them to Carla, she'll get them to us. I'm still here. Pause them for one moment. Thank you for your patience with the performance art that happens every time at the City Council. Appreciate your patience. I just wanted to find out if that buzzing that we were hearing continued after Mr. Walsh went down the hall. And the answer is no, it did not. Yeah. I just wanted to find that out. Thank you. AD.
 So good morning again. Morning. My name is Kate Martinson Cook. I am a homeowner homeowner on Northeast Clackamas Street and 80th Avenue I am here today to talk about the livability and safety issues We have in connection with join and the lack of sidewalks and streetlights on our street I have passed out a map showing the location we are talking about and the pictures highlighting issues with homeless campsites these pictures were taken over two and a half years span and sometimes these sites took over a month to clear and
 We have two-hour parking signs that are not enforced regularly. The problem has been chronic on this street.
 There are no sidewalks or street lights, and JOIN does not secure parking lot after hours. This is a perfect environment for drug use, sales, campsites. We also have prostitution, gun violence, assault, harassment, robbery, trespassing, biohazards, property damage, excessive trash, and fires, including car fires, and impaired drivers. Northeast Clackamas is also a main
 is also a main thoroughfare to get to Mac's and bus stops. Shut up. We have pedestrians of all ages including some handicapped persons and children traveling up and down the street throughout the day and night. They have to walk or wheelchair in the middle of the street to avoid campsites and illegally parked vehicles. This area is out of control and it is dangerous.
 We are asking for sidewalks to be put in on Northeast Clackamas Street on both sides in between 80th and 81st. We have requested sidewalks and streetlights to be put in for about two years now. They will deter homeless camping, and with the influx of crime and drugs on our street, we also are asking for streetlights to be put in so this area is not so ideal for drug use and sales.
 We recommend that JOIN secure their parking lot after hours for the safety of our neighbors. This will make it difficult for illegal activity to occur in the parking lot at night. We have contacted JOIN and attempted to have a community discussion with the immediate neighbors. Our attempts have gone unanswered.
 We feel our proposed solutions, sidewalks along Northeast Clackamas Street in between 80th and 81st, street lighting on the same block, consistent enforcement of signage, and a recommendation that joins secure lot after hours would see a huge reduction in crime and drugs on our street. It would also be less dangerous for pedestrians commuting on MAX and TriMet. We need the city to act now. Our street and neighborhood are crawling with drugs and illegal activity, and it is dangerous. We need solutions implemented now.
 Thank you. Thank you. And thank you for the photos. That's helpful. I'll go. Hi, my name is Ann Taylor and I also live in the neighborhood of Northeast Halsey, Northeast Clackamas and Northeast 81st. And I'm here today to talk about the unsafe conditions in the neighborhood and we asked the city council to use the resources to help improve the area. It's a high crime rate area and it's steadily been increasing for the last six years. There has been a huge increase in drug use, drug selling, prostitution.
 And this activity has brought in guns and many assaults. And these activities have increased due to the services JOIN provides. We have tried to work with JOIN to help us with the safety in our neighborhood, to not allow their property to be used as a drug distribution center or a camp filled with tents, campers, rundown and abandoned vehicles, but they are not receptive to our attempts to have meetings to fix this incredibly unsafe problem. So we're asking help from you.
 We would like sidewalks installed, which Katie had mentioned. We are requesting them because people are forced to walk in the street causing very unsafe conditions. And it is also not compliant with the ADA requirements for safe passage for disabled people. The street is a main thoroughfare for people walking to the MAAC station and catching buses and for kids walking to school. We'd also like more street lights to be put in this area.
 Our hope is the sidewalks will prevent huge camps from setting in around join. They have been an incredible problem for our neighborhood, increasing trash, biohazards, stolen cars, and the crime is outrageous. We call the police constantly to help with us, and the amount of tax dollars used to clear out these camps is incredibly wasteful.
 JOIN is a chronic nuisance property breaking every single one of the laws in the city's chronic nuisance property code 14B.60.010. And the city is not enforcing these codes. We're also, the city enforces the parking signs that are there. And I will tell you the reason why we want the city to enforce this nuisance code that JOIN is being illegal. We have people been hit in the face.
 Accosted for money my husband has been spit on we have had man wielding a machete There's open drug use people have been yelled at there have been dangerous dogs There's yelling at all hours of the night and early morning lots of prostitution drug use there have been shootings This is a main center for drug distribution, especially on the weekends at any time during the day so we're asking the City Council to enforce the city codes that they have set up and
 to make our neighborhood safe. And I cannot emphasize how unsafe I feel in my own home because this property is not being held to the standards of a safe property. And this is why we're asking for constant and consistent enforcement of the rules and regulations. Thank you. I also have pictures for you. If you just give them to Carla, then she'll make sure we get them all. Thank you. Did you want to go next? Sure. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Jennifer Day, and I rent a house about five blocks away from the Joint Center, and I represent myself in the interest of the homeowner. There's been an uptick in property damage, theft, and waste over the past couple years, and the cause is...
 drug use and drug epidemic in general. And we know that's a problem the country faces, and Portland in particular with the number of houseless, which we have an immense amount of compassion for. We're not against the mission of joining as a non-profit. It's more their conduct and governance. So the fact that they...
 allow users and dealers to operate out of the joint center parking lot is the reason why we're here. I commute via max quite frequently and harassment and disgusting state of the common thoroughfare of Clackamas Street are really unacceptable. A couple times I've had a joint camper grab me and like demand money or my backpack. I'm
 I'm pretty big. I can take that. I also don't tolerate a lot of BS from people. Not everyone's going to respond that same way or feels like they're empowered to do so. We're here because we've had to deal with the damage and disruption caused by the heightened presence of junkies who roam our neighborhood because the joint center has historically not secured their property at night. My neighbors here have attempted repeatedly to engage, join and developing solutions because they are a part of our community and they have been largely non-participatory.
 Now, the last couple of weeks have been a significant improvement. There has been a huge increase in police patrolling in the area and the parking lot and surrounding area has been mostly clear. And the amount of people that are wandering the streets even past my house, which again is five blocks away, has decreased dramatically. That's due to enforcement.
 speculation around why, maybe because we're here at the City Council meeting today, but that's not a long-term sustainable solution with that frequency and sense of police presence. So we'd like to maintain the peace and accessibility over time and what that looks like is a four-tiered solution around installing the sidewalks on Clackamas Street, installing street lamps,
 doing rotational enforcement that's not as heavy because you have the support of the other two features and then a clear recommendation to the Joint Center to put in some kind of prohibitory security fencing around their property to prevent activity on their parking lot at night so sidewalks would reduce the number of rundown vehicles that currently congregate around a
 the join center and most importantly it would provide needed accessibility for our neighbors who struggle to navigate the massive potholes on their way to the max line street lights would avert the shady and alarming activity that occurs enforcement of laws would be a huge deterrent for dealing and if the parking lot isn't available as a safe space for dealers they'll leave these dealers and users are attracted to the area because join is careless in their governance of the property and the situation persists due to the inaction by the city to enforce the law with consistency
 Illegal activity doesn't become legal with the 501 status. It's very frustrating.
 Can I continue for like 10 more seconds? Yes. Hoo-yah. We vehemently encourage joins, director, and board members to consider putting up the security fence. There are ways to do this cost effectively and with the support of the neighborhood that don't require Portland PD's constant presence. We've been activated, and we come here seeking your support, and we ask again that the city take action by installing sidewalks and streetlights and enforcing the law. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Adrian and I live on northeast 80th right next to join. So I'm here in support of Sorry, I didn't quite catch that. Could you please repeat it? Sorry. Should I repeat myself?
 I'm here in support of my neighborhood and of my family. I am the mother of two and I want to just speak quickly on my experiences. We purchased our home in May and just in this short period of time from then and now I've experienced everything that has been stated here.
 something that bothers me is that there are babies and children and elderly and disabled persons who live in this neighborhood. By coming here you would assume it's like any other neighborhood. It looks safe on the outside surface but then the moment you come to our pocket you realize that it's not that at all. We believe that sidewalks, streetlights, consistent enforcement of standing law and a fence be built around join would
 dramatically improve our circumstances at the time. Just in the time that we've lived there, we've had our house burglarized, our shed and our chicken coop vandalized, our cars have been broken into, decorations, packages stolen, and plants dug up. We've had feces on our yard, our neighbor's yard. We've watched as neighbors' homes been broken into during daylight while my children are playing in the front yard.
 We've watched packages be stolen in broad daylight, 3 p.m., while my children are playing in the front yard. Including this, the trash overflow, the constant yelling and screaming, we need something to change. This shouldn't be the case at all. We understand what JOIN is here for, and we support that cause. But if it affects the safety of all of the residents that live in this area, something needs to change.
 Thank you. So obviously the number one issue facing this city is the homeless crisis. And it's not just Portland. Every city up and down the West Coast, big, small, run by D's, run by R's. It is an epidemic crisis. And I want to assure you that.
 There are lots of people working very hard on all aspects of this. You mentioned the, sir, I'm going to have to ask you to be quiet please. Thank you. We're focusing relentlessly on it. You are not the only street or the only neighborhood that is impacted in this way. Sir, I'm going to really have to ask, I don't want to have to kick you out, but I will. I will if you cannot be quiet.
 we will have to view and support those as you own those. Okay, so, and this actually perfectly illustrates the point. When you're talking about public safety or policing, then people accuse you of being non-compassionate. In fact, we're spending a lot of money on prevention, on shelter, on the transition out of shelter, on mental health services, addiction services, and we've made a huge commitment around permanent supportive housing.
 And the real way for us to solve this problem is to get those individuals on the street connected to whatever resources, excuse me, and help they need to get off and stay off the streets. Housing, for some it's mental health. I'm glad you think this is funny, sir, but it's actually not. This is a very serious issue. And since you are running for mayor, I hope you do take it more seriously. People's safety is not something to laugh at or laugh about.
 People deserve to feel safe in this community. And the people who are living on the street deserve our compassion and that connection to services. And we're working hard to make sure that that happens. You suggested a couple of very concrete ideas.
 No pun intended. My piece of this, I will raise these issues with JOIN directly and through the JOIN Office of Homeless Services, and we'll have that conversation. But I appreciate your being here today and expressing your concerns directly. Thank you.
 Commissioner you daily I also want to thank you for coming today I had my bureau check into your neighborhood when I saw four people coming from the same area I want to acknowledge that we've received received nine formal requests by residents to address transportation safety Concerns in your immediate neighborhood what we've done so far is installed the stop sign at Northeast 80th and the two-hour parking signs in Northeast Clackamas
 I'll have staff follow up with you about your other requests, lighting, sidewalks, and enforcement of the parking zones.
 I just want to let you know that unfortunately the city of Portland leaves the construction and maintenance of sidewalks up to adjacent property owners. So that's not something that I can promise you today. The city generally doesn't build sidewalks in neighborhoods. I was trying to look at your neighborhood on Google Street View. It's not my role.
 the way we've done it. I personally think it's a terrible way to manage such an important asset, but we don't have the billions of dollars it would take to build sidewalks for everyone that doesn't have them. I was trying to look at your neighborhood on Google Street View to understand why the request is so specific. Is there sidewalks everywhere else and that one block would connect
 predominantly yes. The main reason is because it is such a thoroughfare. It is a main thoroughfare for we've got Madison High School just up the way. We've got the Macs right there. We've got TriMet bus stops right there. So it is legitimately a thoroughfare. We have Join right there and I think that we are unique in that way that we have a Join, you know, a homeless services place
 right next to our actual homes. Yeah. It's not just like any other street on the city block. It's different. Yeah.
 Well, and we do sometimes fill in those gaps, especially if it's on like a major transit route or maybe a safe routes to school. I cannot promise anything other than staff will follow up with you and we'll see what's possible but I really- I think for the amount of safety issues that we have, it should be looked at quickly.
 Please. Right. And it sounds like the police precinct has been engaged. Is that correct? 100%. Okay. I'm glad. I'm very glad to hear that. And we'll work with JOIN and we'll see what the situation is there as well. And in terms of the bigger picture, we just need to keep plugging away. I do want to say that Will Harris, the director of JOIN, has been more receptive as of late. Good. So that's been a little bit more helpful. Good.
 Good. I know him to be an honorable person, so it would surprise me that he wouldn't. Good. Commissioner Fritz. Just want to add, first of all, thank you all for taking the time to come in. I appreciate you especially being here as a renter speaking on behalf of the property owner and thank you to the person who ceded his time. Seated right in front of the clock with the glasses is a man called Andrew Abbey who does local improvement districts. You might want to pick up his card, all of you, on your way out.
 You've spoken with him already. Because if Commissioner Fish was able to be here, he would note that occasionally if environmental services or, in my case, the Water Bureau is doing a project in an area, we can sometimes partner to make it less expensive for adjacent property owners to be able to participate in an LID. And we have done that along 82nd in various different neighborhoods. So although it sounds daunting to be looking at
 the small number of property owners making that huge investment, there may be some help. I don't know, as Commissioner Udaly said, I don't know whether there is or not, but I'm glad to see you both acknowledging with compassion the needs of the folks there and also very reasonably asking that the crime be addressed. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your being here.
 Next individual, Carla, on a slightly different subject, I believe. Item 1133, request of Cheryl Graves to address counsel regarding, yes, My Life Matters, the homeless cure. Good morning. Thank you for being here. How are you? Well, thank you. I'm Cheryl Graves. I'm a resident in Portland. Thank you.
 Today I would like to present a summary of my previous four visits to this council. On August 28th, I covered homeless issues and the need for 400 acres to create a rehabilitation community, village, and farmland. The message was how we plan to graduate 500 job-ready individuals every year through mentoring interaction along with job and personal community skills.
 To begin, we could use a portion of the city-owned golf courses or set aside 10 acres of the proposed East County Water Treatment Plant and allow YES to build a 50-acre apartment to house 100 rehabilitated, job-ready employees to build and maintain this treatment plant.
 and all of the above are people that we are gathering off the street and offering them a better place to live with advancement opportunities like education, clean food and water. On September 11th, besides all the crying that went on in here on September 11th, I covered homeless and foster children. First and foremost, we must keep the children safe.
 The plan is to graduate 100 children through the eighth grade and another 100 through high school every year with reliable and job-ready knowledge. These are people on the streets that are not receiving that today. On October 2nd, I covered mental health and suicide and the demanding need for better care and equipped to help bring meaning and peace to their day.
 November 13th, undereducated students that go on to be more prone to homelessness, low-paying jobs, and addiction. The YES Campus will follow these kids through a successful graduation with job-ready skills. The reason for the YES Plan is to add a much-needed feature that no other plan before has offered –
 Safe, caring, education, on-the-job training, self-esteem building, purpose, and successful interaction. With these skills, their chance of becoming homeless is less than 20%. The present situation, we will see more than 80% back on the street. So if we can remove 60% more people off the street than our present situation and pay less, why aren't we doing it?
 With these skills, their chance of becoming productive people are greater than ever. I would like you to think of this plan as a management tool. Yes, My Life Matters, the Homeless Cure is a middleman between all agencies that deal with systems that are presently not sufficiently communicating. First, the evaluation center, a chosen panel of experts, will conduct an intensive evaluation of each individual and choose their destination.
 This eval center will take over the present shelter locations and be used for temporary housing until the evaluations are complete. Secondly, once evaluations are complete, everyone will be placed into one of the following. A hospital for medical care.
 Two sentences? Thank you. A caring facility for mental health sufferers, a rehabilitation center for addiction, the village youth and foster center, or the village revitalization community for a home, counseling, on-the-job training, education, group engagement, and family. This plan will move over 7,000 people off the streets and into a village in less than five years with your help.
 Thank you appreciate it. Thank you for coming in again. It's good to hear from you Carla I am going to remove one item from the consent agenda I'm going to pull item 1137 and I'm going to remove and move the remainder of the consent agenda to the Thursday afternoon session next item 1134 I
 1134 create a local improvement district to construct street sidewalk stormwater utility undergrounding and water main improvements in the Northeast Couch Davis Street local improvement district in support of high density transit oriented development in the Gateway Regional Center Commissioning daily Thank You mayor I
 This LID will build on our partnership with TriMet with transit-oriented development by building a new neighborhood with a great walk score and encouraging biking and walking instead of driving, contributing to the city's climate change objectives while supporting our regional transit partner.
 The item before us today will create the Local Improvement District as a prerequisite to beginning survey and design of the project. Here to walk us through the project is Andrew Abbey, who will be followed by a panel of invited testimony. Welcome. Welcome back, Andrew. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator, Thank you, Commissioner Udalli. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. It's a pleasure to be here this morning. I think Carla has the presentation up. I am happy to report that we received...
 no remonstrances against LID formation. So I'll walk you through this brief PowerPoint presentation. So the map in front of you here shows the previously approved LID for Northeast 97th Avenue in blue. Those red street segments are areas that we'll be back to council with the street vacation on.
 And then this particular LID here, which is, if you approve it next week, will be the second currently formed LID in Gateway are those orange street segments. So you see one block of Cooch Street there on the south and then two blocks of Northeast Davis Street to the north. We will be designing these LIDs together for efficiency and economies of scale.
 So just to give you a recap, the second LID will bring the total investment in East Portland to nearly $15 million worth of infrastructure to a historically underserved neighborhood. We have finished doing survey for both of these LIDs and we are starting preliminary engineering currently. We will be back to council with a property rights ordinance to acquire the right of way for Northeast Couch and Davis streets.
 You'll be hearing from our panel here in a few minutes, but we've been working hard to try to incorporate inclusive contracting into this project and you'll also be hearing about an anti-displacement policy as well.
 The last bullet point here was very interesting to me, but I found out last month that we did some transportation modeling and we found out that this particular area had a 82.2% auto mode split in the area, so if we're gonna get serious about reducing carbon emissions,
 and giving people more choices to get around, we absolutely have to get that 82% mode split for cars down. And we will be incorporating a lot of bike and transit and pedestrian friendly designs into the project. Just to refresh your memory, this is a slide I showed you back in March when we brought the first LID together. You can see how decrepit the infrastructure is here today.
 This area is zoned to be the highest density area of the city outside of downtown, and we can only do that if we build the infrastructure that will be built by the LID.
 And this is what we hope to build in this area with the partners, some of whom are here today to testify. I did want to clarify that this LID authorizes the construction of water mains and utility undergrounding that is not incorporated into the LID budget, but there is a directive in there that allows the LID administrator to negotiate that.
 with the approval of the city attorney and incorporate that work into the LID without having to return to council for another hearing. If you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them before we turn it over to invited testimony. Thank you. So just to clarify on that last point, you would be authorized to negotiate with the property owners to pay for the water and sewer? The authorization, Commissioner, would be to execute what we call an extra work agreement, where a property owner agrees to pay an additional amount above their...
 assessment for the street sidewalk and stormwater improvement to fund the water main and utility undergrounding infrastructure. And we actually did that, by the way, on the first LID that we built in Gateway on 97th Avenue to the north. I just want to clarify that the utilities will not be asked to pay for that? Correct. They have their tariff agreements and they're generally not allowed to help subsidize that. But they have, however, been extremely collaborative with us in working through the design and getting all those technical details figured out.
 So if you don't have any other questions for me, I think we have four panelists for invited testimony. Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. I'd like to call up our invited speakers to the table. Larry Jackson Sr., Dr. Stephen Holtz, Jennifer Steadman, and Gordon Jones. Good morning. Thank you, everyone, for being here. Welcome, everyone, and please state your name for the record before you begin your testimony. Thanks, Andrea. I'm going to do that. I wasn't letting him sit down.
 I WANTED TO SAY GOOD MORNING. THANK YOU FOR GIVING US THE OPPORTUNITY TO TESTIFY. TO YOU, COMMISSIONER DAILY, TO YOU, COMMISSIONER FRITZ AND HONORABLE MAYOR, ALSO I WOULD LIKE TO SEND MY SINCERE WELL WISHES TO COMMISSIONER FISH. I'VE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO WORK WITH HIM IN PREVIOUS HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS, I.E., THE COLUMBIA, THE NEW COLUMBIA. AND SO I KNOW HE'S ALWAYS CONCERNED ABOUT HOUSING AND ADDITIONAL HOUSING AND HOW WE TAKE CARE OF HOUSING.
 an opportunity we have in Gateway to do something really big and to get it right. And when I say get it right, I mean the inclusiveness, I mean the actual density that needs to be in that particular area to kind of deal with what we need in affordable housing. And it just reminds me of when you try to be excited about something that's really hard to be excited about. LIDs just don't seem to be exciting material for council. They're exciting. You don't think so? I think so.
 But for us, we know how much work goes behind the scenes to really make an LID work and what it really means to the infrastructure of putting together a housing development.
 It reminds me, I don't know if you remember 30 years ago, we had a mandate to find a byline for the city of Portland. And they had a contest. And that contest was about what could we put as a byline for the city. I entered that. I didn't happen to win. But I remember Michelle Harper did win that. And it was a city that works.
 And as you see all the city cars nowadays that have that slogan on the car, that's where the history of that comes from. And it reminds me 30 years ago. So it may be something that happens behind the scenes, but it's something that really makes a difference still 30 years later. And that's kind of the thought I have when I think about getting it right with this LID, getting it right with Gateway,
 And I'm with the Nehemiah Group and we're JV with the JMW properties in doing this. And I'm excited to be here and to ask for your eye for this. And could you state your name for the record, sir? I'm sorry? Could you state your name for the record? Oh, you do. Commissioner, you know my name. Larry J. Jackson, Sr. I'm a lifetime resident of Portland and the surrounding area. Yeah, you just always have to state it for the record. And do you remember what your slogan was?
 Yes. What was it? Oh, mine. Yeah. No, I don't even remember mine. I didn't win. Fair enough. Good morning, commissioners. Dr. Stephen Holt. Hi.
 Good to see each of you and Commissioner Fish. Our prayers and support go to you and Commissioner Hardesty in your absence. I'm often here as the chair of the Oversight Committee for North Northeast Housing Strategies. And so you know and have heard my heartbeat around how we do housing and that we're very intentional and very specific to make sure that the most impacted people have an opportunity to benefit from this program.
 Oh, gosh, gangbuster explosion that's happening here in Portland, not only from those who are being housed, but those who are building the housing from workforce development, capacity expansion, small business, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 The exciting thing for me, I don't sit in the seat as the chair of the oversight committee, but as the consultant who is assisting with being very intentional and very thoughtful with how we do what we do in this particular effort. Rare is it that we can be thoughtful about how community gets developed. And the exciting thing with this work is the effort is how do we recraft neighborhood communities?
 How do we establish a community that is inclusive, that is collaborative, that is cohesive? How are we providing access, opportunity, and support for neighbors? How do we bring the neighbor back to the hood?
 And that's what we're looking at, creating and establishing human dignity in this process, being very thoughtful that it isn't just buildings. These are families. These are people. These are relationships that are going to be longstanding. So I'm excited about what we can do, what we can do by getting in front of this work, and hopefully it can become a model for how we think about doing community development in the city of Portland. Yeah.
 Well, Dr. Hold, I think you just came up with a prize-winning slogan yourself. How do we get the neighbor back in the hood? All right. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Jennifer Steadman, and I work with JMW Properties. And I get to have the fun conversation about anti-displacement issues.
 So, we're committed to making a fair, thoughtful, and dignified anti-displacement policy. I personally have been in contact with several of the residents in Gateway to try to understand their situation and what happens to them when development occurs. The reoccurring concern is they will be in a different school district, the financial burdens they will incur, and ultimately where they will go and can they afford it.
 Have taken their concerns to heart as I continue to draft this antideplacement policy Here are the key points that we intend to do to accommodate those who are affected They will have three options the first will be to
 The first option is we as a company will incur the cost of moving the resident by hiring movers. The residents get to pick between roughly 300 apartment units under our ownership within a two-mile radius, which keeps them within their base network for schools, shopping, transit, work, and so on. We will also transfer their deposits, move them into an apartment home that they get to choose, and possibly pay less rent, but no more than what they're currently paying.
 We will also not do rent increases during the time that they are displaced. Once development is complete, they will have the first right of refusal for a new home. The second option we have is if they choose not to relocate within our company, we will work with the resident and find a home and compensate them financially to help them absorb the cost, even if it's outside of the gateway area.
 Third, and my favorite, is if the resident would like to buy a home, we're willing to pay for a down payment on a home and connect them with a realtor and help them through the process. So with that being said, in my conversation with one Gateway resident, they told me they would love to buy a new home, but fear their credit isn't good enough. Okay.
 This prompted me to find a solution for this problem. I'm thankful to say that in the beginning of 2020, all on-time rents will be reported to a main credit agency monthly. This is not something that typically happens in property management. So many people are willing to report the bad but never the good. This will help residents build credit and hopefully their dream of home ownership will become a reality. This is a huge step in overcoming gentrification and social inequality.
 I'm also proud to say that we have rented several houses to JOIN whose mission is to help the underserved members of our community. Although the master lease is in JOIN's name, I'm working on getting the actual resident's name on the lease so they too can benefit from the on-time payments, thus building their credit. Being able to report to a credit agency and helping build people's future is the most humbling part of this initiative.
 We get to help create a true, honest, and original community. I'd like to also point out that over the past four years, Gateway residents have only seen a one-time rental increase of just $20 a month. We've tried to keep the rents reasonable in Gateway, knowing how important our true initiative is and how important the diversity of Gateway's success is to us. I will end with one last thought.
 With building just our first three projects, we will be only displacing 70 people. That's not homes, that is people, including minors. This means with the first three projects, 10 new doors will be added for each individual displaced in the Gateway neighborhood. The number of doors created per displaced resident will increase significantly as the Gateway vision continues.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. That's absolutely phenomenal. Thank you. Could you please state the name of your company so we know that the- Yes, ma'am. It's JMW Properties. JMW Properties. Well, it's really good to hear of a company that is-
 offering options looking to help homeownership looking to find ways to establish credit and Knows the individuals living in the housing right now. Thank you very much. Thank you I also just want to thank you for those extraordinary efforts almost in tears hearing What you're willing to do and the reporting on time rents is
 So great. We know that people prioritize rent above almost any other expense that they have.
 Yet, if they have a low credit score, typically that 30, 40 year history doesn't mean anything in the system. And I know that there's platforms that renters can pay in order to have their on-time rents reflected. But a lot of low-income renters don't have $10 a month to pay a platform for that service. So thank you so much for that. Mr. Jones? Yes.
 My name is Gordon Jones. I live at 9837 Northeast Irving Street in the heart of Gateway. So Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Udaly, and also Commissioner Hardesty. And, you know, certainly my heart goes out to Nick Fish, and I wish him, Commissioner Fish, I wish him the best. I've been here many times in the past. I've been developing in Gateway for...
 close to 25 years and every project that we've developed in Gateway has had an affordable component, by the way. Worked with PDC and then Prosper Portland on tax abatements that flowed through to buyers. Most all the housing that we've built has been owner-occupied housing, although we did in this neighborhood build a project that finished in 2015 called The Rose, which 40% of those units are at 60% of...
 AMI. I will say that that project has a tax abatement, but in five more years we'll be back on the tax rolls. Every other project we developed in Gateway is on the tax rolls, supporting schools, supporting services, and a significant part of the community, as has everything that JW, Joe Westerman's properties, JW properties has built. So both of us have been developing in Gateway for a long time and
 We came together a few years ago following construction of the Rose and began trying to work on how we finish our goals in Gateway of making a real community. Joe Westerman began assembling a lot of these little houses that are still there in this RX zoned neighborhood.
 And he's accomplished most of that. We have most of these properties. We have the opportunity to build upwards of 2,000 homes in this neighborhood. And so what's different now from where we were 25 years ago, 10 years ago? I mean, we've been working in Gateway for a long period of time.
 A little side note, you asked about the undergrounding of utilities. Mayor Vera Katz, at a meeting years ago that I attended, promised that we would underground all the utilities in Gateway as we began to develop it as a city. Of course, that never happened. However, every single project that I've developed in Gateway has undergrounded utilities, including the roads, including this new street we built from 97th from Gleason down to Davis.
 And we're going to continue that. So this eight-block neighborhood will have fully undergrounded utilities. Yes, it's an extra expense, but it creates so much more livable of a neighborhood. And I think another thing that's very different now is there is a housing crisis. There is a climate crisis. And also there is a political will and a tremendous, I think, commitment
 acknowledgement that we need to do something to be more inclusive, to work with communities of color, to work with diversity. And we're working with the Nehemiah Group and Dr. Holt. We're working with ERCO. We really want to build a neighborhood that truly meets the carbon footprint goals, the density goals, the transportation goals, and the diversity goals that
 None of these have really been realized in Portland. I mean we work toward all of them. Portland's an amazing city recognized nationally and internationally But we have the opportunity here to I think do something that's an example to the entire country. This is a significant neighborhood. It's RX zoning. It's like the last unbuilt RX zoned area in Portland. Let's get it right. So I
 One last thing, very quickly, I think Commissioner Udeli, you'd appreciate this. In the plans that PBOT has, they list three things, safety, moving people, and goods, and asset management as their goals. To get to those goals, they ask two questions. Will it advance equity and address structural racism? Yes, it will. And will it reduce carbon emissions? Yes, it will.
 Those are the things we're really focused on. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Just thank you so much. I was on the Planning Commission when we sent the Gateway Regional Plan to the Council, and it's just amazing to see it finally happening. And in particular, it's amazing that it's the community who's leading the work and doing such great work and being so thoughtful in all of the things that you're addressing. You're really modelling excellent planning, excellent housing policy, and excellent climate policy, as you just said. This is what we should be doing, is putting...
 more great homes in great communities like Gateway with its lovely Gateway Discovery Park.
 and making sure that people can get to transit and have livable communities. So I'll just give you one request as you're developing your multifamily housing. We're not going to be requiring common indoor space in multifamily housing, but if you could, you know, you talked about how do you put the neighborhood, how do you build community? You know, it rains here to about six months of the year, so please consider putting common indoor space. We are going to make sure that that doesn't count towards the housing density.
 Just to quickly respond, there are two specific efforts to do just that. So there will be one building that has indoor space and community space, and then another property that's being acquired to create that extended community. Very intentional. You've thought of everything. That's really great. You know, next time this comes, we should have it as...
 the amazing Gateway Development Plan community driven, oh and by the way there's an LID. I know that Andrew Ivey has been doing a lot of work on it but I'm really disappointed that the media has not picked up on this amazing planning process and the fact that Gateway's finally going to realize the vision that the community there had 25 years ago. We'd like to grab all that property before that happens.
 May I make just a couple of other quick comments? I want to really thank Andrew Abbey at PBOT, our LID administrator, for the work he's done for close to 20 years out in Gateway. He has really been supportive and really helped us through this process.
 And I think that now that we have some new partnerships formed, we have the opportunity to really move this to the next level. There was an article in the Wall Street Journal regarding a similar where you don't have to own a car type development in Tempe, Arizona. I don't know if you saw it, on 16 acres with three story buildings.
 you know, that's going to have about 1,000 people living there. What we have the opportunity to do here is so much more significant because we really have the chance to build to the density and create the ridership. We've been working, by the way, very closely with TriMet. We had a meeting with them just last week and they're very excited about this as well and of course, they contributed $2.3 million to our first LID, so.
 Well, thank you to our esteemed panel. Thank you for coming down this morning. Commissioner Udaly, before they leave, could I throw my accolades on the table as well? First of all, Commissioner Udaly, I want to thank you for the good work you and your team have been doing. And Commissioner Fritz, you're always so modest. You've been pushing this for a long, long time.
 And I want to express my thanks to you and your team. And I want to thank all of you for putting me in a position where I really get a benefit from decades of your hard work.
 And it's inspiring for me to watch the work that you are doing in the community and the work that others before me here at City Hall have done. The Gateway Discovery Park is fantastic. I think it's one of the greatest parks in this city and if people haven't had a chance to go visit it, I strongly encourage it. And then the Housing Bureau just, of course...
 The Hull Z106 project immediately adjacent. We all had the chance to go out there and cut the ribbon. And that is a very exciting part of the community. And then the work that Prosper's been doing around the streetscape improvements, the work you're doing with TriMet on transit, the work Commissioner Udaly and the PBOT folks have been doing to improve the transportation infrastructure. I am very bullish on.
 on Gateway. I think it's one of the most interesting neighborhoods in this city and after a long, long slog, you're bringing it to fruition. Slight digression and I'm sorry to continue this, but this is one of these really exciting moments. I just got back from the Prosper Portland board retreat and Gateway was front and center
 And they are feeling the celebratory mood that you created in the community by having a vision. And it's now coalescing and coming to fruition. So I just want to thank you all for your many, many years of hard work on this. And you too, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Colleagues, Andrew is here if there are any other questions. Otherwise we're done with our presentation for today. Great. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? Carla, how many people have signed up for public testimony? No one else signed up. All right. Very good. Then if there's no further business on this, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Andrew, thank you again. Next item up is 1135, please.
 accept the Parkrose-Arguey Development Study Final Report and direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to work with the Rossi, Garay, and Guisto families and Prosper Portland to gauge interest in a future private-public partnership for development of the 32-acre site near 122nd Avenue and Northeast Shaver Street.
 All right, well Eric and Barry are heading up here. Colleagues were here today to hear a presentation and take public testimony on the Park Row's Argyle Development Study. The study explored conceptual development of a 32-acre site in East Portland. The Council is being asked to adopt a resolution that accepts the study's final report and an implementation memo.
 and directs BPS and other city agencies to explore options to work with the owners if they wish to move forward with the implementation of the plan. And Carla will help us sort out the overhead and then gentlemen, it's your leisure, you can go ahead and introduce the item. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Eric Engstrom and with me here is Barry Manning. We're with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We're here this morning to discuss the Parkrose-Argate Development Study.
 Our work on this planning project has been funded by a metro 2040 grant. This is a grant program that's available to cities for planning for additional expansions of the urban growth boundary, but it's also used to plan for significant opportunity sites within the UGB especially where that can further the 2040 centers and corridors based growth strategy that is the regional plan. The subject site
 that we're talking about is the largest known as the Rossi Farm site is one of the largest remaining undeveloped sites in East Portland and is a well-known community landmark.
 The site sits abutting three different schools in the Park Rose District, the high school, the middle school, and an elementary school. TriMet recently upgraded the bus on 122nd Avenue to be frequent service and the city in recent years has made significant investments in Lewitt View Park next door. So with that context, this development of this site could really create an opportunity for a much more complete community, one where people can meet their daily needs, uh, uh,
 within a short walking distance in terms of schools, parks, potential grocery store, and potential future commercial services. Some of you may also recall that this site was rezoned to accommodate mixed-use development with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. That occurred in 2015 and 2016.
 So with Metro funds over the course of 2019, we've worked with property owners, the community and the Park Rose School District to create a master plan to guide how this site could develop in the future. The goal was to create a more coherent integrated plan as the site is owned by a number of different entities, all part of the larger extended family, but nonetheless a number of different parcels as well as the school district site. We also wanted to,
 come up with a plan that was actually economically feasible. We worked with city agencies including BDS, Parks, PBOT Housing and Prosper Portland. I'm not going to read all of these project goals on the screen but you can see them there. I want to mention at this point this is not a
 regulatory plan. You're not amending the zoning maps or zoning code today. The project was intended to provide design concepts that could help advance private development of the site in the future. For the most part, the
 concept plan that we're going to share with you is allowed by the current zoning that's already in place. We brought public resources to bear here because this is a large opportunity site that could significantly influence the shape of this neighborhood in the future in a way that advances many priorities of the 2035 comprehensive plan. And I'll talk again at the end of the presentation about next steps and some further opportunities for
 private public partnership in the implementation of the plan, but first I'll turn it over to Barry to talk more about the project team, the process, and how the plan and the plan that was developed. Thanks, Eric. Barry Manning, Bureau of Planning Sustainability. I just want to talk a little bit about the project team and how we put this together over the past year. We involved a lot of community members in the discussions about how this could develop, and I want to share some of that
 First, I want to start off with our project team, which included BPS as the project management, but also included participation from many city bureaus on a technical advisory basis. We had folks from BDS as well as Parks and PBOT working with us on this. We also had the benefit of bringing on a consultant team that was funded by the Metro grant, Walker Macy doing planning and design.
 partnered with Scott Edwards who did a little bit of architectural work on the project as well and Johnson economics who ran some of the market analysis and Development economic analysis those consultants are in the room today and are available to answer any questions You might have at the end of our presentation we also work with Zelle appraisal and Lancaster engineering on some transportation pieces and
 In terms of public involvement, we had a pretty robust public involvement process. We recruited a working group composed of many community members representing different organizations and interests out there. Importantly, it included folks from...
 organizations that typically work with underrepresented communities including the Latino Network, Elevate Oregon, and SEI. Metro was on our working group as well as the property owners who played a significant role in this and the local neighborhood and business associations as well.
 So I want to review the site again. It's the hashed area on that aerial photo. It encompasses about 32 acres, and as Eric mentioned, it's surrounded by three public schools, Park Rose High School to the northwest, Park Rose Middle School directly west of the site, and Shaver Elementary to the east of the site, which is right next to the newly built and not shown in this slide, Lewitt View Park. Next slide.
 The area, as Eric had mentioned, was rezoned as part of the comprehensive plan and the zoning map is shown here. The area, can I borrow the mouse and maybe I can point at that?
 The area shown in orange here, which I'm kind of circling on our slide here, is zoned commercial mixed-use 2, which is a medium-scale commercial mixed-use zone that allows a combination of different kinds of commercial, retail, office types of development, as well as significant opportunity for housing at a medium scale. And then to the east of that, the zoning is orange.
 R3, about 15 acres of that adjacent to Lewitt View Park. And as you're probably familiar, R3 is currently in the process of being reconsidered for becoming the RM1 zone as the through the better housing by design process. So in our planning, we anticipated that change and all of the development was geared towards the densities and expectations of what that RM1 zone might be in the future. Next slide. This is a,
 kind of a site plan diagram or a area diagram that shows where it is located in the context of the area. It's a really well located site. Not only is it near the three schools and a new park, it's also on a frequent bus line on 122nd Avenue and intersects another bus line that
 Runs on Northeast Shaver Street. It's fairly close to MAX stations within a couple miles of connections that get you to downtown and other locations regionally pretty quickly. It's close to Portland International Airport, so it's a good location for folks that might be frequenting the airport.
 And it's also close to a significant job base in the Columbia Corridor, which lies just to the north of the site, north of Sandy Boulevard. So it's a really well-located site for housing, mixed-use development, and a number of different elements that create a complete community. So right now I want to jump to a little bit of background on the economics of the site. Again, Johnson Economics did a little bit of market research. As Eric had mentioned, this is a privately owned site, and we were looking to try to –
 gear this towards what would the market support in this area. In terms of residential, Johnson Economics felt that there was a pretty significant ability to provide
 develop rental apartments on the site. Although the market in inner Portland is being substantially built, this East Portland area hasn't seen a lot of activity and new investment in apartment development, and there was a sense that it could support more development. The pricing of the rents in the area don't support necessarily concrete podium construction, but wood frame construction would be feasible for most of the project.
 And in terms of ownership, there was significant depth he felt for townhouse row house type development in the area to provide an opportunity for ownership. I wanna mention that the price points in this area tend to be affordable to folks that are making around 80% MFI, so these are relatively affordable apartments even at market rate and housing at market rate for the area. In terms of commercial, there was thought to be a opportunity for
 some commercial retail and potentially a grocery store on this site. Grocery is desired by the community. This area is a relative food desert. It's not located close to any full-service grocery stores. The notion here was that a medium-sized grocery store or maybe a specialty grocery store, an ethnic or specialty grocery store, could work on this site as well as other retail uses that could provide
 goods and services for the community. It's not located close to an area where there's a lot of opportunity for walkable goods and services, and there is an opportunity here. There was also some discussion of potential alternative retail concepts, such as potentially a movie, small movie theater, or other kinds of entertainment facilities that might provide things to do and places to go for folks in the community, including students that express some interest in that.
 So I'm going to jump to what we did in terms of public process. We had three big public meetings that attracted over 300 people in total. The first one was a vision workshop that we held in December 18, 2018 rather. Asked them about five different topics and got over 500 individual comments, 190 surveys online. And overall, what we heard was...
 That there was a desire for a grocery store again. Everybody wants a grocery store in their neighborhood, but this area really is underserved in that respect. And again, we heard from this community that there was a lack of entertainment, retail, other things to do in this neighborhood. There was support for a range of housing types and support for both ownership and rental. One of the things that emerged strongly out of that workshop was
 The notion of views of the mountain, particularly of Mount Hood, which are really prominent in the area, and how could we capitalize on those, and how could we not lose that significant asset as part of development. Pedestrian and bike safety was really a big concern, particularly pedestrian safety with the context of the three schools around there. So those are the types of things we heard about in the vision workshop. We also talked to students in the area, and I want to throw out a...
 uh thanks to uh kay blankenship from the park rose school district and her students in the art class that participated in this as well as our staff at bps nicoya phillips and alfredo gonzalez
 who helped work with and facilitate a student group to ask them about what their vision for the neighborhood would be as it evolves as well. And it was interesting to hear from the students. They drew some artwork that is potentially going on some new trash cans that are gonna be used in the Park Rose area as part of some work that we're doing at BPS.
 But some of the outcomes of that were interesting in that they reflected much of what we heard from the broader community. They really felt that the Mount Hood views were a significant asset in the community. That was something they focused on in their artwork. Safety for walking and biking was really important. Trying to build a sense of community and a sense of place seemed to be a focus for the students that they felt was lacking in the area and could be enhanced through this project.
 And they also said there's nothing to do there. So they'd like to see something that actually builds a place with something to do. So it was very reflective of what we heard from the broader community. After that workshop, we held a concept plan workshop where we actually, with help from Walker Macy and Johnson Economics and Scott Edwards, showed three different concept plans of the way the area could be developed in terms of the way the streets are laid out to capitalize on views or create Main Street or create a sense of place.
 And those three plans are shown on the left of this diagram. And the top one is the view corridor concept. The middle one was a main street concept that actually built more of a small scale main street. And the bottom one was more of a grid streets concept, which was more aligned with
 conventional types of development. And what we heard from the community was a strong support for the notion of retaining that view corridor concept, and how could we do other things to actually build in that sense of community. How could we retain the iconic Rossi Farms barn and maybe repurpose it for more community purposes? How could we attract and support a grocery store? How could we add more green spaces and try to evoke the agricultural character of the area? So those are some of the things that came out of the view concept.
 So out of that, the consultant team and staff worked on developing what we're calling a preferred concept, and we held a public workshop to talk about that in June 2019. We had about 100 people that attended that, and we shared the preferred concept, and I'm going to walk you through that really quickly right now.
 First of all, the preferred concept plan has 86,000 square feet of commercial space, including an opportunity for a grocery store. So that was a key element that the community really wanted to see. And the opportunity as planned in this plan, about 745 housing units, 598 of those are apartments. And just with IH alone, we expect 10 to 20 percent of those to be apartments.
 regulated affordable units. And then we also have an opportunity for 138 townhouses, some cottages, and a detached house. And so the plan is shown here, and I'm just going to show you that this north-south street is 122nd Avenue. At the top of this plan is Shaver Street. And what you're seeing here in red is an area of commercial mixed-use development centered on 122nd Avenue designed to create commercial areas
 retail and other opportunities and create a place and things to do for the community. To the east of that, and it includes the grocery store, which I'm circling here, west of 122nd Avenue, and retention of the Rossy Barn that would be repurposed. I'll give you a little more detail on that in a moment. To the west of that, in orange, are a number of multi-dwelling apartment buildings that would serve –
 to provide housing for, again, up to 598 units overall. And then to the east of that, in yellow, are a series of row houses and townhouses that are arranged around alleys so that we have really good frontage on streets and are at a scale that transitions more closely to the existing neighborhoods to the east.
 So these are some example photos of the mixed use and housing types that could be built in a place like this in the CM2 zone. And some example photos of cottages, row houses, and small apartment buildings that could be built in the RM1 zone.
 and i'm going to walk you through a little bit of detail of the plan elements here this is uh the area that centers on 122nd avenue and again we have a grocery store here uh anchoring the southern west side of the street and at the north a repurposed rossi farms barn that would become a food court food hall type of event center so creating a place that the community can actually access not only for goods and services but for events and other things
 On the west side of the street, we are anticipating mixed-use development, so apartments and ground floor retail in these. And I'll show you how we're trying to support that and a sense of place on that. Can you go back one more slide, Eric? I just want to show that one thing that's critical to this here at the south end, and I'm circling that in a new street that we're calling the A Street. That street provides access to the grocer and the west side of the development.
 and also provides access to the eastern side which includes the mixed use and housing and that's seen as a critical piece not only for the retail and grocery but also for pedestrian connectivity across the street it's a 122nd is a high volume street there aren't great opportunities to cross this and with 700 new units of housing we want to try to make those connections safe
 So the concept for the repurposed barn would include some kind of food hall element and potentially food carts or maybe even structures that would try to create a sense of place where people could gather and meet neighbors and create a destination place. The barn itself could be repurposed to include community events. And here's a rendering of what that might look like from Walker Macy. Okay.
 Moving to the east, we have the apartment blocks, and these are organized around this diagonal street, which is a view quarter, B Street, that provides a great view of Mount Hood from 122nd Avenue and other elements of the site. It starts off as a pedestrian street. It's not a full traffic street, which creates kind of a plaza at 122nd. So this is a rendering of what that could look like and what we expect in the future.
 Moving further east, we have the row house element, again, a transitional element to the neighborhoods. These are envisioned to be primarily ownership, but they could be a variety, and we've had some discussions with even affordable housing providers that might be interested in a component of this. And this is a rendering of what that might look like as it interfaces the existing Lewitt View Park, although I would mention that the edge of the park here currently was not designed
 with anticipation of housing development on that side. So there might be some opportunity for future work with parks to kind of rethink how that park interfaces. But this provides a street edge on the park that provides a lot more visibility to Lewitt View Park and a lot more access for the community. And a lot more parking. And some more parking, yes.
 Overall, one of the other things that we heard was if there were opportunities to evoke the agricultural character of this site as it's developed, we ought to try to do that. So this diagram shows a few ways that that could be done. There's a new concept called AgriHoods,
 where developments, subdivisions and new developments integrate the opportunity to grow food on site. And so we thought about that and tried to integrate as much of that as possible, given the Portland zoning code and what our requirements are for density and things like that. But this identifies several opportunities on site of green spaces that could be repurposed or purposed for community gardens or community spaces.
 as well as a site here on the northwest side that is owned by Park Row School District that might be thought of as an opportunity for a teaching garden or some other kind of space, and the notion that some rooftop uses could actually be used for...
 food production are growing too. And the next slide has some examples of not only agri-hood kind of development on the left-hand side, which shows housing and some agricultural uses, but that rooftop kind of gardening situation on the right-hand side, which is becoming more popular in Canada and back east in some developments.
 Finally, the streets in the area are lacking in terms of pedestrian amenities and obviously there's no development on this site and we looked at how those could be redeveloped in the future in concert with this. This is a view of what 122nd could look like in the future with...
 reintroduction of parking on street to support the commercial at the ground floor And working with P bot we've suggested that there would be an enhanced kind of cycle track Protected bikeway as well as a generous sidewalk, which would be required by code I also just want to acknowledge the that P bot is working on a larger 120 second Avenue Planning process right now so we were coordinating with them and in trying to integrate this yep and
 And then finally on Shaver Street, another street that doesn't have a development frontage, the next slide will show you how that could change in the future. One of the things we heard about this street from the community was concerns about traffic speeding and the lack of pedestrian safety, particularly for children. So development on the street would introduce parking, introduce development elements, as obviously sidewalks that would perceptually,
 create friction there, potentially slow traffic, and obviously provide opportunities for safe walking for not only neighbors in the area but school children as well. So with that, I'm going to turn it back over to Eric.
 So the request today is has a couple elements. The first two items are to accept the report and the related exhibits that outline some implementation partnership opportunities. That's a this is a resolution. The second two elements direct BPS to work with and stay in touch with the property owners to continue to gauge interest in whether or not there should be public involvement
 public sector involvement in the carrying out of this plan. As designed, this could be an entirely private development and could proceed with private financing and be market rate. We are exploring what kinds of advantages there might be and disadvantages of continuing the public's engagement in this project given that it is such a landmark site in East Portland.
 So this resolution directs us to continue that conversation and if it's appropriate to engage in some discussion with the property owners about what that might look like and I think the the
 The two precursors to that, or maybe three precursors to that, are one, it is multiple ownerships, and so the property owners themselves need to come up with an operating agreement amongst themselves about how they can make decisions. They need to find a development partner with some experience with something of this scale. And then finally, we have to come back to you to authorize further spending on...
 if we were to go move forward with some kind of a memorandum about that partnership or development agreement if we went that formal. So this doesn't commit you to anything yet, but it kind of directs us to continue the conversation. All right, very good. And I understand you need to substitute Exhibit B, is that correct? That's correct. We got a... Could you give us just a couple of sentences on that? Sure.
 We got some comments from Parks and Recreation after we had submitted the packet to Council and in further conversations with them, they had some, they wanted to clarify their position in terms of the kinds of commitments they could make that are in the table in Exhibit B on page five. Their commitments would be more for policy and planning rather than financial at this point in time, so they wanted to clarify that, and they also felt that we ought to re-cancel
 cast the benefits that the park provides for not only the owners but the community. So we made a couple of small edits to those portions of the table only and we do have a substitute exhibit that we have for council. And the purpose. Do you anticipate any objection from either the owners group or the working group
 No, I think this is substantially the same. It's just a small clarification. Okay, very good. I'll move the substitute. Second. We have a motion to move the substitute to second. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Substitutes on the table. Substitute exhibit B. Thank you. All right, so we have a number of people who are going to testify. I understand we have six individuals who were from
 They participated in the study and they were from either the owners group or the working group. I'd like them to come up first. So Carla, I will call the first six people. The first three are Michael Lopez-Serrero, Doug Armstrong, and Victor Rim. Come on up. And after that will be Brian Atkinson, Annette Stanhope, and Joe Rossi. Three minutes each. Name for the record, please.
 Good day, I'm Michael Lopesahow. I am the superintendent in the Park Rose School District. Thanks for. Good to see you again. Yeah, good to see you too. Thanks for having me today. First and foremost, I wanna thank the families, the Rossi, Giuso, and Gary families for doing this, right? This is something that did not have to be done and to be included as a school district around the planning of this development and this concept has been a great experience.
 Most important for the school district, it allows us to plan and foresee potentially a very large site that has an impact on enrollment and most importantly an impact on our families and how they access our schools. The other important piece is really thinking about oftentimes in Park Rose getting to school, to and from school can be very difficult for students. We are a community that lacks sidewalks
 And it is nice to be included in the process as we talk about how students and potential families can access our schools. Particularly in that this site has a huge impact on the Park Road School District significantly because
 this site lies in one elementary school boundary. So in order to have future planning, this is our school board's task to look at the capital improvements that would be necessary in our district to potentially see up to seven to 800 new students in our district over a 15 year period. The other piece I'd like to acknowledge is that
 But the concern I have over development in Park Rose is that currently our district has experienced a 5% decrease in enrollment over the past five years, and much of that has to do with the affordability of housing in our community. And this has the deepest impact on our most historically underrepresented families.
 So the diversity of our district, which is the most beautiful thing of the Park Road School District, is being impacted currently. And I worry about future development. And the nice thing about this concept plan is all of the stakeholders were at the table. We had traditionally historically underserved families that participated as well as families.
 culturally specific partners that sat at the table as we talked about the concepts and so forth.
 I also want to specifically thank Barry Manning from the City of Portland. His communication, his thoroughness, his intent to keep the district involved has been incredible, and I really appreciate it. So I'm in full support of this plan and really appreciate the opportunity to see how a school district and the development of a community can be impacted in the future. Thanks for having me. Thanks, Michael. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners.
 I'm here on behalf of EPAP, the East Portland Action Plan. My name is Doug Armstrong. I'm also the vice chair of the Park Rose Neighborhood Association. You have in your next list of attendees to testify Annette Stanhope. You have her testimony. You do not have her. She has the flu and was unable to come today. So with that, I'll get into my comments. I'm Doug Armstrong, as I said, co-chair of EPAP, the East Portland Action Plan.
 I was asked to sit on the advisory committee for PADS by Joe Rossi, one of the property owners who wished to have as much citizen engagement as possible in the process. I was honored to be involved and happy to bring forth action items from EPAP to the visioning team for the project.
 While PADS itself, as currently visioned, does have its local detractors, we have to be able to look past our own personal concerns for the benefit of the community as a whole and how we are progressing into the future. As the 122nd corridor changes and upgrades, it is necessary to engage best use practices for the land we have available to us for development.
 As visioned, PADS checks off as many boxes as possible in the realm of housing opportunities and does indeed include a walkable neighborhood that is accessible to the larger area as a whole. While there are, as visioned, economic opportunities available in the PADS, these are not the sort of jobs that align with the current base MFI numbers in Portland for a family of four.
 Care needs to be applied to the corridor changes in and around this development so as not to hinder new residents who will, by necessity, need to commute to higher wage jobs out of the area. We see these changes largely as a net positive for the area, and it will, by design, spark a rejuvenation that will have a ripple effect throughout the Park Rose and Argate communities. These effects are both positive and negative.
 Whenever new or enhanced projects occur on a neighborhood level, displacement occurs. It's inevitable. As this project is fleshed out over the coming years, it's critical that the issue of displacement be addressed before any groundbreaking occurs. Not having a plan in place prior to development means we are failing once again to address and care for our residents who are barely making ends meet now.
 What does that conversation look like? I don't know, but I do know that it needs to happen. As this project is eventually rolled out, EPAP will continue to engage with stakeholders in the larger communities to ensure vital concerns are addressed and remediations are in place to prevent unintended consequences. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your efforts. Not a problem. And we do have her testimony here as well. Great. Thank you. Yes, we do. Great.
 Good morning. Morning. Commissioners, Mayor, I'm Victor Rehm. I'm here on behalf of the Columbia Corridor Association. We represent business, trade, and industry in the Columbia Corridor, running from the Willamette River to the Sandy River. While this particular development does not focus on industrial development and creating living wage jobs, it does do a very good job, I think, of creating opportunities for housing at a broad range of price points.
 and for both renters and people who would want to purchase. We have a lot of people that are employed in the Columbia Corridor, would like to have housing closer to where they live. About 39% of the people that work in the corridor currently live about five miles away from their jobs, and obviously we'd like to keep as many of those folks close to their jobs as possible to reduce their carbon footprint and also to give them a better chance
 of life. And I think that this proposed concept plan does a very good job of considering the quality of life of people in the community, both those that are already there and the people that would be moving in. It's in an excellent location with respect to schools, with respect to parks.
 and proposed community services. And there's been a very high priority on getting a grocery store, which I understand is something that's very important to this community. This is a community that we saw at the public meetings is already very diverse. And we expect that with the concept plan being carried forward, there will be more opportunities for people to live in the neighborhood.
 Thank you, appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. And Annette did submit her testimony. We'll hear from Brian Atkinson and Joe Rossi next. Thanks all three of you. And Carla, after that, how many people do we have signed up to testify? Okay, very good. Good morning. Good morning, thank you Mayor and Commissioners for having me. I'm Brian Atkinson, I'm on the board of Arcade Terrace Neighborhood Association and was on the board of the Historic Park Rose NPI.
 I'M ALSO A RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE AGENT AND LIKE TO THINK I HAVE AN IDEA OF WHAT PEOPLE ARE WANTING FROM OUR NEIGHBORHOOD AND WHAT THEY DO AND DON'T LIKE ABOUT IT. WHAT I'D LIKE TO EMPHASIZE IS THAT I FEEL LIKE THE NEIGHBORHOOD WAS REALLY HURT IN THIS PROCESS. SOMETIMES A GENERAL COMPLAINT IN THIS TYPE OF
 development is that the city bulldozed us or the developer just doesn't care about the people who live here and they just want to put up anything and Having this opportunity from the city and your resources and staff and Metro and the farm owning families Was a great benefit to our neighborhood Every comment was catalogued even if it was a sticky note smiley face that was logged and is represented in this report and
 WE HAD 100 PEOPLE AT EACH OF OUR THREE LARGE MEETINGS AT THE MIDDLE SCHOOL AND PEOPLE WERE INVITED THROUGH MAIL AND NEXT DOOR AND FACEBOOK SO ANYONE WHO WAS TUNED IN AND CARED ABOUT THE FUTURE AND PRESENT QUALITY OF LIFE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD WAS ABLE TO PRESENT WHAT THEY WANTED TO SHARE. AND I FEEL LIKE THIS PLAN REFLECTS THAT.
 the opinions of many people in the neighborhood in line with the comprehensive plan. Of course, a lot of people are disappointed to lose the farm in the future. Having a farm like this in a big city like Portland is pretty rare. Sometimes Joe will text me and ask me if I wanna come pick strawberries at the farm. And I'll walk over with my son and wife and dog and walk back home with a bucket full of strawberries. And that just doesn't happen. So what I would like to see
 this become, I would like it to retain this land, to retain that type of community connection. And I think that that can happen with the continued collaboration and continued support, because what I feared would be that this could just be chopped up based on the zoning, divided into many different developments, and to have this type of creative, collaborative,
 design that implements so much research and one year of community conversations and going back to the drawing board with our architecture firms is really exciting and I'd like to see it continue. Thank you very much, appreciate it.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for having me. I'm Joe Rossi, one of the property owners involved. Four generations in Portland and Park Rose itself. I just want to say from a family owner perspective, I represent a few of us and I'm the most visible face, but I'm part of a group. We really appreciated the opportunity that Metro gave us in this grant.
 to have the vigorous public outreach we did. I always envisioned someday that in the future when we have to develop, that we would be really involved in the process and involve a lot of people. But without that grant that the city helped us write and get, we couldn't have done this on our own.
 I think the one thing that I really look back on, this plan really exceeded my expectations. I really had a community aspect. I wanted to capture everybody. I wanted to give everybody a really good win out of this plan.
 I can't say enough how much this exceeded my expectations. This plan is better, more well designed than I had envisioned. I always thought there'd be winners and losers in the plan and the family, it's a voluntary process with our family but we'd be subjecting ourselves to a lot of public opinion and negativity but I really didn't get that. I got really, we got really good vigorous public debate.
 My dad was a big Park Rose school supporter. Going into the plan, it really intrigued me how a homeowner or a renter could walk their kids to Shaver. Shaver School Elementary, Middle School, and High School. We got great connectivity. Michael Lopes of Park Rose is amazing. He really brought a lot of people to the table. What you see here is a few people that represent some groups, but we have other subgroups in Park Rose. Thank you.
 I think the biggest unintended win out of this project was that this really was a positive connecting our community together. We've never really had a project where all of our community groups had something to say and wanted to participate and they were invited in.
 And Barry Manning did a great job facilitating the discussion and all the city agencies. So I just want to say thanks. A lot of people ask me and say, well, you're selling the property, what are you doing? I guarantee you that my hand is going to be on this to my dying day. This is my life's work. My dad's life's work was continuing the farm to the next generation.
 My life's work is to transition to make something really amazing for our community. And I have a daughter, Gabrielle, who's really involved in the process. She's the fifth generation. So I just wanna say we're gonna go all the way through on this. The first step was the zoning we got. We had a really good public input in the zoning process. You guys did an amazing job. This was second step, and then the third step will be to come and we'll stay involved.
 Thank you. Thanks, Mr. Rossi. Thanks to you and your family and all of your associates for making this a really grand vision. This could have gone in a very different direction, and you really gave the template to the community to be able to shape this, and we're very, very appreciative. Commissioner Fritz. Joe, it's entirely appropriate that you get the last word at this point.
 hearing that nobody else has signed up to testify, you mentioned the zoning. We had many high-priced fancy land use attorneys came in during the comprehensive plan. None of them came to every single meeting like the way you did, just to make sure that you were listening to everybody and that the zoning got done as you had envisioned. So you also said that you would always knew the day would come when you have to develop this property and
 I think it's when you get to develop this property and to bring it to ongoing use as a community resource. The photographs of the repurposed barn, I was just like, this is just the barn bash except 365 days a year. You already have provided that kind of community space. And I'm really excited. I'm very happy to hear that you and your family is intending to continue to see the process through and are very supportive.
 Thank you both. We appreciate it. So Carla, there's no further public testimony, is that correct? Correct. Very good. Colleagues, any further business on this item? Seeing none, please call the roll. Udalli?
 Well, this site is full of such exciting potential for density, for affordable housing. I'm also a big fan of the repurposed barn. Please don't tear that barn down. Framing the views of Mount Hood. Agri-hoods. I learned a new word today. I don't know about the rest of you.
 Also, protected bikeways. I'd love to see that. Just very, very exciting. Nice to see you back here again, Mr. Rossi. I happily vote aye. Fritz. Yes, ma'am.
 It's a really exciting plan. Thank you to everybody in the community. Thank you to the three families. And thank you to the Argate Terrace Neighbourhood Association for providing some of the forum in the Park Road School District as well. Very much appreciated. I'm interested in maybe making the study circle a little bigger to get it to Sandy Boulevard and to include all of the park and the area around it. I think we could look at maybe a Neighbourhood Prosperity Initiative District.
 or some other mechanism to make sure that the rising property values from this development and from the park being built are reinvested in this community and make sure that they can help, those resources are available. So I look forward to the next step. Thank you very much to planning staff, Eric Engstrom, Barry Manning. You've been involved in this for a very long time also and I very much appreciate it, aye.
 Wheeler well, this has been a great meeting so far. We've heard a grand vision for the Gateway area and now we've heard a grand vision for the Park Rose our gay Terrace area and Both of these visions have one thing in common And that's that the community is leading the vision and they're bringing it forward and I couldn't be more excited And I'm very happy to vote aye Resolutions adopted. Thank you
 Matt, since there's only three of us, could we take a five-minute break before the next item? Good idea. We'll take a five-minute recess, and then we'll come back and take up the Steve Lowenstein Trust Award. All right. Thank you, everyone. Carla, could you please read item 1136? Yes.
 Yes, 11-36-2019 Steve Lowenstein Trust Award. Colleagues, this is an item that was brought by Commissioner Fish. He could not be here today, so he asked me if I would please welcome our honored guests and introduce the item today. So I'd like to start by introducing past board chair of the Steve Lowenstein Trust. That's Michelle Harper and board member Margie Harris. If you could both come down.
 This is an award of course that's named after the great Steve Lowenstein. He was an attorney, an author, and a civil rights activist. He was the founding director of the Oregon Legal Services and he volunteered with the Peace Corps. He worked here in Portland City Hall and he was a strong advocate for social justice.
 Steve firmly believed that this award should go to someone who demonstrates the greatest contributions to assisting the poor and underprivileged in our community. This year, the Board has selected Billy Anfield as the 2019 Steve Lowenstein Trust Award recipient. Billy has spent decades working with those who were formerly incarcerated to successfully re-enter our community and become
 achieve the fulfillment of their life's dreams. And they in turn would become recidivism activists themselves. So they would reach out to other people who are also returning to the community and give them the encouragement and support that they need to become successful.
 Billy, we're honored to celebrate you here this morning and we thank you for your incredible transformational leadership in our community. And so with that, I'll let Michelle take it away. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning Mayor and the City Council. It gives me great pleasure to come before you and to present the 2019 Steve Loewenstein Trust Award recipient, Mr. Billy Anfield. At this time, I'd like to acknowledge our board and ask them to stand please.
 I'd also like to acknowledge Mr. Anfield's family. He has quite a few family members here, wife, siblings, aunts, uncles, cousins, co-workers, friends, clients.
 So we're very happy to have the family and everyone here this morning to honor Mr. Anfield. In the 28 years that we've given this award, we've given away over $200,000 in support to individual programs that support and build the community and make the city of Portland what it is.
 At this time, I will turn it over to Margie to give a brief remarks about Steve and why we continue to do this work. Thank you, Michelle. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the City Council. I'm sorry to miss Commissioner Hardesty and wish Commissioner Fish good health.
 My name is Margie Harris and I'm a member of the Loewenstein Trust Board of Directors. Those of us on the board convene each year to make this honorable selection of someone in Steve's name. I will take just a few minutes to remind us all about the person Steve Loewenstein was. Steve lived a life committed to improving opportunities for others.
 We remember him as the founder of Legal Aid here in Oregon, an attorney who used the law to protect and defend those most in need. We remember him as an activist, active in the northwest part of town especially, and someone who shined light on citizens who deserve to be treated with greater dignity and respect. We remember him as a researcher and a writer,
 who authored a most notable work describing the history of Jews in Oregon. I have my copy inscribed by Steve. Though we often recall these examples of what Steve achieved in his short life of only 52 years, I also want to remind us about who he was as a friend and as my co-worker in City Hall here working with Commissioner Lindbergh in the early 1980s.
 I remember Steve as a thoughtful, intelligent man, full of insights and whys in his counsel. He was a genuinely caring person and someone who was a fine listener. He was an avid reader, a world traveler, a collector of art, and he was funny. Thank you.
 He would spontaneously break into a very contagious laugh. It was really more like a cackle or a giggle, and he used that often. Steve was the only person I knew who ordered dessert first, who chose a restaurant based on what they offered for dessert, and he was never too full to indulge in something delicious and sweet at the end of a meal. Each year when the Lowenstein Trust Award is presented in Steve's memory,
 We can all take a few moments to remember Steve and to uphold the principles that he lived by. I believe every person we recognize with this annual honor is someone Steve himself would have been proud to know and to support.
 Thank you very much for being a part of our presentation today. And I am told that we have an okay from you, Mayor Wheeler, to include all the people who wanted to speak. So there's a few extras who will come forward briefly to share their thoughts. Thank you. Thank you. I will invite up Mr. Anfield and also Richard Harris. Good morning. Morning. Good morning, Richard. Good morning.
 Mr. Anfield, his light shines as a pathway for others. Throughout his multiple decades of work and commitment, he inspires and has taught many their value and how to fight to reclaim their lives. Mr. Anfield first began his work at Central City Concern in 1991, managing an innovative homeless housing program known as Shoreline.
 It had a major employment component. And during that time, as a total of Mr. Anfield's service with Central City Concern, a total of 24 years, he's had several different jobs. So he has many, many, many skills and has applied all those skills to make the programs that he now runs very, very successful. He is a person who leads by example. His life has been a light for others to see.
 that he's come through the fire and crossed over on the other side. He's very empathetic and understanding of where people are and meets them where they are and allows them to chart a plan, and he's there to guide them through that plan. He's been very supportive and focused of the community of residents in coordinating with employment and recovery services at Central City Concern.
 Eventually, he took over from the previous shoreline manager there at Central City Concern. During that time, the employment rate went up significantly. He's co-authored an important innovative program called Move Out Savings Program after a resident found work and started paying rent. A portion of that rent went to the move on account. The participant later used the savings to cover the expenses to moving to a non-subsidized and independent housing.
 This growing savings account worked to encourage residents to move on, making room for others who can benefit from the shoreline. In six months to a year, the move-out account could grow to over $1,000 to support utilities and deposits of first-month rent. Following that position, Mr. Anfield...
 was managing the employment services project, the housing management, janitorial services, and all of these programs. He selectively decided to mentor each and every person that was in this program, support them to each of their levels of recovery, and make sure that they were able to stand on their own before moving to the next level. He's a very positive role model. He's definitely a mentor, one that can always be counted on.
 Over time, the experience that he has, he has shared to many with many.
 His experience of knowledge and from the certifications that he has received, he's shared that knowledge with many people. Some of the certificates that he has gotten, with the certificate in moral recognition therapy and basic training, he added MRT, which is an advanced training, freedom road cognitive training, brain-based mentoring certification, habilitation empowerment accountability certification,
 certification. He's also a certified Department of Corrections volunteer as well. In 2006, the City of Portland Bureau of Housing and Community Development entered a partnership with Central City Concern to develop an effort to assist homeless people to stabilize their lives and train for and keep living wage jobs. He chose to lead this effort
 He named this project Access to Building Trades and Customer Service Occupations. The program was different from the immediate employment practice called Workforce because it was using the participants, their training, their education, leading to employment in real jobs that require real apprenticeships and certifications or both. The individuals were screened for motivation and commitment to work in a stringent program and provided housing for those who did not have access to a stable environment.
 As I said before, he's been a model mentor, a resource facilitator. He has been the light in the middle of a storm for many people who have lost hope.
 who are not sure what their value is, those that have been lacking confidence and not sure if they really have the courage to return back into a stable life force, to reclaim their families and know that they have a rightful place here in our city after they've gone through some storms in their life. In 2012, after 22 years of direct service work with some health issues, Mr. Anfield decided to retire, but that did not last very long.
 In 2017, he was recruited enthusiastically and accepted to come back and create this, what's called the Flip the Script Advisory Coordinator Program and Employment Access Center. This program is specifically culturally specific for African-American males, and he's developed many partnerships with this program and is a model of success. It gives me great pleasure to...
 for us as a board, but as a city to celebrate Mr. Anfield and the commitment, the undying commitment that he has continued with this program and everyone that is around him that has been ever touched or been his presence has been changed. Their life has been changed for the better. So on that note, I will turn it over to Mr. Harris to give a few remarks.
 Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Uli. I'm really happy to be here. I haven't been at this desk for quite a while, and so it's good to be back in front of City Council, and particularly for Billy, because...
 Of the many employees at Central City Concern, I've known him for a long time and worked directly with him and have some clear idea of the kinds of things and the impact he's had on the homeless people and people who are in recovery and people who are coming out of the prisons and the criminal justice system. So...
 He and I talk about and still see one another. We keep up with what's going on. And when the opportunity came for a nomination to the Lowenstein Award, I really thought that Billy was the actually perfect person to do this. And so I was really happy to submit and work on an application with others that would reflect the importance of the work that he's done.
 In doing that, I wanted to confirm that I had all my facts straight because as the executive director, I didn't necessarily know all the details of everything that Billy did because he did so many things. I mean, he managed so many services at Central City. So we were talking about, I was talking with him about the,
 the intensive building trades training program that was a grant from the city. And it was intended to help homeless people regain real employment, living wages, and to change the direction of their lives. And it was targeted to people who were been in addiction and now are in recovery and now we're working on getting good jobs.
 So I asked Bill, I says, well, it's really important to know what the outcome of this project was, because I'm sure you saw a lot of people in that. And I says, well, how many people were in that program? He says, over a couple of years, there were about 38 people that went through the program. And I had thought that there were probably twice that many in the program. And he would tell me what the statistics were. And so I said, well, how many of those people got jobs and how many of those people still are sober and working?
 are still working. He says, well, 38. I thought, well, that's pretty amazing. And I says, how do you know that? He says, oh, I talked to all of them. Now, this is, I don't know, six, seven years after the program was, he was working on this program. And I says, come on, how in the world can you keep track of those 38 people? He says, well, we all keep track of one another. So I
 And I've talked to them, and many of them are here today. I mean, I think it's really important to know that once you've got a relationship with Mr. Anfield, you haven't won the rest of your life. And I appreciate that because that's somebody who really cares about what they're doing and puts everything into the activity that he's working with them on. And he's had many jobs, and probably thousands of people he's had contact with at a time.
 He's been a major element in changing what's happened to them. So I think, and I knew Mr. Lowenstein as well, so Steve would think of Billy as the sort of example that he would cite in almost all respects. A change agent, a mentor, a person who has heart and soul about the people they know, and effective.
 I mean, I think that the thing that I really appreciate by working with Billy was I never, ever wondered, is this a good thing to do? If he wants to do it, I'm sort of saying, yeah, I think this is, he has a feel for it and he knows what's happening. And so I flipped the script when he came back
 It was a program that really was something that he and I used to talk about, and it's like the sort of perfect match to his skills. And in his absence from Central City, he also worked with reentry programs for people coming out of prison, and this was a way to get back into that at Central City. And I think that program has thrived under his leadership and others at Central City Concern. So, yeah.
 Thank you very much for honoring Kelly this way. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks, Dr. Hirsch. At this time, I'd like to acknowledge Mr. Billy Anfield as our 2019 Steve Loewenstein Trust Award recipient. With this award actually comes a $7,500 grant that is used to forward his work through Central City Concerns. So I give you Mr. Anfield. Thank you.
 Wow. Oh, wow. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Please extend that to Commissioner Fitz. I've asked Risa to embrace him. I know he couldn't be here. I want to thank Michelle Harper, Marjorie Harris, and the entire board, directors, Steve Lowenstein, and Dalman. I want to thank Richard Harris for nominating me. Excuse me.
 I'm so overwhelmed this morning. It's not a normal day for me. I'm honored to be in this place of city governance, where city governance is managed. It's an honor just being in City Hall for me. I mean, I've been here before to testify for programs, but nothing to this extent. Thank you so much. In the audience this morning is my family.
 My immediate family, extended family, my Central City Concern family, and my sponsors, pastors, my coworkers, community partners, we're all family. And I'm so honored to have them here to share my joy this morning and tears of joy. A lot of you haven't seen me in this cry before, but I'm just so overwhelmed.
 at all of this, and I thank each and every one of you so much. When Richard told me he was gonna nominate me, I said, all right, if that's what you feel, I'm all for it. And I know that there was a host of individuals who partook in the process of nominating me. I know that Richard's wife was probably looking over his shoulder.
 At the verbiage, I know that the Central City Concern executive team wrote statements of reference for me. Executive team, I thank you so much, Frida and Rachel, everyone involved. When I went home the evening, I talked with Richard. I got a call from Michelle Harper, and she was so eloquent in describing the award and everything.
 When she started to tell me why they felt I deserved it, I began to cry. Excuse me. I want to acknowledge others that were nominated because, and I don't know who they are, but I know that they do the work as well as I do, and it's perhaps worthy as well. I want to acknowledge them. When I got off the phone with Michelle, I looked up,
 Steve Loewenstein. I did not know him. What I read, I went into my reading room and I read, I googled his name and I read about him, the kind of man he was, a lawyer, chief of staff for Commissioner Lindbergh, worked as a volunteer with the Peace Corps, wrote texts on law for Ethiopians, law issues.
 Advocate for social justice, civil rights advocate, social justice advocate, a lover of people and mankind. And I started thinking about what I do and questioned my worthiness. And I began to think about, and I'm not a lawyer in the long shot, but I said, you know, this man was a lawyer and pretty well established. Why me?
 Why did he reach that far to help people that were in need? What made him do that? And as I questioned that, I found out that he had compassion and caring, the kind that I have. And I began to feel similarities that parallel my work with his. And I actually brought Steve's spirit into me and mine into his.
 He wrote, I document. And I wondered, wow, I never stopped to think about every client that I have interaction with, I'm required to document that. How many times have I documented over the years? I never stopped to think about that. And I could see Steve in solitary writing, because I know a writer has to have solitary and calmness and do his writing alone. And I
 just saw this similarity and I said, I can understand the kind of man he is. Unselfishly, he did work for mankind and I began to feel good about looking at what I do overall. Because in this work, I don't stop. It's one day at a time. This has created on me and
 actually forced me to take a look at the years of work that I've done. I mean, you know, every so often people say, you're doing a good job, Billy, you've helped a lot of people. And I see people that I've helped, and I know this. But getting up every day and coming to work is the extent of what I think about my work. I love getting to work and working with needy people, period. So I just wanted...
 in Steve's spirit to know that he is my role model now. I want to thank everyone that was associated with me being here today, my family, my wife is so happy for me, and she has supported me over three decades of doing social service work. I've worked for multiple agencies that have allowed me to be in a position to help the needy,
 And so my former and current supervisors are here. I respect them so much for allowing me to do my work and supporting my work. I've met people who I just admire so much and respect so much. Recently, Dave Dahl, who cares about people so much. And he and I, we determined that it's not the bread, it's the meat. LAUGHTER
 So when we see each other, we tell each other that. And it's not. It's the meat. It's the heart. It's the compassion. It's the caring. So with that said, I am absolutely honored to be connected to the former recipients of this award. May my name, Billy Charles Anfield, be laid with theirs. And I accept...
 carrying the torch of the 2019 Steve Loewenstein Award. Thank you very much. Mr. Anfield represents the heart and the spirit and the commitment of what Steve Loewenstein envisioned when he created this award. We're living in some very challenging times right now, but when you find a community angel like Mr. Anfield, who is consistently willing to step up to help us with these challenges, it makes us a better city.
 He is all that is positive and an example of what is best in our city. And with that, I will present the award to Mr. Anfield and take a photo with the city council. Thank you. Thank you. Stand up. I know if Commissioner Fish were here, he would invite a Senator Lawrence to come up and be in the picture. Please, again, thank you for all of your work on this. Please, see if one of the board members can come forward. And family members, gather before the photo and put it on the floor.
 If you can. What do you want, family members? Just come right on in. Everybody up here? So, Mr. Anfield. Thank you.
 with the power invested in me as the task force chair and Steve Lawrence, the trustee. We honor you, we salute you for being an amazing human being that represents the best of everything that's in our city and how you lift people up as you climb. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone. Thank you so much. Yeah, thanks. Good seeing you. Richard, good seeing you. Good to see you. Good to see you. So that's all.
 Alright, that was great. Thank you everyone and now we'll move on to the first item on the regular agenda Carla could you please call item number one one four zero folks this this is a good celebration and it's worth having But maybe we can move it outside and then you can really party the way you want to party item 1140 accept bid of Raymoor construction LLC for the Gateway Green development and restoration project and
 for $2,862,768. Greetings, folks. Folks, I'm sorry. We've got to keep on moving here. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Council. Follow that. All of that. Hard act to follow. Very moving this morning. I am Kathleen Brenes, Procurement Manager for Design and Construction Services. I am here to recommend...
 I am here to recommend the authorization to enter into a contract with Raymore Construction for the Gateway Green Development and Restoration Project. The authorizing ordinance for this project was approved on September 11, 2019. The engineer's estimate was $3.7 million. We issued an invitation to bid on September 17, 2019.
 A non-mandatory pre-bid conference was held and nine contractors attended, six primes and three subs. Bids were due on October 22, 2019, and four bids were received. The responsive low bid is from Raymoor Construction, LLC, in the amount of $2,862,768, and it's 22.6% under the engineer's estimate.
 The city's aspirational 20% subcontractor and supplier utilization goal applied. Raymoor met this goal with a commitment to subcontract 20.9% to certified firms, certified with the Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity, listed in the report before you. Raymoor is self-performing 79.1% of the work, and they themselves are a certified disadvantaged minority business enterprise.
 Thus, 100% of the project will be delivered by certified minority and women-owned contractors. I want to highlight that Raymoor Construction has been a participant in the Prime Contractor Development Program for the past five years. They successfully competed for and was awarded this contract in the open market, one of the numerous success stories of the Prime Contractor Development Program. And if I may, I'd like to recognize Stacey Edwards for her advocacy, leadership,
 and dedication to the program. Stacey is taking a leave of absence beginning this Friday, and she's going to be greatly missed. With that, Ray Moore is in full compliance with all city contracting requirements, and I hereby recommend you authorize this contract. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? If not, I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. Second. A motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further questions or issues? Hearing none, Carla, please call the roll.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Well, I echo your kudos to Stacy in sending her good wishes. I also know that Commissioner Fish is really excited about this project and it's been in the design process for quite some time. It's exciting that it's a company who's been nurtured through our prime contractor development program and that 100% of the contracting.
 Nearly three million dollars is going to Minority and women owned businesses mostly minority, and I really appreciate that. Aye. Wheeler. Good project, good construction company, excellent staff work. Thank you very much. I vote aye. Report's accepted. Thank you. Good luck with it. 1141 please.
 Adopt City of Portland investment policy. Colleagues, the city's investment policy describes the framework and criteria for investing the city's cash-based assets. The city's policy is written in accordance with Oregon law, ORS 294.135, and it's brought before the Council for adoption each year.
 City Council last adopted the city's investment policy on 12-13 of 2018. This is an administrative action and there are no proposed changes to the existing policy. Hi, Bridget. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Bridget O'Callaghan and I am Portland City Treasurer.
 In my role as treasurer, I'm responsible for the team of professionals who manage this cash assets and also issue debt on behalf of the city. As the mayor stated, Oregon law pertaining to the investment of public funds requires that the city adopt our investment policy annually. The council last adopted the investment policy on December 13th of last year.
 Today, I'm here to present the investment policy for adoption. As the Mayor stated, there are no changes to the policy, but I'd like to highlight a few points of background for the policy itself.
 The city's investment policy describes the framework and criteria for investing the city's cash assets. The city's investment objectives are to preserve the principle, ensure liquidity, and earn a market return on the funds that we have for the city. In other words, to be good stewards of the city's funds.
 The City of Portland's investment policy is more restrictive than the state law requires. We have limited our investment parameters to include interest-bearing deposits in local banks that are insured by either covered by insurance or by collateral.
 and that the investment policy also allows us to invest in United States Treasury or agency securities and corporate securities that are very high quality investment ratings. Those ratings are AA minus, AA three, or better by at least two rating agencies.
 The securities can have a maturity of no longer than three years, no more than 5% of the portfolio to an issuer, and no more than 35% of the portfolio to corporate securities.
 We have further chosen to exclude corporate issuers who are involved with industries such as fossil fuels, financial services, the retail sale of firearms, and we presently allow a concise list of 12 highly rated corporate securities issuers in the policy.
 Corporate securities provide diversification and an opportunity to earn additional yield over the alternative investment types such as U.S. Treasuries or agency securities.
 The investment earnings make a significant financial contribution to the City budget and fund programs and services that the bureaus provide. The investment earnings net of the administrative fee to cover Treasury's operating costs are distributed to the City funds. In 2018-19, Treasury earned $45.3 million
 On the portfolio and year-to-date fiscal 2019 2020 through October 31st Treasury is earned fourteen point six million The Treasury Division will continue to use its professional expertise and discretion On the investment portfolio to make the decisions on behalf of the city in accordance with that policy City of Portland maintains an investment advisory committee and
 to advise the City Treasurer in conjunction with the portfolio oversight, investment policies, and investment practices. The committee is made up of at least three public members who are experienced investment professionals. And finally, in the interest of transparency, Treasury has posted the City's investment portfolio online since 2013.
 These month end line by line portfolio reports can be found at www.portlandoregon.gov backslash BRFS. With that, I make myself available to answer any questions. Great. Colleagues, any questions? Carla, is there any public testimony? Lightning and Maggie had signed up. I don't know if they're still here. I do not see them. Please call the roll. Udailey. Aye.
 Fritz? Much quieter investment policy discussion than there has been in previous years. Aye. Thank you for your work.
 The investment policy sets forth key investment objectives, those of course are to preserve the principle, to ensure liquidity, and of course to earn a market rate of return. The investment earnings make a significant contribution to the city budget and the programs and services that the bureaus provide. We appreciate your great work and your colleagues' great work. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you very much. Next up, we're going to move it, but can you read item 1142? Okay.
 amend revenue and finance code to streamline the procurement and contracting process. Colleagues, I've had a conversation with Commissioner Fritz. It's requested we move this to the 12-18 agenda, please. Carla, December 18th.
 And then Commissioner Udallia, you're going to pull back the next two, is that correct? Yes, Mayor. They're both emergency items and we don't have the required four votes. So why don't we read them? Carla, can you read 1143 and 1144, please? Mm-hmm.
 1143, accept a grant in the amount of $4,646,372 from Metro and authorize intergovernmental agreement for the design and construction of specific priority projects identified in the Central City in motion plan and appropriate $95,652 in fiscal year 2019-20. 1144, authorize a grant in the amount of $4,646,372
 the Bureau of Transportation to enter into an agreement with the Union Pacific Railroad Company for preliminary engineering and other related services up to the amount of $50,000
 to construct a bridge on Northeast 42nd Avenue over the Union Pacific Railroad. And as Commissioner Udaly just mentioned, we need a fourth here before we can hear these. And so they're referred back to Commissioner Udaly's office. We're rescheduling them for the 18th. Okay, so they are rescheduled for...
 Because they're going to be on the consent agenda and we can't move these to consent. So. Okay. We're not going to hear them today and we'll sort that all out later. Good. All right. 1145 please. Amend transportation system development charge 2017 capital improvement plan. Commissioner Daley.
 Thank you, Mayor. In 2017, City Council adopted a new 10-year transportation system development charge, or TSDC, rate study and project list. That project list shows which transportation projects are eligible for TSDC funding over the 10 years since.
 from 2018 to 2027. The project list was based on the transportation system plan at the time as well as other recently adopted plans. Since then, the transportation system plan has been updated with another technical update currently in process and several other area plans have been adopted since the 2017 TSDC project list was adopted.
 For this reason, PBOT is seeking City Council approval to amend the TSDC project list to reflect these newer plans and provide TSDC eligibility for high-priority projects. The proposed amendments reduce eligibility for some projects, increase eligibility for other projects, and add several new projects.
 Because the total eligibility for all projects would remain the same as the 2017 list no changes are needed for the rate study or the amounts charged to developers this only changes the list of eligible transportation projects and
 Here to explain the details and answer questions is our Director of Policy Planning and Projects, Art Pierce, and company. Welcome, Art. Good morning, thank you. So I'm here with Zef Wagner, who is a staff planner on the team who helped work through the mechanics of all this. So thanks for this opportunity to present this to you. As Commissioner Daley already introduced,
 This is a sort of part of our process of keeping both the transportation system plan and the funding mechanism attached to it Sort of always at the ready and nimble and so this we're planning to do this We think every couple years to try to constantly be refreshing the the list and the overall TSP and so this is a sort of an array of of of
 relatively small moves that are rebalancing between projects. So maybe, Zeph, you want to go into the details? ZEPH WAGNER, Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name again is Zeph Wagner, transportation planner at PBOT. I'll just walk you through really quickly this kind of technical amendment we're requesting. You know what transportation SDCs are, one-time fees paid by new development to pay for transportation facilities.
 And what we're updating is the 2017 TSDC capital improvement plan, which is just the list of eligible projects. So it's sort of the menu of projects that we can spend TSDCs on.
 The actual approval of funding is done through the CIP process and gets rolled into the annual budget So this is just the list of eligible projects And we're updating the amount of eligibility for 18 existing projects on the list And we're adding four new projects to the list and all the details are in exhibit a about what went up what went down? What was added?
 Why we're updating is really other plans that have emerged that we've worked on in the last two years. Some really exciting improvements. One of them is the Connected Center Street plan that we've been working on for the Jade and Rosewood areas.
 to try to create more street connectivity. And so by creating new TSDC funding eligibility for these, we would have the opportunity to, as developments come in, they could create new street connections and get TSDC credits, or we could bring public funding to match their private funding and get more connectivity in these neighborhoods. So that's an exciting element of this. We also have a series of neighborhood street plans that we've worked on over the last many years
 in Cully, Division Midway, Tryon Stevens. We also have some street improvements in Errol Heights. A lot of these are partnerships with BES. It's really exciting projects to build out the local street network. And these are already on the list, but the funding eligibility was quite low. And as we found, the projects are a little more expensive than we thought and we would like to be able to have more eligibility to be able to increase the funding for those projects.
 Another big change has been the adoption of Central City 2035, the plan for the central city, and
 and a couple master planning areas for new development. So we have the Broadway corridor master plan area at the post office site in the Pearl District, and also the OMSI master plan area. And so what we'd be doing is adding projects to the list that would, again, allow these partnerships between the private developers developing these areas using TSDCs to leverage those funds.
 and also creating a new project for the green loop which is a very exciting idea that is finally starting to emerge. Segments of it are now being planned and designed and so we want to be able to partner with property owners along the line to build segments of the project and creating this new funding eligibility will allow that. So just some highlights of what's in exhibit A. We decided to
 The decision on how to lower eligibility was really based on projects that have either already been constructed or already funded, projects that we expect more outside leverage. We don't think this is really going to impact existing projects on the list. We're really reducing eligibility for projects that don't need that eligibility in the first place.
 and then transferring it to these new projects and projects that need more funding eligibility we tried to keep them all within the same geographic area so if you look at exhibit a the we're reducing funding and increasing funding from projects in the same area so there's no sort of one area subsidizing another area in terms of the eligibility and as commissioner e-daily mentioned earlier there's no net change in the projected revenue or spending so there's no change to the stc rates
 And again, the actual approval of funding for the projects would happen separately through the budget process. Any questions? Great. Any questions? Carla, do we have any public testimony on this item? I believe they left. It was Maggie. All right. Any further business? Anything else you wanted to add? No. All right. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for your presentation. Next up is another second reading, 1146. All right.
 amend towing and disposition of vehicles code to clarify when a vehicle may be towed. Colleagues, this is a second reading. We've already heard a presentation and taken public testimony on this item. Is there any other business? Seeing none, please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Commissioner Udailey, thank you for the very clear presentation last week. It was very well done. Aye. Wheeler? Yeah, thank you to the transportation team, to Commissioner Udailey and her office.
 and all the folks who testified. It was great. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 1147. Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Carson Basin, Southwest 39th Avenue, project number E11116,
 through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Colleagues, Commissioner Fish asked that I introduce this item. This is to prevent localized flooding in a portion of Southwest Portland. The Bureau of Environmental Services is building a stormwater project at Southwest 39th Avenue. It's below Southwest Capital Highway, near the headwaters of Tryon Creek. The project will direct stormwater to the new facility, preventing flooding in the neighborhood.
 To proceed with the project, the Bureau of Environmental Services needs to acquire certain easements and property rights. Here today to give a brief presentation are Joe Dvorak, engineering manager, and Lisa Macinski, environmental specialist, both with environmental services. Joe and Lisa, take it away. Great, thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning, members of council. So again, real short presentation and here to answer any questions that you may have. So I'll turn it over to Lisa with more details.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Lisa Moschinski with the Bureau of Environmental Services. Our presentation is going to be just a few minutes. We're going to give a brief overview of the project, outreach conducted to date, and the specific request to authorize the city to offer just compensation and use eminent domain authority.
 So the goals of our Southwest Carson Southwest 39th project are to extend the public storm system from Southwest 39th to Southwest 37th through private properties parallel to an existing sanitary sewer system. And we plan to replace a storm pipe on Southwest Carson within the right-of-way. This project will help reduce flooding within the right-of-way and neighboring properties. It also removes stormwater from our sanitary sewer system and improves existing infrastructure.
 So this project is in southwest Portland where we have a separated sewer system and in many areas the stormwater infrastructure is limited. Unlike older parts of our city that developed with curbs and storm drains in the late 19th and early 20th century, this area was a semi-rural landscape annexed by the city in the 50s, 60s, and 70s with no formalized stormwater infrastructure.
 So, BES identified the issue about five years ago when two vacant tax slots came in for development.
 There was no approved discharge point for the stormwater making development challenging and then we learned of the frequent flooding issues So during heavy rainstorms neighbors pull off that sanitary sewer manhole that you see in that photo to alleviate flooding on the roadway and Private properties and then the sanitary system isn't designed to handle that additional stormwater and it causes surcharging of the system down the down the pipe so I
 We did specific outreach including letters, emails, phone calls and site visits to the properties affected by the easements and have been having ongoing communication with the property owners over the last couple years. Two temporary construction easements and five permanent sewer easements spread across five properties. We have an existing sewer easement but after review it was determined that the easement was specific for the sanitary system so these new sewer easements are necessary to maintain and operate the proposed storm system.
 the costs incurred with the acquisition shall be charged to the sewer operating fund fy1920 budget bes project number e11116 to accomplish the project's goals and to construct the project as designed the city must acquire the property interest described and depicted in exhibits a through end by may 2020 so construction of the project can begin on schedule
 The construction is expected to start in September 2020 after a four-month procurement period. So we thank you for your time and we'll be happy to field any questions you might have. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Have any of the property owners indicated concern about this?
 No, I've been in touch over the phone and via email with all five of the property owners and there isn't concern over it. Okay. Thank you. Seems like a good trade-off. Yeah. Indeed. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? They left. Okay. Very good. Anybody want to testify? Thank you for your presentation. Thank you to Commissioner Fish and thank you, Senator Lawrence, for your guiding this. Thank you.
 This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Next item, also a second reading, 1148.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Northwest Thurman Street Sewer Reconstruction Project number E10696 for an estimated cost of $4,680,000. Any further business on this item? Seeing none, call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Ordinance is adopted. 1149 please. Appeal of Patrick Cashman against the Bureau of Parks and Recreation Social Services Permits Policy. So colleagues, this is somewhat of a different item for us. Pursuant to Portland City Code, community members have the right to appeal Portland Parks and Recreation policies to the City Council.
 To our knowledge, this is the first time that that right has been invoked. Commissioner Fish has asked that this item be referred to his office without objection after we invite the appellant to speak, as they're entitled to do. So if the appellant would like to speak, and that is Patrick Cashman. Is Patrick here? I did not anticipate that. So I guess we just return it to Commissioner Fish's office. Is that the right?
 procedure. Legal counsel is giving me a head up, so without objection, the item is returned to Commissioner Fish's office. I thought that was going to be more interesting given the historical first nature of that. And unless I'm mistaken, that concludes this morning's agenda. The pulled item? I pulled it back to my office. Oh, 1137. One moment. T, did we want to hear that or pull it back to the office? It's 1137. I'm sorry?
 We are going to read and hear it now. 1137. Believe it or not, folks, I have not practiced this. 1137, please. Assess property for system development charge contracts, private plumbing loan contracts, and safety net loan deferral contracts. All right. This is a routine administrative...
 city business process to assess property owners for system development charge contracts and deferrals for Bureau of Environmental Services, the Parks Bureau, Portland Bureau of Transportation, and the Water Bureau. In this legislation, there are a total of 96 liens and $3,591,850
 dollars and 29 cents to be assessed. This ordinance is for system development charge fees, which are one-time fees based on the proposed new use or increase in the use of the property. The fees apply both to new construction and to residential projects.
 which increase the impact to city infrastructure. Per city code, property owners are given the right to finance system development charge fees through the city. And I don't know if there's anybody presenting anything. It's a second reading. Oh, it is? Yes. You're right. Great. Call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? It was about as exciting as I made it sound. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Now can we please be adjourned? We are adjourned until 1 30, colleagues. We're coming back at 1 30 for a work session. Back in session is the Portland City Council. This is the afternoon of December 11, 2019. Keelan, please call the roll. Udailey? Here.
 Fritz? Fish? Hardesty? Heer? Wheeler? Heer. Could you please read our one and only quick item this afternoon, item number 1150.
 amend the comprehensive plan comprehensive plan map zoning map title through the 33 planning and zoning Title 18 noise control title 30 affordable housing title 32 signs and related regulations to revise the multi-dwelling Residential designations and base zones very good. Well, we're back to continue our work on the better housing by design recommended draft
 To help reorient everyone to the proposals, the intent of the Better Housing by Design amendments is to expand housing options, address affordability, and improve design in Portland's multi-dwelling zones. As you may recall, we held public hearings and we took extensive testimony on Better Housing by Design on October 2nd and then again on November 6th. The record was closed at 3.45 p.m. on November 21st
 after which council discussed and voted on the amendments to the recommended draft. Today we're going to be voting on the amendments to the Better Housing by Design Ordinance, Findings and Staff Report to reflect decisions made by the City Council on November 21st. Project Manager Bill Cunningham is here to walk us through today's agenda. Good afternoon. Thank you Mayor and Commissioners.
 Sorry, I'm live now. Today we're coming to you with some items that are essentially follow-up to the decisions you made on November 21st on amendments to the
 the code proposals and to the map proposals. And for the record, I wanted to highlight that we've integrated those amendments you passed into our code documents. They've changed from being the recommended draft to being as amended by city council drafts. You don't have to read all this. And we also have for the record, the maps that reflect the map amendments you made and a new Title 30 affordable housing section
 What we are coming to you for are to amend other documents that are part of the Better Housing by Design package to be consistent with the decisions you made. The first item we will be voting on is an amendment to the ordinance to reflect the shift from the recommended draft to the new references to our as amended by city council drafts.
 Second, there'll be a vote to amend ordinance findings to reflect your decisions as well as to incorporate some other refinements. And finally, you will vote on an amended staff report.
 that has been changed to be consistent with the decisions you made on November 21st. So not really new items, it's really just incorporating all the decisions you made on November 21st. Great, well thank you first of all for all the work to bring it here to us in an organized manner. So for each of these items, the staff is gonna provide a brief introduction followed by a motion, then a second,
 and then our votes. I'd like to request, given the time that we keep our comments on our votes brief, this'll give us the opportunity to save our final comments for better housing by design until we hold our final vote, which will be on December 18th.
 At the end of the meeting, Bill, I'll ask you to summarize our next steps just so we have clarity on where we're going next. So the first item is the vote on amendments to the Better Housing by Design Ordinance. Bill, could you just briefly describe these amendments just to refresh our memory? Sure, the amended ordinance includes changes in reference to the documents.
 Again, it shifts away from the third page of your first item includes all the changes And it's essentially just changing reference to recommend a draft to now as amended by City Council Very good. Do I have a motion to move? Second, okay, so we have a motion to amend the better housing by design Ordinance for a vote to approve its second by Commissioner you daily Keelan. Could you please call the roll? I?
 Hardesty aye you daily. Aye Wheeler aye the motion passes and Next up is the vote on amendments to the better housing by design ordinance findings bill Could you please briefly describe the findings? Yes the amendments to the findings and it's this pretty thick document are intended to bring a
 Consistency with the decisions you made on November 21st and also incorporate some other refinements So you would be voting on amendments to these findings or placing what you had an original packet with these new revised findings Very good. I'll entertain a motion so move have a motion. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty is second from Commissioner you daily Keelan. Please call the roll hardesty. I you daily. I wheeler. All right, I
 The motion carries and the next vote is the vote on the amendments to the better housing by design staff report bill.
 All right, the final item you'll be voting on is this one and this has been amended This is a basically a summary of all the code amendments and it's being amended to reflect your November 21st decisions So move second we have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty second from Commissioner you daily any further discussion? Keelan, please call the roll part of state. Aye, you daily. Aye aye
 Good, all right, before concluding, I'd like to thank both of my commissioners who are present and both of my commissioners who could not be here this afternoon for their hard work to get to the amendments where we are today. I wanna thank the entire team of professionals from the Bureau who worked so hard to bring these to us. I look forward to saying more about the Better Housing by Design project when it comes back to us for a final vote.
 Bill, could you just give us a quick summary of where we go from here? Sure. We're returning to you on December 18th at 10.30 a.m. time certain, and that will be for the final vote on the total Better Housing by Design package.
 I'd also like to mention that we're also planning to have a related item on the agenda, a connected center street plan resolution coming from PBOT. And this was a companion piece to the broader effort to come up with new ways of getting needed street and pedestrian connections, especially in East Portland where it's not always easy to access places.
 So you'll be hearing about that on December 18th. Just next steps after December 18th, assuming it passes, is that staff would start working on implementation. The effective date would be March 1st of 2020. All right, thank you. That concludes our Better Housing by Design item for today. We will continue the conversation on December 18th at 10.30 a.m. time certain. Is that correct, Caitlin? That's correct? That's correct. Anything else, legal counsel? We are adjourned, thank you. Thank you.